VILLAGE OF ELMWOOD PLACE
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2013 S-2 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 12-12, passed October 22, 2012
State legislation current through November 6, 2012
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
432 Walnut Street, 12th Floor
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Email: customerservice@amlegal.com
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10:  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.05   Construction of section references
   
10.06   Conflicting provisions
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Ordinances repealed
   
10.11   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.12   Ordinances saved
   
10.13   Application to future ordinances
   
10.14   Interpretation
   
10.15   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.16   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the municipality,
as revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“Elmwood Place code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified
ordinances” or “code” may be substituted.  Code title, chapter, and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
(R.C. § 1.01)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to such
components of the code unless otherwise specified.  Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code.”  Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.”  Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AND may be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANOTHER.  When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   CHILD.  Includes child by adoption.
   COUNCIL.  The Legislative Authority of the municipality.
   COUNTY.  Hamilton County.
   FIRE CHIEF.  Shall include the Chief of a fire department if a fire
department has been established in the municipality, and shall include the Fire
Prevention Officer if no fire department has been established in the
municipality.
   IMPRISONED.  Shall have the same meaning as in R.C. § 1.05.
   INTERNET. The international computer network of both federal and non-federal
interoperable packet switched data networks, including the graphical subnetwork
known as the world wide web.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR.  Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent, or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE.  Includes rights and easements of incorporeal nature.
   LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY.  The Legislative Authority of the municipality.
   MAY.  Is permissive.
   MUNICIPALITY, CITY, TOWN, VILLAGE, or  MUNICIPAL CORPORATION.  When used in
this code, shall denote the municipality of Elmwood Place irrespective of its
population or legal classification.
   O.A.C.  Refers to the Ohio Administrative Code.
   OATH.  Includes affirmation; and SWEAR includes affirm.
   OWNER.  When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner, or
tenant in common of the whole or part of such property.
   PERSON.  Includes an individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust,
partnership, and association.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY.  Includes all property except real property.
   PLAN OF SEWERAGE, SYSTEM OF SEWERAGE, SEWER, and SEWERS.  Includes sewers,
sewage disposal works and treatment plants, and sewage pumping stations,
together with facilities and appurtenances necessary and proper therefor.
   PREMISES.  As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY.  Includes real, personal, mixed estates, and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY.  Includes boards of education; the municipal, county,
state, or federal government, its officers, or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE.  Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   R.C. or REVISED CODE.  Refers to the Ohio Revised Code.
   REAL PROPERTY.  Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL.  Includes certified mail; and CERTIFIED MAIL includes
registered mail.
   SHALL.  Is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK.  That portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE.  The State of Ohio.
   STREET.  Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts, and all other public thoroughfares within the municipality.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT.  As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   WEEK.  Seven consecutive days.
   WHOEVER.  Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners;
principals, agents, and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WRITING.  Includes printing.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING.  The terms include any representation of words,
letters, symbols, or figures; this provision does not affect any law relating
to signatures.
   YEAR.  Twelve consecutive months.
(R.C. §§ 1.02, 1.05, 1.44, 1.59, 701.01)
§ 10.03  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Common and technical usage.  Words and phrases shall be read in
context and construed according to the rules of grammar and common usage. 
Words and phrases that have acquired a technical or particular meaning, whether
by legislative definition or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
(R.C. § 1.42)
   (B)   Singular and plural; gender; tenses.  As used in this code, unless the
context otherwise requires:
      (1)   The singular includes the plural, and the plural includes the
singular.
      (2)   Words of one gender include the other genders.
      (3)   Words in the present tense include the future tense.
(R.C. § 1.43)
   (C)   Calendar; computation of time.
      (1)   The time within which an act is required by law to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and including the last day; except that when
the last day falls on Sunday or a legal holiday, then the act may be done on
the next succeeding day that is not a Sunday or a legal holiday.
      (2)   When a public office, in which an act required by law is to be
performed, is closed to the public for the entire day that constitutes the last
day for doing the act or before its usual closing time on that day, the act may
be performed on the next succeeding day that is not a Sunday or a legal
holiday.
      (3)   LEGAL HOLIDAY, as used in divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) of this
section, means the following days:
         (a)   The first day of January, known as New Year’s day;
         (b)   The third Monday in January, known as Martin Luther King day;
         (c)   The third Monday in February, known as Washington-Lincoln day;
         (d)   The day designated in the “Act of June 28, 1968,” 82 Stat. 250,
5 U.S.C. § 6103, as amended, for the commemoration of Memorial day;
         (e)   The fourth day of July, known as Independence day;
         (f)   The first Monday in September, known as Labor day;
         (g)   The second Monday in October, known as Columbus day;
         (h)   The eleventh day of November, known as Veteran’s day;
         (i)   The fourth Thursday in November, known as Thanksgiving day;
         (j)   The twenty-fifth day of December, known as Christmas day;
         (k)   Any day appointed and recommended by the Governor of this state
or the President of the United States as a holiday.
      (4)   If any day designated in this section as a legal holiday falls on a
Sunday, the next succeeding day is a legal holiday.
(R.C. § 1.14)
      (5)   When an act is to take effect or become operative from and after a
day named, no part of that day shall be included. If priority of legal rights
depends upon the order of events on the same day, the priority shall be
determined by the times in the day at which they respectively occurred.
(R.C. § 1.15)
      (6)   If a number of months is to be computed by counting the months from
a particular day, the period ends on the same numerical day in the concluding
month as the day of the month from which the computation is begun, unless there
are not that many days in the concluding month, in which case the period ends
on the last day of that month.
(R.C. § 1.45)
      (7)   In all cases where the law shall require any act to be done in a
reasonable time or reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or notice
shall mean such time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of
such duty or compliance with the notice.
   (D)   Numbers. If there is a conflict between figures and words in
expressing a number, the words govern.
(R.C. § 1.46)
   (E)   Authority. When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as
well be done by an agent as by the principal, such requirement shall be
construed to include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (F)   Joint authority. All words purporting to give joint authority to three
or more municipal officers or other persons shall be construed as giving such
authority to a majority of the officers or other persons, unless it shall be
otherwise expressly declared in the law giving the authority, or it is
inconsistent with state law or municipal charter provisions.
   (G)   Exceptions. The rules of construction shall not apply to any law which
contains any express provision excluding such construction, or when the subject
matter or context of such law is repugnant thereto.
§ 10.04  REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing statute does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
(R.C. § 1.57)
   (B)   The reenactment, amendment, or repeal of an ordinance does not, except
as provided in division (C) of this section:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation, or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded, or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal; and/or
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding, or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment; and the
investigation, proceeding, or remedy may be instituted, continued, or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment imposed, as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment for any offense is reduced
by a reenactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture, or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
(R.C. § 1.58)
   (D)   An ordinance which is reenacted or amended is intended to be a
continuation of the prior ordinance and not a new enactment, so far as it is
the same as the prior ordinance.
(R.C. § 1.54)
§ 10.05  CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, or of divisions or subdivisions of a
section, the reference shall be construed to mean a violation of any provision
of the section, sections, divisions or subdivisions included in the reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
(R.C. § 1.23)
   (C)   A reference to any portion of a provision of this code applies to all
reenactments or amendments thereof.
(R.C. § 1.55)
   (D)   If a section refers to a series of numbers or letters, the first and
the last numbers or letters are included.
(R.C. § 1.56)
   (E)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter has been
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.06  CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, titles, chapters, or sections of this
code and other ordinances of the municipality conflict with or contravene each
other, the provisions bearing the latest passage date shall prevail.  If the
conflicting provisions bear the same passage date, the conflict shall be so
construed as to be consistent with the meaning or legal effect of the questions
of the subject matter taken as a whole.
§ 10.07  SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of this code or the application thereof to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions or applications of the section or related sections which can
be given effect without the invalid provision or application, and to this end
the provisions are severable.
(R.C. § 1.50)
§ 10.08  REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the municipality exercising the powers, duties,
or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any
words, the omission of any words necessary to express the intention of the
provisions affected, the use of words to which no meaning can be attached, or
the use of a word when another word was clearly intended to express the
intention, the spelling shall be corrected, and the words supplied, omitted, or
substituted shall conform with the manifest intention, and the provision shall
have the same effect as though the correct words were contained in the text as
originally published.  No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question
exists regarding the nature or extent of such error.
§ 10.10  ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   With the exception of any ordinances specifically saved by the municipality,
this code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced.  All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.11  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
and all ordinances specifically saved by the municipality shall remain in full
force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.12  ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
legislative body, or a certain municipal officer or employee, to make
additional ordinances or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the
intention of the ordinance, all ordinances and regulations of a similar nature
serving the purpose, effected prior to the codification and not inconsistent
thereto, shall remain in effect and are saved.
§ 10.13  APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.14  INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.15  AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section, or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to the adoption of this code may be numbered in
accordance with the numbering system of this code and need not be inserted in
this code, but shall be treated as if printed for inclusion herein.
   (B)   The following language should be used by the municipality to amend,
add, or repeal a chapter, section, or division:
      (1)   To amend a section: “Section             of the Municipal Code of
Ordinances is amended to read as follows: . . . .”
      (2)   To add a section: “Section                of the Municipal Code of
Ordinances, which is to be added to and amends the Municipal Code of
Ordinances, reads as follows: . . . .”
      (3)   To repeal a section: “Section               of the Municipal Code
of Ordinances, which reads as follows, is repealed: . . . .”
Cross-reference:
   Standing rules of Council, see §§
30.01 et seq.
§ 10.16  SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section.  Example: 
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Am. Ord. 20, passed
1-1-1980; Am. Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, located in parenthesis
immediately following a division or section of this code, this indicates that
the text of the division or section reads substantially the same as the
statutory provision.  Example: 
(R.C. § 4511.02)
   (C)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference” following
the text of a section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that
statute for further information.  Example:
§ 30.08 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   Unless otherwise exempted by state law, all public records shall be promptly
prepared and made available for inspection to any person.
(R.C. § 149.43(B))
Statutory reference:
   Public records, see R.C. § 149.43
§ 10.17  PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws. 
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code.  The
liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been
enacted.  In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway
rights-of-way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever, in this municipal code or in any ordinance of the
municipality, any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an
offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever the doing of any act is required or the
failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is
otherwise provided, whoever violates any such provision shall be punished by a
fine not exceeding $500, a term of imprisonment not exceeding six months, or
both.  A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which
a violation continues or occurs.
   (B)   The failure of any officer or employee of the municipality to perform
any official duty imposed by this code shall not subject the officer or
employee to the penalty imposed for a violation unless a penalty is
specifically provided for that failure.
Cross-reference:
   Misdemeanor classifications, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Ordinance violations and penalties, see R.C. § 715.67
TITLE III:  ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   VILLAGE COUNCIL
      
31.   VILLAGE OFFICIALS
      
32.   BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
      
33.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
34.   FIRE DEPARTMENT AND LIFE SQUAD
      
35.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
      
36.   RULES GOVERNING MEETINGS OF PUBLIC BODIES
      
37.   FINANCE
      
38.   INCOME TAX
      
39.   MAYOR’S COURT
      
40.   VILLAGE POLICY; FEES
CHAPTER 30:  VILLAGE COUNCIL
Section
Standing Rules of Council
   
30.01   Standing rules of Council
Ordinances and Resolutions
   
30.10   Adoption of ordinances
   
30.11   Numbering of sections
   
30.12   Correction of form of ordinances
   
30.13   Publication
STANDING RULES OF COUNCIL
§ 30.01  STANDING RULES OF COUNCIL.
   The following are the standing rules for the Council of Elmwood Place, Ohio.
   (A)   Rule 1. Regular meetings.
      (1)   Regular meetings of Council shall be held on the second Tuesday of
each calendar month, beginning at 7:00 p.m.
      (2)   If any regular meeting shall fall on a legal holiday, or if for any
other reason the Council desires to change the date for any particular regular
meeting, the same may be done by a majority vote of the members of Council
present at the meeting at which the issue is decided.
(Am. Ord. 02-05, passed 1-24-2005)
   (B)   Rule 2. Special meetings.
      (1)   Special meetings of Council may be called at any time by the Mayor
of the village, or in his or her absence from the village or disability, by the
President Pro Tem of the Council.
      (2)   The Mayor, or in his or her absence from the village or disability,
the President Pro Tem of the Council, shall call a special meeting of Council
at the time when requested by two members of Council, and all members shall be
notified in writing of the meeting and the purpose for which it is called.
   (C)   Rule 3. Quorum.  A majority of the members elected to Council shall
constitute a quorum; except, however, that should the Mayor be absent, the
President Pro Tem plus a majority of members elected to Council shall be
needed.
   (D)   Rule 4. President of Council.  The Mayor of the village shall be the
President of the Council and shall preside at all regular and special meetings
thereof, but shall have no vote except in case of a tie.  When the Mayor is
absent from the village, or is unable from any cause to perform his or her
duties, the President Pro Tem of the Council shall preside.
   (E)   Rule 5. Call to order.  The Mayor, or in his or her absence, the
President Pro Tem, shall take the Chair at the hour appointed for the Council
to meet, and he or she shall immediately call the members to order.  The roll
shall then be called and the Clerk shall enter on the minutes the names of the
members present.
   (F)   Rule 6.Call to order in absence of Mayor and President Pro Tem.  In
case of the absence of the Mayor and the President Pro Tem, the Clerk shall
call the Council to order, and if a quorum be found present, Council shall
proceed to elect a President Pro Tem for that meeting, or until the appearance
of the Mayor or President Pro Tem of Council.
   (G)   Rule 7. Presiding Officer.  The presiding officer shall preserve
decorum and shall decide all questions of order.
   (H)   Rule 8. Violation of Council rules by member.  If any member violates
any rule of the Council, the presiding officer shall, or any member may, call
him or her to order; in which case the member called to order shall take his or
her seat, unless permitted to explain.
   (I)   Rule 9. Order of business for regular meetings.
      (1)   Roll call — prayer;
      (2)   Reading and approval of the minutes of the preceding regular
meeting and special meeting or meetings since the preceding regular meeting;
      (3)   Reports of Mayor, Clerk-Treasurer, and other officers;
      (4)   Reports of standing committees;
      (5)   Reports of special committees;
      (6)   Reading of communications and claims;
      (7)   Consideration and passage of ordinances and resolutions;
      (8)   Appointment and confirmation of appointments;
      (9)   Unfinished business;
      (10)   Miscellaneous business; and
      (11)   Adjournment.
   (J)   Rule 10. Order of business for special meetings.
      (1)   Meeting called to order by the Mayor or President Pro Tem of
Council;
      (2)   Roll call by Clerk;
      (3)   Hearing and consideration of the matters in order for which the
meeting was called; and
      (4)   Adjournment.
   (K)   Rule 11. Standing committees.  The Mayor shall annually appoint, at
the first regular meeting of Council in January, the standing committees
provided for in division (O) below, each consisting of three members of
Council.
   (L)   Rule 12. Special and select committees.  The Mayor shall appoint all
special and select committees provided by Council, unless Council shall
otherwise designate committees or direct their selection; such special or
select committees are to consist of such number or members of Council as the
Council may determine.
   (M)   Rule 13. Committee chairperson.
      (1)   The members of all committees shall meet on call of the chairperson
of the committee, who shall be the first named member of the committee, or on
demand of any two members of the committee.
      (2)   In the absence of the chairperson of the committee, the person next
named as member of the committee shall act as chairperson.
   (N)   Rule 14. Committee quorum.  A majority of each committee shall
constitute a quorum to do business.
   (O)   Rule 15. Powers and duties of standing committees.  The following
shall be the standing committees of Council, whose duties shall be to consider
all matters referred to them as set out respectively below and such other
duties as may be assigned to them by direction of the Council at any time:
      (1)   Finance and House.  Matters pertaining to the finances of the
village, receipts, disbursements, appropriations, and the like, and all such
other matters as may be referred to it by order of Council, or as become its
duty to consider according to law.
      (2)   Public Health and Safety.  Matters pertaining to the Board of
Health, other matters concerning the health and sanitation of the village, and
all such other matters as may be referred to it by order of Council.
      (3)   Public Improvements and Parks.  Matters pertaining to village
improvements, such as streets, sewers, and all such other matters as may be
referred to it by order of Council.
      (4)   Police and Prison.  Matters pertaining to the policing of the
village, the care of prisoners, the place of imprisonment, the duties of the
police and deputies, and all such other matters as may be referred to it by
order of the Council.
      (5)   Fire.  Matters pertaining to the Fire Department of the village,
the protection of the property of the village and citizens of the village
against fire, the care of fire apparatus, and all such other matters as may be
referred to it by order of Council.
      (6)   Laws and Contracts and Claims.  Laws and contracts and claims of
every kind against the village that may be presented to Council, and all such
other matters as may be referred to it by order of Council.  All bills or
claims against the village shall be first approved by a majority of the
Committee on Claims.
   (P)   Rule 16. Authority of Council over committees.  Such matters shall be
considered by any special or select committee as may be referred to it by order
of Council.
   (Q)   Rule 17. Committee reports.  When any reference is made to a
committee, with instructions to report at a stated time, should that committee
not be prepared to report at that time, the matter shall be considered as
reported back without further recommendation, unless further time shall be
granted by Council.
   (R)   Rule 18. Privilege of the floor.  Unless requested by the Mayor or a
duly elected official and not objected to by a majority of the voting body
present at a meeting, no person other than a member of Council shall have the
privilege of the floor of the Council chamber for the purpose of speaking to or
addressing the Council during any session of Council on any subject, or take
part in any of the proceedings of any session of Council unless a request in
writing has been submitted to the Clerk of Council at least eight hours before
the start of the meeting stating the subject to address Council on, and then
only with the majority consent of Council.
   (S)   Rule 19. Communications to be in writing.  All complaints and
communications shall be presented in writing by the person or persons making
the same, and no anonymous communication shall be considered or received.
   (T)   Rule 20. Addressing Council.  Members of Council and other officers
shall address the presiding officer and be recognized before speaking upon any
matter pending before Council.  The member first arising and addressing the
presiding officer shall be recognized, except that the maker of a motion or the
member offering a resolution or ordinance may be given first recognition.  Any
member speaking upon any matter shall confine himself or herself to the
question under debate or consideration, and shall avoid all personalities.
   (U)   Rule 21. Dissent.  Any member shall have the privilege of dissenting
from, or protesting against, any ordinance, resolution, or order of Council,
and have the reason or reasons of his or her dissent entered upon the journal. 
Such dissent must be in writing, couched in respectful language, and shall be
presented to the Council not later than the next regular meeting after the
meeting at which the ordinance, resolution, or order was passed.
   (V)   Rule 22. Motions.  When a motion is made and seconded, it shall be
stated by the presiding officer before debate.  Any motion must be reduced to
writing if the presiding officer or any member of Council requests it, and it
shall not be withdrawn without the consent of Council.
   (W)   Rule 23. Questions before Council.
      (1)   When a question is before the Council, no motion shall be
entertained unless it be:
         (a)   First:  To adjourn.
         (b)   Second:  To lay on the table.
         (c)   Third:  For the previous question.
         (d)   Fourth:  To postpone, either indefinitely or to a specified
time.
         (e)   Fifth:  To refer.
         (f)   Sixth:  To amend.
      (2)   These motions shall have precedence in the order above mentioned.
   (X)   Rule 24. Motion for reconsideration.  A motion for reconsideration
must be made by a member voting with the prevailing side of any question, but
may be seconded by any member; but a motion to reconsider having been once made
and lost shall not be renewed.  A motion to reconsider is a privileged motion,
and may precede all other questions, and can be considered at any time after
the pending business is disposed of.  A majority of those present may
reconsider any vote.
   (Y)   Rule 25. First read.  Upon the first reading of an ordinance or of any
resolution requiring more than one reading, the presiding officer, at the
conclusion of the reading, shall announce to the Council as follows:  “First
reading of the ordinance or resolution, as the case may be.”
   (Z)   Rule 26. Second read.  Amendments to an ordinance or resolution shall
be made before the second reading.  After second reading no amendment shall be
in order except upon a suspension of the rules and the reconsideration of the
second reading.
   (AA)   Rule 27. Third read.  Upon the third reading of an ordinance or
resolution the question shall be on the final passage, which must be determined
by a “yea” or “nay” vote upon the call of the roll.
   (BB)   Rule 28. Suspension of reading requirements.  No ordinance,
resolution, or bylaw requiring more than one reading shall be passed through
its several readings except upon a separate suspension of the rules upon each
reading, as required by law, and only one ordinance, resolution, or bylaw shall
be read under any such motion to suspend the rules.  It shall require an
affirmative vote of a majority of Council to suspend any rule.  The Clerk shall
record in the minutes the names of the members voting and how they voted.
   (CC)   Rule 29. Robert’s Rules of Order.  Robert’s Rules of Order or any
other authentic manual shall be received as authority in all cases not provided
for in this chapter.
   (DD)   Rule 30. Copies of Council Rules.  These rules shall be printed and a
copy furnished each member of Council and each officer of the village, and at
least one copy kept in the Council chamber during every session of Council, by
the Clerk, for the use of the Mayor, members of Council and other officers.
   (EE)   Rule 31. Amendments.  Any resolution seeking to amend or enlarge
these rules shall be presented at a regular meeting and lie upon the table
until the next regular meeting when it shall be acted upon.
   (FF)   Rule 32. Suspension.  For a suspension of any rule or rules other
than that pertaining to a suspension of the rule pertaining to the passage of
an ordinance or resolution, a majority of the members shall be necessary.
   (GG)   Rule 33. Conflicting regulations.  Any rule or regulation heretofore
in effect inconsistent herewith is hereby repealed.
(Ord. passed 3-2-1976; Am. Ord. 11-98, passed 10-6-1998)
ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS
§ 30.10  ADOPTION OF ORDINANCES.
   Each measure of a general nature hereafter adopted, other than an ordinance
of general application limited to a single occasion, wherever practicable,
shall be of a form reenacting, revising, supplementing, or amending an
appropriate title, chapter, or section of this code of ordinances.  The
ordinance, when so adopted, shall become part of this code as though included
in its original enactment, and shall constitute a repealer of any previous
section or sections intended to be replaced thereby.
§ 30.11  NUMBERING OF SECTIONS.
   Each measure enacted as provided in §
30.10 shall be assigned an appropriate caption and section number. 
§ 30.12  CORRECTION OF FORM OF ORDINANCES.
   It shall be the duty of the Clerk-Treasurer and of the Solicitor, or either,
whenever the form of a proposed measure does not comply with the provisions of
the preceding sections, to call attention of Council thereto, and the Solicitor
shall submit a draft of such measure which, if adopted, will correct the
omission.
§ 30.13  PUBLICATION.
   Each ordinance of a general nature hereafter adopted shall be published in
the manner provided by law.
CHAPTER 31:  VILLAGE OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Qualifications; oaths
   
31.02   Approval of bonds
   
31.03   Establishment of salaries, bonds, and positions
   
31.04   Executive powers; where vested
   
31.05   Probationary period for all employees
   
31.06   Light-duty employment
Provisions Concerning Specific Officials
   
31.15   Mayor
   
31.16   Clerk-Treasurer
   
31.17   Solicitor
   
31.18   Village Engineer
   
31.19   Community Development Director
   
31.20   Maintenance Supervisor
   
31.21   Administrator of the Tax Department
   
31.22   Street Commissioner
   
31.23   Secretary to Council
   
31.24   Village Magistrate
Support Positions
   
31.40   Village Secretary
   
31.41   Assistant Maintenance Associate and Code Enforcer
   
31.42   Secretary to Clerk-Treasurer
Cross-reference:
   Park Director, see §
94.04
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01  QUALIFICATIONS; OATHS.
   Except as otherwise provided in the Revised Code, each officer of the
village or of any department or board thereof, whether elected or appointed as
a substitute for a regular officer, shall be an elector of the village, and
before entering upon his or her official duties shall take an oath to support
the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State, and an
oath that he or she will faithfully, honestly, and impartially discharge the
duties of the office.  These provisions as to official oaths shall extend to
deputies, but they need not be electors.
(R.C. § 733.68) 
§ 31.02  APPROVAL OF BONDS.
   (A)   The official bonds of all municipal officers shall be prepared by the
Solicitor.  Except as otherwise provided by state law, they shall be in such
sum as the Council prescribes by general or special ordinance and be subject to
the approval of the Mayor, except that the Mayor’s bond shall be approved by
the Council, or, if it is not legally organized, by the Clerk of the Court of
Common Pleas of the County. 
(R.C. § 733.70)
   (B)   In each bond mentioned in division (A) above, the condition that the
person elected or appointed shall faithfully perform the duties of the office
shall be sufficient.  The fact that the instrument is without a seal, that
blanks for the date or amount have been filled subsequent to its execution but
before its acceptance, without the consent of the sureties, that all the
obligees named in the instrument have not signed it, that new duties have been
imposed on the officers or that any merely formal objection exists, shall not
be available in any suit on the instrument.
(R.C. § 733.71)
   (C)   Each officer required by law or ordinance to give bond shall do so
before entering upon the duties of the office, except as otherwise provided by
law.  The Legislative Authority may at any time require each officer to give a
new or additional bond.  Each bond, except that of the Auditor or Clerk, upon
its approval, shall be delivered to the Auditor or Clerk, who shall immediately
record it in a record provided for that purpose, and file and carefully
preserve it in his or her office.  The bond of the Auditor or Clerk shall be
delivered to the Clerk-Treasurer, who shall in like manner record and preserve
it. 
(R.C. § 733.69)
§ 31.03  ESTABLISHMENT OF SALARIES, BONDS, AND POSITIONS.
   (A)   The salaries paid to, bonds required of, and positions of employment
established for all employees and officers of the village shall be as
established by ordinance.  All such ordinances in effect as of the date of
adoption of this code of ordinances are deemed saved and incorporated herein by
reference unless and until so amended or repealed.
   (B)   The salaries of elected officials shall be as established by Council.
(Am. Ord. 11-06, passed 5-9-2006)
§ 31.04  EXECUTIVE POWERS; WHERE VESTED.
   The executive power and authority of the municipality shall be vested in the
Mayor, Clerk, Treasurer, Marshal, Street Commissioner, and such other officers
and departments as are created by law.
(R.C. § 733.23)
§ 31.05  PROBATIONARY PERIOD FOR ALL EMPLOYEES.
   All village employees shall serve a mandatory one-year uninterrupted
probationary period prior to final confirmation of employment.
(Ord. 8-00, passed 8-1-2000)
§ 31.06  LIGHT-DUTY EMPLOYMENT.
   Light-duty employment may be utilized by the village when deemed necessary
and authorized by the Mayor.  An example of necessary light duty is where an
injury or illness that may otherwise incapacitate an employee from fully doing
his or her regular job but would not prohibit him or her from aiding in some
other employment capacity.
(Ord. 05-07, passed 3-13-2007)
PROVISIONS CONCERNING SPECIFIC OFFICIALS
§ 31.15  MAYOR.
   (A)   Election; term; qualifications; powers and duties.  The Mayor shall be
elected for a term of four years commencing on the first day of January next
after his or her election.  He or she shall be an elector of the municipality,
and shall have resided in the municipality for at least one year immediately
preceding his or her election.  He or she shall be the chief conservator of the
peace within the municipality, and shall have the powers and duties provided by
law.  He or she shall be the President of the Legislative Authority, and shall
preside at all regular and special meetings thereof, but shall have no vote
except in case of a tie. 
(R.C. § 733.24)
   (B)   Vacancy in Office of Mayor; how filled.  When the Mayor is absent from
the municipality, or is unable for any cause to perform his or her duties, the
President Pro Tem of the Legislative Authority shall be acting Mayor.  In case
of the death, resignation, or removal of the Mayor, the President Pro Tem shall
become the Mayor and shall hold office until his or her successor is elected
and qualified.  The successor shall be elected to the office for the unexpired
term at the first regular municipal election that occurs more than 40 days
after the vacancy has occurred, except that when the unexpired term ends within
one year immediately following the date of such election, an election to fill
the unexpired term shall not be held and the President of the Legislative
Authority shall hold the office for the unexpired term.
(R.C. § 733.25)
   (C)   Cordoning of emergency areas.
      (1)   The Mayor and Vice-Mayor of the village when engaged in suppressing
riot or civil commotion in the village, when there is a clear and present
danger of riot or civil commotion, or in case of fire, accident, disaster, or
emergency of any kind, shall have the authority to cordon the area or areas
within the village, in which any riot or civil commotion is taking place or in
which any fire or other emergency exists and any area or areas, within the
village relative to which the danger of riot or civil commotion exists or in
which any such accident or disaster has occurred, to prohibit persons from
entering or leaving any such cordoned area except persons seeking to enter or
leave for the purpose of carrying on necessary and lawful pursuits, and to
prohibit the selling, offering for sale, dispensing, carrying, or transporting
of firearms or other dangerous weapons, or of ammunition, dynamite, or
dangerous explosives of any kind, or intoxicating beverages, into, within, or
from any such cordoned area, and may exercise that authority through any
sheriff, police officer, deputy, or other law enforcement officer on duty in
the village.
      (2)   No person shall willfully fail to promptly obey a lawful order of
the Mayor, or Vice- Mayor, or of any sheriff, police officer, deputy, or other
law enforcement officer, given under the authority of or pursuant to this
division (C).
      (3)   Whoever violates this division (C) shall be fined as set forth in §
10.99. 
(Ord. 15-68, passed 7-3-1968)
Cross-reference:
   Access to Town Hall keys, see §
40.02
   Licenses for commercial amusements issued by Mayor, see §
113.04
   Responsibility of Mayor to enforce air pollution regulations, see §
90.03
§ 31.16  CLERK-TREASURER.
   The Village Clerk-Treasurer shall be elected for a term of four years,
commencing on April 1 next after his or her election.  He or she shall be an
elector of the village. 
(R.C. § 733.26)
Cross-reference:
   Secretary to the Clerk, see §
31.42
§ 31.17  SOLICITOR.
   (A)   Appointment; termination.
      (1)   An attorney at law shall be appointed to represent the village as
legal counsel and Solicitor.
      (2)   The appointed Solicitor under this section shall serve at the
continuing pleasure of the Village Council, and may be terminated from
employment on 30 days’ notice, upon vote in favor of termination by a simple
majority of the Council members serving, with the Mayor to break a tie in the
event of a tie vote among the members of Council.
   (B)   Duties.  The Solicitor shall, in addition to any statutory duties,
provide legal counsel and advice upon request of the village officials, and
represent village officials acting in their official capacity and the village
in all legal matters and controversies, and provide such counsel and advice
either in response to oral or telephoned questions, or in writing upon request.
Such counsel shall be directed to the Mayor, members of Village Council, Police
Chief, police officers, and all other village officials. The Solicitor shall
serve as Prosecutor in Mayor’s Court and shall be appointed and serve as the
Unofficial Juvenile Court Referee. The Solicitor shall represent the village in
all controversies in connection with zoning, special assessments, issuance of
bonds, civil suits brought on behalf of or against the village, and in
representing the village in litigation and negotiation of claims.  The
Solicitor shall draft ordinances, contracts and agreements, and such other
documents in which the interests of the village may be expressed, as requested
by the Village Council.
   (C)   Salary; special counsel. 
      (1)   The Solicitor shall be paid the base sum as set forth by the
Village Council from time to time for services rendered as above. For such sum,
the Solicitor shall attend and serve as legal counsel at one regularly
scheduled Village Council meeting each month, two regularly scheduled Mayor’s
Court sessions each month, and one regularly scheduled Juvenile Court session
each month. In addition to the base sum, the Solicitor shall be paid at the
rate set forth by the Village Council from time to time for any additional
Mayor’s Court sessions and Juvenile Court sessions as may be scheduled by the
Mayor from time to time as the Mayor may deem necessary, and in connection with
zoning, special assessments, issuance of bonds, civil suits brought for or
against the village, and the representation of the village in all litigation,
negotiation of claims, and court appearances on behalf of the village outside
the normal occurrences covered by the base sum, noted above.
      (2)   The Solicitor shall have the right to bring in special counsel when
necessary, with the approval of Village Council, in connection with any zoning,
appropriation of property, special assessments, urban renewal or other
specialized areas of law practice, in which case special counsel shall be paid
separately by the village. In cases of illness or unavoidable scheduling
conflicts which the Solicitor cannot in the exercise of due diligence resolve
in favor of the village, the Solicitor may with advance notice to the Mayor
provide for his or her temporary substitution by competent counsel, in which
case the temporary substitute counsel shall not be paid by the Village Council
but shall look for compensation, if any, solely to the Solicitor.
(Ord. 1-92, passed 1-2-1992)
§ 31.18  VILLAGE ENGINEER.
   (A)   The  village shall hire an engineer to act as adviser to the village.
   (B)   This Engineer employed by the village shall not be restricted as to
any other employment, except to the extent that it may make it impossible to
perform the duties required of the Village Engineer.
   (C)   The Mayor and Clerk are authorized to hire the Village Engineer at a
salary which shall be as set by ordinance.
   (D)   Either the village or the Village Engineer may, upon 30 days’ notice,
terminate the employment relationship above and the Engineer shall be
compensated on a pro rata basis up to the point the relationship is
terminated.  Upon termination the Engineer shall turn over to the village all
papers and files that he or she may be working on at the time of termination.
(Ord. 9-78, passed 2-7-1978)
§ 31.19  COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The village shall employ a Community Development Director pursuant to
the Federal Government Community Development Block Grant Program.  The expense
for this employee shall be paid by the federal government.
   (B)   At such time as the position becomes an expense to the village, the
Council shall determine the advisability of retaining or abolishing it.
   (C)   The Mayor and Clerk are authorized to do all things necessary to
establish such a position and the Mayor is authorized to hire the person to
fill it. 
(Ord. 3-78, passed 1-3-1978)
§ 31.20  MAINTENANCE SUPERVISOR.
   (A)   Appointment. 
      (1)   There is hereby created the employee position of Maintenance
Supervisor, who shall be appointed by the Village Council and shall serve at
the continuing pleasure of Village Council, and under the various personnel
provisions and ordinances governing the employment practices of the village.
      (2)   In the event the Village Council shall appoint as the Maintenance
Supervisor an individual who had prior to appointment worked for the village in
another capacity, all prior service time shall be continued for purposes of
seniority and benefits.
   (B)   Duties.  The duties of the Maintenance Supervisor shall be to
supervise the maintenance and repair of all village property, and to report to
the Village Council on the condition of village property from time to time.
   (C)   Compensation.  The Maintenance Supervisor shall be compensated hourly
at a rate to be fixed from time to time by the Village Council for 40 hours per
week, and shall have such other compensation and benefits as shall be provided
to all hourly employees of the village according to the usual employment
policies and practices of the village as the same may be established from time
to time.
(Ord. 27-91, passed 11-12-1991; Am. Ord. 31-91, passed 12-18-1991; Am. Ord. 11-
06, passed 5-9-2006)
   (D)   Departmental personnel.  The Service Department shall consist of one
Foreperson and one assistant. The Mayor may hire any additional employees in
this Department after the positions have been created by Council, and with
Council approval.
(Am. Ord. 08-01, passed 9-4-2001)
§ 31.21  ADMINISTRATOR OF THE TAX DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the village shall be, and herein is, authorized
to appoint an Administrator of the Tax Department who shall be responsible for
the administration and enforcement of the rules and regulations in the
collection of all income taxes for the village. Upon advice and request of the
Administrator, the Clerk-Treasurer of the village shall appoint additional
assistants as may be needed for the administration of the Tax Department.
   (B)   The salary of the Administrator and/or any assistants shall be
established by ordinance.
   (C)   The rules and regulations of the administration of the collection of
the income taxes for the village shall be those as described in Chapter 38 of
this code.
(Ord. 5-82, passed 5-4-1982)
§ 31.22  STREET COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   A Street Commissioner shall be appointed by the Mayor with the
approval of Council.
   (B)   The Street Commissioner shall perform such duties as are normally
performed by one acting in such a capacity.  He or she shall be in charge of
the entire Service Department including any Service Superintendent. 
   (C)   The compensation for the Street Commissioner shall be an amount
established by ordinance of the Village Council.
(Ord. 13-72, passed 4-5-1972; Am. Ord. 26-91, passed 11-12-1991)
§ 31.23  SECRETARY TO COUNCIL.
   (A)   Position established.
      (1)   There is created the employment position of Secretary to the
Council, which position shall have the duties described in this section and
shall be compensated as provided in this section.
      (2)   The Secretary to the Council shall begin duties upon appointment by
majority vote of the Village Council and shall continue in employment at the
continuing pleasure of Village Council and shall be terminated by Village
Council only for just cause.
   (B)   Duties.  The Secretary to the Council shall be a permanent full-time
employee, and shall be responsible to the Village Council for the preparation
of regular reports and documents deemed necessary by Village Council from time
to time, and shall in addition prepare all payroll reports, tax reports,
records, checks and calculations, employee insurance matters and all other
employment documents to aid the Clerk, may aid the Mayor with the Mayor’s
correspondence requirements,  shall prepare permits on applications properly
received, and shall do any other additional tasks as may be assigned by Village
Council.
   (C)   Salary.  The Secretary to the Council shall be compensated at the rate
to be determined by the Village Council from time to time for a 40-hour regular
work week, and shall be subject to and have such additional benefits as are
provided by the ordinary employment policies of the village for full- time
employees as previously provided by ordinance, as such ordinances may be
modified or adopted from time to time.
(Ord. 25-91, passed 11-12-1991; Am. Ord. 16-92, passed 10-6-1992)
§ 31.24  VILLAGE MAGISTRATE.
   The Magistrate of the Mayor’s Court shall serve two evenings per month,
pursuant to the following conditions:
   (A)   The compensation paid to the Magistrate shall be an amount per year to
be set by Council from time to time, payable in monthly installments.
   (B)   The Magistrate shall be eligible, at own expense, to participate in
the Village of Elmwood Place medical/hospitalization group health insurance
plan at any level he or she chooses, i.e., individual or family, effective at a
date according to appointment.  In the event the Magistrate chooses to
participate in the Village of Elmwood Place medical/hospitalization group
health insurance plan, then the monthly compensation installments referred to
in division (A) above shall be applied directly toward payment of the premiums
charged on behalf of the Magistrate.  Should the premiums for the health
insurance exceed the amount of the monthly compensation paid to the Magistrate,
the Magistrate shall pay the difference each month in order to remain as a
participant in the plan.
   (C)   In the event the Magistrate is unable to attend a regular Mayor’s
Court session, the Magistrate shall provide a qualified substitute, at the
Magistrate’s expense.
   (D)   The cost of the continuing education courses required by the Ohio
Supreme Court in order for the Magistrate to conduct Mayor’s Court, shall be
paid by the Village of Elmwood Place.
(Res. 03-01, passed 2-10-2003)
SUPPORT POSITIONS
§ 31.40  VILLAGE SECRETARY.
   The position of Village Secretary is hereby created and shall be assigned
the following responsibilities.
   (A)   The Village Secretary shall be Town Hall receptionist and Secretary to
the Mayor upon appointment by the Mayor.
      (1)   The Mayor’s Secretary shall fulfill all the clerical and
administrative duties required for the efficient operation of that office, and
any other clerical duties the Mayor may deem necessary for the ongoing business
of the village.
      (2)   The Mayor’s Secretary shall be under the supervision of the Mayor,
and shall answer only to the Mayor.
   (B)   The Village Secretary shall also be the administrative assistant to
the Clerk-Treasurer of the village and shall fulfill all the duties necessary
for the efficient operation of the Clerk-Treasurer's Office.  The
administrative assistant to the Clerk-Treasurer shall be under the general
supervision of the Clerk- Treasurer.
   (C)   (1)   The Village Secretary shall be paid an amount per hour for a 40
hour week as set by Council from time to time.  The Village Secretary shall be
paid overtime for all hours in excess of 40 hours, and shall receive all other
benefits afforded full-time clerical employees.
(Am. Ord. 08-01, passed 9-4-2001; Am. Ord. 11-06, passed 5-9-2006)
      (2)   The salary of the Village Secretary shall be reviewed annually by
the Mayor and Clerk- Treasurer.
(Ord. 03-2000, passed 1-4-2000; Am. Ord. 10-08, passed 9-22-2008)
§ 31.41  ASSISTANT MAINTENANCE ASSOCIATE AND CODE ENFORCER.
   (A)   There is hereby created the position of Assistant Maintenance
Associate and Code Enforcer.
   (B)   The position shall be filled by appointment of the Mayor with the
consent of the Village Council.
   (C)   The pay for this position shall be an amount per hour as set by the
Council from time to time, with a standard work week of 30 staggered hours. 
The Mayor may authorize additional hours per week if circumstances demand. 
Total hours shall not exceed 38 in one week.
(Ord. 15-00, passed 11-7-2000; Am. Ord. 13-05, passed 6-17-2005; Am. Ord. 11-
06, passed 5-9-2006)
§ 31.42  SECRETARY TO CLERK-TREASURER.
   (A)   (1)   The position of Secretary to the Clerk- Treasurer shall be a
full-time position consisting of 30 hours per week at a rate per hour as set by
Council from time to time. 
      (2)   The Mayor and Clerk-Treasurer will approve any hours in excess of
30 hours per week.
(Am. Ord. 07-06, passed 2-14-2006)   
   (B)   The Mayor with the approval of the Council shall hire the Secretary to
the Clerk-Treasurer, and the Secretary shall have all employment protection
provided village employees by state and federal law. The Secretary to the
Clerk-Treasurer shall perform all basic duties of that position as currently
determined. The Secretary shall maintain all financial records for the village,
maintain bank reconciliation, daily deposits and shall perform all other
clerical duties presently required, and any new duties that may be created in
the future to completely computerize the office of Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 03-02, passed 2-5-2002)
CHAPTER 32:  BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Planning Commission
   
32.01   Planning Commission established
   
32.02   Composition of Commission
   
32.03   Compensation
   
32.04   Control and approval over buildings
   
32.05   Duties and powers
   
32.06   Zoning
   
32.07   Classification of buildings
Records Commission
   
32.20   Commission established
   
32.21   Members
   
32.22   Duties
Volunteer Firefighter’s Dependents Fund Board
   
32.35   Establishing and choosing Board
   
32.36   Authority
   
32.37   Compensation and expenses; legal adviser
Tree Commission
   
32.50   Establishment
   
32.51   Purposes and objectives
   
32.52   Membership and terms
   
32.53   Meetings and procedures
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 32.01  PLANNING COMMISSION ESTABLISHED.
   A Planning Commission for the village is established.
§ 32.02  COMPOSITION OF COMMISSION.
   The Planning Commission shall consist of five members, consisting of the
Mayor, one member of Council elected thereby who serves during his or her term
of office, and three citizens of the village, to be appointed by the Mayor for
a term of six years each.
(R.C. § 713.01)
§ 32.03  COMPENSATION.
   All members of the Planning Commission shall serve without compensation.
(R.C. § 713.01)
§ 32.04  CONTROL AND APPROVAL OVER BUILDINGS.
   Pursuant to R.C. §§ 713.01 and 735.15, the Planning Commission shall have
control of the location of public or municipal buildings to be erected on
ground acquired within the limits of the village, and of the size, height,
style, and general appearance of the buildings.  All plans and specifications
for the erection thereof shall be submitted to and approved by them before
adoption by the authority engaged in this construction.
§ 32.05  DUTIES AND POWERS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall make plans and maps of the whole or any
portion of the municipal corporation, and of any land outside thereof, which,
in the opinion of the Commission, is related to the planning of the municipal
corporation, and make changes in such plans or maps when it deems it
advisable.  Such maps or plans shall show the Commission’s recommendations for
the general location, character, and extent of streets, alleys, ways, viaducts,
bridges, waterways, waterfronts, subways, boulevards, parkways, parks,
playgrounds, aviation fields and other public grounds, ways, and open spaces;
the general location of public buildings and other public property; the general
location and extent of public utilities and terminals, whether publicly or
privately owned or operated, for water, light, sanitation, transportation,
communication, power, and other purposes; and the removal, relocation,
widening, narrowing, vacating, abandonment, change of use of or extension of
the public ways, grounds, open spaces, buildings, property, utilities, or
terminals.  With a view to the systematic planning of the municipal
corporation, the Commission may make recommendations to public officials
concerning the general location, character, and extent of any such public ways,
grounds, open spaces, buildings, property, utilities, or terminals.  As the
work of making the whole plan progresses, the Commission may from time to time
adopt and publish any part thereof, and such  part shall cover one or more
major sections or divisions of the municipal corporation or one or more of the
functional matters to be included in the plan.  The Commission may from time to
time amend, extend, or add to the plan.  This section does not confer any
powers on the Commission with respect to the construction, maintenance, use, or
enlargement of improvements by any public utility or railroad on its own
property if the utility is owned or operated by an individual, partnership,
association, or a corporation for profit.
   (B)   The Planning Commission may accept, receive, and expend funds, grants,
and services from the federal government or its agencies, from departments,
agencies, and instrumentalities of this state or any adjoining state or from
one or more counties of this state or any adjoining state or from any municipal
corporation or political subdivision of this or any adjoining state, including
county, regional, and municipal planning commissions of this or any adjoining
state, or from civic sources, and contract with respect thereto, either
separately or jointly or cooperatively, and provide such information and
reports as may be necessary to secure the financial aid.
   (C)   The Commission may control, preserve, and care for historical
landmarks; control, in the manner provided by ordinance, the design and
location of statuary and other works of art, which are the property of the
municipal corporation; control the removal, relocation, and alteration of any
such works; and control the design of harbors, bridges, viaducts, street
fixtures, and other public structures and appurtenances.
   (D)   Whenever the Commission makes a plan of the municipal corporation, or
any portion thereof, no public building or structure, street, boulevard,
parkway, park, playground, public ground, canal, river front, harbor, dock,
wharf, bridge, viaduct, tunnel, or other public way, ground, works, or utility,
whether publicly or privately owned, or a part thereof, shall be constructed or
authorized to be constructed in the municipal corporation or planned portion
thereof unless the location, character, and extent thereof is approved by the
Commission.  In case of disapproval the Commission shall communicate its
reasons therefor to the legislative authority of the municipal corporation and
to the head of the department which has control of the construction of the
proposed improvement or utility.  The legislative authority, by a vote of not
less than two-thirds of its members and of the department head, together may
overrule the disapproval.  If the public way, ground, works, building,
structure, or utility is one the authorization or financing of which does not,
under the law governing it, fall within the province of a municipal legislative
authority or other municipal body or official, the submission to the Commission
shall be by the state, school, county, district, or township official, board,
commission, or body having such jurisdiction, and the Commission’s disapproval
may be overruled by such official, board, commission, or body by a vote of not
less than two-thirds of its membership.  The narrowing, ornamentation,
vacation, or change in use of streets and other public ways, grounds, and
places shall be subject to similar approval, and disapproval may be similarly
overruled.  The Commission may make recommendations to any public authorities
or to any corporations or individuals in the municipal corporations or the
territory contiguous thereto, concerning the location of any buildings,
structures, or works to be erected or constructed by them.
(R.C. § 713.02)
§ 32.06  ZONING.
   The Planning Commission may frame and adopt a plan for dividing the village
or any portion thereof into zones or districts, representing the
recommendations of the Commission, in the interest of the public health,
safety, convenience, comfort, prosperity or general welfare, for the
limitations and regulation of the height, bulk, and the location, including
percentage of lot occupancy, setback building lines, and area and dimensions of
yards, courts, and other open spaces, and the uses of buildings and other
structures, and of premises in such zones or districts.
(R.C. § 713.06)
§ 32.07  CLASSIFICATION OF BUILDINGS.
   (A)   The districting or zoning of any municipal corporation or part thereof
may be based upon any combination of two or more of the purposes described in
R.C. §§ 713.07 through 713.09, inclusive.  In the determination and
establishment of such districts buildings and other structures may be
classified on the basis of the nature or character of trade, industry,
profession, or other activity conducted or to be conducted therein, the number
of persons, families, or other group units to reside in or use them, the
public, quasi-public, or private nature of the use thereof, or upon any other
basis relevant to the promotion of the public safety, health, morals,
convenience, prosperity, or welfare.
   (B)   The legislative authority may amend or change the number, shape, area,
or regulations of or within any district, but no such amendment or change shall
become effective unless the ordinance proposing it is first submitted to the
Planning Commission for approval, disapproval, or suggestions and the
Commission is allowed a reasonable time, not less than 30 days, for
consideration and report.
(R.C. § 713.10)
RECORDS COMMISSION
§ 32.20  COMMISSION ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby created, in accordance with R.C. § 149.39, the Records
Commission, which shall consist of the Mayor or his or her appointed
representative, who shall be the Chairperson, and three additional members.
(Ord. 13-91, passed 8-6-1991)
Statutory reference:
   Records Commission, see R.C. § 149.39
§ 32.21  MEMBERS.
   The members of the Records Commission shall be the Chief Fiscal Officer, the
Chief Legal Officer, and a citizen appointed by the Mayor of the village.  A
Secretary, who may or may not be a member of the Records Commission, shall be
appointed by the Commission, and shall serve at its pleasure.  The Commission
members and Secretary shall serve without compensation.  The Commission may
employ an archivist.
(Ord. 13-91, passed 8-6-1991)
§ 32.22  DUTIES.
   The Records Commission shall meet every six months and upon call of the
Chairperson, and shall perform the duties set forth in R.C. § 149.39, and in
addition thereto, shall, when it is deemed advisable by the membership,
initiate,  and promulgate plans for the reproduction of village records, by
lawful means, for the purposes of more economical storage and  improved safety
thereof, and may conduct investigations of the necessity for and the
practicability of the plans.
(Ord. 13-91, passed 8-6-1991)
VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTER’S DEPENDENTS FUND BOARD
§ 32.35  ESTABLISHING AND CHOOSING BOARD.
   (A)   A Board to be known as the Volunteer Firefighter’s Dependents Fund
Board is created and shall be chosen as follows:
      (1)   Two members shall be elected by Council;
      (2)   Two members shall be elected by the Fire Department; and
      (3)   One member shall be elected by the Board members, who must be an
elector of the village, but not a public employee, nor may he or she be a
member of Council or of the Fire Department.
   (B)   They shall administer the Fund for the benefit of the dependent
claimants. 
   (C)   Any vacancy on the Board shall be filled at a special election called
by the Secretary of the Board.
(R.C. § 146.03)
§ 32.36  AUTHORITY.
   The Firefighter’s Dependents Fund Board will have authority to make all
necessary rules and regulations for the handling and processing which may be
submitted to them and perform such other duties as may be necessary to carry
out the provisions of R.C. §§ 146.01 et seq.
§ 32.37  COMPENSATION AND EXPENSES; LEGAL ADVISER.
   The Firefighter’s Dependents Fund Board shall serve without compensation. 
The village shall provide the meeting place, stationery, postage, and supplies
necessary for the conduct of their business.  The legal adviser for the Board
is the prosecuting attorney of Hamilton County.
(R.C. § 146.06)
TREE COMMISSION
§ 32.50  ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created and established the Tree Commission of the Village
of Elmwood Place, County of Hamilton, State of Ohio.
(Ord. 09-07, passed 9-11-2007)
§ 32.51  PURPOSES AND OBJECTIVES.
   The primary purposes and objectives of the Tree Commission shall include the
following:
   (A)   The Commission, when requested by the Mayor or Village Council, shall
consider, investigate, make findings, report and recommend upon any special
matter or question regarding the street or park trees;
   (B)   To hold regular and special meetings at which the subject of trees
insofar as it relates to the village may be discussed by the members of the
Commission, officers, personnel, and Council committees of the village and all
others interested in the tree program;
   (C)   To disseminate news and information regarding the selection, planting
and maintenance of trees within the corporate limits, whether the same be on
private or public property;
   (D)   To establish the recommended species and varieties of trees to be
planted in the boulevards and parks (such recommendations to be made in
conjunction with the approved list set forth in the village’s zoning code);
   (E)   To implement an Arbor Day observance on an annual basis (nationally
held on the last Friday of April); and
   (F)   To establish and maintain, on an annual basis, an inventory of village
street and park trees.
(Ord. 09-07, passed 9-11-2007)
§ 32.52  MEMBERSHIP AND TERMS.
   (A)   The Commission shall consist of five members.  Additionally, the Mayor
and one member of Council shall act as advisory members of the Commission.
   (B)   The Mayor, subject to the approval of the Village Council, shall
appoint all members of the Commission.
   (C)   The Chairperson of the Commission shall preside over all meetings of
the Commission and act a parliamentarian.  The Vice-Chairperson shall assume
the duties of the Chairperson in his or her absence.
   (D)   Appointments to the Commission shall be for three-year terms, provided
that the term for one of the members appointed to the first Commission shall be
for one year and one of the members appointed to the first Commission shall be
for two years.  In the event that a vacancy shall occur during the term of any
member, his or her successor shall be appointed for the unexpired portion of
the term.
   (E)   The Commission members shall serve without compensation.
   (F)   Any Commission member who misses three consecutive meetings or more
than 50% of the regular meetings on an annual basis shall be removed from the
Tree Commission.
(Ord. 09-07, passed 9-11-2007)
§ 32.53  MEETINGS AND PROCEDURES.
   The Commission shall choose its own officers, make its own rules and
regulations and keep a journal of its proceedings.  A simple majority of the
members shall be a quorum for the transaction of business.  All plans,
findings, advice, reports, and recommendations of the Commission shall be in
writing.
(Ord. 09-07, passed 9-11-2007)
CHAPTER 33:  POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Department established; composition
   
33.02   Hiring of police officers
   
33.03   Physical and emotional standards
   
33.04   Compensation
   
33.05   Police work week
   
33.06   Department shall enforce the law
   
33.07   Part-time officer
   
33.08   Uniforms
   
33.09   Clothing and leather allowance for plainclothes officers
   
33.10   Secretary to the Chief of Police
   
33.11   Administrative Assistant to the Chief of Police
   
33.12   Reimbursement of village for costs and expenses
   
33.13   Two-way radio service
   
33.14   Court appearances
Private, Special and Auxiliary Police
   
33.25   Auxiliary police force
Dispatchers
   
33.40   Appointment
   
33.41   Duties, chain of command, supervision
   
33.42   Uniform provision and allowance
Fines and Property Recovered
   
33.55   Disposition of fines and penalties
   
33.56   Property recovered by police
   
33.57   Inventory to person from whom taken
   
33.58   Disposition to claimant
   
33.59   Sale of unclaimed property; disposition of proceeds
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01  DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED; COMPOSITION.
   (A)   Establishment.  There is established for the village a Police
Department, which shall be known as the Police Department.
   (B)   Composition.  The Police Department may be composed of the following
officers and other members:
      (1)   (a)   One Chief of Police who, pursuant to R.C. § 737.18, shall be
the executive head (under the Mayor) of the Police Department.  The Chief of
Police shall be a fully qualified village police officer and shall discharge
all the duties thereof, together with such additional duties that may be
assigned from time to time by the Mayor.  The requirement of R.C. § 737.15
stipulating that a police chief of a village must be a resident of the village
is hereby waived as permitted by R.C. § 737.15.
         (b)   The Village Chief of Police shall, from the date of the
enactment of this division (B)(1)(b), have use of a village-owned and equipped
police vehicle while working for the village on official village business.  The
vehicle shall be garaged at the Village Police Department each night and at
other times as it is not being used by the Chief of Police on official village
business.
(Am. Res. 03-05, passed 12-8-2003; Am. Res. 04-01, passed 1-17-2004)
      (2)   Two lieutenants who shall be fully qualified village police
officers and shall discharge all the duties thereof, together with such
additional duties that may be assigned from time to time by the Chief of
Police.
      (3)   Two sergeants of police who shall be fully qualified police
officers and shall discharge all the duties thereof, together with such other
additional duties as shall be assigned from time to time by superior officers.
      (4)   The position of lieutenant and sergeant shall be additionally
compensated at a rate per hour as is established by ordinance, and shall
receive such other additional benefits and allowances provided all village
police officers, in accord with all present and future employment policies
adopted by the Council.
(Am. Ord. 11-06, passed 5-9-2006)
      (5)   Six regular officers who shall be fully qualified police officers
and shall discharge all the duties thereof, together with such other additional
duties as shall be assigned from time to time by superior officers.
      (6)   Such auxiliary patrol officers and special police as presently
exist or may be appointed as established by act of Council.
      (7)   All appointments to the Police Department and all promotions within
the Police Department shall be made by the Mayor with the confirmation of the
Council, and shall be for a minimum probationary period of six months.
(Ord. 11-75, passed 5-7-1975; Am. Ord. 13-90, passed 6-5-1990; Am. Ord. 2-96,
passed 2-6-1996; Am. Ord. 4-96, passed 2-6-1996)
Cross-reference:
   Responsibility of Police Chief for keys having access to Town Hall building,
see §
40.02
§ 33.02  HIRING OF POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   Any applicant for the position of police officer for the village shall
submit to the following:
      (1)   A written examination prepared for the village and administered at
the expense of the village.  To be considered for appointment to the Police
Department, the applicant must obtain a minimum passing grade of 70% on the
written examination;
(Am. Ord. 10-02, passed 7-9-2002)
      (2)   An oral examination administered by the Chief of Police, two
members of the Police Department appointed by the Chief of Police, the Mayor
and two members of Council appointed by the Mayor.  In lieu of the foregoing,
an oral examination may be administered by an independent qualified
professional person, persons, or organization authorized by Council; and
      (3)   A complete background investigation, which information shall be
made known to the oral examiners prior to the oral examination.
   (B)   No applicant may be considered for appointment unless the applicant
has met all the minimum requirements as stated in divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2)
above.
   (C)   The oral examiners shall compile a written list of those applicants
who meet the minimum requirements for consideration as per division (A) above.
   (D)   The written list of applicants who meet the minimum requirements of
division (A) above shall be submitted to the Mayor.  This list shall include
the results of the oral and written examinations and the background
investigation.
   (E)   The Mayor shall make the appointment to the Police Department from the
written list submitted to him or her, with the consent of Council.
   (F)   No person shall receive an appointment under this section unless he or
she has not more than 60 days prior to receiving this appointment passed a
physical examination, given by a licensed physician, showing that he or she
meets the physical requirements necessary to perform the duties of the position
to which he or she is to be appointed as established by the Council.  The
appointing authority shall, prior to making the appointment, file with the
Police and Firefighter’
   (G)   Should the applicant appointed by the Mayor fail the physical
examination, then the Mayor shall appoint another person from the list of
applicants who meet the minimum requirements of division (A) above provided to
him or her by the Police Chief.
   (H)   The person appointed as police officer shall serve a probationary
period of six months, during which time the appointee shall receive full salary
of the position appointed to and all benefits offered to non-probationary
members of the Police Department. 
(Ord. 10-A 1980, passed 7-7-1980; Am. Ord. 87-6, passed 1-20-1987)
§ 33.03  PHYSICAL AND EMOTIONAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   The Mayor or Police Chief shall have the authority to request any
police officer to be examined by a physician or psychiatrist normally used by
the Police Department to determine the ability of the officer to perform his or
her duties.
   (B)   The cost of the examination shall be paid by the village.
   (C)   Should the officer requested to be examined refuse the request, or not
make an effort to follow the doctor’s recommendation, the officer shall be
deemed guilty of inefficiency, insubordination, and/or neglect of duty.
(Ord. 87-15, passed 6-2-1987)
§ 33.04  COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Salaries paid to and bond required of members of the Police Department
shall be as has been or may be established by ordinance.
(Am. Ord. 11-06, passed 5-9-2006)
   (B)   Police officers shall be paid for a minimum of two hours as “mandatory
call out pay” when called to respond to work by a superior. 
(Ord. 16-85, passed 7-8-1985) 
§ 33.05  POLICE WORK WEEK.
   (A)   The work week of each and every member of the Police Department of the
village shall be 40 hours worked within any seven-day period.
   (B)   All time over 40 hours per seven-day week shall be paid as overtime. 
Overtime pay is time and one-half of regular pay.  All holidays, paid sick
days, vacation paid days and court time shall not be counted against the normal
40-hour week.
   (C)   Divisions (A) and (B) of this section do not pertain to supervisory
salaried personnel.
(Ord. 21-88, passed 11-1-1988)
   (D)   The Police Chief may work additional hours on special assignments
selected by the Mayor.
(Am. Ord. 11-06, passed 5-9-2006)
§ 33.06  DEPARTMENT SHALL ENFORCE THE LAW.
   The Police Department as instituted shall operate and cooperate with all
departments of governments, federal, state, and county, and the ordinances of
the village to enforce the law and protect the citizenry.
§ 33.07  PART-TIME OFFICER.
   (A)   The position of part-time police officer for the village is hereby
created.
   (B)   The officer shall be a fully accredited police officer and shall be
appointed by the Mayor from the auxiliary force and/or applications submitted
with the confirmation of a majority vote of the Council. He/she shall have
passed a physical examination not less than 90 days prior to appointment.
   (C)   The officer may be paid up to $12 per hour and may work up to 32 hours
per week with additional hours permitted if authorized by the Mayor. No more
than 38 hours in any given week shall be permitted except in a genuine
emergency situation. On such occurrence where any hours worked in a week
exceeds 40 hours, pay computed at time and one-half will be paid.
   (D)   Each part-time police officer may be provided a badge, police patches
and uniforms upon employment which shall be returned to the village if for any
reasons that individual leaves the Department.
   (E)   This position is part-time and may be terminated by the Mayor for any
reason with a majority vote of the Council.
(Ord. 02-08, passed 3-11-2008; Am. Ord. 06-09, passed 7-14-2009)
§ 33.08  UNIFORMS.
   (A)   (1)   Full-time police officers shall be supplied with the following
uniforms and equipment upon appointment:
 
3 long sleeve shirts     1 ballistic vest
3 short sleeve shirts    1  mace case w/mace
4 pairs of pants         1 tie and 1 tie bar
1 coat (bomber style)    1 firearm
1 raincoat (reversible)  1 duty holster
1 uniform hat            1 off-duty holster
1 pair of shoes or boots 1 magazine case
 
      (2)   All appropriate uniform insignias and badges will also be supplied.
   (B)   The Village Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to issue a purchase order
for the purchase of the uniforms, insignias and badges upon appointment of the
police officer candidate by the Mayor and confirmation by the Council.
   (C)   After initial uniform allocation each officer will be responsible for
his or her uniforms. A uniform allowance of $400 will be given to each full-
time officer each year, payable the second week of January. This will be
prorated for any officer that has not completed 12 months of service.  Any
uniform replacement necessitated by damage incurred while the officer is
performing in the line of duty will be covered by the village. 
(Ord. 16-85, passed 7-8-1985; Am. Ord. 2-98, passed 1-6-1998)
§ 33.09  CLOTHING AND LEATHER ALLOWANCE FOR PLAINCLOTHES OFFICERS.
   Clothing and equipment for plainclothes officers shall be paid for out of
the Police Department annual General Fund appropriations or any applicable
special fund.
(Ord. 20-83, passed 6-7-1983; Am. Ord. 22-02, passed 12-16-2002)
§ 33.10  SECRETARY TO THE CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   The position of Secretary to the Chief of Police is hereby created,
such position to be for part- time employment.
   (B)   The duties of the position shall be as the Chief of Police may assign
from time to time.
   (C)   The Secretary to the Chief of Police shall be employed on a part-time
basis for a total of 25 hours per week between the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 3:00
p.m., Monday through Friday of each week; the Secretary to the Chief of Police
shall record the dates and times of employment on forms to be provided by the
Clerk of the village, which record shall be certified and approved by the Chief
of Police; and the Secretary to the Chief of Police shall be compensated at a
rate established by ordinance.
(Am. Ord. 11-06, passed 5-9-2006)
   (D)   The Chief of Police may appoint an employee to the position, with the
consent of the Village Council, and the employee shall continue in service at
the continuing pleasure of the Chief of Police and the Village Council.
(Ord. 2-91, passed 2-5-1991; Am. Ord. 15-92, passed 10-6-1992)
§ 33.11  ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT TO THE CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   There is hereby created the position of Administrative Assistant to
the Chief of Police.
   (B)   The person so appointed to the position shall be a fully certified and
sworn village police officer.
   (C)   The position of Administrative Assistant to the Chief of Police shall
be an unpaid position, in that the regular pay of police officers, at the rate
of Lieutenant, shall cover the duties.
   (D)   The duties of the Administrative Assistant to the Chief of Police
shall be to act as the officer in charge during such times as the Chief of
Police shall be absent, and to do other such duties as the Mayor and/or Police
Chief shall designate during his or her regular tour of duty.  He or she shall
report to the Chief of Police during the normal course of their duties, and
shall report directly to the Mayor when the Chief of Police is unavailable.
   (E)   The Administrative Assistant to the Chief of Police shall hold the
rank of acting Police Captain.
   (F)   The Administrative Assistant to the Chief of Police shall be appointed
by the Mayor and shall serve at the continuing pleasure of the Mayor.
(Ord. 19-91, passed 11-12-1991; Am. Ord. 11-97, passed 6-16-1997)
§ 33.12  REIMBURSEMENT OF VILLAGE FOR COSTS AND EXPENSES.
   (A)   All persons hired as village police officers from and after the
effective date of this section shall reimburse the village for all costs and
expenses of outfitting and training the police officer incurred by the village
during the police officer’s employment by the village, in the event the police
officer’s employment by the village terminates for any reason during the first
12 months after appointment.
   (B)   Any police officer subject to reimbursing the village for costs of
outfitting under this section shall not be required to reimburse the village
for the costs of any item used to outfit the police officer which may be
readily reused to outfit another police officer in the judgment of the Chief of
Police.
(Ord. 16-90, passed 6-21-1990)
§ 33.13  TWO-WAY RADIO SERVICE.
   (A)   The two-way radio service in the police automobiles, through station
KQA-387, is established.
   (B)   The Clerk is authorized to make application on behalf of the village
to the Federal Communications Commission as required by the Federal
Communication Act, being 47 U.S.C. §§ 201 et seq., for the proper licenses to
install the radio transmitters in the police automobiles.
§ 33.14  COURT APPEARANCES.
   (A)   Patrol officers shall be paid for actual time for each scheduled
Mayor’s Court at which they are scheduled to appear.
   (B)   The members of the Police Department shall be paid actual time for
court appearances in Hamilton County Court.
(Ord. 16-85, passed 7-8-1985)
PRIVATE, SPECIAL AND AUXILIARY POLICE
§ 33.25  AUXILIARY POLICE FORCE.
   (A)   Unit established.  Pursuant to R.C. § 737.161 there is hereby
established an auxiliary unit to the Police Department which may be composed of
not more than 30 members who shall have the qualifications shown below, and
shall be appointed as provided in division (C) of this section.
   (B)   Certain provisions not to apply.  Where clearly inconsistent with the
provisions of this section, Ordinance No. 10A-80 (i.e., §
33.02), Ordinance No. 16-85 (i.e., §§
33.04,
33.08,
33.14, 35.03, 35.06, 35.24 through 35.26), Ordinance No. 37-36, Ordinance No.
37-37 (not codified) and Ordinance No. 20-83 (i.e., §
33.09) shall not apply to persons appointed as auxiliary officers under this
section.
   (C)   Appointment.  Qualified candidates for auxiliary officers may be
appointed by the Mayor of the village pursuant to state law (R.C. § 737.161)
from written applications, with the confirmation of Village Council.
   (D)   Training.  The Mayor, with the confirmation of the Village Council,
may temporarily appoint persons as auxiliary officers for the sole purpose of
attending the police academy to obtain training for qualification and
certification as police officers.  Under no circumstances shall such person act
in the capacity as auxiliary officer for the village.  At the completion of the
training program the appointment shall terminate unless the Mayor makes the
appointment permanent.  Any such person appointed under this division shall
secure training at his or her own cost.
   (E)   Qualifications.  The minimum qualifications for appointment as
auxiliary officers shall be as follows:
      (1)   Age 21 or over;
      (2)   Certified, commissioned Ohio police officer;
      (3)   Possess current valid Ohio driver’s license;
      (4)   Be available for duty as provided in this section;
      (5)   Be free of convictions for felonies or serious misdemeanors; and
      (6)   Be able to successfully complete a physical examination including a
drug screen assignment.
   (F)   Oath; training; supervision.  Upon appointment and before assignment,
the auxiliary officer shall take the standard oath administered to appointed
officers, and shall successfully complete such training as determined by the
Chief of Police with the concurrence of the Mayor. Thereafter pursuant to state
law, auxiliary officers shall be stationed and supervised by the Chief of
Police under the general directive of the Mayor, and auxiliary officers shall
comply with all laws and the regulations and policies of the village and the
Police Department.
   (G)   Duties.  The auxiliary officers shall be employed for various police
duties as determined by the Chief of Police, except that auxiliary officers
shall not be employed for regular duty shifts as the only officer on duty
except in cases of emergency. Auxiliary officers shall not operate village
police vehicles without being accompanied by a regular, full- time village
police officer, until they have completed a minimum of 40 hours as auxiliary
officers and have been given authority to operate vehicles by the Chief of
Police.
   (H)   Compensation; leave of absence; uniform.
      (1)   (a)   Auxiliary officers shall serve at least 16 hours a month of
auxiliary duty with the Police Department at no pay.  Failure to serve the
mandatory hours per month for two consecutive months shall be cause for
removal.
         (b)   The hourly wage for auxiliary officers is increased, as set by
Council from time to time.  This wage begins after they have service 16
volunteer hours per month at no pay.
(Am. Ord. 17-03, passed 12-8-2003)
      (2)   Auxiliary officers may be assigned to additional special duty as
determined by the Chief of Police with the concurrence of the Mayor, and shall
be compensated therefor at the regular part-time officer rate set forth by the
Village Council from time to time.
      (3)   Upon written request to the Chief of Police, a temporary leave of
absence of not longer than 90 days may be granted by the Chief with the
concurrence of Mayor.
      (4)   Auxiliary police shall provide their own uniform, equipment, and
service weapon, per the specifications of the Police Department, except that
the village shall supply a police badge, identification card, and clothing
identification patches. All village equipment shall be returned upon
termination of service.
   (I)   Disciplinary action.
      (1)   The Chief of Police shall report all violations of any rules and
regulations of the village and the Police Department immediately to the Mayor,
and all violations shall be subject to discipline by the Chief of Police with
the approval of the Mayor.
      (2)   Auxiliary officers shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor and
removal may be imposed by the Mayor whenever such action is felt to be in the
best interest of the Department.
      (3)   When such action is taken, the Mayor shall file with the Council
written charges against the person setting forth in detail the reason for the
charges and immediately serve a true copy of the charges upon the person
against whom they are made.
      (4)   Charges filed under this section shall be heard at the next regular
meeting of the Village Council occurring not less than five days after the date
the charges have been served upon the person against whom they are made.  The
person against whom the charges are filed may appear in person and by counsel
at the hearing to examine all witnesses and answer all charges against him or
her.  At the conclusion of the hearing the Council may dismiss the charges,
suspend the accused from office for not more than 60 days, or remove the
accused from office.  Action of the Village Council in removing or suspending
the accused from office requires the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
members elected to it.  The decision of the Mayor and Village Council shall be
final.
(Ord. 10-92, passed 6-6-1992; Am. Ord. 13-92, passed 7-9-1992; Am. Ord. 3-96,
passed 2-6-1996; Am. Ord. 07-08, passed 6-10-2008; Am. Ord. 06-12, passed 3-13-
2012)
DISPATCHERS
§ 33.40  APPOINTMENT.
   Dispatchers shall be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of Council.
(Ord. 3-98, passed 1-6-1998)
§ 33.41  DUTIES, CHAIN OF COMMAND, SUPERVISION.
   (A)   The everyday duties of the dispatcher at the communications desk of
the village, which are composed of but not limited to dispatching, answering
phones, and operating the computer, shall fall under the auspices and control
of the Police Department.
   (B)   All dispatchers shall be under the criminal justice system and the
general supervision of the Police Chief.  When the Chief of Police is not
available or on duty, the highest ranking police officer on duty will be
dispatcher supervisor.
(Ord. 3-98, passed 1-6-1998)
§ 33.42  UNIFORM PROVISION AND ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   (1)   Full time dispatchers shall be supplied with the following
uniforms upon appointment:
      3 long sleeve shirts
      3 short sleeve shirts
      3 pairs of pants
      (2)   All appropriate uniform insignias and badges will also be supplied.
   (B)   After initial uniform allocation each dispatcher will be responsible
for his or her uniforms. A uniform allowance of $200 will be paid to each full-
time dispatcher each year, payable the second week of January.  This will be
prorated for any dispatcher who has not completed 12 months of service prior to
January 1.  Any uniform replacement necessitated by damage incurred while the
dispatcher is performing in the line of duty will be covered by the village.
(Ord. 3-98, passed 1-6-1998)
FINES AND PROPERTY RECOVERED
§ 33.55  DISPOSITION OF FINES AND PENALTIES.
   All fees, costs, fines, and penalties collected by the Marshal shall
immediately be paid to the Mayor, who shall report to the Legislative Authority
monthly the amount thereof, from whom and for what purpose collected, and when
paid to the Mayor.
(R.C. § 737.20)
§ 33.56  PROPERTY RECOVERED BY POLICE.
   Stolen or other property recovered by members of the police force shall be
deposited and kept in a place designated by the Mayor.  Each article shall be
entered in a book kept for that purpose, with the name of the owner, if
ascertained, the person from whom taken, the place where found with general
circumstances, the date of its receipt, and the name of the officer recovering
it.
(R.C. § 737.29)
§ 33.57  INVENTORY TO PERSON FROM WHOM TAKEN.
   An inventory of all money or other property shall be given to the party from
whom taken, and, in case it is not claimed by some person within 30 days after
arrest and seizure, it shall be delivered to the person from whom taken, and to
no other person, either attorney, agent, factor, or clerk, except by special
order of the Mayor.
(R.C. § 737.29)
§ 33.58  DISPOSITION TO CLAIMANT.
   If, within 30 days, the money or property recovered under §§
33.56 and
33.57 is claimed by any person other than the person from whom the property was
recovered from, it shall be retained by the custodian thereof until after the
discharge or conviction of the person from whom it was taken, and so long as it
may be required as evidence in any case in court.  If the claimant establishes
to the satisfaction of the court that he or she is the rightful owner, it shall
be restored to him or her; otherwise, it shall be returned to the accused
person, personally, and not to any attorney, agent, factor, or clerk of the
accused person, except upon special order of the Mayor after all liens and
claims in favor of the municipality have first been discharged and satisfied.
(R.C. § 737.31)
§ 33.59  SALE OF UNCLAIMED PROPERTY; DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS.
   Property unclaimed for the period of 90 days shall be sold by the Marshal,
Police Chief or licensed auctioneer at public auction, after giving due notice
thereof by advertisement, published once a week for three successive weeks in a
newspaper of general circulation in the county.  The proceeds shall be paid to
the Clerk-Treasurer, and be credited to the General Fund.
(R.C. § 737.32)
CHAPTER 34:  FIRE DEPARTMENT AND LIFE SQUAD
Section
   
34.01   Conformance with state law
   
34.02   Members
   
34.03   Officers
   
34.04   Appointments
   
34.05   Equipment and facilities
   
34.06   Training
   
34.07   Compensation; minimum pay
   
34.08   Fire Chief to keep records of fires
   
34.09   Loss of membership
   
34.10   Uniforms
   
34.11   Service charge
   
34.12   Part-time firefighters
§ 34.01  CONFORMANCE WITH STATE LAW.
   The Volunteer Fire Department and Life Squad of the village shall conform to
all applicable rules and regulations of the Ohio Revised Code.
(Ord. 15-96, passed 6-4-1996)
§ 34.02  MEMBERS.
   (A)   The Volunteer Fire Department and Life Squad of the village may
consist jointly of a maximum of 35 members, who may reside outside the village.
In the event of circumstances that would generate the need for additional
personnel, this number may be increased by a majority vote of Council.
   (B)   All candidates for appointment shall be required to comply with
provisions of the Ohio Revised Code pertaining to statutory village volunteer
firefighters before appointment, and shall serve a one- year probationary
period before receiving a full appointment.
(Ord. 15-96, passed 6-4-1996)
§ 34.03  OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Department shall consist of one Fire Chief appointed by the Mayor
in accordance with R.C. § 737.22.  In addition the Department may have one
Assistant Fire Chief, four lieutenants, and two captains as need demands. 
(Ord. 15-96, passed 6-4-1996)
   (B)   The Assistant Chief shall, in the absence or disability of the Chief,
perform all the functions and exercise all of the authority of the Chief.
§ 34.04  APPOINTMENTS.
   All appointments to the Fire Department and Life Squad and all promotions
within same shall be made by the Mayor with the approval of the Council.
(Ord. 15-96, passed 6-4-1996)
§ 34.05  EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES.
   (A)   Fire and Life Squad equipment and facilities shall be used for
official purposes only.  Any use of village equipment and/or facilities for any
purpose other than official business must be sanctioned by the Fire Chief and
authorized by the Mayor. 
(Ord. 15-96, passed 6-4-1996)
   (B)   The Council may purchase the necessary fire engines and all such other
equipment as is necessary for the extinguishment of fires and the saving of
lives, and may establish lines of fire alarm telegraph within the limits of the
village. 
(R.C. § 737.24)
   (C)   The Council may provide or erect necessary and suitable buildings
containing rooms for fire engines and other equipment and provide for the
meetings of the fire and hose companies.
(R.C. § 737.25) 
(Ord. 4-82, passed 2-2-1982)
§ 34.06  TRAINING.
   (A)   All expenses incurred by the village in providing training for any
Fire Department and/or Life Squad member, shall be reimbursed to the village by
the individual receiving the training, if that member leaves the Department
within 12 months of the training period.  Each candidate for training shall
sign an agreement to that effect. 
(Ord. 15-96, passed 6-4-1996)
   (B)   The Council may send any of the officers and firefighters of its Fire
Department to schools of instruction designed to promote the efficiency of
firefighters, and, if authorized in advance, may pay their necessary expenses
from the funds used for the maintenance and operation of the Fire Department.
(R.C. § 737.23)
§ 34.07  COMPENSATION; MINIMUM PAY.
   (A)   The members and officers of the Fire Department and Life Squad
personnel shall receive compensation as may be or has been established by
ordinance of Council.
   (B)   In computing compensation for fires, one hour shall be considered as
the minimum to be paid to any firefighter or officer and any fraction of an
hour shall be considered an hour.
(Ord. 4-82, passed 2-2-1982)
§ 34.08  FIRE CHIEF TO KEEP RECORDS OF FIRES.
   The Fire Chief shall keep in convenient form a complete record of all
fires.  Such record shall include the time of the alarm, location of fire,
cause of fire (if known), type of building, name of owner and tenant, purpose
for which occupied, value of building and contents, members of the Department
responding to the alarm, and such other information as he or she may deem
advisable or as may be required from time to time by the Council. 
§ 34.09  LOSS OF MEMBERSHIP.
   Firefighters absent from three consecutive drills or calls shall forfeit
membership in the Department.  (Ord. 4-82, passed 2-2-1982)
§ 34.10  UNIFORMS.
   It is required that the regular firefighters be in uniform and that summer
and winter trousers are required; and the village through the Clerk shall
purchase the trousers, jackets, and shirts for the regular firefighters on
application to the Fire Committee.
§ 34.11  SERVICE CHARGE.
   (A)   Life Squad services.
      (1)   A service charge shall be levied against individuals using village
Life Squad services. The amount of the charges shall be established by
ordinance. Individuals using village Life Squad services shall be required to
provide the necessary information needed to facilitate billing. All
specifications and procedures for billing and collection of service charges
shall have a liberal interpretation so as to minimize any hardships to service
users.
      (2)   Any funds collected for Life Squad services shall be deposited to
the General Fund of the village.
      (3)   Whoever violates any provision of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor and may be cited to Mayor’s Court.
(Ord. 14-88, passed 7-5-1988; Am. Ord. 3-95, passed 2-15-1995)
   (B)   Fire Department services.
      (1)   The Village of Elmwood Place shall initiate user fees for the
delivery of Emergency Fire Department Services.  The rate of the user fees
shall be that which is usual, customary and reasonable (UCR) cost for the
services, and may fluctuate accordingly.
      (2)   The user fees shall be filed to the motor vehicle insurance
representing the cost of the claim for damages of the vehicles, property, and/
or injuries. The claim costs shall be filed to the insurance company of the
owner of a vehicle, owner of property, or responsible parties.
Service Fee
Service            Fee
Level 1
Scene safety       $30.00
Investigation      $30.00
Traffic control    $30.00
Battery Disc       $40.00
Hybrid vehicle     $75.00
Vehicle stabilized $40.00
Level 2
Scene clean up     $60.00
Absorbant          $10.00
Hose lines         $15.00
Discharge line     $15.00
Water supply       $14.00
Extinguisher       $25.00
Level 3
Extrication        $400.00
Level 4
Landing zone       $300.00
 
Service Fee
Service       Fee
HazMat
Foam          $25.00
Absorbant     $10.00
Emulsifiers   $25.00
Personnel
Firefighter   $32.00
Lieutenant    $43.00
Captain       $50.00
Dist Chief    $58.00
Asst. Chief   $58.00
Chief         $67.00
Apparatus
Rescue truck  $85.00
Ladder truck  $76.00
Pumper truck  $62.00
Heavy rescue  $100.00
Foam truck    $85.00
Officer's car $15.00
Chief's car   $15.00
 
(Ord. 06-10, passed 4-13-2010)
   (C)   Reimbursement for construction materials.
      (1)   The Fire Department shall be reimbursed for construction materials
such as lumber, plywood, masonry products, plastic, tarps and the like utilized
for securing residential, retail, industrial, and commercial properties.
      (2)   The Fire Department shall not seek reimbursement for man-hours or
apparatus hours accrued while on the scene.
      (3)   The Fire Department shall not seek reimbursement for materials
returned to the Fire Department in good condition and in reusable form.
      (4)   The Fire Department shall seek reimbursement from the owner of the
real property rather than the business owner or tenant, if different.
      (5)   The village and/or the Village Fire Department shall have the right
to pursue legal action if reimbursement for the materials is not made in a
timely manner.
(Ord. 02-03, passed 2-10-2003)
§ 34.12  PART-TIME FIREFIGHTERS.
   (A)   There is hereby created the position of part- time firefighter in the
Village of Elmwood Place, Ohio.
   (B)   All part-time firefighters shall be appointed by the Mayor with the
confirmation of the Council, shall serve under the authority of the Village
Volunteer Fire Department, and shall be subject to all relevant village and
state regulations governing part- time and volunteer firefighters.
   (C)   All part-time firefighters shall be qualified and shall have obtained
no less than the minimum training mandated by the State of Ohio.
   (D)   All part-time firefighters shall be on duty no more than 36 hours a
week, and shall be compensated and equipped as determined by ordinance.
(Ord. 7-00, passed 7-11-2000)
   (E)   Part-time firefighters shall be paid time and one-half for working the
following holidays: Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day, New Year’s Day, Fourth of
July, and Memorial Day.
(Am. Ord. 11-06, passed 5-9-2006)
CHAPTER 35:  PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
   
35.01   Personnel polices adopted by reference
§ 35.01  PERSONNEL POLICIES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The personnel policies are adopted by reference as if fully set out herein. 
A copy of the personnel policies is on file in the office of the Clerk.
CHAPTER 36:  RULES GOVERNING MEETINGS OF PUBLIC BODIES
Section
   
36.01   Definitions
   
36.02   Application of rules
   
36.03   Posting schedules of meetings
   
36.04   Special meeting notice posted
   
36.05   Telephone numbers of various public bodies’ offices posted
   
36.06   Notices posted pursuant to this chapter
   
36.07   News to be published in newspaper
   
36.08   News media; notification
   
36.09   News media; notification of emergency meeting
   
36.10   Individuals notified of meetings upon request and payment of fee
   
36.11   Rules governing special meetings shall apply to organizational meetings
   
36.12   Distribution of rules
   
36.13   Record kept by Village Clerk-Treasurer
§ 36.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   MEETING.  Any prearranged discussion of the public business of any public
body by a majority of its members.
   PUBLIC BODY.  The Council, but also includes within its definition any
board, commission, agency, authority, committee, or other body with decision-
making authority in the village, if any, which is subject to the rule-making
authority of the Council.
(Ord. 30-76, passed 9-11-1976)
§ 36.02  APPLICATION OF RULES.
   These rules are in addition to any other requirements imposed by law
pertaining to the notification of meetings to be given to the members of any
public body, the public, or the news media.  However, these rules shall not
apply to an executive session held at a regular or special meeting of any
public body which is conducted for the purpose of considering any of the
matters set forth in R.C. § 121.22(G), nor shall these rules apply to any other
meeting, conference, or discussion specifically exempted by law from the
requirements imposed by R.C. § 121.22(G). 
(Ord. 30-76, passed 9-11-1976)
§ 36.03  POSTING SCHEDULES OF MEETINGS.
   The Village Clerk-Treasurer shall post a schedule of the time and place of
the regular meetings of each public body.  The schedule of regular meetings for
all public bodies for the calendar year, to the extent that it is known, shall
be posted at least seven days prior to the first regular meeting of the year. 
The Village Clerk-Treasurer shall from time to time check to ensure that the
schedule has remained posted.  If at any time changes or additions are made to
the schedule, the Village Clerk-Treasurer shall promptly post such changes or
additions. 
(Ord. 30-76, passed 9-11-1976)
§ 36.04  SPECIAL MEETING NOTICE POSTED.
   Upon receipt of notice of a special meeting to be held by any public body,
the Village Clerk-Treasurer shall promptly post the notice.  The posted notice
shall include the time, place, and purpose of the meeting.  (Ord. 30-76, passed
9-11-1976)
§ 36.05  TELEPHONE NUMBERS OF VARIOUS PUBLIC BODIES’ OFFICES POSTED.
   The Village Clerk-Treasurer shall also post the telephone number of his or
her office (or the telephone number of any other office so designated by the
Council), together with a list of the telephone numbers of the offices of the
various public bodies.  These numbers shall be accompanied by a statement to
the effect that the Village Clerk-Treasurer’s office or the individual offices
listed may be called during regular business hours for information concerning
the time, place, and purpose of any regular or special meeting. 
(Ord. 30-76, passed 9-11-1976)
§ 36.06  NOTICES POSTED PURSUANT TO THIS CHAPTER.
   All notices which the Village Clerk-Treasurer is required to post pursuant
to these rules shall be posted in a conspicuous place or places at the office
of Council.  The Council may also from time to time direct the Village Clerk-
Treasurer to post notices at other designated locations.
(Ord. 30-76, passed 9-11-1976)
§ 36.07  NEWS TO BE PUBLISHED IN NEWSPAPER.
   The Village Clerk-Treasurer shall cause to be published once in a newspaper
of general circulation within the village all information which is requested by
these rules to be posted, including all changes and additions to schedules;
except, however, that the Village Clerk-Treasurer need not cause to be
published any notification of a meeting which, due to publishing deadlines or
other factors beyond his or her control, would not effectively notify the
public until after the meeting is held.
(Ord. 30-76, passed 9-11-1976)
§ 36.08  NEWS MEDIA; NOTIFICATION.
   Any news media organization may request that the Village Clerk-Treasurer
give notification in advance of the time, place, and purpose of any special
meeting of a public body.  Notification may be by telephone or in writing, at
the option of the Village Clerk-Treasurer.  The Village Clerk-Treasurer may
require any news media organization to file with him or her on a standard form
any information which he or she deems reasonably necessary in order to
adequately provide that notification, including but not limited to the name,
address, and phone number of the organization, and the name of not more than
two persons designated by the organization to receive notification.  No special
meeting may be held until 24 hours after all news media requesting such
notification have received the notification, or until 24 hours after the
Village Clerk-Treasurer has made a diligent effort to communicate notification
during the Village Clerk- Treasurer’s regular business hours. 
(Ord. 30-76, passed 9-11-1976)
§ 36.09  NEWS MEDIA; NOTIFICATION OF EMERGENCY MEETING.
   In the event of an emergency requiring immediate official action, the member
or members of the public body calling the meeting shall notify (or make a
diligent effort to notify) the news media organizations who have filed a
request for notification with the Village Clerk-Treasurer, of the time, place,
and purpose of the meeting.  Any such member or members may, in attempting to
notify the news media, rely upon the information filed with the Village Clerk-
Treasurer by any news media organization. 
(Ord. 30-76, passed 9-11-1976)
§ 36.10  INDIVIDUALS NOTIFIED OF MEETINGS UPON REQUEST AND PAYMENT OF FEE.
   (A)   Any person may upon request and payment in advance obtain reasonable
advance notification of all meetings at which any specific type of public
business is to be discussed.  Notification to any such person may include but
is not limited to the provision of the agenda of all meetings to all persons on
a mailing list.  The person must file a written request on a form provided by
the Village Clerk-Treasurer, which request must include the following
information:
      (1)   The person’s name, address, and telephone number (not more than
two) at or through which the person can be reached during the Village Clerk-
Treasurer’s regular business hours;
      (2)   The specific type of public business of the discussion of which the
person is requesting advance notification;
      (3)   The public body that is the subject of such request; and
      (4)   The number of calendar months (not to exceed six) which the request
covers.
   (B)   Such request may be canceled by written request from such person to
the Village Clerk- Treasurer.
   (C)   The Village Clerk-Treasurer shall collect in advance the sum of $5 per
notice, which sum is fixed by the Council as a reasonable fee for advance
notification and which is nonrefundable.
   (D)   Notification may be provided by telephone or in writing, at the option
of the Village Clerk- Treasurer; however, the Village Clerk-Treasurer must make
or attempt to make notification by telephone, if notice is to be provided
within 48 hours of the meetings.
(Ord. 30-76, passed 9-11-1976)
§ 36.11  RULES GOVERNING SPECIAL MEETINGS SHALL APPLY TO ORGANIZATIONAL
MEETINGS.
   The provisions of these rules governing special meetings shall apply to the
organizational meeting of the public body.
(Ord. 30-76, passed 9-11-1976)
§ 36.12  DISTRIBUTION OF RULES.
   The Village Clerk-Treasurer shall distribute these rules to all of the
members of the public bodies of the village, together with a copy of R.C. §
121.22, as amended.  The Village Clerk-Treasurer shall also provide such
members with instructions for the effective implementation of these rules,
including but not limited to the manner in which notification of any meeting is
to be communicated to the Village Clerk- Treasurer’s office.
(Ord. 30-76, passed 9-11-1976)
§ 36.13  RECORD KEPT BY VILLAGE CLERK- TREASURER.
   The Village Clerk-Treasurer shall establish and maintain a complete record
of all action taken pursuant to these rules.
(Ord. 30-76, passed 9-11-1976)
CHAPTER 37:  FINANCE
Section
   
37.01   Investment of surplus funds
   
37.02   Monthly financial report of Clerk
   
37.03   Village depository
   
37.04   Debt Retirement Fund
   
37.05   Community Services Fund
§ 37.01  INVESTMENT OF SURPLUS FUNDS.
   (A)   Pursuant to R.C. § 731.56, it is hereby stipulated that any and all
surplus monies of the village be invested under the terms of R.C. § 731.56.
   (B)   To comply with the provisions of R.C. §§ 731.56 and 731.57, the Clerk
of Council is to provide to the Mayor and to the Village Solicitor a statement
of monies in the treasury or in the process of collection, and a schedule
showing the probable requirements of money for the use of the municipal
corporation for a period of not less than six months as the ordinance under
R.C. § 731.56 or as the chief executive officer directs, together with a
recommendation as to whether any monies in the treasury shall be invested in
such obligations, within 30 days of the passage of this section and thereafter
every six months in a continuing fashion.
(Ord. 13-1981, passed 7-7-1981)
§ 37.02  MONTHLY FINANCIAL REPORT OF CLERK.
   (A)   The Clerk, as the chief fiscal officer of the village, is hereby
charged with the duty of compiling and providing to Council the necessary
financial information needed to efficiently and effectively govern the
village.  The report shall be presented to Council at the regularly scheduled
meeting of Council or as often as Council may require.
   (B)   This financial statement shall include the following:
      (1)   The balance of each and every account kept by the Clerk; and
      (2)   A listing of expenditures of each and every revenue account of
departmental expenses kept by the Clerk for the monthly period in question. 
(Ord. 14-1981, passed 7-7-1981)
§ 37.03  VILLAGE DEPOSITORY.
   (A)   The Village Council shall designate an official depository or
depositories for all active and interim monies of the village.
   (B)   The Mayor and Clerk shall be authorized to sign the necessary
documents with the depository or depositories.
(Ord. 7-83, passed 3-1-1983; Am. Ord. 08-05, passed 5-10-2005)
§ 37.04  DEBT RETIREMENT FUND.
   (A)   (1)   A Debt Retirement Fund is hereby established as required by R.C.
§ 5705.09, to facilitate the receipt, disbursement, and repayment of $100,000
obtained by the village through Star Bank of Cincinnati, on July 18, 1997, for
the purpose of improving the village municipal building.
      (2)   These funds shall be retired through three equal payments over a
three-year period, commencing with the first payment on July 18, 1998. This
does not prohibit debt retirement at an earlier date if resources are
available.
(Ord. 19-97, passed 10-7-1997)
   (B)   (1)   A Debt Retirement Fund is hereby established as required by R.C.
§ 5705.09, to facilitate the receipt, disbursement, and repayment of $400,000
obtained by the village through U.S. Bank of Cincinnati, on January 18, 2007,
for the purpose of purchasing and renovation of property within the village.
      (2)   These funds shall be retired through bi-yearly payments over a ten-
year period, commencing with the first payment on June 18, 2007.  This does not
prohibit debt retirement at an earlier date if resources are available.
(Ord. 04-07, passed 3-13-2007)
§ 37.05  COMMUNITY SERVICES FUND.
   (A)   The Village Clerk-Treasurer shall request for a fund approval from the
Auditor of the State.  This fund shall be called the Community Services Fund. 
The purpose of this fund is to provide a depository for village groups that
have raised monies for community activities and permit disbursements for their
activities.
   (B)   This fund shall be governed by special fund protocols as set forth in
the various sections of the Ohio Revised Code governing special funds and
village accounting procedures.  All groups associated with the village must
deposit their cash receipts, grants, and donations into this fund and may
disburse them following procedures prescribed by the Village Clerk-Treasurer. 
The Village Council may appropriate additional monies to this fund from the
General Fund from time to time as it deems desirable and appropriate.
(Res. 07-02, passed 12-6-2002)
CHAPTER 38:  INCOME TAX
Section
   
38.01   Tax code established; adopted
   
38.02   Community Reinvestment Area established
§ 38.01  TAX CODE ESTABLISHED; ADOPTED.
   A tax code is hereby created for the village providing the necessary rules
and regulations to govern the collection of village taxes.  This tax code, as
set forth by Ordinance No. 8-07, is hereby adopted by reference as if set out
in full herein.  Copies are available through village offices.
(Ord. 8-07, passed 4-10-2007)
§ 38.02  COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT AREA ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The area designated as the Elmwood Place Community Reinvestment Area
constitutes an area in which housing facilities or structures of historical
significance are located, and in which new construction or repair of existing
facilities has been discouraged.
   (B)   Pursuant to R.C. § 3735.66, Elmwood Place Community Reinvestment Area
is hereby established in the following described area:
      (1)   The entire Village of Elmwood Place, as indicated in the map
(Exhibit B) attached to Ordinance No. 11-07, which is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in full herein.
      (2)   The Community Reinvestment Area is approximately depicted as the
highlighted area on the map marked Exhibit B, attached to Ordinance No. 11-07,
which is hereby adopted by reference as if set out in full herein.
      (3)   Only commercial and/or industrial properties consistent with the
applicable zoning regulations within the designated Community Reinvestment Area
will be eligible for exemptions under this program.
   (C)   All commercial properties identified in Exhibit B as being within the
designated Community Reinvestment Area are eligible for this incentive.  This
proposal is a public/private partnership intended to promote and expand
conforming uses in the designated area.
   (D)   (1)   Within the Community Reinvestment Area, the percentage of the
tax exemption on the increase in the assessed valuation resulting from
improvements to commercial and industrial real property and the term of those
exemptions shall be negotiated on a case-by-case basis in advance of
construction or remodeling occurring according to the rules outlined in the
R.C. § 3735.67.  The results of the negotiation as approved by this Council
will be set in writing in a Community Reinvestment Area Agreement as outlined
in R.C. § 3735.671.  Each commercial Community Reinvestment Agreement shall
also include a compensation agreement between the Village of Elmwood Place, the
St. Bernard Elmwood Place School District, and the applicant business and/or
property owner.
      (2)   For residential property, a tax exemption on the increase in the
assessed valuation resulting from improvements as described in R.C. § 3735.67
shall be granted upon proper application by the property owner and
certification thereof by the designated Housing Office for the following
periods. Residential applications must be filed with the Housing Officer no
later than six months after construction completion.
         (a)   One hundred percent for five years, for the remodeling of
residential dwellings containing not more than two housing units and upon which
the cost of remodeling is at least $2,500, as described in R.C. § 3735.67.
         (b)   One hundred percent for five years, for new residential
dwellings containing not more than two housing units, as described in R.C. §
3735.67.
         (c)    Existing commercial and industrial facilities shall be
negotiated on a case-by-case basis in advance of construction or remodeling
occurring (up to a 12-year term).
         (d)   New commercial or industrial facilities shall be negotiated on a
case-by-case basis in advance of construction occurring (up to a 15-year term).
      (3)   If remodeling qualifies for an exemption, during the period of the
exemption, the exempted percentage of the dollar amount of the increase in
market value of the structure shall be exempt from real property taxation. If
new construction qualifies for an exemption, during the period of the exemption
the exempted percentage of the structure shall not be considered to be an
improvement on the land on which it is located for the purpose of real property
taxation.
   (E)   All commercial and industrial projects are required to comply with the
state application fee requirements of R.C. § 3735.672(C) and the local annual
monitoring fee, which shall be decided by the Council on a case-by-case basis.
   (F)   To administer and implement the provisions of this section, the
Chairperson of the Village Planning Commission is designated as the Housing
Officer as described in R.C. §§ 3735.65 through 3735.70.
   (G)   (1)   A Community Reinvestment Area Housing Council shall be created,
consisting of two members appointed by the Mayor, two members appointed by the
Council of the village and one member appointed by the Planning Commission. The
majority of the members shall then appoint two additional members who shall be
residents within the area.  Terms of the members of the Council shall be for
three years.  An unexpired term resulting from a vacancy in the Council shall
be filled in the same manner as the initial appointment was made.
      (2)   A Tax Incentive Review Council shall be established pursuant to
R.C. § 5709.85 and shall consist of three representatives appointed by the
Board of County Commissioners, two representatives of the municipal
corporation, appointed by the Municipal CEO with Council concurrence, the
County Auditor or designee and a representative of each affected Board of
Education. At least two members must be residents of the Village of Elmwood
Place. The Tax Incentive Review Council shall review annually the compliance of
all agreements involving the granting of exemptions for commercial or
industrial real property improvements under R.C. § 3735.671 and make written
recommendations to the Council as to continuing, modifying or terminating the
agreement based upon the performance of the agreement.
   (H)   The Council reserves the right to re-evaluate the designation of the
Elmwood Place Community Reinvestment Area, at which time the Council may direct
the Housing Officer not to accept any new applications for exemptions as
described in R.C. § 3735.67.
   (I)   The Community Reinvestment Area Council shall make an annual
inspection of the properties within the district for which an exemption has
been granted under R.C. § 3735.67.  The Council shall also hear appeals under
R.C. § 3735.70.
   (J)   The Mayor of the Village of Elmwood Place is hereby directed and
authorized to petition the Director of Development to confirm the findings
contained within this resolution.
(Ord. 11-07, passed 9-11-2007)
CHAPTER 39:  MAYOR’S COURT
Section
   
39.01   Clerk of Court
   
39.02   Court costs
   
39.03   Electronically monitored house arrest
   
39.04   Acts in contempt of court
   
39.05   Judgment final
Cross-reference:
   Pay-out fines, see
Chapter 40, Appendix A
§ 39.01  CLERK OF COURT.
   (A)   Position established; compensation.  The position of Clerk of Court
shall be a fill-time position consisting of 40 hours per week at the hourly
rate set by the Village Council from time to time, with time and one-half for
all overtime and shall provide all amenities afforded other full-time clerical
positions in the village.  The salary of the Clerk shall be reviewed each year
by the Mayor.
   (B)   Appointment.  The Mayor shall hire the Clerk of Court, and the Clerk
shall be under the direct supervision of the Mayor.  The Clerk shall have all
employment protection provided full-time village employees by state and federal
law.
   (C)   Duties.  The Clerk of Court shall perform all the basic duties of that
position as currently determined, such as receiving and recording fines and
bonds, and maintaining a court docket.  The Clerk shall attend all court
sessions, maintain bank reconciliation, and issue license forfeiture.  The
Clerk shall enter all pertinent court information into a computer, and shall
perform all other clerical duties presently required, and any new duties that
may be created in the future because of changing technology.
(Ord. 27-78, passed 10-24-1978; Am. Ord. 30-91, passed 12-18-1991; Am. Ord. 09-
01, passed 9-4-2001; Am. Ord. 11-03, passed 7-14-2003; Am. Ord. 09-05, passed
6-14-2005; Am. Ord. 11-06, passed 5-9-2006; Am. Ord. 11-08, passed 9-22-2008)
§ 39.02  COURT COSTS.
   (A)   The court costs charged to any person by the village in Mayor’s Court
shall be $65 if such person is convicted of, or pleads guilty to, any offense
other than a traffic offense that is not a moving violation.
(Ord. 25-1981, passed 12-1-1981; Am. Ord. 3-83, passed 1-4-1983; Am. Ord. 22-
83, passed 9-6-1983; Am. Ord. 87-16, passed 8-4-1987; Am. Ord. 10-10, passed
12-14-2010)
   (B)   The costs shall be broken down as required by law and allocated to the
various categories determined by state and local regulations.
(Am. Ord. 10-06, passed 5-9-2006)
§ 39.03  ELECTRONICALLY MONITORED HOUSE ARREST.
   (A)   Any or all of the terms of imprisonment authorized under the
ordinances of the village may be served by means of electronically monitored
house arrest, in the sole discretion of the Mayor’s Court Magistrate.  In this
case, the Mayor’s Court Magistrate shall determine the number of days of actual
imprisonment, the number of days of electronically monitored house arrest, and
whether any of the days of actual imprisonment shall be suspended on the
condition of successful completion of the incarceration by electronically
monitored house arrest.  The sum of the days of actual imprisonment plus the
days of electronically monitored house arrest shall not exceed the stated
maximum number of days of imprisonment for that particular offense.
   (B)   No individual may serve a term of imprisonment by electronically
monitored house arrest unless he or she first executes an appropriate agreement
made available to all the defendants, whereby the defendant agrees to pay the
cost of the system (or, in the sole discretion of the Mayor’s Court Magistrate,
that portion of the cost as he or she can afford to pay) and agrees to abide by
all of the rules and regulations of the electronically monitored house arrest
procedure.  The agreement shall provide that no credit for suspended days of
actual incarceration shall be granted unless the defendant successfully
completes all of the days of the electronically monitored house arrest.
   (C)   No person, knowing that he or she is under the restrictions of
electronically monitored house arrest, shall purposely break or attempt to
break such detention, or purposely violate any of the requirements of the
detention.  Whoever violates this section is guilty of escape, a felony to be
prosecuted under R.C. § 2921.34.
(Ord. 25-90, passed 12-12-1990)
Statutory reference:
   Electronically monitored house arrest, see R.C. § 2921.34
§ 39.04  ACTS IN CONTEMPT OF COURT.
   (A)   A person guilty of any of the following acts may be punished for
contempt:
      (1)   Disobedience of, or resistance to, a lawful writ, process, order,
rule, judgment, or command of a court or officer;
      (2)   Misbehavior of an officer of the court in the performance of
official duties, or in official transactions;
      (3)   A failure to obey a subpoena duly served, or a refusal to be sworn
or to answer as a witness, when lawfully required;
      (4)   The rescue or attempted rescue of a person or of property in the
custody of an officer by virtue of an order or process of court held by the
officer;
      (5)   A failure upon the part of a person recognized to appear as a
witness in a court to appear in compliance with the terms of the person’s
recognizance;
      (6)   A failure to comply with an order issued pursuant to R.C. § 3109.19
or § 3111.81;
      (7)   A failure to obey a subpoena issued by the Department of Job and
Family Services or a child support enforcement agency pursuant to R.C. §
5101.37;
      (8)   A willful failure to submit to genetic testing, or a willful
failure to submit a child to genetic testing, as required by an order for
genetic testing issued under R.C. § 3111.41.
(R.C. § 2705.02)
   (B)   If a person summoned to appear as provided in R.C § 2935.10(B) fails
to appear without just cause and personal service of the summons was had upon
the person, he or she may be found guilty of contempt of court, and may be
fined not to exceed $125 for such contempt. Upon failure to appear, the court
or magistrate may forthwith issue a warrant for his or her arrest.
(R.C. § 2935.11)  (Ord. 08-08, passed 7-8-2008)
Editor’s note:
   This section was added by Ordinance No. 03-06, passed 1-12-2006.
§ 39.05  JUDGMENT FINAL.
   The judgment and orders of a court or officer made in cases of contempt may
be reviewed on appeal. Appeal proceedings shall not suspend execution of the
order or judgment until the person in contempt files a bond in the court
rendering the judgment, or in the court or before the officer making the order,
payable to the state, with sureties to the acceptance of the clerk of that
court, in an amount fixed by the reviewing court, or a judge thereof;
conditioned that if judgment is rendered against such person, he or she will
abide by and perform the order or judgment.
(R.C. § 2705.09)
Editor’s note:
   This section was added by Ordinance No. 03-06, passed 1-12-2006.
CHAPTER 40:  VILLAGE POLICY; FEES
Section
   
40.01   Fees and process for making copies of public records
   
40.02   Possession of Town Hall keys
   
40.03   Town Hall rental procedures and charges
   
40.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A:    Pay-Out Fines
§ 40.01  FEES AND PROCESS FOR MAKING COPIES OF PUBLIC RECORDS.
   (A)   Persons requesting copies of public records maintained by the village
will be charged for those copies as follows:
      (1)   Any person requesting the duplication of more than five pages, or
making multiple requests totaling more than five pages in any calendar year,
will be charged $0.10 per page for all pages beyond the initial five pages.
      (2)   Any person requesting the duplication of photographs, videotapes,
audiotapes, computer disks or any public record maintained on other than paper
media will be required to pay the actual costs of the duplication as paid by
the village.  The costs must be received by the village prior to the
duplication of the materials.
      (3)   Any person requesting that copies of public records be mailed or
faxed to him or her may be required to pay the duplication costs in advance of
the mailing or faxing.
   (B)   Persons requesting copies of public records may do so at the Village
Town Hall, 6118 Vine Street, Elmwood Place, Ohio 45216 between the hours of 9:
00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m., Monday through Friday.
(Ord. 2-85, passed  -  -1985; Am. Ord. 20-02, passed 12-5-2002; Am. Ord. 01-05,
passed 1-12-2005)
§ 40.02  POSSESSION OF TOWN HALL KEYS.
   (A)   Each elected official shall have furnished to him or her a key to the
main entrances to the Town Hall.  Each elected official shall also be furnished
a key giving him or her access to the Council chambers, from within the Town
Hall.  The Clerk-Treasurer of the village shall be furnished any additional
keys necessary for the performance of his or her duties.  At the discretion of
the Mayor, keys may be issued to other village employees who require them in
the execution of their duties.
   (B)   The Chief of the Police Department shall have furnished to him or her,
and be responsible for, all keys having access to the Town Hall building.
   (C)   The Mayor, as chief enforcement officer, shall have access keys to the
Town Hall building and to all offices within the Town Hall, including the
Police and Fire Department.
(Ord. 2-82, passed 5-3-1982; Am. Ord. 10-94, passed 5-24-1994)
§ 40.03  TOWN HALL RENTAL PROCEDURES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Reservation contract.
      (1)   The reservation contract must be made and signed by an adult
resident of the village, age 21 or older, who will be attending the event, and
accepts full responsibility and liability for the required clean-up policy and
any damages to any equipment or property.
      (2)   Reservations must be made at the Town Hall, during the regular
business hours (Monday through Friday, 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.). No reservation
will be taken by phone, and no reservation may be made more than 90 days in
advance.
      (3)   Reservations for any Saturday, Sunday, or village holiday, the hall
is taken “as is.”
      (4)   The maximum ending time for all reservations is 12:30 a.m. The area
must be cleaned and vacated by 1:00 a.m., to be enforced by the Police
Department.
      (5)   Any decorating of the hall must be done on the day of the
reservation.
      (6)   The hall is not available on the following days:
         (a)   Good Friday - Friday before Easter;
         (b)   Memorial Day - Last Monday in May;
         (c)   Independence Day - July 4;
         (d)   Labor Day - First Monday in September;
         (e)   New Year’s Eve - December 31;
         (f)   Last Thursday of each month - Democrat Club;
         (g)   Third Monday of each month - Republican Club;
         (h)   Second and Fourth Friday each month - Recreation;
         (i)   Second Wednesday each month - Senior Citizens; and
         (j)   First Monday each month - Block Watchers.
(Am. Ord. 13-00, passed 11-7-2000; Am. Ord. 06-02, passed 6- -2002; Am. Ord.
08-02, passed 6-25-2002)
   (B)   Obtaining key to Town Hall.  A key must be obtained from the Police
Department on the day of the rental and must be returned to the Police
Department when the rental event is over.
   (C)   Restrictions.
      (1)   The hall may be reserved for Monday through Friday by any
department head for any professional organization which the village
participates in or is a member of.
      (2)   Dances for which tickets are sold are not allowed, except those
dances held by Recreation, Block Watchers, or other organizations who use the
receipts for causes directly related to village concerns.
      (3)   Attendance may not exceed capacity. The reserved hall will be set
up as required and no chairs, tables, or other equipment shall be moved from
other areas of the building.
      (4)   Doors shall not be propped open.
      (5)   The chairs shall not be dragged across the floor.
      (6)   Paper confetti or glitter is not permitted.  Tape of any kind on
the waxed floor is prohibited.  No tape of any kind to the ceilings, i.e.
ceiling tiles or tile frame is permitted.
      (7)   No alcohol or drugs of any kind is permitted on premises.
      (8)   The hall is not available for wedding receptions.
   (D)   Cancellations and clean-up.
      (1)   A cancellation notice of less than 30 days will result in a $25
cancellation fee. A cancellation notice of less than seven days will result in
the forfeiture of the $50 deposit.
      (2)   Non-use of the hall without cancellation will be considered a
violation of this contract and the deposit will not be refunded.
      (3)   Cleanup must comply with regulations contained in the village
rental agreement.
   (E)   Rental fee. 
      (1)   A deposit of $50 is payable when the reservation is made.  If all
the terms and conditions of this contract are complied with and there is no
damage reported after inspection by the Service Department, a $50 refund will
be issued by the village.
      (2)   (a)   Residents:  $50 deposit.
         (b)   The sponsor (renter) shall pay to the Village of Elmwood Place a
rental fee, in advance, in the amount of $50 deposit, and $50 rental fee for
residents; $50 deposit, and $150 rental fee for non-residents.
   (F)   Vandalism and damage.  Any vandalism, breakage, or other destruction
of or damage to any city equipment or property will be the responsibility of
the resident or organization signing the reservation contract.  The village
reserves the right to charge the resident or organization for any necessary
repairs or replacements.
(Ord. 4-95, passed 2-15-1995; Am. Ord. 2-99, passed 3-2-1999; Am. Ord. 04-02,
passed 3-5-2002; Am. Ord. 07-09, passed 7-14-2009; Am. Ord. 03-10, passed 3-9-
2010)  Penalty, see §
40.99
§ 40.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates §
40.03(C)(2) shall be fined $500 and will be denied any future use of the hall.
   (B)   Whoever violates any other provision of §
40.03 shall be fined $50.
(Ord. 4-95, passed 2-15-1995; Am. Ord. 04-02, passed 3-5-2002)
APPENDIX A:  PAY-OUT FINES
   Effective Aug. 3, 2003, the pay-out schedule of fines for certain
misdemeanor, traffic, and parking offenses for the village is as follows:
Code Section No. Charge Pay Out
Code Section No. Charge                                Pay Out
39.02            COURT COSTS                           $65
70.11            OFFICER MAY REMOVE IGNITION KEY       $125
70.20            TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE                $125
70.21            SIGNAL LIGHTS                         $125
70.25            FLASHING TRAFFIC SIGNALS              $125
71.01            LICENSE PLATES OR VALIDATION STICKERS $125
71.01(P)         DISPLAY OF LICENSE PLATES/STICKER     $50.00
72.01            EXPIRED PLATES                        $125
72.02            DRIVING THROUGH SAFETY ZONE           $125
72.03            VEHICLES TRAVELING OPPOSITE DIRECTION $125
72.04            RULES GOVERNING PASSING               $125
72.05            PERMISSION TO OVERTAKE ON RIGHT       $125
72.06            LEFT OF CENTER                        $125
72.07            WRONG SIDE OF ROADWAY                 $125
72.09            ONE-WAY STREET                        $125
72.10            MARKED LANES                          $125
72.11            FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY                 $125
72.13            RULES FOR TURNS AT INTERSECTION       $125
72.14            U-TURNS IN ROADWAY PROHIBITED         $125
72.15            STARTING AND BACKING                  $125
72.16            TURN AND STOP SIGNALS                 $125
72.17            HAND AND ARM SIGNALS                  $125
72.20            RIGHT-OF-WAY AT INTERSECTION          $125
72.21            RIGHT-OF-WAY WHEN TURNING LEFT        $125
 
Code Section No. Charge Pay Out
Code Section No. Charge                                                 Pay Out
72.22            RIGHT-OF-WAY AT THROUGH HIGHWAYS; STOP AND YIELD SIGNS $125
72.23            STOP AT SIDEWALK AREA                                  $125
72.24            RIGHT-OF-WAY ON PUBLIC HIGHWAY                         $125
72.26            RIGHT-OF-WAY OF PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLES                 $125
72.27            FUNERAL PROCESSION RIGHT-OF-WAY                        $125
72.28            PEDESTRIAN YIELD TO PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE              $125
72.29            PEDESTRIAN ON CROSSWALK HAS RIGHT-OF-WAY               $125
72.30            RIGHT OF WAY YIELDED TO BLIND                          $125
72.37            PROHIBITION AGAINST SOLICITING RIDES; RIDING ON        $125
                 OUTSIDE OF VEHICLE
72.45            STOP SIGNS AT GRADE CROSSINGS                          $125
72.46            RAILROAD CROSSING VIOLATION                            $125
72.47            VEHICLES REQUIRED TO STOP AT GRADE CROSSINGS           $125
72.48            SLOW-MOVING VEHICLE OR EQUIPMENT CROSSING TRACKS       $125
72.55            OBSTRUCTION AND INTERFERENCE AFFECTING VIEW AND        $125
                 CONTROL OF DRIVER
72.57            DRIVING UPON CLOSED ROAD PROHIBITED                    $125
72.58            DRIVING UPON SIDEWALK OR BICYCLE PATHS                 $125
72.59            OBSTRUCTING PASSAGE OF OTHER VEHICLES                  $125
72.61            DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE                                 $125
72.63            TRANSPORTING CHILD NOT IN CHILD RESTRAINT SYSTEM       $125
                 PROHIBITED
72.64            OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICES                           $125
72.66            OPERATING MOTOR VEHICLE WHILE WEARING EARPHONES OR     $125
                 EARPLUGS
72.70            CRACKING EXHAUST NOISES; PEELING OUT                   $125
 
Code Section No. Charge Pay Out
Code Section No. Charge                      Pay Out
72.71            SHORTCUTTING ACROSS PRIVATE $125
                 PROPERTY
72.80            REGULATIONS FOR SCHOOL      $125
                 BUSES
73.07            FAILURE TO CONTROL          $125
73.08            EXCESSIVE ACCELERATION      $125
                                             SPEED FINE
                                             26    $68.00
                                             27    $71.00
                                             28    $74.00
                                             29    $77.00
                                             30    $80.00
                                             31    $83.00
                                             32    $86.00
                                             33    $89.00
                                             34    $92.00
                                             35    $95.00
                                             36    $98.00
                                             37    $101.00
73.10            OVER THE SPEED LIMIT        38    $104.00
                                             39    $107.00
                                             40    $110.00
                                             41    $113.00
                                             42    $116.00
                                             43    $119.00
                                             44    $122.00
                                             45    $125.00
                                             46    $128.00
                                             47    $131.00
                                             48    $134.00
                                             49    $137.00
                                             50    $140.00
                                             Any speed over 51 mph will require
                                             a court appearance
 
Code Section No. Charge Pay Out
Code Section No. Charge                                  Pay Out
73.11            SLOW SPEED OR STOPPING                  $125
73.13            STREET RACING PROHIBITED                $125
74.01            UNSAFE VEHICLES PROHIBITED              $125
74.02            BUMPERS ON VEHICLES REQUIRED            $125
74.03            LIGHTED LIGHTS REQUIRED                 $125
74.04            HEADLIGHTS                              $125
74.05            TAIL LIGHTS, LICENSE PLATE ILLUMINATION $125
74.06            RED REFLECTORS REQUIRED                 $125
74.07            SAFETY LIGHTING OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES  $125
74.08            REAR STOP LIGHT REQUIREMENTS            $125
74.09            OBSCURED LIGHTS ON VEHICLES             $125
74.10            RED LIGHT OR FLAG REQUIRED              $125
74.12            SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES; LIGHTS AND EMBLEM $125
74.13            SPOT LIGHT AND AUX DRIVING LIGHTS       $125
74.14            FENDER, BACK-UP LIGHTS                  $125
74.15            TWO HEADLIGHTS DISPLAYED                $125
74.16            HEADLIGHTS REQUIRED                     $125
74.17            LIGHTS OF LESS INTENSITY                $125
74.18            NUMBER OF LIGHTS PERMITTED              $125
74.19            LIGHTS ON SNOW REMOVAL EQUIPMENT        $125
 
Code Section No. Charge Pay Out
Code Section No. Charge                                                 Pay Out
74.20            FLASHING LIGHTS FOR CERTAIN VEHICLES                   $125
74.22            FOCUS AND AIM OF HEADLIGHTS                            $125
74.27            MUFFLERS; EXCESSIVE SMOKE                              $125
74.28            REAR VIEW MIRRORS                                      $125
74.29            WINDSHIELDS AND WIPERS REQUIRED                        $125
74.32            DIRECTIONAL SIGNALS                                    $125
74.42            ALL LOADS SECURED                                      $125
74.43            TOWING REQUIREMENTS                                    $125
74.45            OPERATION OF VEHICLE EXCEEDING WEIGHT LIMIT            $125
74.49            WHEEL PROTECTORS REQ/COMMERCIAL VEHICLES               $125
74.53            THROUGH TRUCKS PROHIBITED                              $125
76.02            CONDITION WHEN MOTOR VEHICLE LEFT UNATTENDED           $50
76.04(A)(1)      BLOCKING SIDEWALK                                      $50
76.04(A)(2)      BLOCKING DRIVEWAY                                      $50
76.04(A)(3)      WITHIN AN INTERSECTION                                 $50
76.04(A)(4)      WITHING 10 FT OF FIRE HYDRANT                          $50
76.04(A)(5)      BLOCKING CROSSWALK                                     $50
76.04(A)(6)      WITHIN 20 FT OF CROSSWALK                              $50
76.04(A)(7)      WITHIN 30 FT OF STOP SIGN, TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE, BUS $50
                 STOP - ANY FLASHING BEACON
76.04(A)(10)     FIRE LANE                                              $50
76.04(A)(14)     NO PARKING ZONE                                        $50
76.04(A)(15)     WITHIN ONE FT OF OTHER VEHICLE                         $50
76.05            PARKING ONE FT FROM CURB                               $50
76.05(C)         PARKING WRONG WAY                                      $50
76.07            PARKING ON STREET-WASHING, SELLING                     $125
 
Code Section No. Charge Pay Out
Code Section No. Charge                          Pay Out
76.08            PARKING MORE THAN (24) HOURS    $50
76.12            HANDICAP PARKING                $250
76.20            PARKING METER                   $20, if paid within 24 hours
                                                 $10
90.25            DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE           $165
92.07            OPEN CONTAINER                  $165
93.23            UNSIGHTLY ON PRIVATE PROP       $165
93.70            KEEPING DOWN WEEDS/GRASS        $165
95.42            MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK $165
132.02           FAILURE TO DISPERSE             $125
132.04(A)        DISORDERLY CONDUCT              $125
132.04(B)        DISORDERLY CONDUCT WHILE        $165
                 INTOXICATED
132.06           MISCONDUCT AT EMERGENCY         $125
132.15           LOUD CAR STEREO/EXCESS NOISE    $125
132.16           CURFEW (ADULT)                  $125
134.04           PUBLIC GAMING                   $125
138.03           MM DRUG POSSESSION              $165
 
(Ord. 11-02, passed 8-6-2002; Am. Ord. 12-03, passed 7-14-2003; Am. Ord. 14-05,
passed 7-7-2005; Am. Ord. 07-12, passed 6-12-2012)
TITLE V:  PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE
      
51.   SEWER SYSTEM
      
52.   WATER
CHAPTER 50:  GARBAGE
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Definition of waste
   
50.02   Dumping of waste prohibited
   
50.03   Loose waste material
   
50.04   Chemical wastes
   
50.05   Combustible wastes, dumping prohibited
   
50.06   Discharge of offensive dust prohibited
   
50.07   Accumulation of waste; inspection
   
50.08   Containers
Collection and Disposal System
   
50.20   Garbage service contract
   
50.21   Garbage disposal guidelines
Commercial and Business Related Solid Waste
   
50.35   Definitions
   
50.36   Commercial or business related solid waste material
   
50.37   Waste collection and disposal
   
50.38   Cost of collection and disposal
   
50.39   Exemptions
   
50.40   Storage and disposal
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01  DEFINITION OF WASTE.
   For the purpose of this subchapter WASTE shall mean all trash, rubbish,
garbage, wastepaper, nails, pieces of glass, boards, fruit parings, ashes,
cans,  bottles, glass, oil, plastics, automobiles without license plates valid
in Ohio, or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature, and all other
refuse or discarded matter, but shall not include recognized byproducts of any
business or industry having commercial value and regularly handled in the
ordinary course of business, unless these byproducts shall be a nuisance or
menace to public health.
§ 50.02  DUMPING OF WASTE PROHIBITED.
   No person or persons shall store, throw, or sweep into any street, avenue,
alley, park, or public ground any waste, or place such matter on the sidewalk,
street crossing, or any driveway, or upon the floor, stairway, or hallway of
any public building, theater, railroad depot, or platform, or along, on, or
near any public or private property in the village.
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.03  LOOSE WASTE MATERIAL.
   All loose wastepaper, rags, and other waste material of a kind as to be
subject to being blown about by the wind or otherwise scattered must be hauled
in such manner as not to litter the streets.  These materials shall not be
loaded or unloaded along the public streets or sidewalks, except in suitable
containers, cans, boxes, bags, or pails.
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04  CHEMICAL WASTES.
   No person, firm, or corporation having the care of any premises or property
in the municipality shall permit gas, oil, liquid dye, chemicals, paints,
brine, or any other injurious or gaseous liquid, substance, or any other impure
matter to drain on or otherwise come in contact with any adjoining premises.
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05  COMBUSTIBLE WASTES, DUMPING PROHIBITED.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall dump any combustible waste on any
public or private property.  No person shall dump or store any dirt or other
noncombustible waste of any kind on public or private property without proper
written authority from the village.
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.06  DISCHARGE OF OFFENSIVE DUST PROHIBITED.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall discharge or cause to be discharged,
from any coal tipple, conveyor, truck, elevator, coal car, silo, factory, or
premises, into any yard, coal yard, alley, or unloading lot, any noisome or
offensive liquid, dust, coal dust, harmful to property or health of persons
residing in or near the street, alley, coal yard, or public place, or suffer or
permit any noisome or offensive steam vapor, gas, smoke, fumes, dust, coal
dust, harmful to property or health, to escape or be discharged from any
chimney, coal car, truck, elevator, pipe, silo, or tipple, or other vent on its
premises.
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.07  ACCUMULATION OF WASTE; INSPECTION.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall allow the accumulation, storage, or
dumping on any premises in the municipality of any waste or unclean or
unsightly matter, except in containers as herein provided.  The Chief of Police
shall make a periodic inspection of premises in the municipality, and shall
notify personally or by certified mail the owner or persons in charge of any
premises which are in violation of this chapter to cease the violation within
20 days.
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.08  CONTAINERS.
   Every householder shall provide himself or herself with proper containers
for waste, sufficient in number to store the accumulation of waste between the
dates of regular waste collection.  No garbage or waste shall be allowed to
remain exposed in any building or on any premises a longer time than shall be
necessary to receive and deposit the same in proper waste containers.
Penalty, see §
50.99
COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL SYSTEM
§ 50.20  GARBAGE SERVICE CONTRACT.
   Garbage collection and disposal is handled pursuant to an agreement with the
city, authorized by ordinance.
(Am. Res. 04-06, passed 5-9-2006)
§ 50.21  GARBAGE DISPOSAL GUIDELINES.
   (A)   All disposable foodstuff and other edible material set out for garbage
pickup shall be contained in a garbage can of sufficient size and quality as to
deter rodents and other vermin that may be seeking edible waste.  The can shall
have a lid securely fitted to seal all discarded material inside.
   (B)   All outside garbage containers shall be of a size and quality as to
deter rodents and other vermin seeking entry and shall be covered at all times
with secure covering to keep rodents and other vermin outside said container. 
It shall be the responsibility of each property owner to see that his or her
container is properly secured.  In the case of rental property, it shall be the
responsibility of each landlord to see that his or her tenants comply with this
section.
   (C)   No garbage shall be set out to the curb earlier than 4:00 p.m. the
evening before the next day pickup.  All empty containers shall be removed from
the curb no later than 8:00 p.m. the day of the pickup.  Garbage cans and lids,
dumpsters and other outside containers shall be maintained in a serviceable
condition.
   (D)   Whoever violates any provision of this section for which no other
specific penalty has been provided shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor and
can be cited to Mayor’s Court.
COMMERCIAL AND BUSINESS RELATED SOLID WASTE
§ 50.35  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DWELLING UNIT.  Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable area
used for human occupancy. This includes but is not limited to houses, duplexes,
apartments, sleeping rooms, and other accommodations of similar nature.
   GARBAGE.  Any and all kitchen or other organic refuse, including, among
other things, animal, fish, fowl, fruit and other animal vegetable matter,
decaying or spoiled meats, or vegetable matter, or substance or thing
whatsoever which might decompose or become offensive, dangerous to health and
shall include, among other things every accumulation of all matter that attends
preparation, use, cooking, dealing in or storing of milk or milk products,
meat, fish, fowl, fruit and animal or vegetable matter.
   PREMISES.  Land and buildings or both, or parts of either or both, whether
occupied or not.
   RUBBISH.  Ashes, chips, sticks, bottles, broken glass, crockery, tins, cast
iron, cans, rags, woodenware, boxes, excelsior, waste paper, circulars,
handbills, boots, shoes, leather bags, luggage, hats, clothing, and all other
items of similar nature.
   WASTE MATERIAL.  All solid waste originating from the use of property
situated only within the municipal limits of the village, and more specifically
being identified in the following categories:  All appliances and furniture
including, but not limited to, refrigerators, dishwashers, washers, dryers,
televisions, sofas, chairs, and mattresses.
(Ord. 2-95, passed 2-15-1995; Am. Ord. 6-95, passed 3-14-1995)
§ 50.36  COMMERCIAL OR BUSINESS RELATED SOLID WASTE MATERIAL.
   Any industrial or commercial establishment, retail or service business, or
individual enterprise that results in the generation of solid waste material
shall be considered a generator of business related solid waste material. Any
building structure containing a business facility and rental dwelling units
generating solid waste material shall also be defined as a generator of
business related solid waste material and subject to the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2-95, passed 2-15-1995; Am. Ord. 6-95, passed 3-14-1995)
§ 50.37  WASTE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL.
   All business related solid waste material generated in the village shall be
collected, as specified by the village, by a reputable waste collection
contractor, and shall be disposed of at the contractors sanitary landfill, or
such other landfill to which contractor may have access. Said disposal shall be
done in conformity with all federal, state, and county regulations for landfill
disposal.
(Ord. 2-95, passed 2-15-1995; Am. Ord. 6-95, passed 3-14-1995)
§ 50.38  COST OF COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL.
   (A)   The business owner and\or commercial property owner or his or her
agent shall be responsible for any cost incurred in the collection and disposal
of business related solid waste material generated by their respective
businesses and\or properties.
   (B)   The village will provide waste collection services for rental dwelling
units totaling three or less that are part of a business structure, and all
residential rental dwellings for an assessment and administrative fee set forth
in division (D) below.
   (C)   Each rental dwelling will be permitted a maximum of six containers/
week.
   (D)   A unit is any structure or dwelling therein, occupied or unoccupied,
that is intended to be rented for habitable living accommodations.
   (E)   (1)   The formula for cost accountability is as follows:
Number of units (X) current monthly unit cost ($11.70) (X) 12 = cost per year.
      (2)   An ACCOUNT is defined as individual owners or separate rental
companies or partnerships.
   (F)   The amount due for waste collection will be billed on the units
Greater Cincinnati Water Works (GCWW) invoice.
   (G)   Failure to pay your waste collection fees shall subject the account to
any late fees and penalties imposed by GCWW.
(Ord. 2-95, passed 2-15-1995; Am. Ord. 6-95, passed 3-14-1995; Am. Ord. 24-02,
passed 12-26-2002; Am. Ord. 6-11, passed 8-19-2011)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.39  EXEMPTIONS.
   Solid waste materials such as hazardous waste regulated by federal or state
agencies, and special materials prohibited by state regulations from landfill
disposal are exempt from the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2-95, passed 2-15-1995; Am. Ord. 6-95, passed 3-14-1995; Am. Ord. 7-11,
passed 8-19-2011)
§ 50.40  STORAGE AND DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Each business and\or residential unit shall obtain and keep available
for the exclusive use of the premises a sufficient number of approved
containers to hold all solid waste created or accumulated thereon for the
period of one week between waste collections.
   (B)   Waste containers shall be a standard size, air and water tight, with a
tight-fitting lid so as to prevent its contents from being scattered by the
wind, and shall not be susceptible to catching fire or dropping its contents
when being moved. Waste containers shall be equipped with two handles or a bale
for lifting. Containers shall not exceed 90 gallons in capacity or 65 pounds in
weight when filled.
   (C)   Waste containers shall be kept on private premises in a location as
far from the street as possible and as great a distance from neighboring
premises as practicable.  No containers shall be kept within the limits of the
street or other public place except when placed for collection.
(Ord. 2-95, passed 2-15-1995; Am. Ord. 6-95, passed 3-14-1995)
§ 50.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter for which no
penalty is otherwise provided shall be fined as set forth in §
10.99.  Each day a violation is committed or permitted to continue shall
constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provisions of §§
50.35 through
50.40 is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Each day on which a
violation occurs or continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 2-95, passed 2-15-1995; Am. Ord. 6-95, passed 3-14-1995)
CHAPTER 51:  SEWER SYSTEM
Section
   
51.01   Hamilton County Metropolitan Sewer District rules adopted
§ 51.01  HAMILTON COUNTY METROPOLITAN SEWER DISTRICT RULES ADOPTED.
   The Village of Elmwood Place is a participating member of the Hamilton
County Metropolitan Sewer District, and all sewage facilities, service, and
rates pertaining to sewage handling shall be covered by the rules and
regulations of the Hamilton County Metropolitan Sewer District Agreement.
CHAPTER 52:  WATER
Section
   
52.01   Water provided by City of Cincinnati
§ 52.01  WATER PROVIDED BY CITY OF CINCINNATI.
   Water is provided by the water works system of the City of Cincinnati.  All
charges for water are handled by the water works system of the City of
Cincinnati.
TITLE VII:  TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
72.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
73.   MOTOR VEHICLE CRIMES
      
74.   EQUIPMENT AND LOADS
      
75.   BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES, AND OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
      
76.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
77.   CIVIL PENALTIES FOR AUTOMATED SPEED ENFORCEMENT VIOLATIONS
      
78.   IMPOUNDMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Compliance with order of police officer
   
70.03   Emergency vehicles to proceed cautiously past red or stop signal
   
70.04   Exceptions generally; emergency, public safety and coroner vehicles
exempt
   
70.05   Persons riding or driving animals upon roadways
   
70.06   Prohibitions against pedestrians and slow-moving vehicles on freeways
   
70.07   Use of private property for vehicular travel
   
70.08   Names of persons damaging real property by operation of vehicle to be
provided to owner
   
70.09   Limited access highways; barriers along; vehicles to enter and leave at
designated intersections
   
70.10   Through highways
   
70.11   Officer may remove ignition key
   
70.12   Zones of quiet; construction zones
   
70.13   Use of skateboards limited
   
70.14   Discharge of automotive fluids on streets prohibited
   
70.15   Removal of vehicles after accidents
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.20   Obeying traffic-control devices
   
70.21   Signal lights
   
70.22   Signals over reversible lanes
   
70.23   Ambiguous or nonworking traffic signals
   
70.24   Pedestrian-control signals
   
70.25   (Reserved)
   
70.26   Unauthorized signs and signals prohibited
   
70.27   Alteration, defacement, or removal prohibited
   
70.28   Unauthorized possession or sale of devices
   
70.29   Street Commissioner to place traffic signs
   
70.30   Signal preemption devices; prohibitions
   
70.31   Traffic law photo-monitoring devices
   
70.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Streets and sidewalks, general regulations, see
Ch. 95
   Unauthorized use of a motor vehicle, see §
131.09
Statutory reference:
   Local traffic regulations, scope and authority, see R.C. § 4511.07
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
   Uniform application and precedence of state traffic laws, see R.C. § 4511.06
§ 70.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL TRACTOR. Every self- propelled vehicle designed or used for
drawing other vehicles or wheeled machinery, but having no provision for
carrying loads independently of such other vehicles, and used principally for
agricultural purposes.
   ALLEY. A street or highway intended to provide access to the rear or side of
lots or buildings in urban districts, and not intended for the purpose of
through vehicular traffic, and any street or highway that has been declared an
ALLEY by the Legislative Authority of the municipality in which the street or
highway is located.
   ARTERIAL STREET. Any United States or state numbered route, controlled-
access highway, or other major radial or circumferential street or highway
designated by local authorities within their respective jurisdictions as part
of a major arterial system of streets or highways.
   BEACON. A highway traffic signal with one or more signal sections that
operate in a flashing mode.
   BICYCLE. Every device, other than a tricycle designed solely for use as a
play vehicle by a child, propelled solely by human power, upon which any person
may ride having two tandem wheels, or one wheel in the front and two wheels in
the rear, or two wheels in the front and one wheel in the rear, any of which is
more than 14 inches in diameter.
   BUS.  Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than nine passengers,
and used for the transportation of persons other than in a ridesharing
arrangement, and every motor vehicle, automobile for hire, or funeral car,
other than a taxicab or motor vehicle used in a ridesharing arrangement,
designed and used for the transportation of persons for compensation.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory fronting upon a street or highway,
including the street or highway, between successive intersections within the
municipality, where 50% or more of the frontage between successive
intersections is occupied by buildings in use for business, or within or
outside the municipality where 50% or more of the frontage for a distance of
300 feet or more is occupied by buildings in use for business, and the
character of the territory is indicated by official traffic-control devices.
   CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINE. A motor vehicle that is designed to carry nine or
fewer  passengers and is operated for hire on an hourly basis pursuant to a
prearranged contract for the transportation of passengers on public roads and
highways along a route under the control of the person hiring the vehicle and
not over a defined and regular route. “Prearranged contract” means an
agreement, made in advance of boarding, to provide transportation from a
specific location in an chauffeured limousine at a fixed rate per hour or trip.
CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINE does not include any vehicle that is used exclusively in
the business of funeral directing.
(R.C. § 4501.01(LL))
   CHILD DAY-CARE CENTER and TYPE A FAMILY DAY-CARE HOME. These terms shall
have the same meanings as set forth in R.C. § 5104.01.
   COMMERCIAL TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle having motive power designed or used
for drawing other vehicles, and not so constructed as to carry any load
thereon, or designed or used for drawing other vehicles while carrying a
portion of the other vehicles, or the load thereon, or both.
   CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every street or highway in respect to which
owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal right or
access to or from the same except at certain points only and in a manner as may
be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over the street or
highway.
   CROSSWALK.
      (1)   That part of a roadway at intersections ordinarily included within
the real or projected prolongation of property lines and curb lines or, in the
absence of curbs, the edges of the traversable roadway;
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere,
distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the
surface;
      (3)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this definition, there
shall not be a CROSSWALK where the Legislative Authority has placed signs
indicating no crossing.
   DRIVER or OPERATOR. Any person who drives or is in actual physical control
of a vehicle.
   EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Emergency vehicles of municipal, township or county
departments or public utility corporations, when identified as such as required
by law, the Director of Public Safety, or local authorities, and motor vehicles
when commandeered by a police officer.
   EXPLOSIVES. Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is intended for
the purpose of producing an explosion that contains any oxidizing and
combustible units or other ingredients in such proportions, quantities, or
packing that an ignition by fire, by friction, by concussion, by percussion, or
by a detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause a sudden
generation of highly heated gases, such that the resultant gaseous pressures
are capable of producing destructive effects on contiguous objects, or of
destroying life or limb. Manufactured articles shall not be held to be
explosives when the individual units contain EXPLOSIVES in limited quantities
of such nature or in such packing that it is impossible to procure a
simultaneous or a destructive explosion of the units, to the injury of life,
limb, or property by fire, friction, concussion, percussion, or by a detonator,
such as fixed ammunition for small arms, firecrackers, or safety fuse matches.
   EXPRESSWAY. A divided arterial highway for through traffic with full or
partial control of access with an excess of 50% of all crossroads separated in
grade.
   FLAMMABLE LIQUID. Any liquid which has a flash point of 70°F or less, as
determined by a tagliabue or equivalent closed cup test device.
   FREEWAY. A divided multi-lane highway for through traffic with crossroads
separated in grade and with full control of access.
   FUNERAL ESCORT VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle, including a funeral hearse, while
used to facilitate the movement of a funeral procession.
   GROSS WEIGHT. The weight of a vehicle plus the weight of any load thereon.
   HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SIGNAL. A power- operated traffic control device by which
traffic is warned or directed to take some specific action. The term does not
include a power-operated sign, steadily illuminated pavement marker, warning
light, or steady burning electric lamp.
   HYBRID BEACON. A type of beacon that is intentionally placed in a dark mode
between periods of operation where no indications are displayed and, when in
operation, displays both steady and flashing traffic control signal
indications.
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of
two highways that join one another at, or approximately at, right angles, or
the area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways that join at
any other angle might come into conflict. The junction of an alley or driveway
with a roadway or highway does not constitute an intersection unless the
roadway or highway at the junction is controlled by a traffic control device.
      (2)   If a highway includes two roadways that are 30 feet or more apart,
then every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting
highway constitutes a separate intersection. If both intersecting highways
include two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then every crossing of any two
roadways of such highways constitutes a separate intersection.
      (3)   At a location controlled by a traffic control signal, regardless of
the distance between the separate intersections as described in division (2) of
this definition:
         (a)   If a stop line, yield line, or crosswalk has not been designated
on the roadway within the median between the separate intersections, the two
intersections and the roadway and median constitute one intersection.
         (b)   Where a stop line, yield line, or crosswalk line is designated
on the roadway on the intersection approach, the area within the crosswalk and
any area beyond the designated stop line or yield line constitute part of the
intersection.
         (c)   Where a crosswalk is designated on a roadway on the departure
from the intersection, the intersection includes the area that extends to the
far side of the crosswalk.
   LANED HIGHWAY. A highway, the roadway of which is divided into two or more
clearly marked lanes for vehicular traffic.
   LOCAL AUTHORITIES. Every county, municipal, and other local board or body
having authority to adopt police regulations under the Constitution and laws of
this state.
   MEDIAN. The area between two roadways of a divided highway, measured from
edge of traveled way to edge of traveled way, but excluding turn lanes. The
width of a median may be different between intersections, between interchanges,
and at opposite approaches of the same intersection.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle propelled or drawn by power other than muscular
power or power collected from overhead electric trolley wires, except motorized
bicycles, road rollers, traction engines, power shovels, power cranes and other
equipment used in construction work, and not designed for or employed in
general highway transportation, hole- digging machinery, well-drilling
machinery, ditch-digging machinery, farm machinery, and trailers designed and
used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage and a marina,
or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or highway for a
distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle other than a tractor having a seat or saddle
for the use of the operator and designed to travel on not more than three
wheels in contact with the ground, including, but not limited to, motor
vehicles known as “motor-driven cycle,” “motor scooter,” or “motorcycle”
without regard to weight or brake horsepower.
   MOTORIZED BICYCLE. Any vehicle having either two tandem wheels or one wheel
in the front and two wheels in the rear, that is capable of being pedaled, and
is equipped with a helper motor of not more than 50 cubic centimeters piston
displacement which produces no more than one brake horsepower, and is capable
of propelling the vehicle at a speed of no greater than 20 miles per hour on a
level surface.
   MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIR. Any self- propelled vehicle designed for, and used by,
a person with a disability and that is incapable of a speed in excess of eight
miles per hour.
   MULTI-WHEEL AGRICULTURAL TRACTOR. A type of agricultural tractor that has
two or more wheels or tires on each side of one axle at the rear of the
tractor, is designed or used for drawing other vehicles or wheeled machinery,
has no provision for carrying loads independently of the drawn vehicles or
machinery, and is used principally for agricultural purposes.
   OPERATE. To cause or have caused movement of a vehicle.
   PARKING or PARKED. The standing of a vehicle upon a street, road, alley,
highway or public ground, whether accompanied or unaccompanied by a driver, but
does not include the temporary standing of a vehicle for the purpose of and
while actually engaged in loading or loading merchandise or passengers.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any natural person afoot.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, partnership, association or corporation.
   POLE TRAILER. Every trailer or semitrailer attached to the towing vehicle by
means of a reach, pole, or by being boomed or otherwise secured to the towing
vehicle, and ordinarily used for transporting long or irregular shaped loads
such as poles, pipes, or structural members capable, generally, of sustaining
themselves as beams between the supporting connections.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic, or
to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
   PREDICATE MOTOR VEHICLE OR TRAFFIC OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.03, 4511.051, 4511.12, 4511.132,
4511.16, 4511.20, 4511.201, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.213, 4511.22, 4511.23,
4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32,
4511.33, 4511.34, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40,
4511.41, 4511.42, 4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.432, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.451,
4511.452, 4511.46, 4511.47, 4511.48, 4511.481, 4511.49, 4511.50, 4511.511,
4511.53, 4511.54, 4511.55, 4511.56, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59, 4511.60,
4511.61, 4511.64, 4511.66, 4511.661, 4511.68, 4511.70, 4511.701, 4511.71,
4511.711, 4511.712, 4511.713, 4511.72, 4511.73, 4511.763, 4511.771, 4511.78, or
4511.84;
      (2)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.17(A)(2), 4511.51(A) through (D), or
4511.74(A);
      (3)   A violation of any provision of R.C. §§ 4511.01 through 4511.76 for
which no penalty otherwise is provided in the section that contains the
provision violated;
      (4)   A violation of a municipal ordinance that is substantially
equivalent to any section or provision set forth or described in division (1),
(2), or (3) of this definition.
   PRIVATE ROAD OPEN TO PUBLIC TRAVEL. A private toll road or road, including
any adjacent sidewalks that generally run parallel to the road, within a
shopping center, airport, sports arena, or other similar business or recreation
facility that is privately owned but where the public is allowed to travel
without access restrictions. The term includes a gated toll road but does not
include a road within a private gated property where access is restricted at
all times, a parking area, a driving aisle within a parking area, or a private
grade crossing.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership used for
vehicular travel by the owner, and those having express or implied permission
from the owner, but not by other persons.
   PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE. Any of the following:
      (1)   Ambulances, including private ambulance companies under contract to
a municipality, township, or county, and private ambulances and nontransport
vehicles bearing license plates issued under R.C. § 4503.49;
      (2)   Motor vehicles used by public law enforcement officers or other
persons sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state;
      (3)   Any motor vehicle when properly identified as required by the
Director of Public Safety, when used in response to fire emergency calls or to
provide emergency medical service to ill or injured persons, and when operated
by a duly qualified person who is a member of a volunteer rescue service or a
volunteer fire department, and who is on duty pursuant to the rules or
directives of that service. The State Fire Marshal shall be designated by the
Director of Public Safety as the certifying agency for all public safety
vehicles described herein;
      (4)   Vehicles used by fire departments, including motor vehicles when
used by volunteer firefighters responding to emergency calls in the fire
department service when identified as required by the Director of Public
Safety;
      (5)   Any vehicle used to transport or provide emergency medical service
to an ill or injured person, when certified as a PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE, shall
be considered such a vehicle when transporting an ill or injured person to a
hospital, regardless of whether such vehicle has already passed a hospital;
      (6)   Vehicles used by the Motor Carrier Enforcement Unit for the
enforcement of orders and rules of the Public Utilities Commission as specified
in R.C. § 5503.34.
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property operating upon rails placed
principally on a private right-of-way.
   RAILROAD SIGN OR SIGNAL. Any sign, signal, or device erected by authority of
a public body or official or by a railroad, and intended to give notice of the
presence of railroad tracks or the approach of a railroad train.
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine or an electric or other motor, with or
without cars coupled thereto, operated by a railroad.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory, not comprising a business district,
fronting on a street or highway, including the street or highway, where, for a
distance of 300 feet or more, the frontage is improved with residences or
residences and buildings in use for business.
   RIDESHARING ARRANGEMENT. Includes the transportation of persons in a motor
vehicle where the transportation is incidental to another purpose of a
volunteer driver, and includes RIDESHARING ARRANGEMENTS known as carpools,
vanpools, and buspools.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Either of the following, as the context requires:
      (1)   The right of a vehicle or pedestrian to proceed uninterruptedly in
a lawful manner in the direction in which it, he or she is moving, in
preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching from a different
direction into its, his or her path;
      (2)   A general term denoting land, property, or the interest therein,
usually in the configuration of a strip, acquired for or devoted to
transportation purposes. When used in this context, RIGHT-OF- WAY includes the
roadway, shoulders or berm, ditch, and slopes extending to the right-of-way
limits under the control of the state or local authority.
   ROAD SERVICE VEHICLE.  Wreckers, utility repair vehicles, and state, county,
and municipal  service vehicles equipped with visual signals by means of
flashing, rotating, or oscillating lights.
   ROADWAY. That portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel, except the berm or shoulder. If a highway includes two or
more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY means any roadway separately, but not
all the roadways collectively.
   RURAL MAIL DELIVERY VEHICLE. Every vehicle used to deliver United States
mail on a rural mail delivery route.
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians, and protected or marked or indicated by adequate
signs so as to be plainly visible at all times.
   SCHOOL BUS. Every bus designed for carrying more than nine passengers which
is owned by a public, private, or governmental agency or institution of
learning, and operated for the transportation of children to or from a school
session or a school function, or owned by a private person and operated for
compensation for the transportation of children to or from a school session or
a school function; provided SCHOOL BUS does not include a bus operated by a
municipally owned transportation system, a mass transit company operating
exclusively within the territorial limits of a municipality, or within such
limits and the territorial limits of municipalities immediately contiguous to
the municipality, nor a common passenger carrier certified by the Public
Utilities Commission unless the bus is devoted exclusively to the
transportation of children to and from a school session or a school function,
and SCHOOL BUS does not include a van or bus used by a licensed child day-care
center or Type A Family Day-Care Home to transport children from the child day-
care center or Type A Family Day-Care Home to a school if the van or bus does
not have more than 15 children in the van or bus at any time.
   SEMITRAILER. Every vehicle designed or used for carrying persons or property
with another and separate motor vehicle so that in operation a part of its  own
weight or that of its load, or both, rests upon and is carried by another
vehicle.
   SHARED-USE PATH. A bikeway outside the traveled way and physically separated
from motorized vehicular traffic by an open space or barrier and either within
the highway right-of-way or within an independent alignment. A shared-use path
also may be used by pedestrians, including skaters, joggers, users of manual
and motorized wheelchairs, and other authorized motorized and non-motorized
users.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
line of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STATE HIGHWAY. A highway under the jurisdiction of the Department of
Transportation, outside the limits of municipalities, provided that the
authority conferred upon the Director of Transportation in R.C. § 5511.01 to
erect state highway route markers and signs directing traffic shall not be
modified by R.C. §§ 4511.01 through 4511.79 and 4511.99.
   STATE ROUTE. Every highway which is designated with an official state route
number and so marked.
   STOP. When required, means a complete cessation of movement.
   STOP INTERSECTION. Any intersection at one or more entrances of which stop
signs are erected.
   STOPPING or STANDING. When prohibited, means any halting of a vehicle, even
momentarily, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in
compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic-control device.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
open to the use of the public as a thoroughfare for purposes of vehicular
travel.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every street or highway as provided in R.C. § 4511.65, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   THRUWAY. A through highway whose entire roadway is reserved for through
traffic and on which roadway parking is prohibited.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars, and
other devices, either singly or together, while using for purposes of travel
any highway or private road open to public travel.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE.  A flagger, sign, signal, marking, or other device
used to regulate, warn, or guide traffic, placed on, over, or adjacent to a
street, highway, private road open to public travel, pedestrian facility, or
shared-use path by authority of a public agency or official having
jurisdiction, or, in the case of a private road open to public travel, by
authority of the private owner or private official having jurisdiction.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL.  Any highway traffic signal by which traffic is
alternately directed to stop and permitted to proceed.
   TRAILER. Every vehicle designed or used for carrying persons or property
wholly on its own  structure, and for being drawn by a motor vehicle, including
any vehicle when formed by or operated as a combination of a semitrailer and a
vehicle of the dolly type, such as that commonly known as a trailer dolly, a
vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or agricultural production
materials between a local place of storage or supply and the farm when drawn or
towed on a street or highway at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour and a
vehicle designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of
storage and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a
street or highway for a distance of more than ten miles or at a speed of more
than 25 miles per hour.
   TRUCK. Every motor vehicle, except trailers and semitrailers, designed and
used to carry property.
   URBAN DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including any street or
highway which is built up with structures devoted to business, industry, or
dwelling houses situated at intervals of less than 100 feet for a distance of
one-quarter of a mile or more, and the character of the territory is indicated
by official traffic-control devices.
   VEHICLE. Every device, including a motorized bicycle, in, upon, or by which
any person or property may be transported or drawn upon a highway, except that
VEHICLE does not include any motorized wheelchair, any electric personal
assistive mobility device, any device that is moved by power collected from
overhead electric trolley wires or that is used exclusively upon stationary
rails or tracks, or any device, other than a bicycle, that is moved by human
power.
(R.C. § 4511.01)
§ 70.02  COMPLIANCE WITH ORDER OF POLICE OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall fail to comply with any lawful order or direction of
any police officer invested with authority to direct, control, or regulate
traffic.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle so as willfully to elude or
flee a police officer after receiving a visible or audible signal from a police
officer to bring the person’s motor vehicle to a stop.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to comply
with an order or signal of a police officer.
      (2)   A violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (3)   Except as provided in divisions (C)(4) and (C)(5) of this section,
a violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (4)   Except as provided in division (C)(5) of this section, a violation
of division (B) of this section is a felony and shall be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if the jury or judge as trier of fact finds by proof
beyond a reasonable doubt that in committing the offense, the offender was
fleeing immediately after the commission of a felony.
      (5)   (a)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a felony and
shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law if the jury or judge as trier
of fact finds any of the following by proof beyond a reasonable doubt:
            1.   The operation of the motor vehicle by the offender was a
proximate cause of serious physical harm to persons or property.
            2.   The operation of the motor vehicle by the offender caused a
substantial risk of serious physical harm to persons or property.
         (b)   If a police officer pursues an offender who is violating
division (B) of this section and division (C)(5)(a) of this section applies,
the sentencing court, in determining the seriousness of an offender’s conduct
for purposes of sentencing the offender for a violation of division (B) of this
section, shall consider, along with the factors set forth in R.C. §§ 2929.12
and 2929.13 that are required to be considered, all of the following:
            1.   The duration of the pursuit;
            2.   The distance of the pursuit;
            3.   The rate of speed at which the offender operated the motor
vehicle during the pursuit;
            4.   Whether the offender failed to stop for traffic lights or stop
signs during the pursuit;
            5.   The number of traffic lights or stop signs for which the
offender failed to stop during the pursuit;
            6.   Whether the offender operated the motor vehicle during the
pursuit without lighted lights during a time when lighted lights are required;
            7.   Whether the offender committed a moving violation during the
pursuit;
            8.   The number of moving violations the offender committed during
the pursuit;
            9.   Any other relevant factors indicating that the offender’s
conduct is more serious than conduct normally constituting the offense.
   (D)   In addition to any other sanction imposed for a violation of division
(A) of this section or a misdemeanor violation of division (B) of this section,
the court shall impose a class five suspension from the range specified in R.C.
§ 4510.02(A)(5). If the offender previously has been found guilty of an offense
under this section or under R.C. § 2921.331 or any other substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, in addition to any other sanction imposed for
the offense, the court shall impose a class one suspension as described in R.C.
§ 4510.02(A)(1). The court may grant limited driving privileges to the offender
on a suspension imposed for a misdemeanor violation of this section as set
forth in R.C. § 4510.021. No judge shall suspend any portion of the suspension
under a class one suspension of an offender’s license, permit, or privilege
required by this division.
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
      MOVING VIOLATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2743.70.
      POLICE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
(R.C. § 2921.331(A) - (C), (E), (F))
Cross-reference:
   Resisting arrest, see §
136.08
§ 70.03  EMERGENCY VEHICLES TO PROCEED CAUTIOUSLY PAST RED OR STOP SIGNAL.
   (A)   The driver of any emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when
responding to an emergency call, upon approaching a red or stop signal or any
stop sign, shall slow down as necessary for safety to traffic, but may proceed
cautiously past the red or stop sign or signal with due regard for the safety
of all persons using the street or highway.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.03)
§ 70.04  EXCEPTIONS GENERALLY; EMERGENCY, PUBLIC SAFETY AND CORONER VEHICLES
EXEMPT.
   (A)   The provisions of this traffic code, except for §§
73.01 and
73.011, do not apply to persons, teams, motor vehicles, and other equipment
while actually engaged in work upon the surface of a highway within an area
designated by traffic-control devices, but apply to those persons and vehicles
when traveling to or from such work.
   (B)   The driver of a highway maintenance vehicle owned by this state or any
political subdivision of this state, while the driver is engaged in the
performance of official duties upon a street or highway, provided the highway
maintenance vehicle is equipped with flashing lights and such other markings as
are required by law and such lights are in operation when the driver and
vehicle are so engaged, shall be exempt from criminal prosecution for
violations of R.C. §§ 4511.22, 4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.30,
4511.31, 4511.33, 4511.35, 4511.66, and 4513.02, and R.C. §§ 5577.01 through
5577.09, and any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   (1)   This section does not exempt a driver of a highway maintenance
vehicle from civil liability arising from a violation of R.C. § 4511.22,
4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.33, 4511.35,
4511.66, or 4513.02 or R.C. §§ 5577.01 through 5577.09, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   This section does not exempt the driver of a vehicle that is
engaged in the transport of highway maintenance equipment from criminal
liability for a violation of R.C. §§ 5577.01 through 5577.09, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   As used in this section, HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE VEHICLE means a vehicle
used in snow and ice removal or road surface maintenance, including a snow
plow, traffic line striper, road sweeper, mowing machine, asphalt distributing
vehicle, or other such vehicle designed for use in specific highway maintenance
activities.
(R.C. § 4511.04)
   (E)   The provisions of R.C. §§ 4511.12, 4511.13, 4511.131, 4511.132,
4511.14, 4511.202, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.22, 4511.23, 4511.25, 4511.26,
4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33, 4511.34,
4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40, 4511.41, 4511.42,
4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.432, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59,
4511.60, 4511.61, 4511.62, 4511.66, 4511.68, 4511.681, and 4511.69, and any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, do not apply to the driver of an
emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle if the emergency vehicle or public
safety vehicle is responding to an emergency call, is equipped with and
displaying at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating light visible under
normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
vehicle and if the driver of the vehicles is giving an audible signal by siren,
exhaust whistle, or bell. This section does not relieve the driver of an
emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(R.C. § 4511.041)
   (F)   The provisions of R.C. §§ 4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29,
4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, and
4511.66, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, do not apply to
a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator operating a motor vehicle
in accordance with R.C. § 4513.171 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance. This division does not relieve a coroner, deputy coroner or
coroner’s investigator operating a motor vehicle from the duty to drive with
due regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(R.C. § 4511.042)
§ 70.05  PERSONS RIDING OR DRIVING ANIMALS UPON ROADWAYS.
   Every person riding, driving, or leading an animal upon a roadway is subject
to the provisions of this traffic code, applicable to the driver of a vehicle,
except those provisions of this traffic code which by their nature are
inapplicable.
(R.C. § 4511.05)
§ 70.06  PROHIBITIONS AGAINST PEDESTRIANS AND SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES ON FREEWAYS.
   (A)   No person, unless otherwise directed by a police officer, shall:
      (1)   As a pedestrian, occupy any space within the limits of the right-
of-way of a freeway, except: in a rest area; on a facility that is separated
from the roadway and shoulders of the freeway and is designed and appropriately
marked for pedestrian use; in the performance of public works or official
duties; as a result of an emergency caused by an accident or breakdown of a
motor vehicle; or to obtain assistance;
      (2)   Occupy any space within the limits of the right-of-way of a
freeway, with an animal-drawn vehicle, a ridden or led animal, herded animals,
a pushcart, a bicycle, except on a facility that is separated from the roadway
and shoulders of the freeway and is designed and appropriately marked for
bicycle use, a bicycle with motor attached, a motor- driven cycle with a motor
which produces not to exceed five brake horsepower, an agricultural tractor, or
farm machinery, except in the performance of public works or official duties.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.051)
Statutory reference:
   Designation of a freeway, see R.C. § 4511.011
§ 70.07  USE OF PRIVATE PROPERTY FOR VEHICULAR TRAVEL.
   The provisions of this traffic code do not prevent the owner of real
property, used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel by permission of
the owner and not as a matter of right, from prohibiting such use or from
requiring additional conditions to those specified in this traffic code, or
otherwise regulating such use as may seem best to the owner.
(R.C. § 4511.08)
§ 70.08  NAMES OF PERSONS DAMAGING REAL PROPERTY BY OPERATION OF VEHICLE TO BE
PROVIDED TO OWNER.
   (A)   As used in this section, MOTOR VEHICLE has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 4501.01.
   (B)   If damage is caused to real property by the operation of a motor
vehicle in, or during the, violation of any section of the Revised Code or of
any municipal ordinance, the law enforcement agency that investigates the case,
upon request of the real property owner, shall provide the owner with the names
of the persons who are charged with the commission of the offense. If a request
for the names is made, the agency shall provide the names as soon as possible
after the persons are charged with the offense.
   (C)   The personnel of law enforcement agencies who act pursuant to division
(B) of this section in good faith are not liable in damages in a civil action
allegedly arising from their actions taken pursuant to that division. Political
subdivisions and the state are not liable in damages in a civil action
allegedly arising from the actions of personnel of their law enforcement
agencies if the personnel have immunity under this division.
(R.C. § 2935.28)
§ 70.09  LIMITED ACCESS HIGHWAYS; BARRIERS ALONG; VEHICLES TO ENTER AND LEAVE
AT DESIGNATED INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall cut, injure, remove, or destroy
any fence or other barrier designed and erected to prevent traffic from
entering or leaving a limited access highway without the permission of the
Director of Transportation, except in a case of emergency where life or
property is in danger. No person, firm or corporation shall cause a vehicle of
any character to enter or leave a limited access highway at any point other
than intersections designated by the Director for such purposes, except in a
case of emergency where life or property is in danger.
(R.C. § 3767.201)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 3767.99(D))
§ 70.10  THROUGH HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   All state routes are hereby designated as through highways, provided
that stop signs, yield signs, or traffic-control signals shall be erected at
all intersections with such through highways by the Department of
Transportation as to highways under its jurisdiction and by local authorities
as to highways under their jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this
section. Where two or more state routes that are through highways intersect,
and no traffic-control signal is in operation, stop signs or yield signs shall
be erected at one or more entrances thereto by the Department or by local
authorities having jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this section.
Whenever the Director of Transportation determines on the basis of an
engineering and traffic investigation that stop signs are necessary to stop
traffic on a through highway for safe and efficient operation, nothing in this
section shall be construed to prevent such installations. When circumstances
warrant, the Director also may omit stop signs on roadways intersecting through
highways under his or her jurisdiction. Before the Director either installs or
removes a stop sign under this division, he or she shall give notice, in
writing, of that proposed action to the affected local authority at least 30
days before installing or removing the stop sign.
   (B)   Other streets or highways, or portions thereof, are hereby designated
as through highways if they are within the municipality, if they have a
continuous length of more than one mile between the limits of the street or
highway or portion thereof, and if they have stop or yield signs or traffic-
control signals at the entrances of the majority of intersecting streets or
highways. For purposes of this section, the limits of the street or highway, or
portion thereof, shall be the municipal corporation line, the physical terminus
of the street or highway, or any point on the streets or highway at which
vehicular traffic thereon is required by regulatory signs to stop or yield to
traffic on the intersecting street; provided, that in residence districts, the
municipality may by ordinance designate such street or highway, or portion
thereof, not to be a through highway and thereafter the affected residence
district shall be indicated by official traffic-control devices. Where two or
more through highways designated under this division intersect and no traffic-
control signal is in operation, stop signs or yield signs shall be erected at
one or more entrances thereto by the Department or by local authorities having
jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this section.
   (C)   The Department or local authorities having jurisdiction need not erect
stop signs at intersections they find to be so constructed as to permit traffic
to safely enter a through highway without coming to a stop. Signs shall be
erected at such intersections indicating that the operator of a vehicle shall
yield the right-of-way to or merge with all traffic proceeding on the through
highway.
   (D)   Local authorities, with reference to highways under their
jurisdiction, may designate additional through highways, and shall erect stop
signs, yield signs, or traffic-control signals at all streets and highways
intersecting such through highways, or may designate any intersection as a stop
or yield intersection, and shall erect like signs at one or more entrances to
the intersection.
(R.C. § 4511.65)
§ 70.11  OFFICER MAY REMOVE IGNITION KEY.
   A law enforcement officer may remove the ignition key left in the ignition
switch of an unlocked and unattended motor vehicle parked on a street or
highway. The officer removing the key shall place notification upon the vehicle
detailing his or her name and badge number, the place where the key may be
reclaimed, and the procedure for reclaiming the key. The key shall be returned
to the owner of the motor vehicle upon presentation of proof of ownership.
(R.C. § 4549.05)
§ 70.12  ZONES OF QUIET; CONSTRUCTION ZONES.
   (A)   The Mayor may designate zones of quiet upon any highway within 250
feet of any hospital or school, and when any such zone is so designated by
official traffic signs, it shall be unlawful therein to blow a horn or a
whistle or to make or cause any outcry or any avoidable noise or clamor likely
to disturb persons within such zone.
   (B)   Municipal employees are authorized to designate and mark off certain
areas, while work is in progress by or for the municipality, to be under
temporary traffic restrictions during such period of work.
   (C)   Temporary traffic restrictions may reduce the speed of traffic,
prohibit traffic, prohibit or alter the method of parking, or make any other
temporary traffic regulations in such area of work that are deemed reasonable
and necessary for the protection of such workers or in pursuance of the orderly
progress of the work being done.
   (D)   Upon determination of necessity of temporary traffic restrictions,
signs shall be erected indicating such temporary restrictions and shall be
placed in advance of the boundaries of such area.
§ 70.13  USE OF SKATEBOARDS LIMITED.
   (A)   Skateboards shall not be ridden on Vine Street or Township Avenue.
   (B)   Any adult violating this section shall be guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.  Any minor violating this section shall be cited to Juvenile
Court.
(Ord. 86-9, passed 7-1-1986)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.14  DISCHARGE OF AUTOMOTIVE FLUIDS ON STREETS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, AUTOMOTIVE FLUIDS are defined as fluids
required for the operation of motorized vehicles, including the fuel, coolant,
lubricants, and hydraulic  fluids used in the braking systems, steering
systems, and transmission and differential gearboxes and clutches.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly operate or park a motor vehicle within the
village while the vehicle is leaking automotive fluids.
   (C)   All persons who discover that a motor vehicle operated by them is
leaking automotive fluids shall promptly and without unnecessary delay take
appropriate measures to correct the mechanical condition causing the leak, and
to mitigate the effects of the leakage on the environment.
   (D)   Whoever violates the provisions of this section shall be guilty of
discharging automotive fluids into the environment, the penalty for which shall
be a minor misdemeanor as provided in §
70.99(B).
(Ord. 10-93, passed 4-6-1993)  Penalty, see §
70.99(B)
§ 70.15  REMOVAL OF VEHICLES AFTER ACCIDENTS.
   (A)   If a motor vehicle accident occurs on any highway, public street, or
other property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel and if any
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property that has been damaged or spilled as
a result of the motor vehicle accident is blocking the highway, street, or
other property or is otherwise endangering public safety, the Chief of Police
or the Chief of the Fire Department may, without consent of the owner but with
the approval of the law enforcement agency conducting any investigation of the
accident, remove the motor vehicle if the motor vehicle is unoccupied, cargo,
or personal property from the portion of the highway, public street, or
property ordinarily used for vehicular travel on the highway, public street, or
other property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this section,
the Chief of Police, any police officer, the Chief of the Fire Department, and
any firefighter who authorizes or participates in the removal of any unoccupied
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property as authorized by division (A) of
this section is not liable in civil damages for any injury, death, or loss to
person or property that results from the removal of that unoccupied motor
vehicle, cargo, or personal property. Except as provided in division (B)(2) or
(B)(3) of this section, if the Chief of Police or Chief of the Fire Department
authorizes, employs, or arranges to have a private tow truck operator or towing
company remove any unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property as
authorized by division (A) of this section, that private tow truck operator or
towing company is not liable in civil damages for any injury, death, or loss to
person or property that results from the removal of that unoccupied motor
vehicle, cargo, or personal property, and the Chief of Police or Chief of the
Fire Department is not liable in civil damages for any injury, death, or loss
to person or property that results from the private tow truck operator or
towing company’s removal of that unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal
property.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to any person or
entity involved in the removal of an unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or
personal property pursuant to division (A) of this section if that removal
causes or contributes to the release of a hazardous material or to structural
damage to the roadway.
      (3)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to a private tow
truck operator or towing company that was not authorized, employed, or arranged
by the Chief of Police or Chief of the Fire Department or to a private tow
truck operator or towing company that was authorized, employed, or arranged by
the Chief of Police or Chief of the Fire Department to perform the removal of
the unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property and the private tow
truck operator or towing company performed the removal in a reckless or willful
manner.
   (C)   As used in this section, HAZARDOUS MATERIAL has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2305.232.
(R.C. § 4513.66)
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.20  OBEYING TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   No pedestrian or driver of a vehicle shall disobey the
instructions of any traffic-control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code, unless at the time otherwise directed by a
police officer.
      (2)   No provision of this traffic code for which signs are required
shall be enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the
alleged violation, an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently
legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular
section of this traffic code does not state that signs are required, that
section shall be effective even though no signs are erected or in place.
(R.C. § 4511.12(A))
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, any operator
of a commercial motor vehicle, upon approaching a scale location established
for the purpose of determining the weight of the vehicle and its load, shall
comply with any traffic- control device or the order of a peace officer
directing the vehicle to proceed to be weighed or otherwise inspected.
      (2)   Any operator of a commercial motor vehicle, upon bypassing a scale
location in accordance with division (C) of this section, shall comply with an
order of a peace officer to stop the vehicle to verify the use and operation of
an electronic clearance device.
   (C)   Any operator of a commercial motor vehicle that is equipped with an
electronic clearance device authorized by the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol under R.C. § 4549.081 may bypass a scale location, regardless of
the instruction of a traffic- control device to enter the scale facility, if
either of the following apply:
      (1)   The in-cab transponder displays a green light or other affirmative
visual signal and also sounds an affirmative audible signal;
      (2)   Any other criterion established by the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol is met.
   (D)   Any peace officer may order the operator of a commercial motor vehicle
that bypasses a scale location to stop the vehicle to verify the use and
operation of an electronic clearance device.
   (E)   As used in this section, COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE means any
combination of vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating or an actual gross
vehicle weight of more than 10,000 pounds if the vehicle is used in interstate
or intrastate commerce to transport property and also means any vehicle that is
transporting hazardous materials for which placarding is required pursuant to
49 C.F.R. parts 100 through 180.
(R.C. § 4511.121(A)-(C), (E))
   (F)   No person shall use an electronic clearance device if the device or
its use is not in compliance with rules of the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol.
(R.C. § 4549.081(B))
   (G)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.12(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (B) of this
section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of division (B)
of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.121(D))
      (3)   Whoever violates division (F) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the
third degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.081(C))
Statutory reference:
   Placing traffic-control devices on state highways, permission required, see
R.C. § 4511.10
   Traffic-control devices to conform to the state manual and specifications,
see R.C. § 4511.11
   Uniform system of traffic-control devices, see R.C. § 4511.09
§ 70.21  SIGNAL LIGHTS.
   Highway traffic signal indications for vehicles and pedestrians shall have
the following meanings:
   (A)   Steady green signal indication.
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a circular green signal indication
is permitted to proceed straight through or turn right or left or make a u-turn
movement except as such movement is modified by a lane-use sign, turn
prohibition sign, lane marking, roadway design, separate turn signal
indication, or other traffic control device. Such vehicular traffic, including
vehicles turning right or left or making a u- turn movement, shall yield the
right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         (b)   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn
movement to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching
from the opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard
during the time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the
intersection.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a green arrow signal indication, displayed
alone or in combination with another signal indication, is permitted to
cautiously enter the intersection only to make the movement indicated by such
arrow, or such other movement as is permitted by other indications displayed at
the same time. Such vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left
or making a u- turn movement, shall yield the right-of-way to both of the
following:
         (a)   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
         (b)   Other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (3)   (a)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication,
as provided in R.C. § 4511.14, pedestrians facing a circular green signal
indication are permitted to proceed across the roadway within any marked or
unmarked associated crosswalk. The pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to
vehicles lawfully within the intersection or so close as to create an immediate
hazard at the time that the green signal indication is first displayed.
         (b)   Pedestrians facing a green arrow signal indication, unless
otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or other traffic control
device, shall not cross the roadway.
   (B)   Steady yellow signal indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular yellow signal indication
is thereby warned that the related green movement or the related flashing arrow
movement is being terminated or that a steady red signal indication will be
exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter the
intersection. The provisions governing vehicular operation under the movement
being terminated shall continue to apply while the steady circular yellow
signal indication is displayed.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow arrow signal indication is
thereby warned that the related green arrow movement or the related flashing
arrow movement is being terminated. The provisions governing vehicular
operation under the movement being terminated shall continue to apply while the
steady yellow arrow signal indication is displayed.
      (3)   Pedestrians facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow signal
indication, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication as
provided in R.C. § 4511.14 or other traffic control device, shall not start to
cross the roadway.
   (C)   Steady red signal indication.
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular red signal
indication, unless entering the intersection to make another movement permitted
by another signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line; but if
there is no stop line, traffic shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the
near side of the intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, then before
entering the intersection; and shall remain stopped until a signal indication
to proceed is displayed except as provided in divisions (C)(1), (C)(2), and (C)
(3) of this section.
         (b)   Except when a traffic control device is in place prohibiting a
turn on red or a steady red arrow signal indication is displayed, vehicular
traffic facing a steady circular red signal indication is permitted to enter
the intersection to turn right, or to turn left from a one-way street, after
stopping. The right to proceed with the turn shall be subject to the provisions
that are applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
      (2)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady red arrow signal indication
shall not enter the intersection to make the movement indicated by the arrow
and, unless entering the intersection to make another movement permitted by
another signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line; but if
there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, then before entering the
intersection; and shall remain stopped until a signal indication or other
traffic control device permitting the movement indicated by such red arrow is
displayed.
         (b)   When a traffic control device is in place permitting a turn on a
steady red arrow signal indication, vehicular traffic facing a steady red arrow
indication is permitted to enter the intersection to make the movement
indicated by the arrow signal indication, after stopping. The right to proceed
with the turn shall be limited to the direction indicated by the arrow and
shall be subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a stop at a
stop sign.
      (3)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication as
provided in R.C. § 4511.14 or other traffic control device, pedestrians facing
a steady circular red or steady red arrow signal indication shall not enter the
roadway.
      (4)   Local authorities by ordinance, or the Director of Transportation
on state highways, may prohibit a right or a left turn against a steady red
signal at any intersection, which shall be effective when signs giving notice
thereof are posted at the intersection.
   (D)   Flashing green signal indication. A flashing green signal indication
has no meaning and shall not be used.
   (E)   Flashing yellow signal indication.
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing
a flashing circular yellow signal indication, is permitted to cautiously enter
the intersection to proceed straight through or turn right or left or make a u-
turn movement except as such movement is modified by lane-use signs, turn
prohibition signs, lane markings, roadway design, separate turn signal
indications, or other traffic control devices. Such vehicular traffic,
including vehicles turning right or left or making a u-turn movement, shall
yield the right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         (b)   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn
to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the
time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the intersection.
      (2)   (a)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing
a flashing yellow arrow signal indication, displayed alone or in combination
with another signal indication, is permitted to cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by such arrow, or other such
movement as is permitted by other signal indications displayed at the same
time. Such vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left or
making a u- turn, shall yield the right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         (b)   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn
to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the
time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the intersection.
      (3)   Pedestrians facing any flashing yellow signal indication at an
intersection, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or
other traffic control device, are permitted to proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked associated crosswalk. Pedestrians shall yield the
right- of-way to vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the
flashing yellow signal indication is first displayed.
      (4)   When a flashing circular yellow signal indication is displayed as a
beacon to supplement another traffic control device, road users are notified
that there is a need to pay additional attention to the message contained
thereon or that the regulatory or warning requirements of the other traffic
control device, which might not be applicable at all times, are currently
applicable.
   (F)   Flashing red signal indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing a
flashing circular red signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line; but if there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk on the near
side of the intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway before entering the intersection. The right to proceed
shall be subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a stop at a
stop sign.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing any flashing red signal indication at an
intersection, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or
other traffic control device, are permitted to proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked associated crosswalk. Pedestrians shall yield the
right- of-way to vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the
flashing red signal indication is first displayed.
      (3)   When a flashing circular red signal indication is displayed as a
beacon to supplement another traffic control device, road users are notified
that there is a need to pay additional attention to the message contained
thereon or that the regulatory requirements of the other traffic control
device, which might not be applicable at all times, are currently applicable.
Use of this signal indication shall be limited to supplementing stop, do not
enter, or wrong way signs, and to applications where compliance with the
supplemented traffic control device requires a stop at a designated point.
   (G)   In the event an official traffic-control signal is erected and
maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of this
section shall be applicable except as to those provisions which by their nature
can have no application. Any stop required shall be made at a sign or marking
on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the absence of
any such sign or marking the stop shall be made at the signal.
   (H)   This section does not apply at railroad grade crossings. Conduct of
drivers of vehicles approaching railroad grade crossings shall be governed by
R.C. §§ 4511.61 and 4511.62.
(R.C. § 4511.13)
§ 70.22  SIGNALS OVER REVERSIBLE LANES.
   The meanings of lane-use control signal indications are as follows:
   (A)   A steady downward green arrow. A road user is permitted to drive in
the lane over which the arrow signal indication is located.
   (B)   A steady yellow “X”. A road user is to prepare to vacate the lane over
which the signal indication is located because a lane control change is being
made to a steady red “X” signal indication.
   (C)   A steady white two-way left-turn arrow. A road user is permitted to
use a lane over which the signal indication is located for a left turn, but not
for through travel, with the understanding that common use of the lane by
oncoming road users for left turns also is permitted.
   (D)   A steady white one-way left-turn arrow. A road user is permitted to
use a lane over which the signal indication is located for a left turn, without
opposing turns in the same lane, but not for through travel.
   (E)   A steady red “X”. A road user is not permitted to use the lane over
which the signal indication is located and that this signal indication shall
modify accordingly the meaning of other traffic controls present.
(R.C. § 4511.131)
§ 70.23  AMBIGUOUS OR NONWORKING TRAFFIC SIGNALS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle who approaches an intersection where traffic
is controlled by traffic- control signals shall do all of the following, if the
signal facing the driver either exhibits no colored lights or colored lighted
arrows or exhibits a combination of such lights or arrows that fails to clearly
indicate the assignment of right-of-way:
      (1)   Stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, stop before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or, if none, stop
before entering the intersection;
      (2)   Yield the right-of-way to all vehicles in the intersection or
approaching on an intersecting road, if the vehicles will constitute an
immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the
intersection or junction of roadways;
      (3)   Exercise ordinary care while proceeding through the intersection.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.132)
§ 70.24  PEDESTRIAN-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian-control signals exhibiting the words “walk” or
“don’t walk,” or the symbol of a walking person or an upraised palm are in
place, these signals shall indicate the following instructions:
   (A)   A steady walking person signal indication, which symbolizes “walk”,
means that a pedestrian facing the signal indication is permitted to start to
cross the roadway in the direction of the signal indication, possibly in
conflict with turning vehicles. The pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to
vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the walking person
signal indication is first shown.
   (B)   A flashing upraised hand signal indication, which symbolizes “don't
walk”, means that a pedestrian shall not start to cross the roadway in the
direction of the signal indication, but that any pedestrian who has already
started to cross on a steady walking person signal indication shall proceed to
the far side of the traveled way of the street or highway, unless otherwise
directed by a traffic control device to proceed only to the median of a divided
highway or only to some other island or pedestrian refuge area.
   (C)   A steady upraised hand signal indication means that a pedestrian shall
not enter the roadway in the direction of the signal indication.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to invalidate the continued
use of pedestrian control signals utilizing the word “wait” if those signals
were installed prior to March 28, 1985.
   (E)   A flashing walking person signal indication has no meaning and shall
not be used.
(R.C. § 4511.14)
§ 70.25  (RESERVED)
§ 70.26  UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS AND SIGNALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall place, maintain, or display upon or in view of
any highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device which purports to
be, is an imitation of, or resembles a traffic-control device or railroad sign
or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, or hides from
view or interferes with the effectiveness of any traffic-control device or any
railroad sign or signal, and no person shall place or maintain, nor shall any
public authority permit, upon any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing
thereon any commercial advertising. This section does not prohibit either the
erection upon private property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful
directional information and of a type that cannot be mistaken for traffic-
control devices, or the erection upon private property of traffic-control
devices by the owner of real property in accordance with R.C. §§ 4511.211 and
4511.432.
      (2)   Every prohibited sign, signal, marking, or device is a public
nuisance, and the authority having jurisdiction over the highway may remove the
same or cause it to be removed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.16)
§ 70.27  ALTERATION, DEFACEMENT, OR REMOVAL PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person, without lawful authority, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly move, deface, damage, destroy, or otherwise improperly
tamper with any traffic-control device, any railroad sign or signal, or any
inscription, shield, or insignia on the device, sign, or signal, or any part of
the device, sign, or signal;
      (2)   Knowingly drive upon or over any freshly applied pavement marking
material on the surface of a roadway while the marking material is in an
undried condition, and is marked by flags, markers, signs, or other devices
intended to protect it;
      (3)   Knowingly move, damage, destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper
with a manhole cover.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A)(1) or (A)(3) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
third degree. If a violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(3) of this section
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If a violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(3) of
this section causes serious physical harm to property that is owned, leased, or
controlled by a state or local authority, the offender is guilty of a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within
one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses,
whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.17)
§ 70.28  UNAUTHORIZED POSSESSION OR SALE OF DEVICES.
   (A)   As used in this section, TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICE means any sign,
traffic-control  signal or other device conforming to and placed or erected in
accordance with the manual adopted under R.C. § 4511.09 by authority of a
public body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating,
warning or guiding traffic, including signs denoting the names of streets and
highways, but does not mean any pavement marking.
   (B)   No individual shall buy or otherwise possess, or sell, a traffic-
control device, except when one of the following applies:
      (1)   In the course of the individual’s employment by the state or a
local authority for the express or implied purpose of manufacturing, providing,
erecting, moving or removing such a traffic-control device;
      (2)   In the course of the individual’s employment by any manufacturer of
traffic-control devices other than a state or local authority;
      (3)   For the purpose of demonstrating the design and function of a
traffic-control device to state or local officials;
      (4)   When the traffic-control device has been purchased from the state
or a local authority at a sale of property that is no longer needed or is unfit
for use; or
      (5)   When the traffic-control device has been properly purchased from a
manufacturer for use on private property and the person possessing the device
has a sales receipt for the device or other acknowledgment of sale issued by
the manufacturer.
   (C)   This section does not preclude, and shall not be construed as
precluding, prosecution for theft in violation of R.C. § 2913.02, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or for receiving stolen property
in violation of R.C. § 2913.51, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(R.C. § 4511.18)
§ 70.29  STREET COMMISSIONER TO PLACE TRAFFIC SIGNS.
   The Street Commissioner is authorized and directed to have suitable signs
made and posted on the various public streets within the municipal boundaries,
advising operators of motor vehicles of the restrictions and requirements set
forth in this title as required by law.
§ 70.30  SIGNAL PREEMPTION DEVICES; PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall possess a portable signal preemption device.
      (2)   No person shall use a portable signal preemption device to affect
the operation of a traffic- control device.
   (B)   Division (A)(1) of this section does not apply to any of the following
persons and division (A)(2) of this section does not apply to any of the
following persons when responding to an emergency call:
      (1)   A peace officer, as defined in R.C. § 109.17(A)(1), (A)(12), (A)
(14), or (A)(19);
      (2)   A state highway patrol officer;
      (3)   A person while occupying a public safety vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 4511.01(E)(1), (E)(3), or (E)(4).
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   As used in this section, PORTABLE SIGNAL PREEMPTION DEVICE means a
device that, if activated by a person, is capable of changing a traffic-control
signal to green out of sequence.
(R.C. § 4511.031)
§ 70.31  TRAFFIC LAW PHOTO-MONITORING DEVICES.
   (A)   As used in this section, TRAFFIC LAW PHOTO-MONITORING DEVICE means an
electronic system consisting of a photographic, video, or electronic camera and
a means of sensing the presence of a motor vehicle that automatically produces
photographs, videotape, or digital images of the vehicle or its license plate.
   (B)   (1)   The municipality shall not use traffic law photo-monitoring
devices to enforce any traffic law until after it has erected signs on every
highway that is not a freeway that is part of the state highway system and that
enters the municipality. The signs shall inform inbound traffic that the
municipality utilizes traffic law photo-monitoring devices to enforce traffic
laws. The signs shall be erected within the first 300 feet of the boundary of
the municipality or, if the signs cannot be located within the first 300 feet
of the boundary of the municipality, as close to that distance as possible,
provided that if a particular highway enters and exits the territory of the
municipality multiple times, the municipality shall erect the signs as required
by this division at the locations in each direction of travel where inbound
traffic on the highway first enters the territory of the municipality and is
not required to erect additional signs along such highway each time the highway
reenters the territory of the municipality. The municipality is responsible for
all costs associated with the erection, maintenance, and replacement, if
necessary, of the signs. All signs erected under this division shall conform in
size, color, location, and content to standards contained in the manual adopted
by the Department of Transportation pursuant to R.C. § 4511.09 and shall remain
in place for as long as the municipality utilizes traffic law photo-monitoring
devices to enforce any traffic law. Any ticket, citation, or summons issued by
or on behalf of the municipality for any traffic law violation based upon
evidence gathered by a traffic law photo-monitoring device after March 12,
2009, but before the signs have been erected, is invalid; provided that no
ticket, citation, or summons is invalid if the municipality is in substantial
compliance with the requirement of this division to erect the signs.
      (2)   The municipality is deemed to be in substantial compliance with the
requirement of division (B)(1) of this section to erect the advisory signs if
the municipality does both of the following:
         (a)   First erects all signs as required by division (B)(1) of this
section and subsequently maintains and replaces the signs as needed so that at
all times at least 90% of the required signs are in place and functional;
         (b)   Annually documents and upon request certifies its compliance
with division (B)(2)(a) of this section.
   (C)   If the municipality uses traffic law photo- monitoring devices to
enforce any traffic law at an intersection where traffic is controlled by
traffic control signals that exhibit different colored lights or colored
lighted arrows, the municipality shall time the operation of the yellow lights
and yellow arrows of those traffic control signals so that the steady yellow
indication exceeds by one second the minimum duration for yellow indicators at
similar intersections as established by the provisions of the manual adopted by
the Department of Transportation under R.C. § 4511.09.
(R.C. § 4511.094)
§ 70.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor or minor
misdemeanor shall be sentenced in accordance with §
130.99(B) through (G).
(Am. Ord. 03-05, passed 1-12-2005)
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of this traffic code for which no
penalty otherwise is provided in the section violated is guilty of one of the
following:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this
section, a minor misdemeanor;
      (2)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
      (3)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more predicate motor vehicle or
traffic offenses, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.99) 
Cross-reference:
   Electronically monitored house arrest, see §
39.03
   Imposing sentence for misdemeanor, see §
130.18
   Modification of sentence; community based correctional program, see §
130.20
   Multiple sentences, see §
130.19
Statutory reference:
   Electronically monitored house arrest, detention, and early release, see
R.C. § 2929.23
   Reimbursement for costs of confinement, see R.C. §§ 2929.36 et seq.
   Where imprisoned related to offense, see R.C. § 2929.221
CHAPTER 71:  LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
Motor Vehicle Licensing
   
71.01   Display of license plates or validation stickers; registration
   
71.02   Improper use of noncommercial motor vehicle
   
71.03   Operating motor vehicle ordered immobilized; forfeiture
   
71.04   Operation or sale without certificate of title
   
71.05   Display of certificate of registration
   
71.06   Use of unauthorized plates
   
71.07   Operating without dealer or manufacturer license plates
Driver’s Licenses
   
71.10   Prohibited acts
   
71.11   Permitting minor to operate vehicle prohibited; temporary instruction
permit; probationary license
   
71.12   License required as driver or commercial driver on public or private
property; nonresident exemption
   
71.13   Employment of a minor to operate a taxicab prohibited
   
71.14   Restriction against owner lending vehicle for use of another
   
71.15   Suspension of driver’s license; license suspended by court of record
   
71.16   Display of license
   
71.17   Prohibition against false statements
   
71.18   Driving under suspension or in violation of license restriction
   
71.19   Operating motor vehicle or motorcycle without valid license
   
71.20   Driving under OVI suspension
   
71.21   Driving under financial responsibility law suspension or cancellation;
driving under a nonpayment of judgment suspension
   
71.22   Failure to reinstate license
Commercial Driver’s Licenses
   
71.25   Definitions
   
71.26   Exclusions
   
71.27   Prohibited acts
   
71.28   Prerequisites to operation of commercial motor vehicle
   
71.29   Physical qualification to operate commercial motor vehicles
   
71.30   Criminal offenses
   
71.31   Application of federal regulations
   
71.32   Employment of drivers of commercial vehicles
   
71.33   Use of actual gross weight in lieu of rating
Motor Vehicle License Tax
   
71.45   Levy of tax; rate
   
71.46   Definition
   
71.47   Application and effect
   
71.48   Payment; purpose of funds
   
71.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Commercial driver’s licenses, see R.C. Chapter 4506
   Driver’s licenses, see R.C. Chapter 4507
   Motor vehicle licensing, see R.C. Chapter 4504
   Municipal motor vehicle license tax, see R.C. § 4504.06
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
   Point system for motor vehicle violations, see R.C. § 4507.021
   Proof of financial responsibility required; civil penalties; peace officers
as agents of Registrar of Motor Vehicles; procedures and rules, see R.C. §§
4509.101 et seq.
   Suspension and revocation of driver’s licenses, see R.C. §§ 4507.16 et seq.
   Suspension of driver’s licenses; municipal power to suspend for a period not
to exceed time permitted or required by state law, see R.C. § 4507.1611
MOTOR VEHICLE LICENSING
§ 71.01  DISPLAY OF LICENSE PLATES OR VALIDATION STICKERS; REGISTRATION.
   (A)   (1)   No person who is the owner or operator of a motor vehicle shall
fail to display in plain view on the front and rear of the motor vehicle the
distinctive number and registration mark, including any county identification
sticker and any validation sticker issued under R.C. §§ 4503.19 and 4503.191,
furnished by the Director of Public Safety, except that a manufacturer of motor
vehicles or dealer therein, the holder of an in-transit permit, and the owner
or operator of a motorcycle, motorized bicycle, manufactured home, mobile home,
trailer, or semitrailer shall display on the rear only. A motor vehicle that is
issued two license plates shall display the validation sticker only on the rear
license plate, except that a commercial tractor that does not receive an
apportioned license plate under the international registration plan shall
display the validation sticker on the front of the commercial tractor. An
apportioned vehicle receiving an apportioned license plate under the
international registration plan shall display the license plate only on the
front of a commercial tractor and on the rear of all other vehicles. All
license plates shall be securely fastened so as not to swing, and shall not be
covered by any material that obstructs their visibility.
      (2)   No person to whom a temporary license placard or windshield sticker
has been issued for the use of a motor vehicle under R.C. § 4503.182, and no
operator of that motor vehicle, shall fail to display the temporary license
placard in plain view from the rear of the vehicle either in the rear window or
on an external rear surface of the motor vehicle, or fail to display the
windshield sticker in plain view on the rear window of the motor vehicle. No
temporary license placard or windshield sticker shall be covered by any
material that obstructs its visibility.
(R.C. § 4503.21(A))
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided by R.C. §§ 4503.103, 4503.173, 4503.41,
4503.43, and 4503.46, no person who is the owner or chauffeur of a motor
vehicle operated or driven upon the public roads or highways shall fail to file
annually the application for registration or to pay the tax therefor.
(R.C. § 4503.11(A))
   (C)   No person shall operate or drive upon the highways of this
municipality a motor vehicle acquired from a former owner who has registered
the motor vehicle, while the motor vehicle displays the distinctive number or
identification mark assigned to it upon its original registration.
(R.C. § 4549.11(A))
   (D)   No person who is the owner of a motor vehicle and a resident of this
state shall operate or drive the motor vehicle upon the highways of this
municipality while it displays a distinctive number or identification mark
issued by or under the authority of another state, without complying with the
laws of this state relating to the registration and identification of motor
vehicles.
(R.C. § 4549.12(A))
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4503.21(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4503.11(D))
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of
operation of a motor vehicle bearing license plates or an identification mark
issued to another, a minor misdemeanor on a first offense and a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.11(B))
      (4)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of illegal
operation by a resident of this state of a motor vehicle bearing the
distinctive number or identification mark issued by a foreign jurisdiction, a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4549.12(B))
§ 71.02  IMPROPER USE OF NONCOMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall use a motor vehicle registered as a noncommercial
motor vehicle for other than the purposes set forth in R.C. § 4501.01.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 4503.05)
§ 71.03  OPERATING MOTOR VEHICLE ORDERED IMMOBILIZED; FORFEITURE.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or permit the operation of a
motor vehicle upon any public or private property used by the public for
vehicular travel or parking knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that
the motor vehicle has been ordered immobilized pursuant to an immobilization
order issued under R.C. § 4503.233.
   (B)   A motor vehicle that is operated by a person during a violation of
division (A) of this section shall be criminally forfeited to the state in
accordance with the procedures contained in R.C. § 4503.234.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 4503.236)
§ 71.04  OPERATION OR SALE WITHOUT CERTIFICATE OF TITLE.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate in this municipality a motor vehicle for which a
certificate of title is required without having that certificate in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 4505 or, if a physical certificate of title has not been
issued for a motor vehicle, operate the motor vehicle in this state knowing
that the ownership information relating to the vehicle has not been entered
into the automated title processing system by a Clerk of a Court of Common
Pleas;
      (2)   Display or display for sale or sell as a dealer or acting on behalf
of a dealer, a motor vehicle without having obtained a manufacturer’s or
importer’s certificate, a certificate of title, or an assignment of a
certificate of title for it as provided in R.C. Chapter 4505;
      (3)   Fail to surrender any certificate of title or any certificate of
registration or license plates upon cancellation of the same by the Registrar
of Motor Vehicles and notice of the cancellation as prescribed in R.C. Chapter
4505;
      (4)   Fail to surrender the certificate of title to a Clerk of a Court of
Common Pleas as provided in R.C. Chapter 4505 in case of the destruction or
dismantling or change of a motor vehicle in such respect that it is not the
motor vehicle described in the certificate of title;
      (5)   Violate any rules adopted pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4505;
      (6)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapters 4505 and 4517, sell
at wholesale a motor vehicle, ownership of which is not evidenced by an Ohio
certificate of title, or the current certificate of title issued for the motor
vehicle, or the manufacturer’s certificate of origin, and all title assignments
that evidence the seller’s ownership of the motor vehicle, and an odometer
disclosure statement that complies with R.C. § 4505.06 and subchapter IV of the
“Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act,” 86 Stat. 961 (1972), 15
U.S.C. § 1981;
      (7)   Operate in this state a motor vehicle knowing that the certificate
of title to the vehicle or ownership of the vehicle as otherwise reflected in
the automated title processing system has been canceled.
   (B)   This section does not apply to persons engaged in the business of
warehousing or transporting motor vehicles for the purpose of salvage
disposition.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $200,
imprisoned not more than 90 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4505.18)
§ 71.05  DISPLAY OF CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   (A)   (1)   The operator of a COMMERCIAL CAR, as defined in R.C. § 4501.01,
when the commercial car is required to be registered under state law, shall,
when operating the commercial car, trailer, or semitrailer on the streets,
roads, or highways of this municipality display inside or on the vehicle the
certificate of registration for the commercial car, trailer, or semitrailer
provided for in R.C. § 4503.19, or shall carry the certificate on the
operator’s person and display it upon the demand of any peace officer.
      (2)   Every person operating a commercial car, trailer, or semitrailer
required to be registered under state law shall permit the inspection of the
certificate of registration upon demand of any peace officer.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
commercial car certificate of registration violation, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4549.18)
§ 71.06  USE OF UNAUTHORIZED PLATES.
   (A)   No person shall operate or drive a motor vehicle upon the public roads
and highways in this municipality if it displays a license plate or a
distinctive number or identification mark that meets any of the following
criteria:
      (1)   It is fictitious;
      (2)   It is a counterfeit or an unlawfully made copy of any distinctive
number or identification mark;
      (3)   It belongs to another motor vehicle, provided that this section
does not apply to a motor vehicle that is operated on the public roads and
highways in this municipality when the motor vehicle displays license plates
that originally were issued for a motor vehicle that previously was owned by
the same person who owns the motor vehicle that is operated on the public roads
and highways in this municipality during the 30-day period described in R.C. §
4503.12(A)(4).
   (B)   A person who fails to comply with the transfer of registration
provisions of R.C. § 4503.12 and is charged with a violation of that section
shall not be charged with a violation of this section.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)(3) of this section is
guilty of operating a motor vehicle bearing an invalid license plate or
identification mark, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and
a misdemeanor of the third degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.08)
§ 71.07  OPERATING WITHOUT DEALER OR MANUFACTURER LICENSE PLATES.
   (A)   No person shall operate or cause to be operated upon a public road or
highway a motor vehicle of a manufacturer or dealer unless the vehicle carries
and displays two placards, except as provided ln R.C. § 4503.21, issued by the
Director of Public Safety that bear the registration number of its manufacturer
or dealer.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of illegal
operation of a manufacturer’s or dealer’s motor vehicle, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4549.10)
DRIVER’S LICENSES
§ 71.10  PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Display or cause or permit to be displayed, or possess any
identification card, driver’s or commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, or commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit
knowing the same to be fictitious, or to have been canceled, suspended, or
altered;
      (2)   Lend to a person not entitled thereto, or knowingly permit a person
not entitled thereto to use any identification card, driver’s or commercial
driver’s license, temporary instruction permit or commercial driver’s license
temporary instruction permit issued to the person so lending or permitting the
use thereof;
      (3)   Display, or represent as one’s own, any identification card,
driver’s or commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or
commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit not issued to the
person so displaying the same;
      (4)   Fail to surrender to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, upon the
Registrar’s demand, any identification card, driver’s or commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit that has been suspended or canceled;
      (5)   In any application for an identification card, driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit or any renewal or duplicate
thereof, knowingly conceal a material fact or present any physician’s statement
required under R.C. § 4507.08 or 4507.081 when knowing the same to be false or
fictitious.
   (B)   Whoever violates any division of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.30)
Statutory reference:
   Use of license to violate liquor laws; suspension; procedures, see R.C. §
4510.33
§ 71.11  PERMITTING MINOR TO OPERATE VEHICLE PROHIBITED; TEMPORARY INSTRUCTION
PERMIT; PROBATIONARY LICENSE.
   (A)   No person shall cause or knowingly permit any minor to drive a motor
vehicle upon a highway as an operator, unless the minor has first obtained a
license or permit to drive a motor vehicle under R.C. Chapter 4507.
(R.C. § 4507.31(A))
   (B)   (1)   No holder of a temporary instruction permit issued under R.C. §
4507.05(A) shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or
private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking
in violation of the conditions established under R.C. § 4507.05(A).
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (B)(3)(b) of this section, no
holder of a temporary instruction permit that is issued under R.C. § 4507.05(A)
and that is issued on or after July 1, 1998, and who has not attained the age
of 18 years, shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or
private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking
between the hours of 12:00 a.m. midnight and 6:00 a.m.
         (b)   The holder of a temporary instruction permit issued under R.C. §
4507.05(A) on or after July 1, 1998, who has not attained the age of 18 years,
may operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or private property
used by the public for purposed of vehicular travel or parking between the
hours of 12:00 a.m. midnight and 6:00 a.m. if, at the time of such operation,
the holder is accompanied by the holder’s parent, guardian, or custodian, and
the parent, guardian, or custodian holds a current valid driver’s or commercial
driver’s license issued by this state, is actually occupying a seat beside the
permit holder, and does not have a prohibited concentration of alcohol in the
whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine as provided in R.C. §
4511.19(A).
(R.C. § 4507.05(F))
   (C)   (1)   (a)   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has not
attained the age of 17 years shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or
any public or private property used by the public for vehicular travel or
parking between the hours of 12:00 a.m. midnight and 6:00 a.m. unless the
holder is accompanied by the holder’s parent or guardian.
         (b)   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has attained
the age of 17 years but has not attained the age of 18 years shall operate a
motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or private property used by the
public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking between the hours of 1:00
a.m. and 5:00 a.m. unless the holder is accompanied by the holder’s parent or
guardian.
      (2)   (a)   Subject to division (E)(1)(a) of this section, division (C)
(1)(a) of this section does not apply to the holder of a probationary driver’s
license who is traveling to or from work between the hours of midnight and 6:00
a.m. and has in the holder’s immediate possession written documentation from
the holder’s employer.
         (b)   Division (C)(1)(b) of this section does not apply to the holder
of a probationary driver’s license who is traveling to or from work between the
hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. and has in the holder’s immediate possession
written documentation from the holder’s employer.
      (3)   An employer is not liable in damages in a civil action for any
injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly arises from, or is
related to, the fact that the employer provided an employee who is the holder
of a probationary driver’s license with the written documentation described in
division (C)(2) of this section. The Registrar of Motor Vehicles has available
at no cost a form to serve as the written documentation described in division
(C)(2) of this section, and employers and holders of probationary driver’s
licenses may utilize that form or may choose to utilize any other written
documentation to meet the requirements of that division.
      (4)   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who is less than 17
years of age shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or
private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking
with more than one person who is not a family member occupying the vehicle
unless the probationary license holder is accompanied by the probationary
license holder’s parent, guardian, or custodian.
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a violation of division (C)(1)(a) or
(C)(1)(b) of this section if, at the time of the violation, the holder of the
probationary driver’s license was traveling to or from an official function
sponsored by the school the holder attends, or an emergency existed that
required the holder to operate a motor vehicle in violation of division (C)(1)
(a) or (C)(1)(b) of this section, or the holder was an emancipated minor.
   (E)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (E)(2) of this
section, if a person is issued a probationary driver’s license prior to
attaining the age of 17 years and the person pleads guilty to, is convicted of,
or is adjudicated in juvenile court of having committed a moving violation
during the six- month period commencing on the date on which the person is
issued the probationary driver’s license, the holder must be accompanied by the
holder’s parent or guardian whenever the holder is operating a motor vehicle
upon a highway or any public or private property used by the public for
purposes of vehicular travel or parking during whichever of the following time
periods applies:
            1.   If, on the date the holder of the probationary driver’s
license pleads guilty to, is convicted of, or is adjudicated in juvenile court
of having committed the moving violation, the holder has not attained the age
of 16.5 years, during the six- month period commencing on that date;
            2.   If, on the date the holder pleads guilty to, is convicted of,
or is adjudicated in juvenile court of having committed the moving violation,
the holder has attained the age of 16.5 years but not 17 years, until the
person attains the age of 17 years.
         (b)   If the holder of a probationary driver’s license commits a
moving violation during the six-month period after the person is issued the
probationary driver’s license and before the person attains the age of 17 years
and on the date the person pleads guilty to, is convicted of, or is adjudicated
in juvenile court of having committed the moving violation the person has
attained the age of 17 years, or if the person commits the moving violation
during the six-month period after the person is issued the probationary
driver’s license and after the person attains the age of 17 years, the holder
is not subject to the restriction described in divisions (E)(1)(a)1. and (E)(1)
(a)2. of this section unless the court or juvenile court imposes such a
restriction upon the holder.
      (2)   Any person who is subject to the operating restrictions established
under division (E)(1) of this section as a result of a first moving violation
may petition the court for occupational or educational driving privileges
without being accompanied by the holder’s parent or guardian during the period
of time specified in that division. The court may grant the person such driving
privileges if the court finds reasonable cause to believe that the restrictions
established in division (E)(1) will seriously affect the person’s ability to
continue in employment or educational training or will cause undue hardship on
the license holder or a family member of the license holder. In granting the
driving privileges, the court shall specify the purposes, times, and places of
the privileges and shall issue the person appropriate forms setting forth the
privileges granted. Occupational or educational driving privileges under this
division shall not be granted to the same person more than once. If a person is
convicted of, pleads guilty to, or is adjudicated in juvenile court of having
committed a second or subsequent moving violation, any driving privileges
previously granted under this division are terminated upon the subsequent
conviction, plea, or adjudication.
      (3)   No person shall violate division (E)(1)(a) of this section.
   (F)   No holder of a probationary license shall operate a motor vehicle upon
a highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking unless the total number of occupants of the vehicle
does not exceed the total number of occupant restraining devices originally
installed in the motor vehicle by its manufacturer, and each occupant of the
vehicle is wearing all of the available elements of a properly adjusted
occupant restraining device.
   (G)   A restricted license may be issued to a person who is 14 or 15 years
of age under proof of hardship satisfactory to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles.
   (H)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether each occupant of the motor vehicle is wearing all of the
available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device as
required by division (F) of this section, or for the sole purpose of issuing a
ticket, citation or summons if that requirement has been or is being violated,
or for causing the arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for a
violation of that requirement.
   (I)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of division (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) of this
section has been or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a
ticket, citation or summons for such a violation or for causing the arrest or
commencing a prosecution of a person for such a violation.
   (J)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
      FAMILY MEMBER. Of a probationary license holder, includes any of the
following:
         (a)   A spouse;
         (b)   A child or stepchild;
         (c)   A parent, stepparent, grandparent, or parent-in-law;
         (d)   An aunt or uncle;
         (e)   A sibling, whether of the whole or half blood or by adoption, a
brother-in-law, or a sister-in-law;
         (f)   A son or daughter of the probationary license holder’s
stepparent if the stepparent has not adopted the probationary license holder;
         (g)   An eligible adult, as defined in R.C. § 4507.05.
      MOVING VIOLATION. Means any violation of any statute or ordinance that
regulates the operation of vehicles on the highways or streets. MOVING
VIOLATION does not include a violation of R.C. § 4513.263 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, or a violation of any statute or ordinance
regulating pedestrians or the parking of vehicles, vehicle size or load
limitations, vehicle fitness requirements, or vehicle registration.
      OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4513.263.
(R.C. § 4507.071(B) - (I))
   (K)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.31(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates divisions (B), (C)(1), (C)(4), (E)(3), or (F) of
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. §§ 4507.05(I), 4507.071(J))
§ 71.12  LICENSE REQUIRED AS DRIVER OR COMMERCIAL DRIVER ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE
PROPERTY; NONRESIDENT EXEMPTION.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   No person shall permit the operation of a motor vehicle
upon any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking, knowing the operator does not have a valid
driver’s license issued to the operator by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles
under R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid commercial driver’s license issued under
R.C. Chapter 4506.  Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever
violates this division is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
         (b)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this
section or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   No person shall receive a driver’s license, or a motorcycle
operator’s endorsement of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license, unless and
until the person surrenders to the Registrar all valid licenses issued to the
person by another jurisdiction recognized by this state. The Registrar shall
report the surrender of a license to the issuing authority, together with
information that a license is now issued in this state. The Registrar shall
destroy any such license that is not returned to the issuing authority. No
person shall be permitted to have more than one valid license at any time.
(R.C. § 4507.02(A))
   (B)   (1)   No person shall be required to obtain a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license for the purpose of temporarily driving, operating, drawing,
moving, or propelling a road roller or road machinery upon a street or highway.
      (2)   No person shall be required to obtain a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license for the purpose of temporarily driving, operating, drawing,
moving, or propelling any agricultural tractor or implement of husbandry upon a
street or highway at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less.
      (3)   No person shall drive, operate, draw, move, or propel any
agricultural tractor or implement of husbandry upon a street or highway at a
speed greater than 25 miles per hour unless the person has a current, valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license.
      (4)   No person having a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license
shall be required to have a motorcycle operator’s endorsement to operate a
motorcycle having three wheels with a motor of not more than 50 cubic
centimeters piston displacement.
      (5)   Every person on active duty in the military or naval forces of the
United States, when furnished with a driver’s permit and when operating an
official motor vehicle in connection with such duty, is exempt from the license
requirements of R.C. Chapters 4506 and 4507. Every person on active duty in the
military or naval forces of the United States or in service with the Peace
Corps, volunteers in service to America, or the foreign service of the United
States, is exempt from the license requirements of such sections for the period
of the person’s active duty or service and for six months thereafter, provided
such person was a licensee under such sections at the time the person commenced
the person's active duty or service. This section does not prevent such a
person or the person's spouse or dependent from making an application, as
provided in R.C. § 4507.10(C), for the renewal of a driver’s license or
motorcycle operator’s endorsement or as provided in R.C. § 4506.14 for the
renewal of a commercial driver’s license during the period of the person’s
active duty or service.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (B)(3) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.03)
   (C)   Nonresidents, permitted to drive upon the highways of their own state,
may operate any motor vehicle upon any highway in this state without
examination or license under R.C. §§ 4507.01 through 4507.39, inclusive, upon
condition that such nonresident may be required at any time or place to prove
lawful possession or their right to operate such motor vehicle, and to
establish proper identity.
(R.C. § 4507.04)
§ 71.13  EMPLOYMENT OF A MINOR TO OPERATE A TAXICAB PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the definition of CHAUFFEUR in R.C. § 4501.01, no
person shall employ any minor for the purpose of operating a taxicab.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4507.321)
§ 71.14  RESTRICTION AGAINST OWNER LENDING VEHICLE FOR USE OF ANOTHER.
   (A)   No person shall permit a motor vehicle owned by the person or under
the person’s control to be driven by another if any of the following apply:
      (1)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person does not have a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit or valid nonresident driving privileges;
      (2)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privileges have been suspended or canceled under R.C. Chapter 4510 or
any other provision of the Revised Code;
      (3)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s act of driving the motor vehicle would violate any prohibition
contained in R.C. Chapter 4509;
      (4)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s act of driving would violate R.C. § 4511.19 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (5)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
vehicle is the subject of an immobilization waiver order issued under R.C. §
4503.235 and the other person is prohibited from operating the vehicle under
that order.
   (B)   Without limiting or precluding the consideration of any other evidence
in determining whether a violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
or (A)(5) of this section has occurred, it shall be prima facie evidence that
the offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the operator of the
motor vehicle owned by the offender or under the offender’s control is in a
category described in division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of
this section if any of the following applies:
      (1)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (A)(1), (A)(3), or (A)(5) of this section, the offender and the
operator of the motor vehicle reside in the same household and are related by
consanguinity or affinity;
      (2)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (A)(2) of this section, the offender and the operator of the motor
vehicle reside in the same household, and the offender knows or has reasonable
cause to believe that the operator has been charged with or convicted of any
violation of law or ordinance, or has committed any other act or omission, that
would or could result in the suspension or cancellation of the operator’s
license, permit, or privilege;
      (3)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (A)(4) of this section, the offender and the operator of the motor
vehicle occupied the motor vehicle together at the time of the offense.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of wrongful entrustment of a
motor vehicle, and shall be punished as provided in divisions (C) to (H) of
this section.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, whoever
violates division (A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)(3) of this section is guilty of an
unclassified misdemeanor. When the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the
offender shall be sentenced pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   (a)   If, within three years of a violation of division (A)(1), (A)
(2), or (A)(3) of this section, the offender previously has pleaded guilty to
or been convicted of two or more violations of division (A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)
(3) of this section, R.C. § 4511.203(A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)(3), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) or (A)(5) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   For any violation of this section, in addition to the penalties
imposed under this Code or R.C. Chapter 2929, the court may impose a class
seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7), and, if
the vehicle involved in the offense is registered in the name of the offender,
the court may order one of the following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3)(b) or (C)(3)(c)
of this section, the court may order, for 30 days, the immobilization of the
vehicle involved in the offense and the impoundment of that vehicle’s license
plates. If issued, the order shall be issued and enforced under R.C. §
4503.233.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one violation of this section, R.C. § 4511.203, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the court may order, for 60 days, the
immobilization of the vehicle involved in the offense and the impoundment of
that vehicle’s license plates. If issued, the order shall be issued and
enforced under R.C. § 4503.233.
         (c)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section, R.C. § 4511.203, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court may order the criminal
forfeiture to the state of the vehicle involved in the offense. If issued, the
order shall be issued and enforced under R.C. § 4503.234.
      (4)   If title to a motor vehicle that is subject to an order for
criminal forfeiture under division (C)(3)(c) of this section is assigned or
transferred and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, in addition to or
independent of any other penalty established by law, the court may fine the
offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of the National
Automobile Dealers Association. The proceeds from any fine imposed under this
division shall be distributed in accordance with R.C. § 4503.234(C)(2).
   (D)   If a court orders the criminal forfeiture of a vehicle under division
(C)(3)(a) or (C)(3)(b) of this section, the court shall not release the vehicle
from the immobilization before the termination of the period of immobilization
ordered unless the court is presented with current proof of financial
responsibility with respect to that vehicle.
   (E)   If a court orders the criminal forfeiture of a vehicle under division
(C)(3)(c) of this section, upon receipt of the order from the court, neither
the Registrar of Motor Vehicles nor any deputy registrar shall accept any
application for the registration or transfer of registration of any motor
vehicle owned or leased by the person named in the order. The period of denial
shall be five years after the date the order is issued, unless, during that
five-year period, the court with jurisdiction of the offense that resulted in
the order terminates the forfeiture and notifies the Registrar of the
termination. If the court terminates the forfeiture and notifies the Registrar,
the Registrar shall take all necessary measures to permit the person to
register a vehicle owned or leased by the person or to transfer the
registration of the vehicle.
   (F)   This section does not apply to motor vehicle rental dealers or motor
vehicle leasing dealers, as defined in R.C. § 4549.65.
   (G)   Evidence of a conviction of, plea of guilty to, or adjudication as a
delinquent child for a violation of this section shall not be admissible as
evidence in any civil action that involves the offender or delinquent child who
is the subject of the conviction, plea, or adjudication and that arises from
the wrongful entrustment of a motor vehicle.
   (H)   For purposes of this section, a vehicle is owned by a person if, at
the time of a violation of this section, the vehicle is registered in the
person’s name.
(R.C. § 4511.203)
§ 71.15  SUSPENSION OF DRIVER’S LICENSE; LICENSE SUSPENDED BY COURT OF RECORD.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 4510.07 or in any other
provision of the Revised Code, whenever an offender is convicted of or pleads
guilty to a violation of any provision of this code that is substantially
equivalent to a provision of the Revised Code, and a court is permitted or
required to suspend a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit for a violation of that provision, a court, in addition to any other
penalties authorized by law, may suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privileges for the period
of time the court determines appropriate, but the period of suspension imposed
for the violation of the provision of this code shall not exceed the period of
suspension that is permitted or required to be imposed for the violation of the
provision of the Revised Code to which the provision of this code is
substantially equivalent.
(R.C. § 4510.05)
   (B)   Whenever a person is found guilty under the laws of this state or any
ordinance of any political subdivision of this state, of operating a motor
vehicle in violation of any such law or ordinance relating to reckless
operation, the trial court of any court of record, in addition to or
independent of all other penalties provided by law, may impose a class five
suspension of the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit
or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02
(A)(5).
   (C)   Suspension of a commercial driver’s license under this section shall
be concurrent with any period of suspension disqualification under R.C. §
3123.58 or 4506.16. No person who is disqualified for life from holding a
commercial driver’s license under R.C. § 4506.16 shall be issued a driver’s
license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period for which the commercial
driver’s license was suspended under this section, and no person whose
commercial driver’s license is suspended under this section shall be issued a
driver’s license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period of the suspension.
(R.C. § 4510.15)
§ 71.16  DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The operator of a motor vehicle shall display the operator’s driver’s
license, or furnish satisfactory proof that the operator has a driver’s
license, upon demand of any peace officer or of any person damaged or injured
in any collision in which the licensee may be involved. When a demand is
properly made, and the operator has the operator’s driver’s license on or about
the operator’s person, the operator shall not refuse to display the license. A
person’s failure to furnish satisfactory evidence that the person is licensed
under R.C. Chapter 4507 when the person does not have the person’s license on
or about the person’s person shall be prima facie evidence of the person’s not
having obtained a driver’s license.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, whoever
violates this section is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section,
R.C. § 4507.35, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense
is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.35)
§ 71.17  PROHIBITION AGAINST FALSE STATEMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make a false statement to any matter or
thing required by the provisions of this traffic code.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4507.36)
§ 71.18  DRIVING UNDER SUSPENSION OR IN VIOLATION OF LICENSE RESTRICTION.
   (A)   Driving under suspension or in violation of license restriction.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2) of this section, division (B)
of this section, §
71.21 and in R.C. §§ 4510.111 and 4510.16, no person whose driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege has
been suspended under any provision of the Ohio Revised Code, other than R.C.
Chapter 4509, or under any applicable law in any other jurisdiction in which
the person’s license or permit was issued shall operate any motor vehicle upon
the public roads and highways or upon any public or private property used by
the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking within this municipality
during the period of suspension unless the person is granted limited driving
privileges and is operating the vehicle in accordance with the terms of the
limited driving privileges.
      (2)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking in this municipality in violation of any restriction of the person’s
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit imposed under R.C. § 4506.10
(D) or 4507.14.
      (3)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section may be admitted into
evidence as prima facie evidence that the license of the person was under
suspension at the time of the alleged violation of division (A)(1) of this
section or the person operated a motor vehicle in violation of a restriction at
the time of the alleged violation of division (A)(2) of this section. The
person charged with a violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section
may offer evidence to rebut this prima facie evidence.
      (4)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. The court may impose upon the
offender a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary
license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. §
4510.02(A)(7).
         (b)   1.   Except as provided in division (A)(4)(b)2. or (A)(4)(b)3.
of this section, the court, in addition to any other penalty that it imposes on
the offender and if the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to one violation of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111
or 4510.16, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court, in
addition to or independent of any other sentence that it imposes upon the
offender, may order the immobilization of the vehicle involved in the offense
for 30 days and the impoundment of that vehicle’s license plates for 30 days in
accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
            2.   If the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to two violations of this section, or any combination of
two violations of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111 or 4510.16, or of a
substantially similar municipal ordinance, the court, in addition to any other
sentence that it imposes on the offender, may order the immobilization of the
vehicle involved in the offense for 60 days and the impoundment of that
vehicle’s license plates for 60 days in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
            3.   If the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of this section, or any
combination of three or more violations of this section or R.C. § 4510.11,
4510.111 or 4510.16, or of a substantially similar municipal ordinance, the
court, in addition to any other sentence that it imposes on the offender, may
order the criminal forfeiture of the vehicle involved in the offense to the
state.
      (5)   Any order for immobilization and impoundment under this section
shall be issued and enforced under R.C. §§ 4503.233 and 4507.02, as applicable.
The court shall not release a vehicle from immobilization ordered under this
section unless the court is presented with current proof of financial
responsibility with respect to that vehicle.
      (6)   Any order of criminal forfeiture under this section shall be issued
and enforced under R.C. § 4503.234. Upon receipt of the copy of the order from
the court, neither the Registrar of Motor Vehicles nor a deputy registrar shall
accept any application for the registration or transfer of registration of any
motor vehicle owned or leased by the person named in the declaration of
forfeiture. The period of registration denial shall be five years after the
date of the order, unless, during that period, the court having jurisdiction of
the offense that led to the order terminates the forfeiture and notifies the
Registrar of the termination. The Registrar then shall take necessary measures
to permit the person to register a vehicle owned or leased by the person or to
transfer registration of the vehicle.
      (7)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense for which the offender is sentenced under this section.
(R.C. § 4510.11)
   (B)   Driving under suspension in violation of other provisions.
      (1)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking in this municipality whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license
has been suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2151.354, 2151.87, 2935.27, 3123.58,
4301.99, 4510.032, 4510.22, or 4510.33, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
      (2)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (B)(1) of this section may be admitted into evidence as
prima facie evidence that the license of the person was under suspension at the
time of the alleged violation of division (B)(1) of this section. The person
charged with a violation of division (B)(1) of this section may offer evidence
to rebut this prima facie evidence.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section is guilty of
driving under suspension and shall be punished as provided in division (B)(3)
of this section.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(3)(b) of this
section, the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. The offender shall be
sentenced pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
         (b)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously
was convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of division (B)(1)
of this section, or any combination of two or more violations of division (B)
(1) of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111 or 4510.16, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 4510.111)
   (C)   Repeat traffic offender; point system suspension. Any person whose
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating
privileges are suspended as a repeat traffic offender under R.C. § 4510.037 and
who, during the suspension, operates any motor vehicle upon any public roads
and highways is guilty of driving under a twelve-point suspension, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. The court shall sentence the offender to a
minimum term of three days in jail. No court shall suspend the first three days
of jail time imposed pursuant to this division.
(R.C. § 4510.037(J))
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under division
(A) of this section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a
valid permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
§ 71.19  OPERATING MOTOR VEHICLE OR MOTORCYCLE WITHOUT VALID LICENSE.
   (A)   (1)   No person, except those expressly exempted under R.C. §§
4507.03, 4507.04, and 4507.05, shall operate any motor vehicle upon a public
road or highway or any public or private property used by the public for
purposes of vehicular travel or parking in this municipality unless the person
has a valid driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4507 or a commercial
driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4506.
      (2)   No person, except a person expressly exempted under R.C. §§
4507.03, 4507.04, and 4507.05, shall operate any motorcycle upon a public road
or highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking in this municipality unless the person has a valid
license as a motorcycle operator that was issued upon application by the
registrar of motor vehicles under R.C. Chapter 4507. The license shall be in
the form of an endorsement, as determined by the registrar, upon a driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, if the person has a valid license to operate a
motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle, or in the form of a restricted
license as provided in R.C. § 4507.14, if the person does not have a valid
license to operate a motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle.
   (B)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section may be admitted into
evidence as prima facie evidence that the person did not have either a valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license at the time of the alleged violation of
division (A)(1) of this section or a valid license as a motorcycle operator
either in the form of an endorsement upon a driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or a restricted license at the time of the alleged violation of
division (A)(2) of this section. The person charged with a violation of
division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section may offer evidence to rebut this
prima facie evidence.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of operating a motor vehicle
or motorcycle without a valid license and shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   If the trier of fact finds that the offender never has held a valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license issued by this state or any other
jurisdiction, or, in a case involving the operation of a motorcycle by the
offender, if the offender has never held a valid license as a motorcycle
operator, either in the form of an endorsement upon a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or in the form of a restricted license, except as otherwise
provided in this division, the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case. If the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation of this section or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
      (2)   If the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit
or, in a case involving the operation of a motorcycle by the offender, the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license bearing the motorcycle
endorsement or the offender’s restricted license was expired at the time of the
offense, except as otherwise provided in this division, the offense is a minor
misdemeanor. If within three years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
   (D)   The court shall not impose a license suspension for a first violation
of this section or if more than three years have passed since the offender’s
last violation of R.C. § 4510.12, this section, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
   (E)   If the offender is sentenced under division (C)(2) of this section, if
within three years of the offense the offender previously was convicted of or
pleaded guilty to one or more violations of R.C. § 4510.12, this section, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and if the offender’s license was
expired for more than six months at the time of the offense, the court may
impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial
driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or
nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)
(7).
(R.C. § 4510.12)
§ 71.20  DRIVING UNDER OVI SUSPENSION.
   (A)   No person whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege has been suspended under R.C. § 4511.19,
4511.191, or 4511.196 or under R.C. § 4510.07 for a conviction of a violation
of a municipal OVI ordinance shall operate any motor vehicle upon the public
roads or highways within this municipality during the period of the suspension.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of driving under OVI
suspension. The court shall sentence the offender under R.C. Chapter 2929,
subject to the differences authorized or required by this section.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this
section, driving under OVI suspension is a misdemeanor of the first degree. The
court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         (a)   A mandatory jail term of three consecutive days. The three-day
term shall be imposed, unless, subject to division (C) of this section, the
court instead imposes a sentence of not less than 30 consecutive days of house
arrest with electronic monitoring. A period of house arrest with electronic
monitoring imposed under this division shall not exceed six months. If the
court imposes a mandatory three-day jail term under this division, the court
may impose a jail term in addition to that term, provided that in no case shall
the cumulative jail term imposed for the offense exceed six months;
         (b)   A fine of not less than $250 and not more than $1,000;
         (c)   A license suspension under division (E) of this section;
         (d)   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender’s name, immobilization for 30 days of the
offender’s vehicle and impoundment for 30 days of the identification license
plates of that vehicle. The order for immobilization and impoundment shall be
issued and enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
      (2)   If, within six years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one violation of this section or one
equivalent offense, driving under OVI suspension is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         (a)   A mandatory jail term of 10 consecutive days. Notwithstanding
the jail terms provided in R.C. §§ 2929.21 through 2929.28, the court may
sentence the offender to a longer jail term of not more than one year. The 10-
day mandatory jail term shall be imposed unless, subject to division (C) of
this section, the court instead imposes a sentence of not less than 90
consecutive days of house arrest with electronic monitoring. The period of
house arrest with electronic monitoring shall not exceed one year;
         (b)   Notwithstanding the fines provided for in R.C. Chapter 2929, a
fine of not less than $500 and not more than $2,500;
         (c)   A license suspension under division (E) of this section;
         (d)   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender’s name, immobilization of the offender’s
vehicle for 60 days and the impoundment for 60 days of the identification
license plates of that vehicle. The order for immobilization and impoundment
shall be issued and enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
      (3)   If, within six years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section
or two or more equivalent offenses, driving under OVI suspension is a
misdemeanor. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         (a)   A mandatory jail term of 30 consecutive days. Notwithstanding
the jail terms provided in R.C. §§ 2929.21 through 2929.28, the court may
sentence the offender to a longer jail term of not more than one year. The
court shall not sentence the offender to a term of house arrest with electronic
monitoring in lieu of the mandatory portion of the jail term;
         (b)   Notwithstanding the fines set forth in R.C. Chapter 2929, a fine
of not less than $500 and not more than $2,500;
         (c)   A license suspension under division (E) of this section;
         (d)   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender’s name, criminal forfeiture to the state
of the offender’s vehicle. The order of criminal forfeiture shall be issued and
enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.234. If title to a motor vehicle that
is subject to an order for criminal forfeiture under this division is assigned
or transferred and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, the court may fine
the offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of the
national automobile dealers association. The proceeds from any fine so imposed
shall be distributed in accordance with division R.C. § 4503.234(C)(2).
   (C)   (1)   No court shall impose an alternative sentence of house arrest
with electronic monitoring under division (B)(1) or (B)(2) of this section
unless, within 60 days of the date of sentencing, the court issues a written
finding on the record that, due to the unavailability of space at the jail
where the offender is required to serve the jail term imposed, the offender
will not be able to begin serving that term within the 60-day period following
the date of sentencing.
      (2)   An offender sentenced under this section to a period of house
arrest with electronic monitoring shall be permitted work release during that
period.
   (D)   Fifty percent of any fine imposed by a court under division (B)(1),
(B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section shall be deposited into the Municipal
Indigent Drivers Alcohol Treatment Fund under the control of that court, as
created by the municipality pursuant to R.C. § 4511.191(H).
   (E)   In addition to or independent of all other penalties provided by law
or ordinance, the trial judge of any court of record or the mayor of a mayor’s
court shall impose on an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
violation of this section a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
      (1)   When permitted as specified in R.C. § 4510.021, if the court grants
limited driving privileges during a suspension imposed under this section, the
privileges shall be granted on the additional condition that the offender must
display restricted license plates, issued under R.C. § 4503.231, on the vehicle
driven subject to the privileges, except as provided in R.C. § 4503.231(B).
      (2)   A suspension of a commercial driver’s license under this section
shall be concurrent with any period of suspension or disqualification under
R.C. § 3123.58 or 4506.16. No person who is disqualified for life from holding
a commercial driver’s license under R.C. § 4506.16 shall be issued a driver’s
license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period for which the commercial
driver’s license was suspended under this section, and no person whose
commercial driver’s license is suspended under this section shall be issued a
driver’s license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period of the suspension.
   (F)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense that is a misdemeanor of the first degree under this
section for which the offender is sentenced.
   (G)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
      ELECTRONIC MONITORING. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      EQUIVALENT OFFENSE. Means any of the following:
         (a)   A violation of a municipal ordinance, law of another state, or
law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to division (A) of
this section;
         (b)   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to division (A) of this section.
      JAIL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      MANDATORY JAIL TERM. Means the mandatory term in jail of 3, 10, or 30
consecutive days that must be imposed under division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3)
of this section upon an offender convicted of a violation of division (A) of
this section and in relation to which all of the following apply:
         (a)   Except as specifically authorized under this section, the term
must be served in a jail.
         (b)   Except as specifically authorized under this section, the term
cannot be suspended, reduced, or otherwise modified pursuant to any provision
of the Ohio Revised Code.
(R.C. § 4510.14)
   (H)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
Statutory reference:
   Immobilization of vehicle; impoundment of license plates; criminal
forfeiture of vehicle, see R.C. § 4510.161
§ 71.21  DRIVING UNDER FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY LAW SUSPENSION OR CANCELLATION;
DRIVING UNDER A NONPAYMENT OF JUDGMENT SUSPENSION.
   (A)   No person, whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or temporary
instruction permit or nonresident’s operating privilege has been suspended or
canceled pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4509, shall operate any motor vehicle within
this municipality, or knowingly permit any motor vehicle owned by the person to
be operated by another person in the municipality, during the period of the
suspension or cancellation, except as specifically authorized by R.C. Chapter
4509. No person shall operate a motor vehicle within this municipality, or
knowingly permit any motor vehicle owned by the person to be operated by
another person in the municipality, during the period in which the person is
required by R.C. § 4509.45 to file and maintain proof of financial
responsibility for a violation of R.C. § 4509.101, unless proof of financial
responsibility is maintained with respect to that vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any public
or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking in this municipality if the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or temporary instruction permit or nonresident operating privilege has
been suspended pursuant to R.C. § 4509.37 or 4509.40 for nonpayment of a
judgment.
   (C)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A) or (B) of this section may be admitted into evidence
as prima facie evidence that the license of the person was under either a
financial responsibility law suspension at the time of the alleged violation of
division (A) of this section or a nonpayment of judgment suspension at the time
of the alleged violation of division (B) of this section. The person charged
with a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section may offer evidence to
rebut this prima facie evidence.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of driving
under financial responsibility law suspension or cancellation and shall be
punished as provided in this division (D). Whoever violates division (B) of
this section is guilty of driving under a nonpayment of judgment suspension and
shall be punished as provided in this division (D).
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (D)(2) of this
section, the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. When the offense is an
unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously was
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section, or
any combination of two violations of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111 or
4510.16, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4510.16)
   (E)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under
this section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the order of suspension resulted from the failure of the alleged
offender to respond to a financial responsibility random verification request
under R.C. § 4509.101(A)(3)(c) and that, at the time of the initial financial
responsibility random verification request, the alleged offender was in
compliance with R.C. § 4509.101(A)(1) as shown by proof of financial
responsibility that was in effect at the time of that request.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
Statutory reference:
   Immobilization of vehicle; impoundment of license plates; criminal
forfeiture of vehicle, see R.C. § 4510.161
§ 71.22  FAILURE TO REINSTATE LICENSE.
   (A)   No person whose driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, or nonresident’s operating privilege has been
suspended shall operate any motor vehicle upon a public road or highway or any
public or private property after the suspension has expired unless the person
has complied with all license reinstatement requirements imposed by the court,
the bureau of motor vehicles, or another provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
   (B)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A) of this section may be admitted into evidence as
prima facie evidence that the license of the person had not been reinstated by
the person at the time of the alleged violation of division (A) of this
section. The person charged with a violation of division (A) of this section
may offer evidence to rebut this prima facie evidence.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to reinstate a
license, and shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, whoever
violates this section is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of a violation of division (A) of this
section, the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted of two
or more violations of this section, R.C. § 4510.21 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (3)   In all cases, the court may impose upon the offender a class seven
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary driver’s license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
(R.C. § 4510.21)
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSES
§ 71.25  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL CONCENTRATION. The concentration of alcohol in a person’s blood,
breath or urine. When expressed as a percentage, it means grams of alcohol per
the following:
      (1)   100 milliliters of whole blood, blood serum, or blood plasma;
      (2)   210 liters of breath;
      (3)   100 milliliters of urine.
   COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSE. A license issued in accordance with R.C.
Chapter 4506 that authorizes an individual to drive a commercial motor vehicle.
   COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSE INFORMATION SYSTEM. The information system
established pursuant to the requirements of the “Commercial Motor Vehicle
Safety Act of 1986,” 100 Stat. 3207-171, 49 U.S.C. App. 2701.
   COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE. Except when used in R.C. § 4506.25, any motor
vehicle designed or used to transport persons or property that meets any of the
following qualifications:
      (1)   Any combination of vehicles with a combined gross vehicle weight
rating of 26,001 pounds or more, provided that the gross vehicle weight rating
of the vehicle or vehicles being towed is in excess of 10,000 pounds;
      (2)   Any single vehicle with a gross vehicle weight rating of 26,001
pounds or more, or any such vehicle towing a vehicle having a gross vehicle
weight rating that is not in excess of 10,000 pounds;
      (3)   Any single vehicle or combination of vehicles that is not a Class A
or Class B vehicle, but is designed to transport 16 or more passengers
including the driver;
      (4)   Any school bus with a gross vehicle weight rating of less than
26,001 pounds that is designed to transport fewer than 16 passengers including
the driver;
      (5)   Is transporting hazardous materials for which placarding is
required under 49 C.F.R. part 172, subpart F, as amended; or
      (6)   Any single vehicle or combination of vehicles that is designed to
be operated and to travel on a public street or highway and is considered by
the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration to be a commercial motor
vehicle, including but not limited to a motorized crane, a vehicle whose
function is to pump cement, a rig for drilling wells, and a portable crane.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Includes all of the following:
      (1)   Any substance classified as a controlled substance under the
“Controlled Substances Act,” 80 Stat. 1242 (1970), 21 U.S.C. § 802(6), as
amended;
      (2)   Any substance included in Schedules I through V of 21 C.F.R. part
1308, as amended;
      (3)   Any drug of abuse.
   CONVICTION. An unvacated adjudication of guilt or a determination that a
person has violated or failed to comply with the law in a court of original
jurisdiction or an authorized administrative tribunal, an unvacated forfeiture
of bail or collateral deposited to secure the person’s appearance in court, a
plea of guilty or nolo contendere accepted by the court, the payment of a fine
or court cost, or violation of a condition of release without bail, regardless
of whether or not the penalty is rebated, suspended, or probated.
   DISQUALIFICATION. Means any of the following:
      (1)   The suspension, revocation, or cancellation of a person’s
privileges to operate a commercial motor vehicle;
      (2)   Any withdrawal of a person’s privileges to operate a commercial
motor vehicle as the result of a violation of state or local law relating to
motor vehicle traffic control other than parking, vehicle weight, or vehicle
defect violations;
      (3)   A determination by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
that a person is not qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle under 49
C.F.R. § 391.
   DOWNGRADE. Any of the following, as applicable:
      (1)   A change in the commercial driver’s license holder’s self-certified
status as described in R.C. § 4506.10(A)(2);
      (2)   A change to a lesser class of vehicle;
      (3)   Removal of commercial driver’s license privileges from the
individual’s driver’s license.
   DRIVE. To drive, operate, or be in physical control of a motor vehicle.
   DRIVER. Any person who drives, operates, or is in physical control of a
commercial motor vehicle or is required to have a commercial driver’s license.
   DRIVER’S LICENSE. A license issued by the Bureau of Motor Vehicles that
authorizes an individual to drive.
   DRUG OF ABUSE. Any controlled substance, dangerous drug as defined in R.C. §
4729.01, or over-the-counter medication that, when taken in quantities
exceeding the recommended dosage, can result in impairment of judgment or
reflexes.
   ELECTRONIC DEVICE. Includes a cellular telephone, a personal digital
assistant, a pager, a computer, and any other device used to input, write,
send, receive, or read text.
   ELIGIBLE UNIT OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. A village, township, or county that has a
population of not more than 3,000 persons according to the most recent federal
census.
   EMPLOYER. Any person, including the federal government, any state, and a
political subdivision of any state, that owns or leases a commercial motor
vehicle or assigns a person to drive such a motor vehicle.
   ENDORSEMENT. An authorization on a person’s commercial driver’s license that
is required to permit the person to operate a specified type of commercial
motor vehicle.
   FARM TRUCK. A truck controlled and operated by a farmer for use in the
transportation to or from a farm, for a distance of not more than 150 miles, of
products of the farm, including livestock and its products, poultry and its
products, floricultural and horticultural products, and in the transportation
to the farm, from a distance of not more than 150 miles, of supplies for the
farm, including tile, fence and every other thing or commodity used in
agricultural, floricultural, horticultural, livestock, and poultry production,
and livestock, poultry, and other animals and things used for breeding,
feeding, or other purposes connected with the operation of the farm, when the
truck is operated in accordance with this definition and is not used in the
operations of a motor carrier, as defined in R.C. § 4923.01.
   FATALITY. The death of a person as the result of a motor vehicle accident
occurring not more than 365 days prior to the date of death.
   FELONY. Any offense under federal or state law that is punishable by death
or imprisonment for a term exceeding one year and includes any offense
specifically classified as a felony under the law of this state, regardless of
the penalty that may be imposed.
   FOREIGN JURISDICTION. Any jurisdiction other than a state.
   GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT RATING. The value specified by the manufacturer as the
maximum loaded weight of a single or a combination vehicle. The GROSS VEHICLE
WEIGHT RATING of a combination vehicle is the gross vehicle weight rating of
the power unit plus the gross vehicle weight rating of each towed unit.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any material that has been designated as hazardous
under 49 U.S.C. § 5103 and is required to be placarded under 49 C.F.R. part
172, subpart F or any quantity of a material listed as a select agent or toxin
in 42 C.F.R. part 73, as amended.
   IMMINENT HAZARD. The existence of a condition that presents a substantial
likelihood that death, serious illness, severe personal injury, or a
substantial endangerment to health, property, or the environment may occur
before the reasonably foreseeable completion date of a formal proceeding begun
to lessen the risk of death, illness, injury, or endangerment.
   MEDICAL VARIANCE. One of the following received by a driver from the Federal
Motor Carrier Safety Administration that allows the driver to be issued a
medical certificate:
      (1)   An exemption letter permitting operation of a commercial motor
vehicle under 49 C.F.R. part 381, subpart C or 49 C.F.R. § 391.64;
      (2)   A skill performance evaluation certificate permitting operation of
a commercial motor vehicle pursuant to 49 C.F.R. § 391.49.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle, machine, tractor, trailer, or semitrailer
propelled or drawn by mechanical power used on highways, except that such term
does not include a vehicle, machine, tractor, trailer, or semitrailer operated
exclusively on a rail.
   OUT-OF-SERVICE ORDER. A declaration by an authorized enforcement officer of
a federal, state,  local, Canadian, or Mexican jurisdiction declaring that the
driver, commercial motor vehicle, or commercial motor carrier operation is out
of service as defined in 49 C.F.R. § 390.5.
   PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01
   PORTABLE TANK. A liquid or gaseous packaging designed primarily to be loaded
onto or temporarily attached to a vehicle and equipped with skids, mountings,
or accessories to facilitate handling of the tank by mechanical means.
   PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01(E)(1) and
(E)(3).
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Includes every vehicle that is defined as a
recreational vehicle in R.C. § 4501.01 and is used exclusively for purposes
other than engaging in business for profit.
   RESIDENCE. Any person’s residence determined in accordance with standards
prescribed in the rules adopted by the Registrar.
   SCHOOL BUS. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   SERIOUS TRAFFIC VIOLATION.  Any of the following:
      (1)   A conviction arising from a single charge of operating a commercial
motor vehicle in violation of any provision of R.C. § 4506.03;
      (2)   A violation while operating a commercial motor vehicle of a law of
this state, or any municipal ordinance or county or township resolution
prohibiting texting while driving, or any other substantially similar law of
another state or political subdivision of another state;
      (3)   A conviction arising from the operation of any motor vehicle that
involves any of the following:
         (a)   A single charge of any speed in excess of the posted speed limit
by 15 miles per hour or more;
         (b)   Violations of R.C. § 4511.20 or 4511.201 or any substantially
equivalent ordinance or resolution, or of any substantially equivalent law of
another state or political subdivision of another state;
         (c)   Violation of a law of this state or an ordinance or resolution
relating to traffic control, other than a parking violation, or of any
substantially equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of
another state, that results in a fatal accident;
         (d)   Violation of R.C. § 4506.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance or county or township resolution, or of any substantially
equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of another state, that
involves the operation of a commercial motor vehicle without a valid commercial
driver’s license with the proper class or endorsement for the specific vehicle
group being operated or for the passengers or type of cargo being transported;
         (e)   Violation of R.C. § 4506.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance or county or township resolution, or of any substantially
equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of another state, that
involves the operation of a commercial motor vehicle without a valid commercial
driver’s license being in the person’s possession;
         (f)   Violation of R.C. § 4511.33 or 4511.34, or any municipal
ordinance or county or township resolution substantially equivalent to either
of those sections, or any substantially equivalent law of another state or
political subdivision of another state;
         (g)   Violation of any other law of this state or an ordinance or
resolution relating to traffic control, other than a parking violation, that is
determined to be a SERIOUS TRAFFIC VIOLATION by the United States Secretary of
Transportation and the Ohio Director of Public Safety designates as such by
rule.
   STATE. A state of the United States and includes the District of Columbia.
   TANK VEHICLE. Any commercial motor vehicle that is designed to transport any
liquid and has a maximum capacity greater than 119 gallons or is designed to
transport gaseous materials and has a water capacity greater than 1,000 pounds
within a tank that is either permanently or temporarily attached to the vehicle
or its chassis. TANK VEHICLE does not include any of the following:
      (1)   Any portable tank having a rated capacity of less than 1,000
gallons;
      (2)   Tanks used exclusively as a fuel tank for the motor vehicle to
which it is attached;
      (3)   An empty storage container tank that is not designed for
transportation and that is readily distinguishable from a transportation tank;
      (4)   Ready-mix concrete mixers.
   TESTER. Means a person or entity acting pursuant to a valid agreement
entered into pursuant to R.C. § 4506.09(B).
   TEXTING. Manually entering alphanumeric text into, or reading text from, an
electronic device. Texting includes short message service (SMS), e-mail,
instant messaging, a command or request to access a world wide web page, or
engaging in any other form of electronic text retrieval or entry, for present
or future communication. Texting does not include the following:
      (1)   Reading, selecting, or entering a telephone number, an extension
number, or voicemail retrieval codes and commands into an electronic device for
the purpose of initiating or receiving a telephone call or using voice commands
to initiate or receive a telephone call;
      (2)   Inputting, selecting, or reading information on a global
positioning system or navigation system.
   TEXTING WHILE DRIVING. Texting while operating a commercial motor vehicle,
with the motor running, including while temporarily stationary because of
traffic, a traffic control device, or other momentary delays, but does not
include operating a commercial motor vehicle with or without the motor running
when the driver has moved the vehicle to the side of, or off, a highway and is
stopped in a location where the vehicle can safely remain stationary.
   UNITED STATES. Means the 50 states and the District of Columbia.
   UPGRADE. A change in the class of vehicles, endorsements, or self-certified
status as described in R.C. § 4506.10(A)(2) that expands the ability of a
current commercial driver’s license holder to operate commercial motor vehicles
under this chapter or R.C. Chapter 4506.
   VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
(R.C. § 4506.01)
§ 71.26  EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   Nothing in this subchapter applies to any person when engaged in the
operation of any of the following:
      (1)   A farm truck;
      (2)   Fire equipment for a fire department, volunteer or nonvolunteer
fire company, fire district or joint fire district;
      (3)   A public safety vehicle used to provide transportation or emergency
medical service for ill or injured persons;
      (4)   A recreational vehicle;
      (5)   A commercial motor vehicle within the boundaries of an eligible
unit of local government, if the person is employed by the eligible unit of
local government and is operating the commercial motor vehicle for the purpose
of removing snow or ice from a roadway by plowing, sanding or salting, but only
if either the employee who holds a commercial driver’s license issued under
R.C. Chapter 4506 and ordinarily operates a commercial motor vehicle for these
purposes is unable to operate the vehicle, or the employing eligible unit of
local government determines that a snow or ice emergency exists that requires
additional assistance. 
      (6)   A vehicle owned by the Department of Defense and operated by any
member or uniformed employee of the armed forces of the United States or their
reserve components, including the Ohio National Guard. This exception does not
apply to United States reserve technicians.
      (7)   A commercial motor vehicle that is operated for nonbusiness
purposes.  OPERATED FOR NONBUSINESS PURPOSES means that the commercial motor
vehicle is not used in commerce as “commerce” is defined in 49 C.F.R. 383.5, as
amended, and is not regulated by the Public Utilities Commission pursuant to
R.C. Chapter 4919, 4921, or 4923.
   (B)   Nothing contained in division (A)(5) shall be construed as preempting
or superseding any law, rule or regulation of this state concerning the safe
operation of commercial motor vehicles.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ELIGIBLE UNIT OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT.  A village, township or county that
has a population of not more than 3,000 persons according to the most recent
federal census.
      FARM TRUCK.  A truck controlled and operated by a farmer for use in the
transportation to or from a farm, for a distance of no more than 150 miles, of
products of the farm, including livestock and its products, poultry and its
products, and floricultural and horticultural products, and in the
transportation to the farm, from a distance of no more than 150 miles, of
supplies for the farm, including tile, fence and every other thing or commodity
used in agricultural, floricultural, horticultural, livestock and poultry
production, and livestock, poultry and other animals and things used for
breeding, feeding or other  purposes connected with the operation of the farm,
when the truck is operated in accordance with this subsection and is not used
in the operations of a motor transportation company or private motor carrier.
      PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01(E)(1)
and (E)(3).
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.  Includes every vehicle that is defined as a
recreational vehicle in R.C. § 4501.01 and is used exclusively for purposes
other than engaging in business for profit.
(R.C. § 4506.02)
§ 71.27  PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having in the person’s
possession or otherwise under the person’s control more than one valid driver’s
license issued by this state, any other state, or by a foreign jurisdiction;
      (2)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle on a highway in this municipality
in violation of an out-of- service order while the person’s driving privilege
is suspended, revoked, or cancelled, or while the person is subject to
disqualification;
      (3)   Drive a motor vehicle on a highway in the municipality under the
authority of a commercial driver’s license issued by another state or a foreign
jurisdiction, after having been a resident of this state for 30 days or longer;
      (4)   Knowingly give false information in any application or
certification required by R.C. § 4506.07.
   (B)   The municipality shall give every conviction occurring out of this
state and notice of which was received by the state Department of Public Safety
after December 31, 1989, full faith and credit and treat it for sanctioning
purposes under this chapter as though the conviction had occurred in this
state.
(R.C. § 4506.04(A), (B))
   (C)   No person shall drive any commercial motor vehicle for which an
endorsement is required under R.C. § 4506.12 unless the proper endorsement
appears on the person’s commercial driver’s license.
(R.C. § 4506.12(E))
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) of this section is guilty of
falsification, a misdemeanor of the first degree. In addition, the provisions
of R.C. § 4507.19 apply.
(R.C. § 4506.04(C))
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4506.12(F))
§ 71.28  PREREQUISITES TO OPERATION OF COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   Except as provided in divisions (B) or (C) of this section, the
following shall apply:
      (1)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle on a highway in
this municipality unless the person holds, and has in the person’s possession,
a valid commercial driver’s license with proper endorsements for the motor
vehicle being driven, issued by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, a valid
examiner’s commercial driver’s permit issued under R.C. § 4506.13, a valid
restricted commercial driver’s license and waiver for farm-related service
industries issued under R.C. § 4506.24, or a valid commercial driver’s license
temporary instruction permit issued by the Registrar and is accompanied by an
authorized state driver’s license examiner or tester or a person who has been
issued and has in the person’s immediate possession a current, valid commercial
driver’s license with proper endorsements for the motor vehicle being driven.
      (2)   No person shall be issued a commercial driver’s license until the
person surrenders to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles all valid licenses issued
to the person by another jurisdiction recognized by this state. The Registrar
shall report the surrender of a license to the issuing authority, together with
information that a license is now issued in this state. The Registrar shall
destroy any such license that is not returned to the issuing authority.
      (3)   No person who has been a resident of this state for 30 days or
longer shall drive a commercial motor vehicle under the authority of a
commercial driver’s license issued in another jurisdiction.
   (B)   Nothing in division (A) of this section applies to any qualified
person when engaged in the operation of any of the following:
      (1)   A farm truck;
      (2)   Fire equipment for a fire department, volunteer or nonvolunteer
fire company, fire district, or joint fire district;
      (3)   A public safety vehicle used to provide transportation or emergency
medical service for ill or injured persons;
      (4)   A recreational vehicle;
      (5)   A commercial motor vehicle within the boundaries of an eligible
unit of local government, if the person is employed by the eligible unit of
local government and is operating the commercial motor vehicle for the purpose
of removing snow or ice from a roadway by plowing, sanding, or salting, but
only if either the employee who holds a commercial driver’s license issued
under R.C. Chapter 4506 and ordinarily operates a commercial motor vehicle for
these purposes is unable to operate the vehicle, or the employing eligible unit
of local government determines that a snow or ice emergency exists that
requires additional assistance;
      (6)   A vehicle operated for military purposes by any member or uniformed
employee of the armed forces of the United States or their reserve components,
including the Ohio National Guard. This exception does not apply to United
States reserve technicians;
      (7)   A commercial motor vehicle that is operated for nonbusiness
purposes. “Operated for nonbusiness purposes” means that the commercial motor
vehicle is not used in commerce as “commerce” is defined in 49 C.F.R. § 383.5,
as amended, and is not regulated by the Public Utilities Commission pursuant to
R.C. Chapter 4905, 4921, or 4923;
      (8)   A motor vehicle that is designed primarily for the transportation
of goods and not persons, while that motor vehicle is being used for the
occasional transportation of personal property by individuals not for
compensation and not in the furtherance of a commercial enterprise;
      (9)   A police SWAT team vehicle;
      (10)   A police vehicle used to transport prisoners.
   (C)   Nothing contained in division (B)(5) of this section shall be
construed as preempting or superseding any law, rule or regulation of this
state concerning the safe operation of commercial motor vehicles.
(R.C. § 4506.03(A) - (C))
   (D)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a person may drive a
commercial motor vehicle on a highway in this municipality if all of the
following conditions are met:
      (1)   The person has a valid commercial driver’s license or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit issued by any state or
jurisdiction in accordance with the minimum standards adopted by the Federal
Motor Carrier Safety Administration under the “Commercial Motor Vehicle Safety
Act of 1986,” 100 Stat. 3207-171, 49 U.S.C. App., for issuance of commercial
driver’s licenses;
      (2)   The person’s commercial driver’s license or permit is not
suspended, revoked or cancelled;
      (3)   The person is not disqualified from driving a commercial motor
vehicle;
      (4)   The person is not subject to an out-of- service order;
      (5)   The person is medically certified as physically qualified to
operate a commercial motor vehicle in accordance with this chapter or R.C.
Chapter 4506 and is able to verify the medical certification when on duty as
follows:
         (a)   Prior to January 30, 2012, the person shall have in the person’s
possession the original or copy of the person’s current medical examiner’s
certificate when on duty.
         (b)   On or after January 30, 2012:
            1.   A person who submitted a medical examiner’s certificate to the
Registrar in accordance with R.C. § 4506.10(A)(2) and whose medical
certification information is maintained in the commercial driver’s license
information system is not required to have the medical examiner’s certificate
in the person’s possession when on duty.
            2.   A person whose medical certification information is not
maintained in the commercial driver’s license information system is required to
have in the person’s possession when on duty the original or copy of a current
medical examiner’s certificate that was issued prior to January 30, 2012,
except that after January 30, 2014, such person is required to have in the
person’s possession when on duty, the original or a copy of the current medical
examiner’s certificate that was submitted to the Registrar, but the person may
operate a commercial motor vehicle with such proof of medical certification for
not more than 15 days after the date the current medical examiner’s certificate
was issued to the person.
            3.   A person who has a medical variance shall have in the person’s
possession the original or copy of the medical variance documentation at all
times while on duty.
(R.C. § 4506.05(A))
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. §§ 4506.03(D), 4506.05(B))
§ 71.29  PHYSICAL QUALIFICATION TO OPERATE COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person who holds a valid commercial driver’s license shall drive a
commercial motor vehicle unless the person is physically qualified to do so.
      (1)   Prior to January 30, 2012, each person who drives or expects to
drive a commercial motor vehicle in interstate or foreign commerce or is
otherwise subject to 49 C.F.R. §§ 391 et seq., as amended, shall certify to the
Registrar of Motor Vehicles at the time of application for a commercial
driver’s license that the person is in compliance with these standards. Any
person who is not subject to 49 C.F.R. §§ 391 et seq., as amended, shall also
certify at the time of application that the person is not subject to these
standards.
      (2)   Beginning on January 30, 2012, any person applying for a commercial
driver’s license, renewing of a commercial driver’s license, or transferring a
commercial driver’s license from out of state shall self-certify to the
Registrar for purposes of 49 C.F.R. § 383.71 one of the following in regard to
the applicant’s operation of a commercial motor vehicle, as applicable:
         (a)   1.   If the applicant operates or expects to operate a
commercial motor vehicle in interstate or foreign commerce and is subject to
and meets the requirements under 49 C.F.R. part 391, the applicant shall self-
certify that the applicant is non- excepted interstate and shall provide the
Registrar with the original or a copy of a medical examiner’s certificate and
each subsequently issued medical examiner’s certificate prepared by a qualified
medical examiner to maintain a medically certified status on the applicant’s
commercial driver licensing system driver record;
            2.   If the applicant operates or expects to operate a commercial
motor vehicle in interstate commerce, but engages in transportation or
operations excepted under 49 C.F.R. §§ 390.3(f), 391.2, 391.68, or 398.3 from
all or parts of the qualification requirements of 49 C.F.R. part 391, the
applicant shall self-certify that the applicant is excepted interstate and is
not required to obtain a medical examiner’s certificate;
         (b)   1.   If the applicant operates only in intrastate commerce and
is subject to state driver qualification requirements, the applicant shall
self- certify that the applicant is non-excepted intrastate;
            2.   If the applicant operates only in intrastate commerce and is
excepted from all or parts of the state driver qualification requirements, the
applicant shall self-certify that the applicant is excepted intrastate.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the expiration date on a person’s commercial
driver’s license, every commercial driver’s license holder shall provide the
Registrar with the certification required by this section, on or after January
30, 2012, but prior to January 30, 2014.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4506.10(A), (E))
§ 71.30  CRIMINAL OFFENSES.
   (A)   No person who holds a commercial driver's license or operates a motor
vehicle for which a commercial driver's license is required shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having a measurable or
detectable amount of alcohol or of a controlled substance in the person’s
blood, breath, or urine;
      (2)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of 0.04% or more by whole blood or breath;
      (3)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of .048% or more by blood serum or blood plasma;
      (4)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of .056% or more by urine;
      (5)   Drive a motor vehicle while under the influence of a controlled
substance;
      (6)   Drive a motor vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a municipal
OVI ordinance as defined in R.C. § 4511.181;
      (7)   Use a vehicle in the commission of a felony;
      (8)   Refuse to submit to a test under R.C. § 4506.17 or R.C. § 4511.191,
or any substantially similar municipal ordinance;
      (9)   Operate a commercial motor vehicle while the person’s commercial
driving privileges are revoked, suspended, cancelled, or disqualified;
      (10)   Cause a fatality through the negligent operation of a commercial
motor vehicle, including but not limited to the offenses of aggravated
vehicular homicide, vehicular homicide, and vehicular manslaughter;
      (11)   Fail to stop after an accident in violation of R.C. §§ 4549.02 to
4549.03, or any substantially similar municipal ordinance;
      (12)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle in violation of any provision of
R.C. §§  4511.61 through 4511.63 or any federal or local law or ordinance
pertaining to railroad-highway grade crossings;
      (13)   Use a motor vehicle in the commission of a felony involving the
manufacture, distribution, or dispensing of a controlled substance as defined
in R.C. § 3719.01 or the possession with intent to manufacture, distribute, or
dispense a controlled substance.
(R.C. § 4506.15(A))
   (B)   No person shall refuse to immediately surrender the person’s
commercial driver’s license to a peace officer when required to do so by R.C. §
4506.17.
(R.C. § 4506.17(H))
   (C)   (1)   Within the jurisdictional limits of the appointing authority,
any peace officer shall stop and detain any person found violating division (A)
of this section without obtaining a warrant. When there is reasonable ground to
believe that a violation of division (A) of this section has been committed and
a test or tests of the person’s whole blood, blood plasma or blood serum,
breath or urine is necessary, the peace officer shall take the person to an
appropriate place for testing. If a person refuses to submit to a test after
being warned as provided in R.C. § 4506.17(C), or submits to a test that
discloses the presence of a controlled substance or an alcohol concentration of
0.04% or more by whole blood or breath, an alcohol concentration of .048% or
more by blood serum or blood plasma, or an alcohol concentration of .056% or
more by urine, the peace officer shall require that the person immediately
surrender the person’s commercial driver’s license to the peace officer.
      (2)   As used in this division (C), JURISDICTIONAL LIMITS means the
limits within which a peace officer may arrest and detain a person without a
warrant under R.C. § 2935.03, except that the Superintendent and the troopers
of the State Highway Patrol may stop and detain, without warrant, any person
who, in the presence of the Superintendent or any trooper, is engaged in a
violation of any of the provisions of this subchapter or R.C. Chapter 4506.
(R.C. § 4506.23)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C.§§ 4506.15(B), 4506.17(N))
Statutory reference:
   Alcohol or controlled substance testing, disqualification of drivers, see
R.C. § 4506.17
   Disqualification of drivers for violations, see R.C. § 4506.16
§ 71.31  APPLICATION OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of 49 C.F.R. part 383, subpart C (Notification
Requirements and Employer Responsibilities), as amended, shall apply to all
commercial drivers or persons who apply for employment as commercial drivers.
No person shall fail to make a report to the person’s employer as required by
this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4506.19)
§ 71.32  EMPLOYMENT OF DRIVERS OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   Each employer shall require every applicant for employment as a driver
of a commercial vehicle to provide the applicant’s employment history for the
10 years preceding the date the employment application is submitted to the
prospective employer. The following information shall be submitted:
      (1)   A list of the names and addresses of the applicant’s previous
employers for which the applicant was the operator of a commercial motor
vehicle;
      (2)   The dates the applicant was employed by these employers;
      (3)   The reason for leaving each of these employers.
   (B)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize any driver employed by
the employer to drive a commercial motor vehicle during any period in which any
of the following apply:
      (1)   The driver’s commercial driver’s license is suspended, revoked, or
cancelled by any state or a foreign jurisdiction;
      (2)   The driver has lost the privilege to drive, or currently is
disqualified from driving, a commercial motor vehicle in any state or foreign
jurisdiction;
      (3)   The driver, the commercial motor vehicle the driver is driving, or
the motor carrier operation is subject to an out-of-service order in any state
or a foreign jurisdiction;
      (4)   The driver has more than one driver’s license.
   (C)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate a
commercial motor vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4506.15.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) or (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 4506.20)
§ 71.33  USE OF ACTUAL GROSS WEIGHT IN LIEU OF RATING.
   For purposes of this subchapter, the actual gross weight of a vehicle or
combination of vehicles may be used in lieu of a gross vehicle weight rating to
determine whether a vehicle or combination of vehicles qualifies as a
commercial motor vehicle, if the gross vehicle weight rating specified by the
manufacturer for the vehicle of combination of vehicles is not determinable, or
if the manufacturer of the vehicle has not specified a gross vehicle weight
rating.
(R.C. § 4506.011)
MOTOR VEHICLE LICENSE TAX
§ 71.45  LEVY OF TAX; RATE.
   (A)   Municipal levy. 
      (1)   There is hereby levied an annual license tax upon the operation of
motor vehicles on the public roads or highways pursuant to R.C. § 4504.172, for
the purpose of paying the costs and expenses of enforcing and administering the
tax provided for in this section; and to provide additional revenue for the
purpose set forth in R.C. § 4504.06 and to supplement revenue already available
for such purposes.
      (2)   The tax will be at the rate of $5 per motor vehicle on each and
every motor vehicle the district of registration of which, as defined in R.C. §
4503.10, is in the Village of Elmwood Place, Ohio.
(Ord. 88-10, passed 4-4-1988)
   (B)   Additional motor vehicle tax.
      (1)   The county did not levy a $5 license tax, as authorized by R.C. §
4504.16, by April 1, 1991, and R.C. § 4504.171 provides that municipalities
within counties not levying such a tax, may levy a $5 license tax after April
1, 1991, to be submitted to the Bureau of Motor Vehicles no later than July 1,
1991, and to take effect beginning in 1992.
      (2)   The village hereby levies the tax under the provisions of R.C. §
4504.171 and the revenue derived therefrom shall be used for the purposes
described in this statute to supplement costs and expenses associated with the
maintenance of public roads within the village, and all such revenue shall be
deposited, pending use, into the Motor Vehicle License Tax Fund of the village.
(Ord. 7-91, passed 6-4-1991)
§ 71.46  DEFINITION.
   As used in this subchapter, the term MOTOR VEHICLE means any and all
vehicles included within the definition of motor vehicle in R.C. § 4501.01.
(Ord. 88-10, passed 4-4-1988)
§ 71.47  APPLICATION AND EFFECT.
   The tax imposed by this subchapter shall apply to and be in effect for the
registration year commencing January 1, 1989 and shall continue in effect and
application during each registration year thereafter.
(Ord. 88-10, passed 4-4-1988)
§ 71.48  PAYMENT; PURPOSE OF FUNDS.
   (A)   The tax imposed by this subchapter shall be paid to the Registrar of
Motor Vehicles of the State of Ohio or to a Deputy Registrar at the time of
application for registration of a motor vehicle is made as provided in R.C. §
4503.10.
   (B)   All monies derived from the tax hereinbefore levied shall be used by
the village for the purposes specified in this subchapter.
(Ord. 88-10, passed 4-4-1988)
§ 71.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty
otherwise is provided in the section that contains the provision violated is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. §§ 4506.99, 4507.99)
CHAPTER 72:  TRAFFIC RULES
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Lanes of travel upon roadways
   
72.02   Driving through safety zone
   
72.03   Vehicles traveling in opposite directions
   
72.04   Rules governing overtaking and passing of vehicles
   
72.05   Permission to overtake and pass on the right
   
72.06   Driving to left of center line
   
72.07   Prohibition against driving upon left side of roadway
   
72.08   Hazardous zones
   
72.09   One-way highways and rotary traffic islands
   
72.10   Rules for driving in marked lanes
   
72.11   Space between moving vehicles
   
72.12   Divided roadways
   
72.13   Rules for turns at intersections
   
72.14   U-turns and turning in roadway prohibited
   
72.15   Starting and backing vehicles
   
72.16   Turn and stop signals
   
72.17   Hand and arm signals
Right-of-Way
   
72.20   Right-of-way at intersections
   
72.21   Right-of-way when turning left
   
72.22   Right-of-way at through highways; stop signs; yield signs
   
72.23   Stop at sidewalk area; stop signs on private roads and driveways
   
72.24   Right-of-way on public highway
   
72.25   Pedestrian on sidewalk has right-of-way
   
72.26   Right-of-way of public safety vehicles
   
72.27   Funeral procession has right-of-way
   
72.28   Pedestrians yield right-of-way to public safety vehicle
   
72.29   Pedestrian on crosswalk has right-of-way
   
72.30   Right-of-way yielded to blind person
   
72.31   Right-of-way yielded by pedestrian
Pedestrians
   
72.35   Pedestrian movement in crosswalks
   
72.36   Pedestrian walking along highway
   
72.37   Prohibition against soliciting rides; riding on outside of vehicle
   
72.38   Pedestrian on bridge or railroad crossing
   
72.39   Persons operating motorized wheelchairs
   
72.40   Intoxicated or drugged pedestrian hazard on highway
   
72.41   Operation of electric personal assistive mobility devices
   
72.42   Unnecessary pedestrian traffic adjacent to sidewalks prohibited
Grade Crossings
   
72.45   Stop signs at grade crossings
   
72.46   Driving vehicle across railroad grade crossing
   
72.47   Vehicles required to stop at grade crossings
   
72.48   Slow-moving vehicles or equipment crossing railroad tracks
Prohibitions
   
72.55   Obstruction and interference affecting view and control of driver
   
72.56   Occupying travel trailer while in motion
   
72.57   Driving upon closed highway prohibited
   
72.58   Driving upon sidewalk area or paths exclusively for bicycles
   
72.59   Obstructing passage of other vehicles
   
72.60   Following an emergency or public vehicle prohibited; approaching
stationary public safety vehicle with caution
   
72.61   Driving over unprotected fire hose
   
72.62   Placing injurious material on highway or depositing litter from motor
vehicle
   
72.63   Transporting child not in child restraint system prohibited
   
72.64   Occupant restraining devices
   
72.65   Use of engine brakes prohibited
   
72.66   Operating motor vehicle while wearing earphones or earplugs
   
72.67   Chauffeured limousines and livery services
   
72.68   Operating traction engine upon improved highways
   
72.69   Racing engine
   
72.70   Cracking exhaust noises; peeling out
   
72.71   Shortcutting across private property
   
72.72   Texting while driving prohibited
   
72.73   Use of electronic wireless communication devices by minors or
probationary drivers while driving prohibited
School Buses
   
72.80   Regulations concerning school buses
   
72.81   Violation of regulations; report; investigation; citation; warning
   
72.82   Restrictions on the operation of school buses
   
72.83   School bus inspection
   
72.84   School bus not used for school purposes
   
72.85   Licensing by Department of Highway Safety
   
72.86   Registration and identification of school buses
   
72.87   School bus marking
   
72.88   Flashing light signal lamps
   
72.89   Occupant restraining device for operator
Statutory reference:
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
   Standards for school buses, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-5
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01  LANES OF TRAVEL UPON ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction, or when making a left turn under the rules governing such movements;
      (2)   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left
of the center of the highway; provided, any person so doing shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the
unobstructed portion of the highway within such distance as to constitute an
immediate hazard;
      (3)   When driving upon a roadway divided into three or more marked lanes
for traffic under the rules applicable thereon;
      (4)   When driving upon a roadway designated and posted with signs for
one-way traffic;
      (5)   When otherwise directed by a police officer or traffic-control
device.
   (B)   (1)   Upon all roadways any vehicle proceeding at less than the
prevailing and lawful speed of traffic at the time and place and under the
conditions then existing shall be driven in the right- hand lane then available
for traffic, and far enough to the right to allow passing by faster vehicles if
such passing is safe and reasonable, except under any of the following
circumstances:
         (a)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction;
         (b)   When preparing for a left turn;
         (c)   When the driver must necessarily drive in a lane other than the
right-hand lane to continue on the driver’s intended route.
      (2)   Nothing in division (B)(1) of this section requires a driver of a
slower vehicle to compromise the driver’s safety to allow overtaking by a
faster vehicle.
   (C)   Upon any roadway having four or more lanes for moving traffic and
providing for two-way movement of traffic, no vehicle shall be driven to the
left of the center line of the roadway, except when authorized by official
traffic-control devices designating certain lanes to the left of the center of
the roadway for use by traffic not otherwise permitted to use the lanes, or
except as permitted under division (A)(2) of this section. This division shall
not be construed as prohibiting the crossing of the center line in making a
left turn into or from an alley, private road, or driveway.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.25)
§ 72.02  DRIVING THROUGH SAFETY ZONE.
   (A)   No vehicle shall at any time be driven through or within a safety
zone.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.60)
§ 72.03  VEHICLES TRAVELING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   Operators of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass
each other to the right, and upon roadways having width for not more than one
line of traffic in each direction, each operator shall give to the other one-
half of the main traveled portion of the roadway or as nearly one-half as is
reasonably possible.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.26)
§ 72.04  RULES GOVERNING OVERTAKING AND PASSING OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   The following rules govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles
proceeding in the same direction:
      (1)   The operator of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in
the same direction shall, except as provided in division (A)(3) of this
section, signal to the vehicle to be overtaken, shall pass to the left thereof
at a safe distance, and shall not again drive to the right side of the roadway
until safely clear of the overtaken vehicle.
      (2)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
operator of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle at the latter’s audible signal, and the operator shall not
increase the speed of the operator’s vehicle until completely passed by the
overtaking vehicle.
      (3)   The operator of a vehicle overtaking and passing another vehicle
proceeding in the same direction on a divided highway as defined in R.C. §
4511.35, a limited access highway as defined in R.C. § 5511.02, or a highway
with four or more traffic lanes is not required to signal audibly to the
vehicle being overtaken and passed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.27)
§ 72.05  PERMISSION TO OVERTAKE AND PASS ON THE RIGHT.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass on the right of another
vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
or
      (2)   Upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width for
two or more lines of vehicles moving lawfully in the direction being traveled
by the overtaking vehicle.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle only
under conditions permitting the movement in safety. The movement shall not be
made by driving off the roadway.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.28)
§ 72.06  DRIVING TO LEFT OF CENTER LINE.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven to the left of the center of the roadway in
overtaking and passing traffic proceeding in the same direction, unless the
left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a sufficient
distance ahead to permit the overtaking and passing to be completely made
without interfering with the safe operation of any traffic approaching from the
opposite direction or any traffic overtaken. In every event, the overtaking
vehicle must return to an authorized lane of travel as soon as practicable, and
in the event the passing movement involves the use of a lane authorized for the
traffic approaching from the opposite direction, before coming within 200 feet
of any approaching vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.29)
§ 72.07  PROHIBITION AGAINST DRIVING UPON LEFT SIDE OF ROADWAY.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven upon the left side of the roadway under the
following conditions:
      (1)   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the
highway, where the operator’s view is obstructed within such a distance as to
create a hazard in the event traffic might approach from the opposite
direction;
      (2)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within 100 feet of any
bridge, viaduct, or tunnel; or
      (3)   When approaching within 100 feet of or traversing any intersection
or railroad grade crossing.
   (B)   This section does not apply to vehicles upon a one-way roadway, upon a
roadway where traffic is lawfully directed to be driven to the left side, or
under the conditions described in R.C. § 4511.25(A)(2) or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.30)
§ 72.08  HAZARDOUS ZONES.
   (A)   The Department of Transportation may determine those portions of any
state highway where overtaking and passing other traffic or driving to the left
of the center or center line of the roadway would be especially hazardous, and
may, by appropriate signs or markings on the highway, indicate the beginning
and end of such zones. When signs or markings are in place and clearly visible,
every operator of a vehicle shall obey the directions of the signs or markings,
notwithstanding the distances set out in R.C. § 4511.30.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply when all of the following
apply:
      (1)   The slower vehicle is proceeding at less than half the speed of the
speed limit applicable to that location.
      (2)   The faster vehicle is capable of overtaking and passing the slower
vehicle without exceeding the speed limit.
      (3)   There is sufficient clear sight distance to the left of the center
or center line of the roadway to meet the overtaking and passing provisions of
R.C. § 4511.29, considering the speed of the slower vehicle.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.31)
§ 72.09  ONE-WAY HIGHWAYS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS.
   (A)   (1)   Upon a roadway designated and posted with signs for one-way
traffic, a vehicle shall be driven only in the direction designated.
      (2)   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island shall be driven
only to the right of the rotary traffic island.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.32)
§ 72.10  RULES FOR DRIVING IN MARKED LANES.
   (A)   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for traffic, or wherever within the municipality traffic is lawfully
moving in two or more substantially continuous lines in the same direction, the
following rules apply:
      (1)   A vehicle shall be driven, as nearly as is practicable, entirely
within a single lane or line of traffic and shall not be moved from the lane or
line until the driver has first ascertained that the movement can be made with
safety.
      (2)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes and provides for
the two-way movement of traffic, a vehicle shall not be driven in the center
lane, except when overtaking and passing another vehicle where the roadway is
clearly visible and the center lane is clear of traffic within a safe distance,
or when preparing for a left turn, or where the center lane is at the time
allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the direction the vehicle is
proceeding, and is posted with signs to give notice of such allocation.
      (3)   Official signs may be erected directing specified traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction, regardless of the center of the roadway, or restricting
the use of a particular lane to only buses during certain hours or during all
hours, and drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of such signs.
      (4)   Official traffic-control devices may be installed prohibiting the
changing of lanes on sections of roadway, and drivers of vehicles shall obey
the directions of every such device.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.33)
§ 72.11  SPACE BETWEEN MOVING VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   The operator of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle
more closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of
the vehicle and the traffic upon and the condition of the highway.
      (2)   The driver of any truck, or motor vehicle drawing another vehicle,
when traveling upon a roadway outside a business or residence district, shall
maintain a sufficient space, whenever conditions permit, between the vehicle
and another vehicle ahead so an overtaking motor vehicle may enter and occupy
the space without danger. This division does not prevent overtaking and passing
nor does it apply to any lane specially designated for use by trucks.
      (3)   Motor vehicles being driven upon any roadway outside of a business
or residence district in a caravan or motorcade shall maintain a sufficient
space between the vehicles so an overtaking vehicle may enter and occupy the
space without danger. This division shall not apply to funeral processions.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.34)
§ 72.12  DIVIDED ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Whenever any highway has been divided into two roadways by an
intervening space, or by a physical barrier, or a clearly indicated dividing
section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle shall be
driven only upon the right-hand roadway, and no vehicle shall be driven over,
across, or within any dividing space, barrier, or section, except through an
opening, crossover, or intersection established by public authority. This
section does not prohibit the occupancy of the dividing space, barrier, or
section for the purpose of an emergency stop, or in compliance with an order of
a police officer.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.35)
§ 72.13  RULES FOR TURNS AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall be
governed by the following rules:
      (1)   Approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close
as practicable to the right- hand curb or edge of the roadway.
      (2)   At any intersection where traffic is permitted to move in both
directions on each roadway entering the intersection, an approach for a left
turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
center line thereof and by passing to the right of the center line where it
enters the intersection, and, after entering the intersection, the left turn
shall be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the center line
of the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable, the left turn shall be made
in that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the
intersection.
      (3)   At any intersection where traffic is restricted to one direction on
one or more of the roadways, the driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at
any such intersection shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand
lane lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of the
vehicle, and, after entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so
as to leave the intersection, as nearly as practicable, in the left hand lane
of the roadway being entered lawfully available to traffic moving in that lane.
   (B)   The Department of Transportation and local authorities may cause
markers, buttons, or signs to be placed within or adjacent to intersections,
and thereby require and direct that a different course from that specified in
this section be traveled by vehicles turning at an intersection, and when
markers, buttons, or signs are so placed, no operator of a vehicle shall turn
the vehicle at an intersection other than as directed and required by the
markers, buttons, or signs.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.36)
§ 72.14  U-TURNS AND TURNING IN ROADWAY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except as provided in R.C. § 4511.13 and division (B) of this section,
no vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction upon any
curve, or upon the approach to or near the crest of a grade, if such vehicle
cannot be seen within 500 feet by the driver of any other vehicle approaching
from either direction.
   (B)   The driver of an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when
responding to an emergency call, may turn the vehicle so as to proceed in the
opposite direction. This division applies only when the emergency vehicle or
public safety vehicle is responding to an emergency call, is equipped with and
displaying at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating light visible under
normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
vehicle, and when the driver of the vehicle is giving an audible signal by
siren, exhaust whistle, or bell. This division does not relieve the driver of
an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.37)
§ 72.15  STARTING AND BACKING VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing, or
parked until the movement can be made with reasonable safety.
      (2)   Before backing, operators of vehicles shall give ample warning, and
while backing they shall exercise vigilance not to injure person or property on
the street or highway.
      (3)   No person shall back a motor vehicle on a freeway, except:
         (a)   In a rest area;
         (b)   In the performance of public works or official duties;
         (c)   As a result of an emergency caused by an accident or breakdown
of a motor vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.38)
§ 72.16  TURN AND STOP SIGNALS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall turn a vehicle or move right or left upon a
highway unless and until the person has exercised due care to ascertain that
the movement can be made with reasonable safety, nor without giving an
appropriate signal in the manner hereinafter provided.
      (2)   When required, a signal of intention to turn or move right or left
shall be given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by
the vehicle before turning, except that in the case of a person operating a
bicycle, the signal shall be made not less than one time but is not required to
be continuous. A bicycle operator is not required to make a signal if the
bicycle is in a designated turn lane, and a signal shall not be given when the
operator’s hands are needed for the safe operation of the bicycle.
      (3)   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein to the
driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear, when there is opportunity to
give a signal.
      (4)   Any stop or turn signal required by this section shall be given
either by means of the hand and arm, or by signal lights that clearly indicate
to both approaching and following traffic the intention to turn or move right
or left, except that any motor vehicle in use on a highway shall be equipped
with, and the required signal shall be given by, signal lights when the
distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the left outside
limit of the body, cab or load of such motor vehicle exceeds 24 inches, or when
the distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the rear limit
of the body or load thereof exceeds 14 feet, whether a single vehicle or a
combination of vehicles.
      (5)   The signal lights required by this section shall not be flashed on
one side only on a disabled vehicle, flashed as a courtesy or “do pass” signal
to operators of other vehicles approaching from the rear, nor be flashed on one
side only of a parked vehicle except as may be necessary for compliance with
this section.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.39)
§ 72.17  HAND AND ARM SIGNALS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, all signals
required by the provisions of this traffic code, when given by hand and arm,
shall be given from the left side of the vehicle in the following manner, and
the signals shall indicate as follows:
      (1)   Left turn, hand and arm extended horizontally;
      (2)   Right turn, hand and arm extended upward;
      (3)   Stop or decrease speed, hand and arm extended downward.
   (B)   As an alternative to division (A)(2) of this section, a person
operating a bicycle may give a right turn signal by extending the right hand
and arm horizontally and to the right side of the bicycle.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.40)
RIGHT-OF-WAY
§ 72.20  RIGHT-OF-WAY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   When two vehicles approach or enter an intersection from different
streets or highways at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle
on the left shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right.
   (B)   The right-of-way rule declared in division (A) of this section is
modified at through highways and otherwise as stated in this traffic code or
R.C. Chapter 4511.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.41)
§ 72.21  RIGHT-OF-WAY WHEN TURNING LEFT.
   (A)   The operator of a vehicle intending to turn to the left within an
intersection or into an alley, private road, or driveway shall yield the right-
of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is within
the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.42)
§ 72.22  RIGHT-OF-WAY AT THROUGH HIGHWAYS; STOP SIGNS; YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   Except when directed to proceed by a law enforcement officer, every
driver of a vehicle approaching a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or, if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway
before entering it. After having stopped, the driver shall yield the right-of-
way to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another roadway so
closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the time the driver is
moving across or within the intersection or junction of roadways.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall slow down to a
speed reasonable for the existing conditions, and if required for safety to
stop, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, before entering
the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if none, then at the
point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering it. After
slowing, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the
intersection or junction of roadways. Whenever a driver is involved in a
collision with a vehicle in the intersection or junction of roadways, after
driving past a yield sign without stopping, the collision shall be prima facie
evidence of the driver’s failure to yield the right-of- way.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.43)
§ 72.23  STOP AT SIDEWALK AREA; STOP SIGNS ON PRIVATE ROADS AND DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, building, private
road, or driveway within a business or residence district shall stop the
vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area
extending across the alley, building entrance, road, or driveway, or in the
event there is no sidewalk area, shall stop at the point nearest the street to
be entered where the driver has a view of approaching traffic thereon.
(R.C. § 4511.431(A))
   (B)   The owner of a private road or driveway located in a private
residential area containing 20 or more dwelling units may erect stop signs at
places where the road or driveway intersects with another private road or
driveway in the residential area, in compliance with all of the following
requirements:
      (1)   The stop sign is sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily
observant person and meets the specifications of and is placed in accordance
with the manual adopted by the Department of Transportation pursuant to R.C. §
4511.09;
      (2)   The owner has posted a sign at the entrance of the private road or
driveway that is in plain view and clearly informs persons entering the road or
driveway that they are entering private property, stop signs have been posted
and must be obeyed, and the signs are enforceable by law enforcement officers
under state law. The sign required by this division, where appropriate, may be
incorporated with the sign required by R.C. § 4511.211(A)(2), or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   The provisions of R.C. § 4511.43(A) and R.C. § 4511.46, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, shall be deemed to apply to the
driver of a vehicle on a private road or driveway where a stop sign is placed
in accordance with division (B) of this section and to a pedestrian crossing
such a road or driveway at an intersection where a stop sign is in place.
   (D)   When a stop sign is placed in accordance with division (B) of this
section, any law enforcement officer may apprehend a person found violating the
stop sign and may stop and charge the person with violating the stop sign.
   (E)   As used in this section, and for the purpose of applying R.C. §
4511.43(A) and R.C. § 4511.46, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, to conduct under this section:
      INTERSECTION. Means:
         (a)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two private roads or driveways which join one another at, or
approximately at, right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling
upon different private roads or driveways joining at any other angle may come
in conflict.
         (b)   Where a private road or driveway includes two roadways 30 feet
or more apart, then every crossing of two roadways of such private roads or
driveways shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
      OWNER and PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL AREA CONTAINING 20 OR MORE DWELLING UNITS.
Have the same meanings as in R.C. § 4511.211.
      ROADWAY. Means that portion of a private road or driveway improved,
designed or ordinarily used for vehicular travel, except the berm or shoulder.
If a private road or driveway includes two or more separate roadways, the term
ROADWAY means any such roadway separately but not all such roadways
collectively.
(R.C.§ 4511.432(A) - (C), (E))
   (F)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. §§ 4511.431(B), 4511.432(D))
§ 72.24  RIGHT-OF-WAY ON PUBLIC HIGHWAY.
   (A)   The operator of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from any
place other than another roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all traffic
approaching on the roadway to be entered or crossed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.44)
§ 72.25  PEDESTRIAN ON SIDEWALK HAS RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right- of-way to any
pedestrian on a sidewalk.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.441)
§ 72.26  RIGHT-OF-WAY OF PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Upon the approach of a public safety vehicle or coroner’s vehicle,
equipped with at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating light visible
under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of
the vehicle, and the driver is giving an audible signal by siren, exhaust
whistle, or bell, no driver of any other vehicle shall fail to yield the right-
of-way, immediately drive if practical to a position parallel to, and as close
as possible to, the right edge or curb of the highway clear of any
intersection, and stop and remain in that position until the public safety
vehicle or coroner’s vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a
police officer.
   (B)   This section does not relieve the driver of a public safety vehicle or
coroner’s vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons and property upon the highway.
   (C)   This section applies to a coroner’s vehicle only when the vehicle is
operated in accordance with R.C. § 4511.171, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance. As used in this section, CORONER’S VEHICLE means a vehicle
used by a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator that is equipped
with a flashing, oscillating or rotating red or blue light and a siren, exhaust
whistle or bell capable of giving an audible signal.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on
a first offense. On a second offense within one year after the first offense,
the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree, and, on each
subsequent offense within one year after the first offense, the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 4511.45)
§ 72.27  FUNERAL PROCESSION HAS RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   As used in this section, FUNERAL PROCESSION means two or more vehicles
accompanying  the cremated remains or the body of a deceased person in the
daytime when each of the vehicles has its headlights lighted and is displaying
a purple and white or an orange and white pennant attached to each vehicle in
such a manner as to be clearly visible to traffic approaching from any
direction.
   (B)   Excepting public safety vehicles proceeding in accordance with R.C. §
4511.45 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or when directed
otherwise by a police officer, pedestrians and the operators of all vehicles
shall yield the right-of-way to each vehicle that is a part of a funeral
procession. Whenever the lead vehicle in a funeral procession lawfully enters
an intersection, the remainder of the vehicles in the procession may continue
to follow the lead vehicle through the intersection, notwithstanding any
traffic-control devices or right-of-way provisions of the Revised Code,
provided that the operator of each vehicle exercises due care to avoid
colliding with any other vehicle or pedestrian.
   (C)   No person shall operate any vehicle as a part of a funeral procession
without having the headlights of the vehicle lighted and without displaying a
purple and white or an orange and white pennant in such a manner as to be
clearly visible to traffic approaching from any direction.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.451)
§ 72.28  PEDESTRIANS YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY TO PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE.
   (A)   Upon the immediate approach of a public safety vehicle, as stated in
R.C. § 4511.45 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, every
pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to the public safety vehicle.
   (B)   This section shall not relieve the driver of a public safety vehicle
from the duty to exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.452)
§ 72.29  PEDESTRIAN ON CROSSWALK HAS RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   When traffic-control signals are not in place, not in operation, or
are not clearly assigning the right- of-way, the driver of a vehicle shall
yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping if need be to so yield, or if
required by R.C. § 4511.132 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk when the pedestrian is
upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is traveling, or when the
pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite half of the roadway as
to be in danger.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety and
walk or run into the path of a vehicle which is so close as to constitute an
immediate hazard.
   (C)   Division (A) of this section does not apply under the conditions
stated in R.C. § 4511.48(B), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass the stopped vehicle.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.46)
§ 72.30  RIGHT-OF-WAY YIELDED TO BLIND PERSON.
   (A)   (1)   As used in this section, BLIND PERSON or BLIND PEDESTRIAN means
a person having not more than 20/200 visual acuity in the better eye with
correcting lenses, or visual acuity greater than 20/200, but with a limitation
in the fields of vision such that the widest diameter of the visual field
subtends an angle no greater than 20°.
      (2)   The driver of every vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to every
blind pedestrian guided by a guide dog, or carrying a cane which is
predominantly white or metallic in color, with or without a red tip.
   (B)   No person, other than a blind person, while on any public highway,
street, alley, or other public thoroughfare, shall carry a white or metallic
cane, with or without a red tip.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.47)
§ 72.31  RIGHT-OF-WAY YIELDED BY PEDESTRIAN.
   (A)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all traffic upon the roadway.
   (C)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a marked
crosswalk.
   (D)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway intersection diagonally unless
authorized by official traffic-control devices; and when authorized to cross
diagonally, pedestrians shall cross only in accordance with the official
traffic-control devices pertaining to such crossing movements.
   (E)   This section does not relieve the operator of a vehicle from
exercising due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any roadway.
   (F)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.48)
PEDESTRIANS
§ 72.35  PEDESTRIAN MOVEMENT IN CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.49)
§ 72.36  PEDESTRIAN WALKING ALONG HIGHWAY.
   (A)   Where a sidewalk is provided and its use is practicable, it shall be
unlawful for any pedestrian to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   (B)   Where a sidewalk is not available, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a highway shall walk only on a shoulder, as far as practicable from the
edge of the roadway.
   (C)   Where neither a sidewalk nor a shoulder is available, any pedestrian
walking along and upon a highway shall walk as near as practicable to an
outside edge of the roadway, and, if on a two-way roadway, shall walk only on
the left side of the roadway.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. §§ 4511.13 and 4511.46, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, any pedestrian upon a roadway
shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.50)
§ 72.37  PROHIBITION AGAINST SOLICITING RIDES; RIDING ON OUTSIDE OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person while on a roadway outside a safety zone shall solicit a
ride from the driver of any vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, no person
shall stand on a highway for the purpose of soliciting employment, business, or
contributions from the occupant of any vehicle.
      (2)   The Legislative Authority, by ordinance, may authorize the issuance
of a permit to a charitable organization to allow a person acting on behalf of
the organization to solicit charitable contributions from the occupant of a
vehicle by standing on a highway, other than a freeway as provided in R.C. §
4511.051(A)(1), that is under the jurisdiction of the municipality. The permit
shall be valid for only one period of time, which shall be specified in the
permit, in any calendar year. The Legislative Authority also may specify the
locations where contributions may be solicited and may impose any other
restrictions on or requirements regarding the manner in which the solicitations
are to be conducted that the Legislative Authority considers advisable.
      (3)   As used in division (B)(2) of this section, CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION
means an organization that has received from the Internal Revenue Service a
currently valid ruling or determination letter recognizing the tax-exempt
status of the organization pursuant to IRC 501(c)(3).
   (C)   No person shall hang onto or ride on the outside of any motor vehicle
while it is moving upon a roadway, except mechanics or test engineers making
repairs or adjustments, or workers performing specialized highway or street
maintenance or construction under authority of a public agency.
   (D)   No operator shall knowingly permit any person to hang onto or ride on
the outside of any motor vehicle while it is moving upon a roadway, except
mechanics or test engineers making repairs or adjustments, or workers
performing specialized highway or street maintenance or construction under
authority of a public agency.
   (E)   No driver of a truck, trailer, or semitrailer shall knowingly permit
any person who has not attained the age of 16 years to ride in the unenclosed
or unroofed cargo storage area of the driver’s vehicle if the vehicle is
traveling faster than 25 miles per hour, unless either of the following
applies:
      (1)   The cargo storage area of the vehicle is equipped with a properly
secured seat to which is attached a seat safety belt that is in compliance with
federal standards for an occupant restraining device as defined in R.C. §
4513.263(A)(2), the seat and seat safety belt were installed at the time the
vehicle was originally assembled, and the person riding in the cargo storage
area is in the seat and is wearing the seat safety belt; or
      (2)   An emergency exists that threatens the life of the driver or the
person being transported in the cargo storage area of the truck, trailer, or
semitrailer.
   (F)   No driver of a truck, trailer, or semitrailer shall permit any person,
except for those workers performing specialized highway or street maintenance
or construction under authority of a public agency, to ride in the cargo
storage area or on a tailgate of the driver’s vehicle while the tailgate is
unlatched.
   (G)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
any provision of divisions (A) through (D) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates any provision of divisions (A) through (D) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates any provision of
divisions (A) through (D) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (E) or (F) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.51)
§ 72.38  PEDESTRIAN ON BRIDGE OR RAILROAD CROSSING.
   (A)   No pedestrian shall enter or remain upon any bridge or approach
thereto beyond the bridge signal, gate, or barrier after a bridge operation
signal indication has been given.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over, or under any crossing
gate or barrier at a railroad grade crossing or bridge while the gate or
barrier is closed or is being opened or closed.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.511)
§ 72.39  PERSONS OPERATING MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIRS.
   Every person operating a motorized wheelchair shall have all of the rights
and duties applicable to a pedestrian that are contained in this chapter,
except those provisions which by their nature can have no application.
(R.C. § 4511.491)
§ 72.40  INTOXICATED OR DRUGGED PEDESTRIAN HAZARD ON HIGHWAY.
   (A)   A pedestrian who is under the influence of alcohol, any drug of abuse,
or any combination of them to a degree that renders the pedestrian a hazard
shall not walk or be upon a highway.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.481)
§ 72.41  OPERATION OF ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   Electric personal assistive mobility devices may be operated on
the public streets, highways, sidewalks, and paths and portions of roadways set
aside for the exclusive use of bicycles in accordance with this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, those sections of
this traffic code that by their nature are applicable to an electric personal
assistive mobility device apply to the device and the person operating it
whenever it is operated upon any public street, highway, sidewalk, or path or
upon any portion of a roadway set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
      (3)   The municipality may regulate or prohibit the operation of electric
personal assistive mobility devices on public streets, highways, sidewalks, and
paths, or portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles,
under its jurisdiction.
   (B)   No operator of an electric personal assistive mobility device shall do
any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians and human-powered
vehicles at all times;
      (2)   Fail to give an audible signal before overtaking and passing a
pedestrian;
      (3)   Operate the device at night unless the device or its operator is
equipped with or wearing both of the following:
         (a)   A lamp pointing to the front that emits a white light visible
from a distance of not less than 500 feet;
         (b)   A red reflector facing the rear that is visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet when directly in front of lawful lower
beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle.
      (4)   Operate the device on any portion of a street or highway that has
an established speed limit of 55 miles per hour or more;
      (5)   Operate the device upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of
pedestrians or other specialized use when an appropriate sign giving notice of
the specialized use is posted on the path;
      (6)   If under 18 years of age, operate the device unless wearing a
protective helmet on the person’s head with the chin strap properly fastened;
      (7)   If under 16 years of age, operate the device unless, during the
operation, the person is under the direct visual and audible supervision of
another person who is 18 years of age or older and is responsible for the
immediate care of the person under 16 years of age.
   (C)   No person who is under 14 years of age shall operate an electric
personal assistive mobility device.
   (D)   No person shall distribute or sell an electric personal assistive
mobility device unless the device is accompanied by a written statement that is
substantially equivalent to the following: “WARNING: TO REDUCE THE RISK OF
SERIOUS INJURY, USE ONLY WHILE WEARING FULL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT – HELMET,
WRIST GUARDS, ELBOW PADS, AND KNEE PADS.”
   (E)   Nothing in this section affects or shall be construed to affect any
rule of the Director of Natural Resources or a board of park district
commissioners governing the operation of vehicles on lands under the control of
the Director or board, as applicable.
   (F)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (B) or (C) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor and shall be punished as follows:
         (a)   The offender shall be fined $10;
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (B) or (C) of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, the court, in addition to imposing
the fine required under division (F)(1)(a) of this section, shall do one of the
following:
            1.   Order the impoundment for not less than one day but not more
than 30 days of the electric personal assistive mobility device that was
involved in the current violation of that division. The court shall order the
device to be impounded at a safe indoor location designated by the court and
may assess storage fees of not more than $5 per day; provided the total
storage, processing, and release fees assessed against the offender or the
device in connection with the device’s impoundment or subsequent release shall
not exceed $50.
            2.    If the court does not issue an impoundment order pursuant to
division (F)(1)(b)1. of this section, issue an order prohibiting the offender
from operating any electric personal assistive mobility device on the public
streets, highways, sidewalks, and paths and portions of roadways set aside for
the exclusive use of bicycles for not less than one day but not more than 30
days.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.512)
   (G)   As used in this code, ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE
means a self-balancing two non-tandem wheeled device that is designed to
transport only one person, has an electric propulsion system of an average of
750 watts, and when ridden on a paved level surface by an operator who weighs
170 pounds has a maximum speed of less than 20 miles per hour.
(R.C. § 4501.01(TT))
§ 72.42  UNNECESSARY PEDESTRIAN TRAFFIC ADJACENT TO SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Where a sidewalk is provided and its use is practicable, it shall be
unlawful for any pedestrian to unnecessarily walk along and upon an adjacent
street or highway.
   (B)   Where a sidewalk is not available, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a street or highway shall walk only on a shoulder, as far as practicable
from the edge of the roadway.
   (C)   Where neither a sidewalk nor shoulder is available, any pedestrian
walking along and upon a street or highway shall walk as near as practicable to
an outside edge of the roadway, and, if on a two-way roadway, shall walk only
on the left side of the roadway.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in Ohio R.C. 4511.13 and 4511.46, or any
substantially similar municipal ordinances, any pedestrian upon a roadway shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided by law, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a minor misdemeanor. Whoever violates this section a second time
within one year will be guilty of a fourth degree misdemeanor.
(Ord. 10-05, passed 6-14-2005)
GRADE CROSSINGS
§ 72.45  STOP SIGNS AT GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   The Department of Transportation and local authorities, with the
approval of the Department, may designate dangerous highway crossings over
railroad tracks, and erect stop signs thereat. When stop signs are erected, the
operator of any vehicle shall stop within 50 but not less than 15 feet from the
nearest rail of the railroad tracks, and shall exercise due care before
proceeding across the grade crossing.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.61)
§ 72.46  DRIVING VEHICLE ACROSS RAILROAD GRADE CROSSING.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad
grade crossing, the person shall stop within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet
from the nearest rail of the railroad if any of the following circumstances
exist at the crossing:
         (a)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a train.
         (b)   A crossing gate is lowered.
         (c)   A flagperson gives or continues to give a signal of the approach
or passage of a train.
         (d)   There is insufficient space on the other side of the railroad
grade crossing to accommodate the vehicle the person is operating without
obstructing the passage of other vehicles, pedestrians or railroad trains,
notwithstanding any traffic-control signal indication to proceed.
         (e)   An approaching train is emitting an audible signal or is plainly
visible, and is in hazardous proximity to the crossing.
         (f)   There is insufficient undercarriage clearance to safely
negotiate the crossing.
      (2)   A person who is driving a vehicle and who approaches a railroad
grade crossing shall not proceed as long as any of the circumstances described
in divisions (A)(1)(a) through (A)(1)(f) of this section exist at the crossing.
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around, or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while the gate or barrier is
closed, or is being opened or closed unless the person is signaled by a law
enforcement officer or flagperson that it is permissible to do so.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 4511.62)
§ 72.47  VEHICLES REQUIRED TO STOP AT GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, the operator of
any bus, any school vehicle, or any vehicle transporting material required to
be placarded under 49 C.F.R. parts 100 through 185, before crossing at grade
any track of a railroad, shall stop the vehicle, and while so stopped, shall
listen through an open door or open window, and look in both directions along
the track for any approaching train and for signals indicating the approach of
a train, and shall proceed only upon exercising due care after stopping,
looking, and listening as required by this section. Upon proceeding, the
operator of such a vehicle shall cross only in a gear that will ensure there
will be no necessity for changing gears while traversing the crossing, and
shall not shift gears while crossing the tracks.
   (B)   This section does not apply at grade crossings when any local
authority has filed an application with the Public Utilities Commission
requesting the approval of an exempt crossing, and the Public Utilities
Commission has authorized and approved an exempt crossing as provided in R.C. §
4511.63(B).
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
      BUS. Means any vehicle originally designed by its manufacturer to
transport 16 or more passengers, including the driver, or carries 16 or more
passengers, including the driver.
      EXEMPT CROSSING. Means a highway rail grade crossing authorized and
approved by the Public Utilities Commission under R.C. § 4511.63(B) at which
vehicles may cross without making the stop otherwise required by this section.
      SCHOOL VEHICLE. Means any vehicle used for the transportation of pupils
to and from a school or school-related function if the vehicle is owned or
operated by, or operated under contract with, a public or nonpublic school.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, 4511.77, or 4511.79, or
a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of those
sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.63)
§ 72.48  SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES OR EQUIPMENT CROSSING RAILROAD TRACKS.
   (A)   No person shall operate or move any crawler-type tractor, steam
shovel, derrick, roller, or any equipment or structure having a normal
operating speed of six or less miles per hour or a vertical body or load
clearance of less than nine inches above the level surface of a roadway, upon
or across any tracks at a railroad grade crossing without first complying with
divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2) of this section.
      (1)   Before making any such crossing, the person operating or moving any
such vehicle or equipment shall first stop the same, and while stopped, the
person shall listen and look in both directions along the track for any
approaching train and for signals indicating the approach of a train, and shall
proceed only upon exercising due care.
      (2)   No such crossing shall be made when warning is given by automatic
signal, crossing gates, or a flagperson, or otherwise of the immediate approach
of a railroad train or car.
   (B)   If the normal sustained speed of the vehicle, equipment, or structure
is not more than three miles per hour, the person owning, operating, or moving
the same shall also give notice of the intended crossing to a station agent or
superintendent of the railroad, and a reasonable time shall be given to the
railroad to provide proper protection for the crossing. Where the vehicles or
equipment are being used in constructing or repairing a section of highway
lying on both sides of a railroad grade crossing, and in this construction or
repair it is necessary to repeatedly move the vehicles or equipment over the
crossing, one daily notice specifying when the work will start and stating the
hours during which it will be prosecuted is sufficient.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.64)
PROHIBITIONS
§ 72.55  OBSTRUCTION AND INTERFERENCE AFFECTING VIEW AND CONTROL OF DRIVER.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there
are in the front seat such number of persons, as to obstruct the view of the
driver to the front or sides of the vehicle, or to interfere with the driver’s
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (B)   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in a position as to interfere
with the driver’s view ahead or to the sides, or to interfere with the driver’s
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (C)   No person shall open the door of a vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, and can be done
without interfering with the movement of other traffic, nor shall any person
leave a door open on the side of a vehicle available to moving traffic for a
period of time longer than necessary to load or unload passengers.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.70)
§ 72.56  OCCUPYING TRAVEL TRAILER WHILE IN MOTION.
   (A)   No person shall occupy any travel trailer or manufactured or mobile
home while it is being used as a conveyance upon a street or highway.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.701)
§ 72.57  DRIVING UPON CLOSED HIGHWAY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall drive upon, along, or across a street or highway, or
any part of a street or highway that has been closed in the process of its
construction, reconstruction, or repair, and posted with appropriate signs by
the authority having jurisdiction to close the highway.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.71)
§ 72.58  DRIVING UPON SIDEWALK AREA OR PATHS EXCLUSIVELY FOR BICYCLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall drive any vehicle, other than a bicycle, upon a
sidewalk or sidewalk area, except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary
driveway.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting local
authorities from regulating the operation of bicycles, except that no local
authority may require that bicycles be operated on sidewalks.
(R.C. § 4511.711(A))
   (B)   (1)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle, snowmobile, or all-
purpose vehicle upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, when
an appropriate sign giving notice of such use is posted on the path.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect any rule of
the Director of Natural Resources governing the operation of motor vehicles,
snowmobiles, all-purpose vehicles, and bicycles on lands under the Director’s
jurisdiction.
(R.C. § 4511.713(A))
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. §§ 4511.711(B), 4511.713(B))
§ 72.59  OBSTRUCTING PASSAGE OF OTHER VEHICLES.
   (A)   No driver shall enter an intersection or marked crosswalk, or drive
onto any railroad grade crossing, unless there is sufficient space on the other
side of the intersection, crosswalk, or grade crossing to accommodate the
vehicle the driver is operating without obstructing the passage of other
vehicles, pedestrians, or railroad trains, notwithstanding any traffic-control
signal indication to proceed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.712)
§ 72.60  FOLLOWING AN EMERGENCY OR PUBLIC VEHICLE PROHIBITED; APPROACHING
STATIONARY PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE WITH CAUTION.
   (A)   Following an emergency or public vehicle prohibited. The driver of any
vehicle, other than an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle on official
business, shall not follow any emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle
traveling in response to an alarm closer than 500 feet, or drive into or park
the vehicle within the block where the fire apparatus has stopped in answer to
a fire alarm, unless directed to do so by a police officer or a firefighter.
(R.C. § 4511.72(A))
   (B)   Approaching stationary public safety vehicle with caution.
      (1)   The driver of a motor vehicle, upon approaching a stationary public
safety vehicle, an emergency vehicle, or a road service vehicle that is
displaying the appropriate visual signals by means of flashing, oscillating, or
rotating lights, as prescribed in R.C. § 4513.17, shall do either of the
following:
         (a)   If the driver of the motor vehicle is traveling on a highway
that consists of at least two lanes that carry traffic in the same direction of
travel as that of the driver’s motor vehicle, the driver shall proceed with due
caution and, if possible and with due regard to the road, weather, and traffic
conditions, shall change lanes into a lane that is not adjacent to that of the
stationary public safety vehicle, an emergency vehicle, or a road service
vehicle.
         (b)   If the driver is not traveling on a highway of a type described
in division (B)(1)(a) of this section, or if the driver is traveling on a
highway of that type but it is not possible to change lanes or if to do so
would be unsafe, the driver shall proceed with due caution, reduce the speed of
the motor vehicle, and maintain a safe speed for the road, weather, and traffic
conditions.
      (2)   This division (B) does not relieve the driver of a public safety
vehicle, an emergency vehicle, or a road service vehicle from the duty to drive
with due regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
      (3)   No person shall fail to drive a motor vehicle in compliance with
divisions (B)(1)(a) or (B)(1)(b) of this section when so required by division
(B) of this section.
(R.C. § 4511.213(A) - (C))
   (C)   Penalty.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Notwithstanding §
130.99 or R.C. § 2929.28, upon a finding that a person operated a motor vehicle
in violation of division (B)(3) of this section, the court, in addition to all
other penalties provided by law, shall impose a fine of two times the usual
amount imposed for the violation.
(R.C. §§ 4511.213(D), 4511.72(B))
§ 72.61  DRIVING OVER UNPROTECTED FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   No vehicle shall, without the consent of the fire department official
in command, be driven over any unprotected hose of a fire department that is
laid down on any street or private driveway to be used at any fire or alarm of
fire.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.73)
§ 72.62  PLACING INJURIOUS MATERIAL ON HIGHWAY OR DEPOSITING LITTER FROM MOTOR
VEHICLE.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a
highway, lane, road, street, or alley any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails,
or other articles which may damage or injure any person, vehicle, or animal
traveling along or upon the highway, except such substances that may be placed
upon the roadway by proper authority for the repair or construction thereof.
      (2)   Any person who drops or permits to be dropped or thrown upon any
highway any destructive or injurious material shall immediately remove the
same.
      (3)   Any person authorized to remove a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a
highway shall remove any glass or other injurious substance dropped upon the
highway from such vehicle.
      (4)   No person shall place any obstruction in or upon a highway without
proper authority.
   (B)   No person, with intent to cause physical harm to a person or a
vehicle, shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a highway, lane, road,
street, or alley any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails, or other articles
which may damage or injure any person, vehicle, or animal traveling along or
upon such highway, except such substances that may be placed upon the roadway
by proper authority for the repair or construction thereof.
(R.C. § 4511.74(A), (B))
   (C)   No operator or occupant of a motor vehicle shall, regardless of
intent, throw, drop, discard, or deposit litter from any motor vehicle in
operation upon any street, road, or highway, except into a litter receptacle in
a manner that prevents its being carried away or deposited by the elements.
   (D)   No operator of a motor vehicle in operation upon any street, road, or
highway shall allow litter to be thrown, dropped, discarded, or deposited from
the motor vehicle, except into a litter receptacle in a manner that prevents
its being carried away or deposited by the elements.
   (E)   As used in this section, LITTER means garbage, trash, waste, rubbish,
ashes, cans, bottles,  wire, paper, cartons, boxes, automobile parts,
furniture, glass, or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature.
(R.C. § 4511.82(A), (B), (D))
   (F)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4511.74(C))
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.82(C))
§ 72.63  TRANSPORTING CHILD NOT IN CHILD RESTRAINT SYSTEM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   When any child who is in either or both of the following categories is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety
vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4511.01, that is required by the United States
Department of Transportation to be equipped with seat belts at the time of
manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child
properly secured in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions in a child
restraint system that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards:
      (1)   A child who is less than four years of age;
      (2)   A child who weighs less than 40 pounds.
   (B)   When any child who is in either or both of the following categories is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab, that is owned,
leased, or otherwise under the control of a nursery school or day-care center,
the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child properly secured in
accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions in a child restraint system
that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards:
      (1)   A child who is less than four years of age;
      (2)   A child who weighs less than 40 pounds.
   (C)   When any child who is less than eight years of age and less than four
feet nine inches in height, who is not required by division (A) or (B) of this
section to be secured in a child restraint system, is being transported in a
motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 4511.01 or a vehicle that is regulated under R.C. § 5104.015, that is
required by the United States Department of Transportation to be equipped with
seat belts at the time of manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor
vehicle shall have the child properly secured in accordance with the
manufacturer’s instructions on a booster seat that meets federal motor vehicle
safety standards.
   (D)   When any child who is at least eight years of age but not older than
15 years of age, and who is not otherwise required by division (A), (B), or (C)
of this section to be secured in a child restraint system or booster seat, is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety
vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4511.01, that is required by the United States
Department of Transportation to be equipped with seat belts at the time of
manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child
properly restrained either in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions
in a child restraint system that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards
or in an occupant restraining device as defined in R.C. § 4513.263.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause an operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of division (C) or (D) of this section has been
or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or
summons for a violation of division (C) or (D) of this section or causing the
arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for a violation of division
(C) or (D) of this section, and absent another violation of law, a law
enforcement officer’s view of the interior or visual inspection of a motor
vehicle being operated on any street or highway may not be used for the purpose
of determining whether a violation of division (C) or (D) of this section has
been or is being committed.
   (F)   The Director of Public Safety shall adopt such rules as are necessary
to carry out this section.
   (G)   The failure of an operator of a motor vehicle to secure a child in a
child restraint system, a booster seat, or an occupant restraining device as
required in this section is not negligence imputable to the child, is not
admissible as evidence in any civil action involving the rights of the child
against any other person allegedly liable for injuries to the child, is not to
be used as a basis for a criminal prosecution of the operator of the motor
vehicle other than a prosecution for a violation of this section, and is not
admissible as evidence in any criminal action involving the operator of the
motor vehicle other than a prosecution for a violation of this section.
   (H)   This section does not apply when an emergency exists that threatens
the life of any person operating or occupying a motor vehicle that is being
used to transport a child who otherwise would be required to be restrained
under this section. This section does not apply to a person operating a motor
vehicle who has an affidavit signed by a physician licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4731 or a chiropractor licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4734 that states that the child who otherwise would be
required to be restrained under this section has a physical impairment that
makes use of a child restraint system, booster seat, or an occupant restraining
device impossible or impractical, provided that the person operating the
vehicle has safely and appropriately restrained the child in accordance with
any recommendations of the physician or chiropractor as noted on the affidavit.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any person to
carry with the person the birth certificate of a child to prove the age of the
child, but the production of a valid birth certificate for a child showing that
the child was not of an age to which this section applies is a defense against
any ticket, citation, or summons issued for violating this section.
   (J)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A), (B), (C), or (D) of this section
shall be punished as follows, provided that the failure of an operator of a
motor vehicle to secure more than one child in a child restraint system,
booster seat, or occupant restraining device as required by this section that
occurred at the same time, on the same day, and at the same location is deemed
to be a single violation of this section:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (J)(1)(b) of this
section, the offender is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined not
less than $25 nor more than $75.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (A), (B), (C), or (D) of this section or of a
state law or municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent any of those
divisions, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   All fines imposed pursuant to division (J)(1) of this section shall
be forwarded to the State Treasurer for deposit in the Child Highway Safety
Fund created by R.C. § 4511.81(I).
(R.C. § 4511.81(A)-(H), (K), (L))
§ 72.64  OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AUTOMOBILE. Any commercial tractor, passenger car, commercial car, or
truck that is required to be factory-equipped with an occupant  restraining
device for the operator or any passenger by regulations adopted by the United
States Secretary of Transportation pursuant to the “National Traffic and Motor
Vehicle Safety Act of 1966,” 80 Stat. 719, 15 U.S.C. § 1392.
      COMMERCIAL TRACTOR, PASSENGER CAR, and COMMERCIAL CAR. Have the same
meanings as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICE. A seat safety belt, shoulder belt, harness,
or other safety device for restraining a person who is an operator of or
passenger in an automobile and that satisfies the minimum federal vehicle
safety standards established by the United States Department of Transportation.
      PASSENGER. Any person in an automobile, other than its operator, who is
occupying a seating position for which an occupant restraining device is
provided.
      TORT ACTION. A civil action for damages for injury, death, or loss to
person or property. TORT ACTION includes a product liability claim, as defined
in R.C. § 2307.71, and as asbestos claim, as defined in R.C. § 2307.91, but
does not include a civil action for damages for breach of contract or another
agreement between persons.
      VEHICLE and MOTOR VEHICLE. As used in the definitions of the terms set
forth above, VEHICLE and MOTOR VEHICLE have the same meanings as in R.C. §
4511.01.
   (B)   Prohibited acts. No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate an automobile on any street or highway unless he or she is
wearing all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant
restraining device, or operate a school bus that has an occupant restraining
device installed for use in its operator’s seat unless he or she is wearing all
of the available elements of the device, as properly adjusted;
      (2)   Operate an automobile on any street or highway unless each
passenger in the automobile who is subject to the requirement set forth in
division (B)(3) of this section is wearing all of the available elements of a
properly adjusted occupant restraining device;
      (3)   Occupy, as a passenger, a seating position on the front seat of an
automobile being operated on any street or highway unless he or she is wearing
all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining
device;
      (4)   Operate a taxicab on any street or highway unless all factory-
equipped occupant restraining devices in the taxicab are maintained in usable
form.
   (C)   Exceptions. Division (B)(3) of this section does not apply to a person
who is required by R.C. § 4511.81 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance to be secured in a child restraint device or booster seat. Division
(B)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is an employee of the
United States Postal Service or of a newspaper home delivery service, during
any period in which the person is engaged in the operation of an automobile to
deliver mail or newspapers to addressees. Divisions (B)(1) and (B)(3) of this
section do not apply to a person who has an affidavit signed by a physician
licensed to practice in this state under R.C. Chapter 4731 or a chiropractor
licensed to practice in this state under R.C. Chapter 4734 that states that the
person has a physical impairment that makes use of an occupant restraining
device impossible or impractical.
   (D)   Officers not permitted to stop cars to determine violation.
Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law enforcement
officer shall cause an operator of an automobile being operated on any street
or highway to stop the automobile for the sole purpose of determining whether a
violation of division (B) of this section has been or is being committed or for
the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or summons for the violation or
for causing the arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for the
violation. No law enforcement officer shall view the interior or visually
inspect any automobile being operated on any street or highway for the sole
purpose of determining whether the violation has been or is being committed.
   (E)   Use of fines for educational program. All fines collected for
violations of division (B) of this section shall be forwarded to the State
Treasurer for deposit in the funds as set forth in R.C. § 4513.263(E).
   (F)   Limitations on evidence used for prosecution.
      (1)   Subject to division (F)(2) of this section, the failure of a person
to wear all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant
restraining device in violation of division (B)(1) or (B)(3) of this section or
the failure of a person to ensure that each minor who is a passenger of an
automobile being operated by that person is wearing all of the available
elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device in violation of
division (B)(2) of this section shall not be considered or used by the trier of
fact in a tort action as evidence of negligence or contributory negligence.
But, the trier of fact may determine based on evidence admitted consistent with
the Ohio Rules of Evidence that the failure contributed to the harm alleged in
the tort action and may diminish a recovery of compensatory damages that
represents non-economic loss, as defined in R.C. § 2307.011, in a tort action
that could have been recovered but for the plaintiff’s failure to wear all of
the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device.
Evidence of that failure shall not be used as a basis for a criminal
prosecution of the person other than a prosecution for a violation of this
section; and shall not be admissible as evidence in a criminal action involving
the person other than a prosecution for a violation of this section.
      (2)   If, at the time of an accident involving a passenger car equipped
with occupant restraining devices, any occupant of the passenger car who
sustained injury or death was not wearing an available occupant restraining
device, was not wearing all of the available elements of such a device, or was
not wearing such a device as properly adjusted, then, consistent with the Rules
of Evidence, the fact that the occupant was not wearing the available occupant
restraining device, was not wearing all of the available elements of such a
device, or was not wearing such a device as properly adjusted is admissible in
evidence in relation to any claim for relief in a tort action to the extent
that the claim for relief satisfies all of the following:
         (a)   It seeks to recover damages for injury or death to the occupant;
         (b)   The defendant in question is the manufacturer, designer,
distributor, or seller of the passenger car;
         (c)   The claim for relief against the defendant in question is that
the injury or death sustained by the occupant was enhanced or aggravated by
some design defect in the passenger car or that the passenger car was not
crashworthy.
   (G)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section shall be fined
$30.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) shall be subject to the penalty
set forth in §
70.99(B).
      (3)   Whoever violates division (B)(3) of this section shall be fined
$20.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (B)(4) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of
division (B)(4) of this section, whoever violates division (B)(4) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4513.263)
Cross-reference:
   Child restraint systems, see §
72.63
   Installation and sale of seat safety belts, see §
74.33
   School bus operators, restraining devices, see §
72.89
§ 72.65  USE OF ENGINE BRAKES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The non-emergency use of engine brakes within the municipality is
prohibited.
   (B)   As used in this section, ENGINE BRAKES shall be defined to include but
is not limited to Jake Brakes, Jacobs Brakes, C Brakes, PacBrakes, TekBrakes,
and any other type of engine retarders commonly utilized within the trucking
industry.
   (C)   This section does not apply to emergency vehicles operated by fire,
police, or military units.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
§ 72.66  OPERATING MOTOR VEHICLE WHILE WEARING EARPHONES OR EARPLUGS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle while wearing earphones over,
or earplugs in, both ears. As used in this section, EARPHONES means any
headset, radio, tape player, or other similar device that provides the listener
with radio programs, music, or other recorded information through a device
attached to the head and that covers all or a portion of both ears. EARPHONES
does not include speakers or other listening devices that are built into
protective headgear.
   (B)   This section does not apply to:
      (1)   Any person wearing a hearing aid;
      (2)   Law enforcement personnel while on duty;
      (3)   Fire department personnel and emergency medical service personnel
while on duty;
      (4)   Any person operating equipment for use in the maintenance or repair
of any highway;
      (5)   Any person engaged in the operation of refuse collection equipment.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.84)
§ 72.67  CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINES AND LIVERY SERVICES.
   (A)   The operator of a chauffeured limousine shall accept passengers only
on the basis of prearranged contracts, as defined in R.C. § 4501.01, and shall
not cruise in search of patronage unless the limousine is in compliance with
any statute or ordinance governing the operation of taxicabs or other similar
vehicles for hire.
   (B)   No person shall advertise or hold himself or herself out as doing
business as a limousine service or livery service or other similar designation
unless each vehicle used by the person to provide the service is registered in
accordance with R.C. § 4503.24 and is in compliance with R.C. § 4509.80.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4511.85)
Statutory reference:
   Chauffeured limousine, motor vehicle licensing, see R.C. § 4503.24
   Proof of financial responsibility, see R.C. § 4509.80
§ 72.68  OPERATING TRACTION ENGINE UPON IMPROVED HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   No person shall drive over the improved highways of this municipality
a traction engine or tractor with tires or wheels equipped with ice picks,
spuds, spikes, chains or other projections of any kind extending beyond the
cleats, and no person shall tow or in any way pull another vehicle over the
improved highways of this municipality which towed or pulled vehicle has tires
or wheels equipped with ice picks, spuds, spikes, chains or other projections
of any kind. TRACTION ENGINE or TRACTOR, as used in this section, applies to
all self-propelling engines equipped with metal-tired wheels operated or
propelled by any form of engine, motor or mechanical power.
   (B)   This municipality shall not adopt, enforce, or maintain any ordinance,
rule or regulation contrary to or inconsistent with division (A), nor shall
this municipality require any license tax upon or registration fee for any
traction engine, tractor, or trailer, or any permit or license to operate.
Operators of traction engines or tractors shall have the same rights upon the
public streets and highways as the drivers of any other vehicles, unless some
other safe and convenient way is provided, and no public road open to traffic
shall be closed to traction engines or tractors.
(R.C. § 5589.08)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 5589.99(B))
§ 72.69  RACING ENGINE.
   No person shall race or accelerate any motor vehicle or motorcycle, while
the motor vehicle is not in gear or in motion, so as to cause unreasonably loud
noises.  It shall be unlawful to excessively race or accelerate the motor of
any vehicle, while moving, so as to cause unreasonably loud noise.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.70  CRACKING EXHAUST NOISES; PEELING OUT.
   No person shall operate any motor vehicle, except when necessary for safe
operation, or in compliance with law, in such a manner that the vehicle is so
rapidly accelerated or started from a stopped position, or in the shifting of
gears while in motion, that the exhaust system emits a loud, cracking or
chattering noise unusual to its normal operation, or that the rubber tires of
such vehicle squeal or leave tire marks on the roadway, commonly known as
“peeling out”.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.71  SHORTCUTTING ACROSS PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No operator of a motor vehicle shall enter upon private property for the
sole purpose of driving across such property, between abutting streets or other
public ways thereof. The failure to stop on such property in connection with or
in furtherance of the enterprise or activities being conducted on the property
shall constitute prima facie evidence of the violation.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.72  TEXTING WHILE DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall drive a motor vehicle on any street, highway, or
property open to the public for vehicular traffic while using a handheld
electronic wireless communications device to write, send, or read a text-based
communication.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   A person using a handheld electronic wireless communications device
in that manner for emergency purposes, including an emergency contact with a
law enforcement agency, hospital or health care provider, fire department, or
other similar emergency agency or entity;
      (2)   A person driving a public safety vehicle who uses a handheld
electronic wireless communications device in that manner in the course of the
person’s duties;
      (3)   A person using a handheld electronic wireless communications device
in that manner whose motor vehicle is in a stationary position and who is
outside a lane of travel;
      (4)   A person reading, selecting, or entering a name or telephone number
in a handheld electronic wireless communications device for the purpose of
making or receiving a telephone call;
      (5)   A person receiving wireless messages on a device regarding the
operation or navigation of a motor vehicle; safety-related information,
including emergency, traffic, or weather alerts; or data used primarily by the
motor vehicle;
      (6)   A person receiving wireless messages via radio waves;
      (7)   A person using a device for navigation purposes;
      (8)   A person conducting wireless interpersonal communication with a
device that does not require manually entering letters, numbers, or symbols or
reading text messages, except to activate, deactivate, or initiate the device
or a feature or function of the device;
      (9)   A person operating a commercial truck while using a mobile data
terminal that transmits and receives data;
      (10)   A person using a handheld electronic wireless communications
device in conjunction with a voice-operated or hands-free device feature or
function of the vehicle.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause an operator of an automobile being operated on
any street or highway to stop the automobile for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of division (A) of this section has been or is
being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or
summons for a violation of that nature or causing the arrest of or commencing a
prosecution of a person for a violation of that nature, and no law enforcement
officer shall view the interior or visually inspect any automobile being
operated on any street or highway for the sole purpose of determining whether a
violation of that nature has been or is being committed.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Includes any of the following:
         (a)   A wireless telephone;
         (b)   A text-messaging device;
         (c)   A personal digital assistant;
         (d)   A computer, including a laptop computer and a computer tablet;
         (e)   Any other substantially similar wireless device that is designed
or used to communicate text.
      VOICE-OPERATED OR HANDS-FREE DEVICE. A device that allows the user to
vocally compose or send, or to listen to a text-based communication without the
use of either hand except to activate or deactivate a feature or function.
      WRITE, SEND, OR READ A TEXT-BASED COMMUNICATION. To manually write or
send, or read a text-based communication using an electronic wireless
communications device, including manually writing or sending, or reading
communications referred to as text messages, instant messages, or electronic
mail.
(R.C. § 4511.204)
Statutory reference:
   No preemption for local regulations imposing greater penalties, see R.C. §
4511.204(E)
§ 72.73  USE OF ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATION DEVICES BY MINORS OR
PROBATIONARY DRIVERS WHILE DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No holder of a temporary instruction permit who has not attained the
age of 18 years and no holder of a probationary driver’s license shall drive a
motor vehicle on any street, highway, or property used by the public for
purposes of vehicular traffic or parking while using in any manner an
electronic wireless communications device.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to either of the
following:
      (1)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device for
emergency purposes, including an emergency contact with a law enforcement
agency, hospital or health care provider, fire department, or other similar
emergency agency or entity;
      (2)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device whose
motor vehicle is in a stationary position and the motor vehicle is outside a
lane of travel;
      (3)   A person using a navigation device in a voice-operated or hands-
free manner who does not manipulate the device while driving.
   (C)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, whoever
violates division (A) of this section shall be fined $150. In addition, the
court shall impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license
or permit for a definite period of 60 days.
      (2)   If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of
this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
whoever violates this section shall be fined $300. In addition, the court shall
impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license or permit
for a definite period of one year.
   (D)   As used in this section, ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE
includes any of the following:
      (1)   A wireless telephone;
      (2)   A personal digital assistant;
      (3)   A computer, including a laptop computer and a computer tablet;
      (4)   A text-messaging device;
      (5)   Any other substantially similar electronic wireless device that is
designed or used to communicate via voice, image, or written word.
(R.C. § 4511.205)
SCHOOL BUSES
§ 72.80  REGULATIONS CONCERNING SCHOOL BUSES.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle, upon meeting or overtaking from either
direction any school bus stopped for the purpose of receiving or discharging
any school child, person attending programs offered by community boards of
mental health and county boards of developmental disabilities, or child
attending a program offered by a head start agency, shall stop at least ten
feet from the front or rear of the school bus and shall not proceed until such
school bus resumes motion, or until signaled by the school bus driver to
proceed. It is no defense to a charge under this division that the school bus
involved failed to display or be equipped with an automatically extended stop
warning sign as required by division (B) of this section.
   (B)   Every school bus shall be equipped with amber and red visual signals
meeting the requirements of R.C. § 4511.771 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, and an automatically extended stop warning sign of a type
approved by the State Board of Education, which shall be actuated by the driver
of the bus whenever but only whenever the bus is stopped or stopping on the
roadway for the purpose of receiving or discharging school children, persons
attending programs offered by community boards of mental health and county
boards of developmental disabilities, or children attending programs offered by
head start agencies. A school bus driver shall not actuate the visual signals
or the stop warning sign in designated school bus loading areas where the bus
is entirely off the roadway or at school buildings when children or persons
attending programs offered by community boards of mental health and county
boards of developmental disabilities are loading or unloading at curbside or at
buildings when children attending programs offered by head start agencies are
loading or unloading at curbside. The visual signals and stop warning sign
shall be synchronized or otherwise operated as required by rule of the Board.
   (C)   Where a highway has been divided into four or more traffic lanes, a
driver of a vehicle need not stop for a school bus approaching from the
opposite direction which has stopped for the purpose of receiving or
discharging any school child, persons attending programs offered by community
boards of mental health and county boards of developmental disabilities, or
children attending programs offered by head start agencies. The driver of any
vehicle overtaking the school bus shall comply with division (A) above.
   (D)   School buses operating on divided highways or on highways with four or
more traffic lanes shall receive and discharge all school children, persons
attending programs offered by community boards of mental health and county
boards of developmental disabilities, and children attending programs offered
by head start agencies on their residence side of the highway.
   (E)   No school bus driver shall start the driver’s bus until after any
child, person attending programs offered by community boards of mental health
and county boards of developmental disabilities, or child attending a program
offered by a head start agency who may have alighted therefrom has reached a
place of safety on the child’s or person’s residence side of the road.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section may be fined an
amount not to exceed $500. A person who is issued a citation for a violation of
division (A) of this section is not permitted to enter a written plea of guilty
and waive the person’s right to contest the citation in a trial but instead
must appear in person in the proper court to answer the charge.
      (2)   In addition to and independent of any other penalty provided by
law, the court or Mayor may impose upon an offender who violates this section a
class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7). When a
license is suspended under this section, the court or mayor shall cause the
offender to deliver the license to the court, and the court or Clerk of the
Court immediately shall forward the license to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles,
together with notice of the court’s action.
   (G)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
      HEAD START AGENCY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3301.32.
      SCHOOL BUS. As used in relation to children who attend a program offered
by a head start agency, means a bus that is owned and operated by a head start
agency, is equipped with an automatically extended stop warning sign of a type
approved by the State Board of Education, is painted the color and displays the
markings described in R.C. § 4511.77, and is equipped with amber and red visual
signals meeting the requirements of R.C. § 4511.77, irrespective of whether or
not the bus has 15 or more children aboard at any time. The term does not
include a van owned and operated by a head start agency, irrespective of its
color, lights or markings.
(R.C. § 4511.75)
§ 72.81  VIOLATION OF REGULATIONS; REPORT; INVESTIGATION; CITATION; WARNING.
   (A)   As used in this section, LICENSE PLATE includes but is not limited to
any temporary license placard issued under R.C. § 4503.182 or substantially
equivalent law of another jurisdiction.
   (B)   When the operator of a school bus believes that a motorist has
violated R.C. § 4511.75(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
the operator shall report the license plate number and general description of
the vehicle and of the operator of the vehicle to the law enforcement agency
exercising jurisdiction over the area where the alleged violation occurred. The
information contained in the report relating to the license plate number and to
the general description of the vehicle and the operator of the vehicle at the
time of the alleged violation may be supplied by any person with first-hand
knowledge of the information. Information of which the operator of the school
bus has first-hand knowledge also may be corroborated by any other person.
   (C)   Upon receipt of the report of the alleged violation of R.C. § 4511.75
(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the law enforcement
agency shall conduct an investigation to attempt to determine the identity of
the operator of the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation. If the
identity of the operator at the time of the alleged violation is established,
the reporting of the license plate number of the vehicle shall establish
probable cause for the law enforcement agency to issue a citation for the
violation of R.C. § 4511.75(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance. However, if the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time
of the alleged violation cannot be established, the law enforcement agency
shall issue a warning to the owner of the vehicle at the time of the alleged
violation, except in the case of a leased or rented vehicle when the warning
shall be issued to the lessee at the time of the alleged violation.
(R.C. § 4511.751)
§ 72.82  RESTRICTIONS ON THE OPERATION OF SCHOOL BUSES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a vehicle used for pupil transportation within
this municipality in violation of the rules of the Department of Education of
the Department of Public Safety. No person, being the owner thereof, or having
the supervisory responsibility therefor, shall permit the operation of a
vehicle used for pupil transportation within this municipality in violation of
the rules of the Department of Education or the Department of Public Safety.
   (B)   As used in this section, VEHICLE USED FOR PUPIL TRANSPORTATION means
any vehicle that is identified as such by the Department of Education by rule
and that is subject to O.A.C. Chapter 3301-83.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.76, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, 4511.77, or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.76(C), (E), (F))
§ 72.83  SCHOOL BUS INSPECTION.
   (A)   No person shall operate, nor shall any person being the owner thereof,
or having supervisory responsibility therefor, permit the operation of a school
bus within this municipality, unless there is displayed thereon the decals
issued by the State Highway Patrol bearing the proper date of inspection for
the calendar year for which the inspection decals were issued.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.761, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.762, 4511.764, 4511.77, or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (C)   Whenever a person is found guilty in a court of record of a violation
of this section, the trial judge, in addition to or independent of all other
penalties provided by law, may suspend for any period of time not exceeding
three years, or cancel the license of any person, partnership, association, or
corporation, issued under R.C. § 4511.763.
(R.C. § 4511.761)
§ 72.84  SCHOOL BUS NOT USED FOR SCHOOL PURPOSES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no person who is
the owner of a bus that previously was registered as a school bus that is used
or is to be used exclusively for purposes other than the transportation of
children shall operate the bus or permit it to be operated within this
municipality unless the bus has been painted a color different from that
prescribed for school buses by R.C. § 4511.77 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance and painted in such a way that the words “stop” and “school
bus” are obliterated.
   (B)   Any church bus that previously was registered as a school bus and is
registered under R.C. § 4503.07 may retain the paint color prescribed for
school buses by R.C. § 4511.77 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance if the bus complies with all of the following:
      (1)   The words “school bus” required by R.C. § 4511.77 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance are covered or obliterated and the
bus is marked on the front and rear with the words “church bus” painted in
black lettering not less than ten inches in height.
      (2)   The automatically extending stop warning sign required by R.C. §
4511.75 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance is removed and the
word “stop” required by R.C. § 4511.77 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance is covered or obliterated.
      (3)   The flashing red and amber lights required by R.C. § 4511.771 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance are covered or removed.
      (4)   The inspection decal required by R.C. § 4511.761 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance is covered or removed.
      (5)   The identification number assigned under R.C. § 4511.764 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance and marked in black lettering on
the front and rear of the bus is covered or obliterated.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.762, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.764, 4511.77, or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (D)   Whenever a person is found guilty in a court of record of a violation
of this section, the trial judge, in addition to or independent of all other
penalties provided by law, may suspend for any period of time not exceeding
three years, or cancel the license of any person, partnership, association, or
corporation, issued under R.C. § 4511.763.
(R.C. § 4511.762)
§ 72.85  LICENSING BY DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY.
   (A)   No person, partnership, association, or corporation shall transport
pupils to or from school on a school bus or enter into a contract with a board
of education of any school district for the transportation of pupils on a
school bus without being licensed by the Department of Public Safety.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.763)
§ 72.86  REGISTRATION AND IDENTIFICATION OF SCHOOL BUSES.
   (A)   No person shall operate, nor shall any person being the owner thereof
or having supervisory responsibility therefor, permit the operation of a school
bus within this municipality unless there is displayed thereon an identifying
number in accordance with R.C. § 4511.764.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of R.C. § 4511.63,
4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.77, or 4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that
is substantially equivalent to any of those sections, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.764)
§ 72.87  SCHOOL BUS MARKING.
   (A)   No person shall operate, nor shall any person being the owner thereof
or having supervisory responsibility therefor permit the operation of, a school
bus within this municipality unless it is painted national school bus yellow
and is marked on both front and rear with the words “school bus” in black
lettering not less than eight inches in height and on the rear of the bus with
the word “stop” in black lettering not less than ten inches in height.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.77, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (C)   Whenever a person is found guilty in a court of record of a violation
of this section, the trial judge, in addition to or independent of all other
penalties provided by law, may suspend, for any period of time not exceeding
three years, or cancel the license of any person, partnership, association, or
corporation issued under R.C. § 4511.763.
(R.C. § 4511.77)
§ 72.88  FLASHING LIGHT SIGNAL LAMPS.
   (A)   Every school bus shall, in addition to any other equipment and
distinctive markings required pursuant to R.C. §§ 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.764
and 4511.77, and any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, be equipped
with signal lamps mounted as high as practicable, which shall display to the
front two alternately flashing red lights and two alternately flashing amber
lights located at the same level and to the rear two alternately flashing red
lights and alternately flashing amber lights located at the same level, and
these lights shall be visible at 500 feet in normal sunlight. The alternately
flashing red lights shall be spaced as widely as practicable, and the
alternately flashing amber lights shall be located next to them.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.771)
§ 72.89  OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICE FOR OPERATOR.
   (A)   On and after May 6, 1986, no person, school board, or governmental
entity shall purchase, lease, or rent a new school bus unless the school bus
has an occupant restraining device, as defined in R.C. § 4513.263, installed
for use in its operator’s seat.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.772)
CHAPTER 73:  MOTOR VEHICLE CRIMES
Section
General Provisions
   
73.01   Driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs
   
73.011   Implied consent
   
73.012   Physical control of vehicle while under the influence
   
73.02   Driving commercial vehicle with impaired alertness or ability; use of
drugs
   
73.03   Immobilizing or disabling device violation
Reckless Operation
   
73.05   Reckless operation of vehicles
   
73.06   Reckless operation off streets and highways; competitive operation
   
73.07   Operator to be in reasonable control
   
73.08   Operating a motor vehicle with excessive acceleration
Speed Regulations
   
73.10   Speed limits
   
73.11   Slow speed or stopping
   
73.12   Emergency vehicles excepted from speed limitation
   
73.13   Street racing defined; prohibited on public highways
   
73.14   Speed regulations on bridges
   
73.15   Radar equipment
Resisting Officer
   
73.20   Prohibition against resisting officer
   
73.21   Presenting false name or information to officer
Stopping After Accident
   
73.25   Exchange of identity and vehicle registration
   
73.26   Accident involving injury to persons or property
   
73.27   Accident involving damage to realty
   
73.28   Failure to report accident
Statutory reference:
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
   Vehicle accident reports, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-31
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 73.01  DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOL OR DRUGS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate any vehicle within this municipality,
if, at the time of the operation, any of the following apply:
         (a)   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse,
or a combination of them;
         (b)   The person has a concentration of 0.08% or more but less than
0.17% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood;
         (c)   The person has a concentration of 0.096% or more but less than
0.204% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or
plasma;
         (d)   The person has a concentration of 0.08 grams or more but less
than 0.17 grams by weight of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath;
         (e)   The person has a concentration of 0.11 grams or more but less
than 0.238 grams by weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s
urine;
         (f)   The person has a concentration of 0.17% or more by weight per
unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood;
         (g)   The person has a concentration of 0.204% or more by weight per
unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or plasma;
         (h)   The person has a concentration of 0.17 grams or more by weight
of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath;
         (i)   The person has a concentration of 0.238 grams or more by weight
of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s urine;
         (j)   Except as provided in division (K) of this section, the person
has a concentration of any of the following controlled substances or
metabolites of a controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum
or plasma, or urine that equals or exceeds any of the following:
            1.   The person has a concentration of amphetamine in the person’s
urine of at least 500 nanograms of amphetamine per milliliter of the person’s
urine or has a concentration of amphetamine in the person’s whole blood or
blood serum or plasma of at least 100 nanograms of amphetamine per milliliter
of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma;
            2.   The person has a concentration of cocaine in the person’s
urine of at least 150 nanograms of cocaine per milliliter of the person’s urine
or has a concentration of cocaine in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma of at least 50 nanograms of cocaine per milliliter of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma;
            3.   The person has a concentration of cocaine metabolite in the
person’s urine of at least 150 nanograms of cocaine metabolite per milliliter
of the person’s urine or has a concentration of cocaine metabolite in the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 50 nanograms of
cocaine metabolite per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma;
            4.   The person has a concentration of heroin in the person’s urine
of at least 2,000 nanograms of heroin per milliliter of the person’s urine or
has a concentration of heroin in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma of at least 50 nanograms of heroin per milliliter of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma;
            5.   The person has a concentration of heroin metabolite (6-
monoacetyl morphine) in the person’s urine of at least 10 nanograms of heroin
metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) per milliliter of the person’s urine or has
a concentration of heroin metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) in the person’s
whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 10 nanograms of heroin
metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) per milliliter of the person’s whole blood
or blood serum or plasma;
            6.   The person has a concentration of L.S.D. in the person’s urine
of at least 25 nanograms of L.S.D. per milliliter of the person’s urine or a
concentration of L.S.D. in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of
at least 10 nanograms of L.S.D. per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or
blood serum or plasma;
            7.   The person has a concentration of marihuana in the person’s
urine of at least 10 nanograms of marihuana per milliliter of the person’s
urine or has a concentration of marihuana in the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma of at least 2 nanograms of marihuana per milliliter of the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma;
            8.   Either of the following applies:
               a.   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of
abuse, or a combination of them, and, as measured by gas chromatography mass
spectrometry, the person has a concentration of marihuana metabolite in the
person’s urine of at least 15 nanograms of marihuana metabolite per milliliter
of the person’s urine or has a concentration of marihuana metabolite in the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 5 nanograms of
marihuana metabolite per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum
or plasma;
               b.   As measured by gas chromatography mass spectrometry, the
person has a concentration of marihuana metabolite in the person’s urine of at
least 35 nanograms of marihuana metabolite per milliliter of the person’s urine
or has a concentration of marihuana metabolite in the person’s whole blood or
blood serum or plasma of at least 50 nanograms of marihuana metabolite per
milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            9.   The person has a concentration of methamphetamine in the
person’s urine of at least 500 nanograms of methamphetamine per milliliter of
the person’s urine or has a concentration of methamphetamine in the person’s
whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 100 nanograms of
methamphetamine per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma;
            10.   The person has a concentration of phencyclidine in the
person’s urine of at least 25 nanograms of phencyclidine per milliliter of the
person’s urine or has a concentration of phencyclidine in the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 10 nanograms of phencyclidine per
milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma;
            11.   The State Board of Pharmacy has adopted a rule pursuant to
R.C. § 4729.041 that specifies the amount of salvia divinorum and the amount of
salvinorin A that constitute concentrations of salvia divinorum and salvinorin
A in a person’s urine, in a person’s whole blood, or in a person’s blood serum
or plasma at or above which the person is impaired for purposes of operating
any vehicle, streetcar, or trackless trolley within this state, the rule is in
effect, and the person has a concentration of salvia divinorum or salvinorin A
of at least that amount so specified by rule in the person’s urine, in the
person’s whole blood, or in the person’s blood serum or plasma.
      (2)   No person who, within 20 years of the conduct described in division
(A)(2)(a) of this section, previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of this division or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(1) or (B) of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or any other
equivalent offense shall do both of the following:
         (a)   Operate any vehicle within this municipality while under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them;
         (b)   Subsequent to being arrested for operating the vehicle as
described in division (A)(2)(a) of this section, being asked by a law
enforcement officer to submit to a chemical test or tests under R.C. § 4511.191
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and being advised by the
officer in accordance with R.C. § 4511.192 or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance of the consequences of the person’s refusal or submission
to the test or tests, refuse to submit to the test or tests.
   (B)   No person under 21 years of age shall operate any vehicle within this
municipality, if, at the time of the operation, any of the following apply:
      (1)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.02% but less than
0.08% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood;
      (2)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.03% but less than
0.096% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or
plasma;
      (3)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.02 grams but less than
0.08 grams by weight of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath;
      (4)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.028 grams but less
than 0.11 grams by weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s urine.
   (C)   In any proceeding arising out of one incident, a person may be charged
with a violation of division (A)(1)(a) or (A)(2) and a violation of division
(B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section, but the person may not be convicted
of more than one violation of these divisions.
   (D)   (1)   (a)   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding
for a violation of division (A)(1)(a) of this section or for an equivalent
offense that is vehicle-related, the result of any test of any blood or urine
withdrawn and analyzed at any health care provider, as defined in R.C. §
2317.02, may be admitted with expert testimony to be considered with any other
relevant and competent evidence in determining the guilt or innocence of the
defendant.
         (b)   In any criminal prosecution for a violation of division (A) or
(B) of this section or for an equivalent offense that is vehicle-related, the
court may admit evidence on the concentration of alcohol, drugs of abuse,
controlled substances, metabolites of a controlled substance, or a combination
of them in the defendant’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, urine,
or other bodily substance at the time of the alleged violation as shown by
chemical analysis of the substance withdrawn within three hours of the time of
the alleged violation. The three-hour time limit specified in this division
regarding the admission of evidence does not extend or affect the two-hour time
limit specified in R.C. § 4511.192(A) as the maximum period of time during
which a person may consent to a chemical test or tests as described in that
section. The court may admit evidence on the concentration of alcohol, drugs of
abuse, or a combination of them as described in this division when a person
submits to a blood test at the request of a law enforcement officer under R.C.
§ 4511.191 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or a blood or
urine sample is obtained pursuant to a search warrant. Only a physician, a
registered nurse, an emergency medical technician-intermediate, an emergency
medical technician-paramedic, or a qualified technician, chemist, or
phlebotomist shall withdraw a blood sample for the purpose of determining the
alcohol, drug, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance, or
combination content of the whole blood, blood serum, or blood plasma. This
limitation does not apply to the taking of breath or urine specimens. A person
authorized to withdraw blood under this division may refuse to withdraw blood
under this division, if in that person’s opinion, the physical welfare of the
person would be endangered by the withdrawing of blood. The bodily substance
withdrawn under this division (D)(1)(b) shall be analyzed in accordance with
methods approved by the Director of Health by an individual possessing a valid
permit issued by the Director pursuant to R.C. § 3701.143.
         (c)   As used in division (D)(1)(b) of this section, EMERGENCY MEDICAL
TECHNICIAN-INTERMEDIATE and EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN- PARAMEDIC have the
same meanings as in R.C. § 4765.01.
      (2)   In a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (A) of this
section or for an equivalent offense that is vehicle-related, if there was at
the time the bodily substance was withdrawn a concentration of less than the
applicable concentration of alcohol specified in divisions (A)(1)(b), (A)(1)
(c), (A)(1)(d) and (A)(1)(e) of this section or less than the applicable
concentration of a listed controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a
controlled substance specified for a violation of division (A)(1)(j) of this
section, that fact may be considered with other competent evidence in
determining the guilt or innocence of the defendant. This division does not
limit or affect a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (B) of this
section.
      (3)   Upon the request of the person who was tested, the results of the
chemical test shall be made available to the person or the person’s attorney,
immediately upon the completion of the chemical test analysis. If the chemical
test was obtained pursuant to division (D)(1)(b) of this section, the person
tested may have a physician, a registered nurse, or a qualified technician,
chemist, or phlebotomist of the person’s own choosing administer a chemical
test or tests, at the person’s expense, in addition to any administered at the
request of a law enforcement officer.  If the person was under arrest as
described in R.C. § 4511.191(A)(5), the arresting officer shall advise the
person at the time of the arrest that the person may have an independent
chemical test taken at the person’s own expense. If the person was under arrest
other than described in R.C. § 4511.191(A)(5), the form to be read to the
person to be tested, as required under §
73.011, shall state that the person may have an independent test performed at
the person’s expense. The failure or inability to obtain an additional chemical
test by a person shall not preclude the admission of evidence relating to the
chemical test or tests taken at the request of a law enforcement officer.
      (4)   (a)   As used in division (D)(4)(b) and (D)(4)(c) of this section,
NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION means the National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration established as an administration of the United
States Department of Transportation under 96 Stat. 2415 (1983), 49 U.S.C. §
105.
         (b)   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a
violation of division (A) or (B) of this section, of a municipal ordinance
relating to operating a vehicle while under the influence of alcohol, a drug of
abuse, or alcohol and a drug of abuse, or of a municipal ordinance relating to
operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a controlled
substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, breath, or urine, if a law enforcement officer has
administered a field sobriety test to the operator of the vehicle involved in
the violation and if it is shown by clear and convincing evidence that the
officer administered the test in substantial compliance with the testing
standards for any reliable, credible, and generally accepted field sobriety
tests that were in effect at the time the tests were administered, including
but not limited to any testing standards then in effect that were set by the
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, all of the following apply:
            1.   The officer may testify concerning the results of the field
sobriety test so administered;
            2.   The prosecution may introduce the results of the field
sobriety test so administered as evidence in any proceedings in the criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding;
            3.   If testimony is presented or evidence is introduced under
division (D)(4)(b)1. or (D)(4)(b)2. of this section and if the testimony or
evidence is admissible under the Rules of Evidence, the court shall admit the
testimony or evidence and the trier of fact shall give it whatever weight the
trier of fact considers to be appropriate.
         (c)   Division (D)(4)(b) of this section does not limit or preclude a
court, in its determination of whether the arrest of a person was supported by
probable cause or its determination of any other matter in a criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding of a type described in that division,
from considering evidence or testimony that is not otherwise disallowed by
division (D)(4)(b) of this section.
   (E)   (1)   Subject to division (E)(3) of this section, in any criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a violation of division (A)(1)(b),
(A)(1)(c), (A)(1)(d), (A)(1)(e), (A)(1)(f), (A)(1)(g), (A)(1)(h), (A)(1)(i), or
(A)(1)(j) or (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3), or (B)(4) of this section or for an
equivalent offense that is substantially equivalent to any of those divisions,
a laboratory report from any laboratory personnel issued a permit by the
Department of Health authorizing an analysis as described in this division that
contains an analysis of the whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, urine,
or other bodily substance tested and that contains all of the information
specified in this division shall be admitted as prima facie evidence of the
information and statements that the report contains. The laboratory report
shall contain all of the following:
         (a)   The signature, under oath, of any person who performed the
analysis;
         (b)   Any findings as to the identity and quantity of alcohol, a drug
of abuse, a controlled substance, a metabolite of a controlled substance, or a
combination of them that was found;
         (c)   A copy of a notarized statement by the laboratory director of a
designee of the director that contains the name of each certified analyst or
test performer involved with the report, the analyst’s or test performer’s
employment relationship with the laboratory that issued the report, and a
notation that performing an analysis of the type involved is part of the
analyst’s or test performer’s regular duties;
         (d)   An outline of the analyst’s or test performer’s education,
training, and experience in performing the type of analysis involved and a
certification that the laboratory satisfies appropriate quality control
standards in general and, in this particular analysis, under rules of the
Department of Health.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law regarding the admission
of evidence, a report of the type described in division (E)(1) of this section
is not admissible against the defendant to whom it pertains in any proceeding,
other than a preliminary hearing or a grand jury proceeding, unless the
prosecutor has served a copy of the report on the defendant’s attorney or, if
the defendant has no attorney, on the defendant.
      (3)   A report of the type described in division (E)(1) of this section
shall not be prima facie evidence of the contents, identity, or amount of any
substance if, within seven days after the defendant to whom the report pertains
or the defendant’s attorney receives a copy of the report, the defendant or the
defendant’s attorney demands the testimony of the person who signed the report.
The judge in the case may extend the seven-day time limit in the interest of
justice.
   (F)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, any physician,
registered nurse, emergency medical technician-intermediate, emergency medical
technician-paramedic, or qualified technician, chemist, or phlebotomist who
withdraws blood from a person pursuant to this section or R.C. § 4511.19,
4511.191 or 4511.192, and any hospital, first-aid station, or clinic at which
blood is withdrawn from a person pursuant to this section or R.C. § 4511.19,
4511.191 or 4511.192, is immune from criminal liability and civil liability
based upon a claim of assault and battery or any other claim that is not a
claim of malpractice, for any act performed in withdrawing blood from the
person. The immunity provided in this division also extends to an emergency
medical service organization that employs an emergency medical technician-
intermediate or emergency medical technician-paramedic who withdraws blood
under this section. The immunity provided in this division is not available to
a person who withdraws blood if the person engages in willful or wanton
misconduct.
      (2)   As used in division (F)(1), EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-
INTERMEDIATE and EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-PARAMEDIC have the same meanings
as in R.C. § 4765.01.
   (G)   (1)   Whoever violates any provisions of divisions (A)(1)(a) through
(A)(1)(i) or (A)(2) of this section is guilty of operating a vehicle under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them. Whoever
violates division (A)(1)(j) of this section is guilty of operating a vehicle
while under the influence of a listed controlled substance or a listed
metabolite of a controlled substance. The court shall sentence the offender for
either offense under R.C. Chapter 2929, except as otherwise authorized or
required by divisions (G)(1)(a) through (G)(1)(e) of this section:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(b), (G)(1)(c),
(G)(1)(d), or (G)(1)(e) of this section, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree, and the court shall sentence the offender to
all of the penalties and sanctions provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(a)(i)
through (G)(1)(a)(iv).
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(e) of this
section, an offender who, within six years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one violation of division (A) or (B) of this
section or one other equivalent offense is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the penalties and
sanctions provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(b)(i) through (G)(1)(b)(v).
         (c)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(e) of this
section, an offender who, within six years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of division (A) or (B) of this
section or other equivalent offenses is guilty of a misdemeanor. The court
shall sentence the offender to all of the penalties and sanctions provided in
R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(c)(i) through (G)(1)(c)(vi).
         (d)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(e) of this
section, an offender who, within six years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of division (A) or
(B) of this section or other equivalent offenses or an offender who, within 20
years of the offense, previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to
five or more violations of that nature is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
         (e)   An offender who previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) that was a felony, regardless of
when the violation and the conviction or guilty plea occurred, is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   An offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (A) of this section and who subsequently seeks reinstatement of the
driver’s or occupational driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating
privilege suspended under this section or R.C. § 4511.19 as a result of the
conviction or guilty plea shall pay a reinstatement fee as provided in R.C. §
4511.191(F)(2).
      (3)   (a)   If an offender is sentenced to a jail term under R.C. §
4511.19(G)(1)(b)(i) or (G)(1)(b)(ii) or (G)(1)(c)(i) or (G)(1)(c)(ii) and if,
within 60 days of sentencing of the offender, the court issues a written
finding on the record that, due to the unavailability of space at the jail
where the offender is required to serve the term, the offender will not be able
to begin serving that term within the 60-day period following the date of
sentencing, the court may impose an alternative sentence as specified in R.C. §
4511.19(G)(3) that includes a term of house arrest with electronic monitoring,
with continuous alcohol monitoring, or with both electronic monitoring and
continuous alcohol monitoring.
         (b)   As an alternative to the mandatory jail terms as required by
R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1), the court may sentence the offender as provided in R.C. §
4511.19(G)(3).
      (4)   If an offender’s driver’s or occupational driver’s license or
permit or nonresident operating privilege is suspended under division (G) of
this section or R.C. § 4511.19(G) and if R.C. § 4510.13 permits the court to
grant limited driving privileges, the court may grant the limited driving
privileges in accordance with that section. If division (A)(7) of that section
requires the court impose as a condition of the privileges that the offender
must display on the vehicle that is driven subject to the privileges restricted
license plates that are issued under R.C. § 4503.231, except as provided in
division (B) of that section, the court shall impose that condition as one of
the conditions of the limited driving privileges granted to the offender,
except as provided in R.C. § 4503.231(B).
      (5)   Fines imposed under this section for a violation of division (A) of
this section shall be distributed as provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(5).
      (6)   If title to a motor vehicle that is subject to an order of criminal
forfeiture under division (G)(1)(c), (G)(1)(d), or (G)(1)(e) of this section is
assigned or transferred and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, in
addition to or independent of any other penalty established by law, the court
may fine the offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of
the National Automobile Dealers Association. The proceeds of any fine so
imposed shall be distributed in accordance with division (C)(2) of that
section.
      (7)   In all cases in which an offender is sentenced under division (G)
of this section, the offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, the court, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for
any economic loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and
proximate result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or
after committing the offense for which the offender is sentenced under division
(G) of this section.
      (8)   As used in division (G) of this section, ELECTRONIC MONITORING has
the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   (H)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of operating a
motor vehicle after underage alcohol consumption and shall be punished as
follows:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (H)(2) of this section,
the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. In addition to
any other sanction imposed for the offense, the court shall impose a class six
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(6).
      (2)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of division (A)
or (B) of this section or other equivalent offense or offenses, the offender is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree. In addition to any other sanction
imposed for the offense, the court shall impose a class four suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
      (3)   If the offender also is convicted of or also pleads guilty to a
specification of the type described in R.C. § 2941.1414 and if the court
imposes a jail term for the violation of division (B) of this section, the
court shall impose upon the offender an additional definite jail term pursuant
to R.C. § 2929.24(E).
      (4)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after
committing the violation of division (B) of this section.
   (I)   (1)   No court shall sentence an offender to an alcohol treatment
program under this section unless the treatment program complies with the
minimum standards for alcohol treatment programs adopted under R.C. Chapter
3793 by the Director of Alcohol and Drug Addiction Services.
      (2)   An offender who stays in a drivers’ intervention program or in an
alcohol treatment program under an order issued under this section shall pay
the cost of the stay in the program. However, if the court determines that an
offender who stays in an alcohol treatment program under an order issued under
this section is unable to pay the cost of the stay in the program, the court
may order that the cost be paid from the court’s Indigent Drivers’ Alcohol
Treatment Fund.
   (J)   If a person whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege is suspended under this section or R.C. §
4511.19 files an appeal regarding any aspect of the person’s trial or sentence,
the appeal itself does not stay the operation of the suspension.
   (K)   Division (A)(1)(j) of this section does not apply to a person who
operates a vehicle while the person has a concentration of a listed controlled
substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance in the person’s
whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or urine that equals or exceeds the amount
specified in that division, if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs;
      (2)   The person injected, ingested, or inhaled the controlled substance
in accordance with the health professional’s directions.
   (L)   The prohibited concentrations of a controlled substance or a
metabolite of a controlled substance listed in division (A)(1)(j) of this
section also apply in a prosecution of a violation of R.C. § 2923.16(D) in the
same manner as if the offender is being prosecuted for a prohibited
concentration of alcohol.
   (M)   All terms defined in R.C. § 4510.01 apply to this section. If the
meaning of a term defined in R.C. § 4510.01 conflicts with the meaning of the
same term as defined in R.C. § 4501.01 or 4511.01, the term as defined in R.C.
§ 4510.01 applies to this section.
(R.C. § 4511.19(A) - (M))
   (N)   As used in this section and §§
73.011 and
73.012:
      COMMUNITY RESIDENTIAL SANCTION, CONTINUOUS ALCOHOL MONITORING, JAIL,
MANDATORY PRISON TERM, MANDATORY TERM OF LOCAL INCARCERATION, PRISON TERM, and
SANCTION. Have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      DRUG OF ABUSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4506.01.
      EQUIVALENT OFFENSE. Means any of the following:
         (a)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B);
         (b)   A violation of a municipal OVI ordinance;
         (c)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.04 in a case in which the offender
was subject to the sanctions described in division (D) of that section;
         (d)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.06(A)(1) or R.C. § 2903.08 or a
municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to either of those
divisions;
         (e)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.06(A)(2), (A)(3), or (A)(4), R.C. §
2903.08(A)(2), or former R.C. § 2903.07, or a municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to any of those divisions or that former section, in a
case in which a judge or jury as the trier of fact found that the offender was
under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them;
         (f)   A violation of R.C. § 1547.11(A) or (B);
         (g)   A violation of a municipal ordinance prohibiting a person from
operating or being in physical control of any vessel underway or from
manipulating any water skis, aquaplane, or similar device on the waters of this
state while under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination
of them or prohibiting a person from operating or being in physical control of
any vessel underway or from manipulating any water skis, aquaplane, or similar
device on the waters of this state with a prohibited concentration of alcohol,
a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine;
         (h)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance, law of
another state, or law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to
R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B) or R.C. § 1547.11(A) or (B);
         (i)   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B) or R.C. § 1547.11(A) or (B).
      EQUIVALENT OFFENSE THAT IS VEHICLE-RELATED. Means an equivalent offense
that is any of the following:
         (a)   A violation described in division (a), (b), (c), (d), or (e) of
the definition for “equivalent offense” provided in this division (N);
         (b)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance, law of
another state, or law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to
R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B);
         (c)   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B).
      MANDATORY JAIL TERM. Means the mandatory term in jail of 3, 6, 10, 20,
30, or 60 days that must be imposed under R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(a), (G)(1)(b),
or (G)(1)(c) upon an offender convicted of a violation of division (A) of that
section and in relation to which all of the following apply:
         (a)   Except as specifically authorized under R.C. § 4511.19, the term
must be served in a jail;
         (b)   Except as specifically authorized under R.C. § 4511.19, the term
cannot be suspended, reduced, or otherwise modified pursuant to R.C. §§ 2929.21
through 2929.28 or any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
      MUNICIPAL OVI ORDINANCE and MUNICIPAL OVI OFFENSE. Mean any municipal
ordinance prohibiting a person from operating a vehicle while under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them or prohibiting
a person from operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a
controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine.
(R.C. § 4511.181)  (Am. Ord. 05-06, passed 2-14-2006)
Cross-reference:
   Endangering children, see §
135.14
   Power to suspend driver’s license, see §
33.05
Statutory reference:
   Mandatory suspension periods; immobilizing or disabling device; restricted
license, see R.C. § 4510.13
   Trial judge to suspend driver’s license, see R.C. § 4510.05
§ 73.011  IMPLIED CONSENT.
   (A)   (1)   As used in this section:
         ALCOHOL MONITORING DEVICE. Means any device that provides for
continuous alcohol  monitoring, any ignition interlock device, any immobilizing
or disabling device other than an ignition interlock device that is constantly
available to monitor the concentration of alcohol in a person’s system, or any
other device that provides for the automatic testing and periodic reporting of
alcohol consumption by a person and that a court orders a person to use as a
sanction imposed as a result of the person’s conviction of or plea of guilty to
an offense.
         PHYSICAL CONTROL has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.194.
      (2)   Any person who operates a vehicle upon a highway or any public or
private property used by the public for vehicular travel or parking within this
municipality or who is in physical control of a vehicle shall be deemed to have
given consent to a chemical test or tests of the person’s whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, breath, or urine to determine the alcohol, drug of abuse,
controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance, or combination
content of the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine if
arrested for a violation of §
73.01(A) or (B), §
73.012, R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or any other municipal OVI ordinance.
      (3)   The chemical test or tests under division (A)(2) of this section
shall be administered at the request of a law enforcement officer having
reasonable grounds to believe the person was operating or in physical control
of a vehicle in violation of a division, section, or ordinance identified in
division (A)(2) of this section. The law enforcement agency by which the
officer is employed shall designate which of the tests shall be administered.
      (4)   Any person who is dead or unconscious, or who otherwise is in a
condition rendering the person incapable of refusal, shall be deemed to have
consented as provided in division (A)(2) of this section, and the test or tests
may be administered, subject to R.C. §§ 313.12 through 313.16.
      (5)   (a)   If a law enforcement officer arrests a person for a violation
of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or a municipal OVI ordinance and if the person if
convicted would be required to be sentenced under R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(c), (d),
or (e), the law enforcement officer shall request the person to submit, and the
person shall submit, to a chemical test or tests of the person’s whole blood,
blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine for the purpose of determining the
alcohol, drug of abuse, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled
substance, or combination content of the person’s whole blood, blood serum or
plasma, breath, or urine. A law enforcement officer who makes a request
pursuant to this division that a person submit to a chemical test or tests is
not required to advise the person of the consequences of submitting to, or
refusing to submit to, the test or tests and is not required to give the person
the form described in division (C) of this section, but the officer shall
advise the person at the time of the arrest that if the person refuses to take
a chemical test the officer may employ whatever reasonable means are necessary
to ensure that the person submits to a chemical test of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma. The officer shall also advise the person at the
time of the arrest that the person may have an independent chemical test taken
at the person’s own expense. Divisions (A)(3) and (A)(4) of this section apply
to the administration of a chemical test or tests pursuant to this division.
         (b)   If a person refuses to submit to a chemical test upon a request
made pursuant to division (A)(5)(a) of this section, the law enforcement
officer who made the request may employ whatever reasonable means are necessary
to ensure that the person submits to a chemical test of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma. A law enforcement officer who acts pursuant to
this division to ensure that a person submits to a chemical test of the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma is immune from criminal and civil
liability based upon a claim for assault and battery or any other claim for the
acts, unless the officer so acted with malicious purpose, in bad faith, or in a
wanton or reckless manner.
(R.C. § 4511.191(A))
   (B)   Except as provided in division (A)(5) of this section, the arresting
law enforcement officer shall give advice in accordance with this section to
any person under arrest for a violation of §
73.01(A) or (B), §
73.012, R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or any other municipal OVI ordinance. The officer shall
give that advice in a written form that contains the information described in
division (C) of this section and shall read the advice to the person. The form
shall contain a statement that the form was shown to the person under arrest
and read to the person by the arresting officer. One or more persons shall
witness the arresting officer’s reading of the form, and the witnesses shall
certify to this fact by signing the form. The person must submit to the
chemical test or tests, subsequent to the request of the arresting officer,
within two hours of the time of the alleged violation and, if the person does
not submit to the test or tests within that two-hour time limit, the failure to
submit automatically constitutes a refusal to submit to the test or tests.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (A)(5) of this section, if a person is
under arrest as described in division (B) of this section, before the person
may be requested to submit to a chemical test or tests to determine the
alcohol, drug of abuse, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled
substance, or combination content of the person’s whole blood, blood serum or
plasma, breath, or urine, the arresting officer shall read the following form
to the person:
      “You now are under arrest for (specifically state the offense under state
law or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance for which the person was
arrested – operating a vehicle under the influence of alcohol, a drug, or a
combination of them; operating a vehicle while under the influence of a listed
controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance;
operating a vehicle after underage alcohol consumption; or having physical
control of a vehicle while under the influence).
      “If you refuse to take any chemical test required by law, your Ohio
driving privileges will be suspended immediately, and you will have to pay a
fee to have the privileges reinstated. If you have a prior conviction of OVI,
OVUAC, or operating a vehicle while under the influence of a listed controlled
substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance under state or
municipal law within the preceding 20 years, you are now under arrest for state
OVI, and, if you refuse to take a chemical test, you will face increased
penalties if you subsequently are convicted of the state OVI.
      “(Read this part unless the person is under arrest for solely having
physical control of a vehicle while under the influence.) If you take any
chemical test required by law and are found to be at or over the prohibited
amount of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled
substance in your whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine as set
by law, your Ohio driving privileges will be suspended immediately, and you
will have to pay a fee to have the privileges reinstated.
      “If you take a chemical test, you may have an independent chemical test
taken at your own expense.”
   (D)   If the arresting law enforcement officer does not ask a person under
arrest as described in division (B) of this section or division (A)(5) of this
section to submit to a chemical test or tests under R.C. § 4511.191 or this
section, the arresting officer shall seize the Ohio or out-of-state driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit of the person and immediately forward it
to the court in which the arrested person is to appear on the charge. If the
arrested person is not in possession of the person’s license or permit or it is
not in the person’s vehicle, the officer shall order the person to surrender it
to the law enforcement agency that employs the officer within 24 hours after
the arrest, and, upon the surrender, the agency immediately shall forward the
license or permit to the court in which the person is to appear on the charge.
Upon receipt of the license or permit, the court shall retain it pending the
arrested person’s initial appearance and any action taken under R.C. §
4511.196.
   (E)   (1)   If a law enforcement officer asks a person under arrest as
described in division (A)(5) of this section to submit to a chemical test or
tests under that division and the test results indicate a prohibited
concentration of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a
controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma,
breath, or urine at the time of the alleged offense, or if a law enforcement
officer asks a person under arrest as described in division (B) of this section
to submit to a chemical test or tests under R.C. § 4511.191 or this section, if
the officer advises the person in accordance with this section of the
consequences of the person’s refusal or submission, and if either the person
refuses to submit to the test or tests or, unless the arrest was for a
violation of §
73.012, R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the
person submits to the test or tests and the test results indicate a prohibited
concentration of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a
controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma,
breath, or urine at the time of the alleged offense, the arresting officer
shall do all of the following:
         (a)   On behalf of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, notify the person
that, independent of any penalties or sanctions imposed upon the person, the
person’s Ohio driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privilege is suspended immediately, that the suspension will last at
least until the person’s initial appearance on the charge, which will be held
within five days after the date of the person’s arrest or the issuance of a
citation to the person, and that the person may appeal the suspension at the
initial appearance or during the period of time ending 30 days after that
initial appearance;
         (b)   Seize the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit of
the person and immediately forward it to the Registrar. If the arrested person
is not in possession of the person’s license or permit or it is not in the
person’s vehicle, the officer shall order the person to surrender it to the law
enforcement agency that employs the officer within 24 hours after the person is
given notice of the suspension, and, upon the surrender, the officer’s
employing agency immediately shall forward the license or permit to the
Registrar;
         (c)   Verify the person’s current residence and, if it differs from
that on the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit, notify
the Registrar of the change;
         (d)   Send to the Registrar, within 48 hours after the arrest of the
person, a sworn report that includes all of the following statements:
            1.   That the officer had reasonable grounds to believe that, at
the time of the arrest, the arrested person was operating a vehicle in
violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B) or a municipal OVI ordinance or for being
in physical control of a stationary vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4511.194 or
a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
            2.   That the person was arrested and charged with a violation of
R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or a municipal OVI ordinance;
            3.   Unless division (E)(1)(d)5. of this section applies, that the
officer asked the person to take the designated chemical test or tests, advised
the person in accordance with this section of the consequences of submitting
to, or refusing to take, the test or tests, and gave the person the form
described in division (C) of this section;
            4.   Unless division (E)(1)(d)5. of this section applies, that
either the person refused to submit to the chemical test or tests or, unless
the arrest was for a violation of R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, the person submitted to the chemical test or tests and the
test results indicate a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a controlled
substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the person’s whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine at the time of the alleged
offense.
            5.   If the person was under arrest as described in division (A)(5)
of this section and the chemical test or tests were performed in accordance
with that division, that the person was under arrest as described in that
division, that the chemical test or tests were performed in accordance with
that division, and that test results indicated a prohibited concentration of
alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in
the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine at the time
of the alleged offense.
      (2)   Division (E)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
arrested for a violation of §
73.012, R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, who
is asked by a law enforcement officer to submit to a chemical test or tests
under this section, and who submits to the test or tests, regardless of the
amount of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled
substance that the test results indicate is present in the person’s whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine.
   (F)   The arresting officer shall give the officer’s sworn report that is
completed under this section to the arrested person at the time of the arrest,
or the Registrar of Motor Vehicles shall send the report to the person by
regular first class mail as soon as possible after receipt of the report, but
not later than 14 days after receipt of it. An arresting officer may give an
unsworn report to the arrested person at the time of the arrest provided the
report is complete when given to the arrested person and subsequently is sworn
to by the arresting officer. As soon as possible, but not later than 48 hours
after the arrest of the person, the arresting officer shall send a copy of the
sworn report to the court in which the arrested person is to appear on the
charge for which the person was arrested.
   (G)   The sworn report of an arresting officer completed under this section
is prima facie proof of the information and statements that it contains. It
shall be admitted and considered as prima facie proof of the information and
statements that it contains in any appeal under R.C. § 4511.197 relative to any
suspension of a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege that results from the arrest covered by the
report.
(R.C. § 4511.192)
   (H)   (1)   A suspension of a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or permit or nonresident operating privilege under this section for the
time described in R.C. § 4511.191(B) or (C) is effective immediately from the
time at which the arresting officer serves the notice of suspension upon the
arrested person. Any subsequent finding that the person is not guilty of the
charge that resulted in the person’s being requested to take the chemical test
or tests under division (A) of this section does not affect the suspension.
      (2)   If a person arrested for operating a vehicle in violation of §
73.01(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), or any other municipal OVI
ordinance, or for being in physical control of a vehicle in violation of §
73.012 or R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
regardless of whether the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit or nonresident operating privilege is or is not suspended under R.C. §
4511.191(B) or (C) or R.C. Chapter 4510, the person’s initial appearance on the
charge resulting from the arrest shall be held within five days of the persons’
arrest or the issuance of the citation to him or her, subject to any
continuance granted by the court pursuant to R.C. § 4511.197 regarding the
issues specified in that section.
(R.C. § 4511.191(D))  (Am. Ord. 05-06, passed 2-14-2006)
Statutory reference:
   Disposition of fines, immobilization of vehicle and impoundment of license
plates, criminal forfeiture for municipal ordinance conviction, see R.C. §
4511.193
   Effect of refusal to submit to test, seizure of license, suspension periods,
appeal procedures, occupational driving privileges, and Indigent Drivers
Alcohol Treatment  Funds, see R.C. § 4511.191
   Judicial pretrial suspension, initial appearance, see R.C. § 4511.196
   Mandatory suspension periods; immobilizing or disabling device; restricted
license, see R.C. § 4510.13
   Seizure of vehicles upon arrest, see R.C. § 4511.195
§ 73.012  PHYSICAL CONTROL OF VEHICLE WHILE UNDER THE INFLUENCE.
   (A)   As used in this section, PHYSICAL CONTROL means being in the driver’s
position of the front seat of a vehicle and having possession of the vehicle’s
ignition key or other ignition device.
   (B)   No person shall be in physical control of a vehicle if, at the time of
the physical control, any of the following apply:
      (1)   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a
combination of them;
      (2)   The person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine
contains at least the concentration of alcohol specified in §
73.01(A)(1)(b), (A)(1)(c), (A)(1)(d), or (A)(1)(e);
      (3)   Except as provided in division (E) of this section, the person has
a concentration of a listed controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a
controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or
urine that equals or exceeds the concentration specified in §
73.01(A)(1)(j).
   (C)   (1)   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a
violation of this section, if a law enforcement officer has administered a
field sobriety test to the person in physical control of the vehicle involved
in the violation and if it is shown by clear and convincing evidence that the
officer administered the test in substantial compliance with the testing
standards for any reliable, credible, and generally acceptable field sobriety
tests that were in effect at the time the tests were administered, including
but not limited to any testing standards then in effect what were set by the
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, all of the following apply:
         (a)   The officer may testify concerning the results of the field
sobriety test so administered.
         (b)   The prosecution may introduce the results of the field sobriety
test so administered as evidence in any proceedings in the criminal prosecution
or juvenile court proceeding.
         (c)   If testimony is presented or evidence is introduced under
division (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) of this section and if the testimony or
evidence is admissible under the Rules of Evidence, the court shall admit the
testimony or evidence, and the trier of fact shall give it whatever weight the
trier of fact considers to be appropriate.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not limit or preclude a court,
in its determination of whether the arrest of a person was supported by
probable cause or its determination of any other matter in a criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding of a type described in that division,
from considering evidence or testimony that is not otherwise disallowed by
division (C)(1) of this section.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of having physical control of
a vehicle while under the influence, a misdemeanor of the first degree. In
addition to other sanctions imposed, the court may impose on the offender a
class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
   (E)   Division (B)(3) of this section does not apply to a person who is in
physical control of a vehicle while the person has a concentration of a listed
controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance in the
person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or urine that equals or exceeds
the amount specified in §
73.01(A)(1)(j) if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs;
      (2)   The person injected, ingested, or inhaled the controlled substance
in accordance with the health professional’s directions.
(R.C. § 4511.194)  (Ord. 05-06, passed 2-14-2006)
§ 73.02  DRIVING COMMERCIAL VEHICLE WITH IMPAIRED ALERTNESS OR ABILITY; USE OF
DRUGS.
   (A)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle, as defined in R.C. §
4506.01, or a commercial car or commercial tractor, as defined in R.C. §
4501.01, while the person’s ability or alertness is so impaired by fatigue,
illness, or other causes that it is unsafe for the person to drive such
vehicle. No driver shall use any drug which would adversely affect the driver’s
ability or alertness.
   (B)   No owner, as defined in R.C. § 4501.01, of a commercial motor vehicle,
commercial car or commercial tractor, or a person employing or otherwise
directing the driver of such vehicle, shall require or knowingly permit a
driver in any such condition described in division (A) of this section to drive
such vehicle upon any street or highway.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.79, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, or
4511.77 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.79)
§ 73.03  IMMOBILIZING OR DISABLING DEVICE VIOLATION.
   (A)   (1)   No offender with limited driving privileges, during any period
that the offender is required to operate only a motor vehicle equipped with an
immobilizing or disabling device, shall request or permit any other person to
breathe into the device if it is an ignition interlock device or another type
of device that monitors the concentration of alcohol in a person’s breath or to
otherwise start the motor vehicle equipped with the device, for the purpose of
providing the offender with an operable motor vehicle.
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (A)(2)(b) of this section, no
person shall breathe into an immobilizing or disabling device that is an
ignition interlock device or another type of device that monitors the
concentration of alcohol in a person’s breath or otherwise start a motor
vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device, for the purpose of
providing an operable motor vehicle to an offender with limited driving
privileges who is permitted to operate only a motor vehicle equipped with an
immobilizing or disabling device.
         (b)   Division (A)(2)(a) of this section does not apply to a person in
the following circumstances:
            1.   The person is an offender with limited driving privileges;
            2.   The person breathes into an immobilizing or disabling device
that is an ignition interlock device or another type of device that monitors
the concentration of alcohol in a person’s breath or otherwise starts a motor
vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device;
            3.   The person breathes into the device or starts the vehicle for
the purpose of providing the person with an operable motor vehicle.
      (3)   No unauthorized person shall tamper with or circumvent the
operation of an immobilizing or disabling device.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of an immobilizing or
disabling device violation, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4510.44)
RECKLESS OPERATION
§ 73.05  RECKLESS OPERATION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a vehicle on any street or highway in willful
or wanton disregard of the safety of persons or property.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.20)
Cross-reference:
   License suspension, see §
71.15
§ 73.06  RECKLESS OPERATION OFF STREETS AND HIGHWAYS; COMPETITIVE OPERATION.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle on any public or private
property other than streets or highways in willful or wanton disregard of the
safety of persons or property.
      (2)   This section does not apply to the competitive operation of
vehicles on public or private property when the owner of such property
knowingly permits such operation thereon.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.201)
Cross-reference:
   License suspension, see §
71.15
§ 73.07  OPERATOR TO BE IN REASONABLE CONTROL.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle, agricultural tractor, or
agricultural tractor that is towing, pulling, or otherwise drawing a unit of
farm machinery on any street, highway, or property open to the public for
vehicular traffic without being in reasonable control of the vehicle,
agricultural tractor, or unit of farm machinery.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of operating a motor vehicle
or agricultural tractor without being in control of it, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.202)
§ 73.08  OPERATING A MOTOR VEHICLE WITH EXCESSIVE ACCELERATION.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on any street, highway, or
property open to the public for vehicular traffic while causing such motor
vehicle to accelerate excessively with regard to the circumstances and
conditions at the time of operation.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of excessive
acceleration, a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 20-91, passed 11-12-1991)  Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Peeling out, see §
72.20
SPEED REGULATIONS
§ 73.10  SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle at a speed greater or less
than is reasonable or proper, having due regard for the traffic, surface, and
width of the street or highway and any other conditions, and no person shall
drive any motor vehicle in and upon any street or highway at a greater speed
than will permit him or her to bring it to a stop within the assured clear
distance ahead.
   (B)   It is prima facie lawful, in the absence of a lower limit declared or
established pursuant to this section by the Director of Transportation or local
authorities, for the operator of a motor vehicle to operate the same at a speed
not exceeding the following:
      (1)   (a)   Twenty miles per hour in school zones during school recess
and while children are going to or leaving school during the opening or closing
hours, and when 20 miles per hour school speed limit signs are erected, except
that on controlled-access highways and expressways, if the right-of-way line
fence has been erected without pedestrian opening, the speed shall be governed
by division (B)(4) of this section, and on freeways, if the right-of-way line
fence has been erected without pedestrian opening, the speed shall be governed
by divisions (B)(9) and (B)(10) of this section. The end of every school zone
may be marked by a sign indicating the end of the zone. Nothing in this section
or in the Manual and Specifications for a Uniform System of Traffic-Control
Devices shall be construed to require school zones to be indicated by signs
equipped with flashing or other lights, or giving other special notice of the
hours in which the school zone speed limit is in effect.
         (b)   As used in this section, SCHOOL means any school chartered under
R.C. § 3301.16 and any nonchartered school that during the preceding year filed
with the Department of Education in compliance with O.A.C. § 3301-35-08, a copy
of the school’s report for the parents of the school’s pupils certifying that
the school meets state minimum standards for nonchartered, nontax-supported
schools and presents evidence of this filing to the jurisdiction from which it
is requesting the establishment of a school zone. SCHOOL also includes a
special elementary school that in writing requests the County Engineer to
create a school zone at the location of the school. Upon receipt of such
written request, the County Engineer shall create a school zone at that
location by erecting appropriate signs.
         (c)   As used in this section, SCHOOL ZONE means that portion of a
street or highway passing a school fronting upon the street or highway that is
encompassed by projecting the school property lines to the fronting street or
highway, and also includes that portion of a state highway. Upon request from
local authorities for streets and highways under their jurisdiction and that
portion of a state highway under the jurisdiction of the Director of
Transportation or a request from a County Engineer in the case of a  school
zone for a special elementary school, the Director may extend the traditional
school zone boundaries. The distances in divisions (B)(1)(c)1. through (B)(1)
(c)3. below shall not exceed 300 feet per approach per direction, and are
bounded by whichever of the following distances or combination thereof the
Director approves as most appropriate:
            1.   The distance encompassed by projecting the school building
lines normal to the fronting highway and extending a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction;
            2.   The distance encompassed by projecting the school property
lines intersecting the fronting highway and extending a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction;
            3.   The distance encompassed by the special marking of the
pavement for a principal school pupil crosswalk plus a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction of the highway.
         (d)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to invalidate the
Director’s initial action on August 9, 1976, establishing all school zones at
the traditional school zone boundaries defined by projecting school property
lines, except when those boundaries are extended as provided in divisions (B)
(1)(a) and (B)(1)(c) of this section.
         (e)   As used in this division, CROSSWALK has the meaning given that
term in R.C. § 4511.01(LL)(2).
         (f)   The Director may, upon request by resolution of the Legislative
Authority and upon submission by the municipality of such engineering, traffic,
and other information as the Director considers necessary, designate a school
zone on any portion of a state route lying within the municipality that
includes a crosswalk customarily used by children going to or leaving a school
during recess and opening and closing hours, whenever the distance, as measured
in a straight line, from the school property line nearest the crosswalk to the
nearest point of a crosswalk is no more than 1,320 feet. Such a school zone
shall include the distance encompassed by the crosswalk and extending 300 feet
in each appropriate direction of the state route.
         (g)   As used in this section, SPECIAL ELEMENTARY SCHOOL means a
school that meets all of the following:
            1.   It is not chartered and does not receive tax revenue from any
source;
            2.   It does not educate children beyond the eighth grade;
            3.   It is located outside the limits of a municipal corporation;
            4.   A majority of the total number of students enrolled at the
school are not related by blood;
            5.   The principal or other person in charge of the special
elementary school annually sends a report to the Superintendent of the school
district in which the special elementary school is located indicating the total
number of students enrolled at the school, but otherwise the principal or other
person in charge does not report any other information or data to the
Superintendent.
      (2)   Twenty-five miles per hour in all other portions of the
municipality, except on state routes outside business districts, through
highways outside business districts, and alleys;
      (3)   Thirty-five miles per hour on all state routes or through highways
within the municipality outside business districts, except as provided in
divisions (B)(4) and (B)(6) of this section;
      (4)   Fifty miles per hour on controlled- access highways and expressways
within the municipality;
      (5)   Fifty-five miles per hour on highways outside the municipality,
other than highways within island jurisdictions as provided in division (B)(8)
of this section and freeways as provided in division (B)(13) of this section;
      (6)   Fifty miles per hour on state routes within the municipality
outside urban districts unless a lower prima facie speed is established as
further provided in this section;
      (7)   Fifteen miles per hour on all alleys within the municipality;
      (8)   Thirty-five miles per hour on highways outside the municipality
that are within an island jurisdiction;
      (9)   Fifty-five miles per hour at all times on freeways with paved
shoulders inside the municipality, other than freeways as provided in divisions
(B)(13) and (B)(14);
      (10)   Fifty-five miles per hour at all times on freeways outside the
municipality, other than freeways as provided in divisions (B)(13) and (B)(14);
      (11)   Fifty-five miles per hour at all times on all portions of freeways
that are part of the interstate system and on all portions of freeways not part
of the interstate system, but are built to the standards and specifications
that are applicable to freeways that are part of the interstate system for
operators of any motor vehicle weighing in excess of 8,000 pounds empty weight
and any noncommercial bus, except as provided in division (B)(14) of this
section.
      (12)   Fifty-five miles per hour for operators of any motor vehicle
weighing 8,000 pounds or less empty weight and any commercial bus at all times
on all portions of freeways that are part of the interstate system and that had
such a speed limit established prior to October 1, 1995, and freeways that are
not part of the interstate system but are built to the standards and
specifications that are applicable to freeways that are part of the interstate
system and that had such a speed limit established prior to October 1, 1995,
unless a higher speed limit is established under R.C. § 4511.21(L).
      (13)   Sixty-five miles per hour for operators of any motor vehicle
weighing 8,000 pounds or less empty weight and any commercial bus at all times
on all portions of the following:
         (a)   Freeways that are part of the interstate system and that had
such a speed limit established prior to October 1, 1995, and freeways that are
not part of the interstate system but are built to the standards and
specifications that are applicable to freeways that are part of the interstate
system and that had such a speed limit established prior to October 1, 1995;
         (b)   Freeways that are part of the interstate system and freeways
that are not part of the interstate system but are built to the standards and
specifications that are applicable to freeways that are part of the interstate
system, and that had such a speed limit established under R.C. § 4511.21(L);
         (c)   Rural, divided, multi-lane highways that are designated as part
of the national highway system under the National Highway System Designation
Act of 1995, 109 Stat. 568, 23 U.S.C. § 103, and that had such a speed limit
established under R.C. § 4511.21(M).
      (14)   Sixty-five miles per hour at all times on all portions of freeways
that are part of the interstate system and that had such a speed limit on July
1, 2009 for operators of any motor vehicle weighing in excess of 8,000 pounds
empty weight and any noncommercial bus.
   (C)   It is prima facie unlawful for any person to exceed any of the speed
limitations in divisions (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7) and
(B)(8) of this section or any declared or established pursuant to this section
by the Director or local authorities and it is unlawful for any person to
exceed any of the speed limitations in division (D) of this section. No person
shall be convicted of more than one violation of this section for the same
conduct, although violations of more than one provision of this section may be
charged in the alternative in a single affidavit.
   (D)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon a street or highway as
follows:
      (1)   At a speed exceeding 55 miles per hour, except upon a freeway as
provided in divisions (B)(13) and (B)(14) of this section;
      (2)   At a speed exceeding 65 miles per hour upon a freeway as provided
in divisions (B)(13) and (B)(14) of this section;
      (3)   If operating a motor vehicle weighing in excess of 8,000 pounds
empty weight or a noncommercial bus as prescribed in division (B)(11) of this
section, at a speed exceeding 55 miles per hour upon a freeway as provided in
that division;
      (4)   At a speed exceeding the posted speed limit upon a freeway for
which the Director has determined and declared a speed limit of not more than
65 miles per hour pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(L)(2) or (M);
      (5)   At a speed exceeding 65 miles per hour upon a freeway for which
such a speed limit has been established through the operation of R.C. § 4511.21
(L)(3);
      (6)   At a speed exceeding the posted speed limit upon a freeway for
which the Director had determined and declared a speed limit pursuant to R.C. §
4511.21(I)(2).
   (E)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(E), in every charge of violating this
section, the affidavit and warrant shall specify the time, place and speed at
which the defendant is alleged to have driven, and in charges made in reliance
upon division (C) of this section also the speed which division (B)(1)(a), (B)
(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7) or (B)(8) of, or a limit declared or
established pursuant to, this section or R.C. § 4511.21 declares is prima facie
lawful at the time and place of such alleged violation, except that in
affidavits where a person is alleged to have driven at a greater speed than
will permit the person to bring the vehicle to stop within the assured clear
distance ahead, the affidavit and warrant need not specify the speed at which
the defendant is alleged to have driven.
   (F)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(F), when a speed in excess of both a prima
facie limitation and a limitation in division (D)(1), (D)(2), (D)(3), (D)(4),
(D)(5) or (D)(6) of this section is alleged, the defendant shall be charged in
a single affidavit, alleging a single act, with a violation indicated of both
division (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7) or (B)(8) of this
section, or of a limit declared or established pursuant to this section or R.C.
§ 4511.21 by the Director or local authorities, and of the limitation in
division (D)(1), (D)(2), (D)(3), (D)(4), (D)(5) or (D)(6) of this section. If
the court finds a violation of division (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)
(6), (B)(7) or (B)(8) of, or a limit declared or established pursuant to, this
section or R.C. § 4511.21 has occurred, it shall enter a judgment of conviction
under such division and dismiss the charge under division (D)(1), (D)(2), (D)
(3), (D)(4), (D)(5) or (D)(6) of this section. If it finds no violation of
division (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7) or (B)(8) of, or a
limit declared or established pursuant to, this section or R.C. § 4511.21, it
shall then consider whether the evidence supports a conviction under division
(D)(1), (D)(2), (D)(3), (D)(4), (D)(5) or (D)(6) of this section.
   (G)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(G), points shall be assessed for a
violation of a limitation under division (D) of this section in accordance with
R.C. § 4510.036.
(R.C. § 4511.21(A) - (G))
   (H)   Whenever, in accordance with R.C. § 4511.21(H) through (N), the
maximum prima facie speed limitations as established herein have been altered,
either higher or lower, and the appropriate signs giving notice have been
erected as required, operators of motor vehicles shall be governed by the speed
limitations set forth on such signs. It is prima facie unlawful for any person
to exceed the speed limits posted upon such signs.
   (I)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
      COMMERCIAL BUS. Means a motor vehicle designed for carrying more than
nine passengers and used for the transportation of persons for compensation.
      INTERSTATE SYSTEM. Has the same meaning as in 23 U.S.C. § 101.
      NONCOMMERCIAL BUS. Includes but is not limited to a school bus, or a
motor vehicle  operated solely for the transportation of persons associated
with a charitable or nonprofit organization.
(R.C. § 4511.21(O))
   (J)   Speed limits for private roads and driveways.
      (1)   The owner of a private road or driveway located in a private
residential area containing 20 or more dwelling units may establish a speed
limit on the road or driveway by complying with all of the following
requirements:
         (a)   The speed limit is not less than 25 miles per hour and is
indicated by a sign that is in a proper position, is sufficiently legible to be
seen by an ordinarily observant person, and meets the specifications for the
basic speed limit sign included in the manual adopted by the Department of
Transportation pursuant to R.C. § 4511.09;
         (b)   The owner has posted a sign at the entrance of the private road
or driveway that is in plain view and clearly informs persons entering the road
or driveway that they are entering private property, a speed limit has been
established for the road or driveway, and the speed limit is enforceable by law
enforcement officers under state law.
      (2)   No person shall operate a vehicle upon a private road or driveway
as provided in division (J)(1) of this section at a speed exceeding any speed
limit established and posted pursuant to division (J)(1).
      (3)   When a speed limit is established and posted in accordance with
division (J)(1) of this section, a law enforcement officer may apprehend a
person violating the speed limit of the residential area by utilizing any of
the means described in R.C. § 4511.091 or by any other accepted method of
determining the speed of a motor vehicle and may stop and charge the person
with exceeding the speed limit.
      (4)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.211(D), points shall be assessed for
violation of a speed limit established and posted in accordance with division
(J)(1) of this section in accordance with R.C. § 4510.036.
      (5)   For the purpose of this division (J), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning:
         OWNER. Includes but is not limited to a person who holds title to the
real property in fee simple, a condominium owners’ association, a property
owners’ association, a board of directors or trustees of a private community,
and a nonprofit corporation governing a private community.
         PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL AREA CONTAINING 20 OR MORE DWELLING UNITS. Does
not include a Chautauqua assembly as defined in R.C. § 4511.90.
(R.C. § 4511.211(A) - (E))
   (K)   Penalties.
      (1)   Divisions (A) through (I).
         (a)   A violation of any provision of divisions (A) through (I) of
this section is one of the following:
            1.   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (K)(1)(a)2., (K)(1)
(a)3., (K)(1)(b), and (K)(1)(c) of this section, a minor misdemeanor;
            2.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of any provision of
divisions (A) through (I) of this section, R.C. § 4511.21, or any provision of
any other municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any provision
of that section, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
            3.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of any
provision of divisions (A) through (I) of this section, R.C. § 4511.21, or any
provision of any other municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to
any provision of that section, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
         (b)   If the offender has not previously been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of any provision of division (A) through (I) of this
section, R.C. § 4511.21, or any other municipal ordinance that is substantially
equivalent to any provision of that section, and operated a motor vehicle
faster than 35 miles an hour in a business district of the municipality, faster
than 50 miles an hour in other portions of the municipality, or faster than 35
miles an hour in a school zone during recess or while children are going to or
leaving school during the school’s opening or closing hours, a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
         (c)   Notwithstanding division (K)(1)(a) of this section, if the
offender operated a motor vehicle in a construction zone where a sign was then
posted in accordance with R.C. § 4511.98, the court, in addition to all other
penalties provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a fine of two times
the usual amount imposed for the violation. No court shall impose a fine of two
times the usual amount imposed for the violation upon an offender if the
offender alleges, in an affidavit filed with the court prior to the offender’s
sentencing, that the offender is indigent and is unable to pay the fine imposed
pursuant to this division and if the court determines that the offender is an
indigent person and unable to pay the fine.
(R.C. § 4511.21(P))
      (2)   Division (J). A violation of division (J)(2) of this section is one
of the following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (K)(2)(b) and (K)(2)
(c) of this section, a minor misdemeanor;
         (b)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of division (J)(2) of
this section, R.C. § 4511.211(B), or any other municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to that division, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
         (c)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of division (J)
(2) of this section, R.C. § 4511.211(B), or any other municipal ordinance that
is substantially equivalent to that division, a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(R.C. § 4511.211(F))
Statutory reference:
   Alteration of speed limits with approval of Director, see R.C. § 4511.21(H)
through (N)
   Arrest pending warrant when radar, electrical or mechanical timing device
used to determine violation, see R.C. § 4511.091
§ 73.11  SLOW SPEED OR STOPPING.
   (A)   No person shall stop or operate a vehicle at such an unreasonably slow
speed as to impede or block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic,
except when stopping or reduced speed is necessary for safe operation or to
comply with law.
   (B)   Whenever the Director of Transportation or local authorities determine
on the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation that slow speeds on
any part of a controlled-access highway, expressway, or freeway consistently
impede the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, the Director or such
local authority may declare a minimum speed limit below which no person shall
operate a motor vehicle, except when necessary for safe operation or in
compliance with the law. No minimum speed limit established hereunder shall be
less than 30 miles per hour, greater than 50 miles per hour, nor effective
until the provisions of R.C. § 4511.21 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, relating to appropriate signs, have been fulfilled and local
authorities have obtained the approval of the Director.
   (C)   In a case involving a violation of this section, the trier of fact, in
determining whether the vehicle was being operated at an unreasonably slow
speed, shall consider the capabilities of the vehicle and its operator.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.22)
§ 73.12  EMERGENCY VEHICLES EXCEPTED FROM SPEED LIMITATION.
   The prima facie speed limitations set forth in R.C. § 4511.21 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance do not apply to emergency vehicles
or public safety vehicles when they are responding to emergency calls and are
equipped with and displaying at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating
light visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet
to the front of the vehicle, and when the drivers thereof sound audible signals
by bell, siren, or exhaust whistle. This section does not relieve the driver of
an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons using the street or highway.
(R.C. § 4511.24)
§ 73.13  STREET RACING DEFINED; PROHIBITED ON PUBLIC HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   As used in this section, STREET RACING means the operation of two or
more vehicles from a point side by side at accelerating speeds in a competitive
attempt to outdistance each other, or the operation of one or more vehicles
over a common selected course, from the same point to the same point, wherein
timing is made of the participating vehicles involving competitive
accelerations or speeds. Persons rendering assistance in any manner to such
competitive use of vehicles shall be equally charged as the participants. The
operation of two or more vehicles side by side either at speeds in excess of
prima facie lawful speeds established by R.C. § 4511.21(B)(1)(a) through (B)(8)
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or rapidly accelerating from
a common starting point to a speed in excess of such prima facie lawful speeds
shall be prima facie evidence of street racing.
   (B)   No person shall participate in street racing upon any public road,
street, or highway in this municipality.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of street racing, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. In addition to any other sanctions, the court
shall suspend the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privileges for not less than 30 days or more than three years. No judge shall
suspend the first 30 days of any suspension of an offender’s license, permit,
or privilege imposed under this division.
(R.C. § 4511.251)
§ 73.14  SPEED REGULATIONS ON BRIDGES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle over any bridge or other
elevated structure constituting a part of a highway at a speed which is greater
than the maximum speed that can be maintained with safety to such bridge or
structure, when such structure is posted with signs as provided in this
section.
      (2)   The Department of Transportation upon request from any local
authority shall, or upon its own initiative may, conduct an investigation of
any bridge or other elevated structure constituting a part of a highway, and if
it finds that such structure cannot with safety withstand traffic travelling at
the speed otherwise permissible under this traffic code, the Department shall
determine and declare the maximum speed of traffic which such structure can
withstand, and shall cause or permit suitable signs stating such maximum speed
to be erected and maintained at a distance of a least 100 feet before each end
of the structure.
      (3)   Upon the trial of any person charged with a violation of this
section, proof of such determination of the maximum speed by the Department and
the existence of such signs shall constitute prima facie evidence of the
maximum speed which can be maintained with safety to such bridge or structure.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.23)
§ 73.15  RADAR EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   The Chief of Police or the enforcement officer or officers under his
or her control are hereby authorized to use radar or any mechanical or electric
timing device for the determination of the speed of a motor vehicle over a
measured distance of the street or highway.
   (B)   The driver of any motor vehicle which has been checked by radar, or by
any electrical or mechanical timing device, to determine the speed of the motor
vehicle over a measured distance of the highway and found to be in violation of
the posted speed limit on that highway, may be arrested until a warrant can be
obtained, provided the arresting officer has observed the recording of the
speed of such motor vehicle by the radio microwaves, or electrical or
mechanical timing device, or has received a radio message from an officer who
observed the speed of the motor vehicle recorded by the radio microwaves, or
electrical or mechanical timing device.  In case of an arrest based on such a
message, the radio message must have been dispatched immediately after the
speed of the motor vehicle was recorded and the arresting officer furnished a
description of the motor vehicle for proper identification, and the recorded
speed. 
(R.C. § 4511.091(A))
   (C)   If the driver of a motor vehicle being driven on a public street or
highway is observed violating any provisions of this chapter other than R.C. §§
4511.21 or 4511.211 by a law enforcement officer situated at any location,
including in any type of airborne aircraft or airship, that law enforcement
officer may send a radio message to another law enforcement officer, and the
other law enforcement officer may arrest the driver of the motor vehicle until
a warrant can be obtained or may issue the driver a citation for the violation;
provided, if an arrest or citation is based on such a message, the radio
message is dispatched immediately after the violation is observed and the law
enforcement officer who observes the violation furnishes to the law enforcement
officer who makes the arrest or issues the citation a description of the
alleged violation and the motor vehicle for proper identification. 
(R.C. § 4511.091(B))
(Am. Ord. 13-71, passed 5-5-1971)
RESISTING OFFICER
§ 73.20  PROHIBITION AGAINST RESISTING OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall resist, hinder, obstruct, or abuse any sheriff,
constable, or other official while that official is attempting to arrest
offenders under any provision of this title. No person shall interfere with any
person charged under any provision of this title with the enforcement of the
law relative to public highways.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.36)
   (C)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the hindrance,
obstruction, resistance, or interference alleged consisted of constitutionally
protected speech only.
§ 73.21  PRESENTING FALSE NAME OR INFORMATION TO OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly present, display, or orally communicate a
false name, social security number, or date of birth to a law enforcement
officer who is in the process of issuing to the person a traffic ticket or
complaint.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4513.361)
STOPPING AFTER ACCIDENT
§ 73.25  EXCHANGE OF IDENTITY AND VEHICLE REGISTRATION.
   (A)   (1)   In case of accident to or collision with persons or property
upon any of the public roads or highways, due to the driving or operation
thereon of any motor vehicle, the person driving or operating the motor
vehicle, having knowledge of the accident or collision, immediately shall stop
the driver’s or operator’s motor vehicle at the scene of the accident or
collision and shall remain at the scene of the accident or collision until the
driver or operator has given the driver’s or operator’s name and address and,
if the driver or operator is not the owner, the name and address of the owner
of that motor vehicle, together with the registered number of that motor
vehicle, to any person injured in the accident or collision or to the operator,
occupant, owner, or attendant of any motor vehicle damaged in the accident or
collision, or to any police officer at the scene of the accident or collision.
      (2)   In the event the injured person is unable to comprehend and record
the information required to be given by this section, the other driver involved
in the accident or collision forthwith shall notify the nearest police
authority concerning the location of the accident or collision, and the
driver’s name, address, and the registered number of the motor vehicle the
driver was operating, and then remain at the scene of the accident or collision
until a police officer arrives, unless removed from the scene by an emergency
vehicle operated by a political subdivision or an ambulance.
      (3)   If the accident or collision is with an unoccupied or unattended
motor vehicle, the operator who collides with the motor vehicle shall securely
attach the information required to be given in this section, in writing, to a
conspicuous place in or on the unoccupied or unattended motor vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after an accident, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
accident or collision results in serious physical harm or death to a person,
failure to stop after an accident is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. The court, in addition to any other penalties provided
by law, shall impose upon the offender a class five suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(5). No judge shall suspend the first six months
of suspension of an offender’s license, permit, or privilege required by this
division.
      (2)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for
any economic loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and
proximate result of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before,
during, or after committing the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.02)
§ 73.26  ACCIDENT INVOLVING INJURY TO PERSONS OR PROPERTY.
   (A)   (1)   In case of accident or collision resulting in injury or damage
to persons or property upon any public or private property other than public
roads or highways, due to the driving or operation thereon of any motor
vehicle, the person driving or operating the motor vehicle, having knowledge of
the accident or collision, shall stop, and, upon request of the person injured
or damaged, or any other person, shall give that person the driver’s or
operator’s name and address, and, if the driver or operator is not the owner,
the name and address of the owner of that motor vehicle, together with the
registered number of that motor vehicle, and, if available, exhibit the
driver’s or operator’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license.
      (2)   If the owner or person in charge of the damaged property is not
furnished such information, the driver of the motor vehicle involved in the
accident or collision, within 24 hours after the accident or collision, shall
forward to the police department of the municipality the same information
required to be given to the owner or person in control of the damaged property
and give the date, time, and location of the accident or collision.
      (3)   If the accident or collision is with an unoccupied or unattended
motor vehicle, the operator who collides with the motor vehicle shall securely
attach the information required to be given in this section, in writing, to a
conspicuous place in or on the unoccupied or unattended motor vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident, a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the accident or collision results in serious physical harm or death
to a person, failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law. The court, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a class five
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(5). No judge shall
suspend the first six months of suspension of an offender’s license, permit, or
privilege required by this division.
      (2)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for
any economic loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and
proximate result of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before,
during, or after committing the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.021)
§ 73.27  ACCIDENT INVOLVING DAMAGE TO REALTY.
   (A)   (1)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in
damage to real property, or personal property attached to real property,
legally upon or adjacent to a public road or highway immediately shall stop and
take reasonable steps to locate and notify the owner or person in charge of the
property of that fact, of the driver’s name and address, and of the
registration number of vehicle the driver is driving and, upon request and if
available, shall exhibit the driver’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license.
      (2)   If the owner or person in charge of the property cannot be located
after reasonable search, the driver of the vehicle involved in the accident
resulting in damage to the property, within 24 hours after accident, shall
forward to the police department of the municipality the same information
required to be given to the owner or person in control of the property and give
the location of the accident and a description of the damage insofar as it is
known.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after an accident involving the property of others, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during, or
after committing the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.03)
§ 73.28  FAILURE TO REPORT ACCIDENT.
   (A)   No person shall fail to report a motor vehicle accident as required
under state or local law.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4509.74)
CHAPTER 74:  EQUIPMENT AND LOADS
Section
Equipment
   
74.01   Unsafe vehicles, prohibition against operation
   
74.02   Bumpers on motor vehicles
   
74.03   Lighted lights required
   
74.04   Headlights
   
74.05   Tail lights and illumination of rear license plate
   
74.06   Red reflectors required
   
74.07   Safety lighting of commercial vehicles
   
74.08   Stoplight regulations
   
74.09   Obscured lights on vehicles
   
74.10   Red light or flag required
   
74.11   Lights on parked vehicles
   
74.12   Lights and emblem on slow-moving vehicles; lights and reflectors on
multi-wheel agricultural tractors or farm machinery
   
74.13   Spotlight and auxiliary driving lights
   
74.14   Cowl, fender, and back-up lights
   
74.15   Two lights displayed
   
74.16   Headlights required
   
74.17   Lights of less intensity
   
74.18   Number of lights permitted; red and flashing lights
   
74.19   Standards for lights on snow removal equipment and oversize vehicles
   
74.20   Flashing lights permitted for certain types of vehicles
   
74.21   Lights and sign on transportation for preschool children
   
74.22   Focus and aim of headlights
   
74.23   Brake equipment; specifications
   
74.24   Brake fluid
   
74.25   Minimum standards for brakes and components
   
74.26   Horns, sirens, and warning devices
   
74.27   Mufflers; excessive smoke or gas
   
74.28   Rearview mirrors
   
74.29   Windshields and wipers
   
74.30   Solid tire requirements
   
74.31   Requirements for safety glass in motor vehicles; use of tinted glass or
reflectorized material
   
74.32   Directional signals
   
74.33   Installation and sale of seat safety belts required; definition
   
74.34   Requirements for extra signal equipment
   
74.35   Display of warning devices on disabled vehicles
   
74.36   Requirements for vehicles transporting explosives
   
74.37   Studded tires; seasonal use permitted
   
74.38   Safety inspection decals for buses
   
74.39   Air bags
Loads
   
74.40   Permit required to exceed load limits
   
74.41   Limitation of load extension on left side of vehicle
   
74.42   All loads shall be properly secured
   
74.43   Towing requirements; exception to size and weight restrictions
   
74.44   Weighing of vehicle; removal of excess load
   
74.45   Operation of vehicle exceeding weight limits prohibited
   
74.46   Load limits
   
74.47   Maximum width, height, and length
   
74.48   Statement of gross vehicle weight
   
74.49   Wheel protectors required on heavy commercial vehicles
   
74.50   Liability for damages; prosecution; application of monies
   
74.51   Weight exceptions for certain vehicles
   
74.52   Special weight and tire restrictions designated by traffic sign
   
74.53   Through truck traffic prohibited
Statutory reference:
   Exemption of certain vehicles from emission, noise control and fuel
standards, see R.C. § 4513.41
   Exemption of collector’s or historical vehicles from equipment standards,
see R.C. § 4513.38
   Motorcycles, protective eye devices required for operators and passengers;
helmets required for persons under 18 years of age, see O.A.C. § 4501-17-01
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
   Snowmobiles and all-purpose vehicles, equipment, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-29
   Vehicle lighting, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-15
EQUIPMENT
§ 74.01  UNSAFE VEHICLES, PROHIBITION AGAINST OPERATION.
   (A)   No person shall drive or move, or cause or knowingly permit to be
driven or moved, on any highway any vehicle or combination of vehicles which is
in such unsafe condition as to endanger any person.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.02(A), (H))
§ 74.02  BUMPERS ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT RATING. Means the manufacturer’s gross vehicle
weight rating established for that vehicle.
      MANUFACTURER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      MULTIPURPOSE PASSENGER VEHICLE. Means a motor vehicle with motive power,
except a motorcycle, designed to carry ten persons or less, that is constructed
either on a truck chassis or with special features for occasional off-road
operation.
      PASSENGER CAR. Means any motor vehicle with motive power, designed for
carrying ten persons or less, except a multipurpose passenger vehicle or
motorcycle.
      TRUCK. Means every motor vehicle, except trailers and semitrailers,
designed and used to carry property and having a gross vehicle weight rating of
10,000 pounds or less.
   (B)   Rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety, in accordance with
R.C. Chapter 119, shall govern the maximum bumper height or, in the absence of
bumpers and in cases where bumper height have been lowered or modified, the
maximum height to the bottom of the frame rail of any passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle or truck.
   (C)   No person shall operate upon a street or highway any passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle or truck registered in this state that does not
conform to the requirements of this section or any applicable rule adopted
pursuant to R.C. § 4513.021.
   (D)   No person shall modify any motor vehicle registered in this state in
such a manner as to cause the vehicle body or chassis to come in contact with
the ground, expose the fuel tank to damage from collision, or cause the wheels
to come in contact with the body under normal operation, and no person shall
disconnect any part of the original suspension system of the vehicle to defeat
the safe operation of that system.
   (E)   Nothing contained in this section or in the rules adopted pursuant to
R.C. § 4513.021 shall be construed to prohibit either of the following:
      (1)   The installation upon a passenger car, multipurpose passenger
vehicle or truck registered in this state of heavy duty equipment, including
shock absorbers and overload springs:
      (2)   The operation on a street or highway of a passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle, or truck registered in this state with normal
wear to the suspension system if the normal wear does not adversely affect the
control of the vehicle.
   (F)   This section and the rules adopted pursuant to R.C. § 4513.021 do not
apply to any specially designed or modified passenger car, multipurpose
passenger vehicle, or truck when operated off a street or highway in races and
similar events.
   (G)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.021)
Statutory reference:
   Maximum height on bumpers, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-43
§ 74.03  LIGHTED LIGHTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every vehicle, other than a motorized bicycle, operated upon a street
or highway within this state shall display lighted lights and illuminating
devices as required by R.C. §§ 4513.04 to 4513.37 during all of the following
times:
      (1)   The time from sunset to sunrise;
      (2)   At any other time when, due to insufficient natural light or
unfavorable atmospheric conditions, persons, vehicles, and substantial objects
on the highway are not discernible at a distance of 1,000 feet ahead;
      (3)   At any time when the windshield wipers of the vehicle are in use
because of precipitation on the windshield.
   (B)   Every motorized bicycle shall display at such times lighted lights
meeting the rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety under R.C. §
4511.521. No motor vehicle, during any time specified in this section, shall be
operated upon a street or highway within this state using only parking lights
as illumination.
   (C)   Whenever in such sections a requirement is declared as to the distance
from which certain lamps and devices shall render objects visible, or within
which such lamps or devices shall be visible, such distance shall be measured
upon a straight level unlighted highway under normal atmospheric conditions
unless a different condition is expressly stated.
   (D)   Whenever in such sections a requirement is declared as to the mounted
height of lights or devices, it shall mean from the center of such light or
device to the level ground upon which the vehicle stands.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a vehicle being operated upon a
street or highway within this state to stop the vehicle solely because the
officer observes that a violation of division (A)(3) of this section has been
or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or
summons for a violation of that division, or causing the arrest of or
commencing a prosecution of a person for a violation of that division.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.03)
§ 74.04  HEADLIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, shall be equipped
with at least two headlights with at least one near each side of the front of
the motor vehicle.
      (2)   Every motorcycle shall be equipped with at least one and not more
than two headlights.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.04)
§ 74.05  TAIL LIGHTS AND ILLUMINATION OF REAR LICENSE PLATE.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, pole trailer or
vehicle which is being drawn at the end of a train of vehicles shall be
equipped with at least one tail light mounted on the rear which, when lighted,
shall emit a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear,
provided that in the case of a train of vehicles only the tail light on the
rearmost vehicle need be visible from the distance specified.
      (2)   Either a tail light or a separate light shall be so constructed and
placed as to illuminate with a white light the rear registration plate, when
such registration plate is required, and render it legible from a distance of
50 feet to the rear. Any tail light, together with any separate light for
illuminating the rear registration plate, shall be so wired as to be lighted
whenever the headlights or auxiliary driving lights are lighted, except where
separate lighting systems are provided for trailers for the purpose of
illuminating such registration plate.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.05)
§ 74.06  RED REFLECTORS REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   Every new motor vehicle sold after September 6, 1941, and
operated on a highway, other than a commercial tractor to which a trailer or
semitrailer is attached, shall carry at the rear, either as a part of the tail
lamps or separately, two red reflectors meeting the requirements of this
section, except that vehicles of the type mentioned in R.C. § 4513.07 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance shall be equipped with reflectors
as required by the regulations provided for in that section.
      (2)   Every such reflector shall be of such size and characteristics and
so maintained as to be visible at night from all distances within 300 feet to
50 feet from such vehicle.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.06)
§ 74.07  SAFETY LIGHTING OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   When the Director of Public Safety prescribes and promulgates
regulations relating to clearance lights, marker lights, reflectors and stop
lights on buses, trucks, commercial tractors, trailers, semitrailers and pole
trailers, when operated upon any highway, these vehicles shall be equipped as
required by such regulations, and such equipment shall be lighted at all times
mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
except that clearance lights and side marker lights need not be lighted on any
such vehicle when it is operated within the municipality where there is
sufficient light to reveal any person or substantial object on the highway at a
distance of 500 feet.
      (2)   Such equipment shall be in addition to all other lights
specifically required by R.C. §§ 4513.03 through 4513.16, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinances.
      (3)   Vehicles operated under the jurisdiction of the Public Utilities
Commission are not subject to this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.07)
§ 74.08  STOPLIGHT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, and pole trailer when
operated upon a highway shall be equipped with two or more stop lights, except
that passenger cars manufactured or assembled prior to January 1, 1967,
motorcycles, and motor-driven cycles shall be equipped with at least one stop
light. Stop lights shall be mounted on the rear of the vehicle, actuated upon
application of the service brake, and may be incorporated with other rear
lights. Such stop lights when actuated shall emit a red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear; provided that in the case of a train of
vehicles only the stop lights on the rearmost vehicle need be visible from the
distance specified.
      (2)   Such stop lights when actuated shall give a steady warning light to
the rear of a vehicle or train of vehicles to indicate the intention of the
operator to diminish the speed of or stop a vehicle or train of vehicles.
      (3)   When stop lights are used as required by this section, they shall
be constructed or installed so as to provide adequate and reliable illumination
and shall conform to the appropriate rules and regulations established under
R.C. § 4513.19.
      (4)   Historical motor vehicles as defined in R.C. § 4503.181, not
originally manufactured with stop lights, are not subject to this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.071)
§ 74.09  OBSCURED LIGHTS ON VEHICLES.
   Whenever motor and other vehicles are operated in combination during the
time that lights are required, any light, except tail lights, which by reason
of its location on a vehicle of the combination would be obscured by another
vehicle of the combination, need not be lighted, but this section does not
affect the requirement that lighted clearance lights be displayed on the front
of the foremost vehicle required to have clearance lights or that all lights
required on the rear of the rearmost vehicle of any combination shall be
lighted.
(R.C. § 4513.08)
§ 74.10  RED LIGHT OR FLAG REQUIRED.
   (A)   Whenever the load upon any vehicle extends to the rear four feet or
more beyond the bed or body of this vehicle, there shall be displayed at the
extreme rear end of the load, at the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, a red light or lantern plainly
visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to the sides and rear. The red
light or lantern required by this section is in addition to the red rear light
required upon every vehicle. At any other time there shall be displayed at the
extreme rear end of such load a red flag or cloth not less than 16 inches
square.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.09)
§ 74.11  LIGHTS ON PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Except in case of an emergency, whenever a vehicle is parked or
stopped upon a roadway open to traffic or a shoulder adjacent thereto, whether
attended or unattended, during the times mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, such vehicle shall be equipped
with one or more lights which shall exhibit a white or amber light on the
roadway side visible from a distance of 500 feet to the front of such vehicle,
and a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear. No lights need
be displayed upon any such vehicle when it is stopped or parked within the
municipality where there is sufficient light to reveal any person or
substantial object within a distance of 500 feet upon such highway. Any lighted
headlights upon a parked vehicle shall be depressed or dimmed.
(R.C. § 4513.10)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.12  LIGHTS AND EMBLEM ON SLOW- MOVING VEHICLES; LIGHTS AND REFLECTORS ON
MULTI-WHEEL AGRICULTURAL TRACTORS OR FARM MACHINERY.
   (A)   All vehicles other than bicycles, including animal-drawn vehicles and
vehicles referred to in R.C. § 4513.02(G), not specifically required to be
equipped with lamps or other lighting devices by R.C. §§ 4513.03 through
4513.10, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, shall, at the
times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, be equipped with at least one lamp displaying a white light visible
from a distance of not less than 1,000 feet to the front of the vehicle and
also shall be equipped with two lamps displaying red light visible from a
distance of not less than 1,000 feet to the rear of the vehicle, or as an
alternative, one lamp displaying a red light visible from a distance of not
less than 1,000 feet to the rear and two red reflectors visible from all
distances of 600 feet to 100 feet to the rear when illuminated by the lawful
lower beams of headlamps. Lamps and reflectors required by this section shall
meet standards adopted by the Director of Public Safety.
   (B)   All boat trailers, farm machinery and other machinery, including all
road construction machinery, upon a street or highway, except when being used
in actual construction and maintenance work in an area guarded by a flagperson,
or where flares are used, or when operating or traveling within the limits of a
construction area designated by the Director of Transportation, a city or
village engineer, or the county engineer of the several counties, when such
construction area is marked in accordance with requirements of the Director and
the Manual and Specifications for a Uniform System of Traffic-Control Devices,
as set forth in R.C. § 4511.09, which is designed for operation at a speed of
25 miles per hour or less, shall be operated at a speed not exceeding 25 miles
per hour, and shall display a triangular slow- moving vehicle emblem (SMV). The
emblem shall be mounted so as to be visible from a distance of not less than
500 feet to the rear. The Director of Public Safety shall adopt standards and
specifications for the design and position of mounting the SMV emblem. The
standards and specifications for SMV emblems referred to in this section shall
correlate with and, so far as possible, conform with those approved by the
American Society of Agricultural Engineers. A unit of farm machinery that is
designed by its manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per
hour may be operated on a street or highway at a speed greater than 25 miles
per hour provided it is operated in accordance with this section. As used in
this division, MACHINERY does not include any vehicle designed to be drawn by
an animal.
   (C)   The use of the SMV emblem shall be restricted to animal-drawn vehicles
and to the slow- moving vehicles specified in division (B) of this section
operating or traveling within the limits of the highway. Its use on slow-moving
vehicles being transported upon other types of vehicles or on any other type of
vehicle or stationary object on the highway is prohibited.
   (D)   (1)   No person shall sell, lease, rent or operate any boat trailer,
farm machinery or other machinery defined as a slow-moving vehicle in division
(B) of this section, except those units designed to be completely mounted on a
primary power unit, which is manufactured or assembled on or after April 1,
1966, unless the vehicle is equipped with a slow-moving vehicle emblem mounting
device as specified in division (B) of this section.
      (2)   No person shall sell, lease, rent, or operate on a street or
highway any unit of farm machinery that is designed by its manufacturer to
operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour unless the unit displays a
slow-moving vehicle emblem as specified in division (B) of this section and a
speed identification symbol that meets the specifications contained in the
American Society of Agricultural Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE S584 JAN2005,
Agricultural Equipment: Speed Identification Symbol (SIS).
   (E)   Any boat trailer, farm machinery or other machinery defined as a slow-
moving vehicle in division (B) of this section, in addition to the use of the
slow-moving vehicle emblem, and any unit of farm machinery that is designed by
its manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour, in
addition to the display of a speed identification symbol, may be equipped with
a red flashing light that shall be visible from a distance of not less than
1,000 feet to the rear at all times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance. When a double-faced light is
used, it shall display amber light to the front and red light to the rear. In
addition to the lights described in this division, farm machinery and motor
vehicles escorting farm machinery may display a flashing, oscillating or
rotating amber light, as permitted by R.C. § 4513.17 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, and also may display simultaneously flashing
turn signals or warning lights, as permitted by that section.
   (F)   (1)   Every animal-drawn vehicle upon a street or highway shall at all
times be equipped in one of the following ways:
         (a)   With a slow-moving vehicle emblem complying with division (B) of
this section;
         (b)   With alternate reflective material complying with rules adopted
under division (F)(2) below;
         (c)   With both a slow-moving vehicle emblem and alternate reflective
material as specified in division (F)(2) below.
      (2)   Rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety, subject to R.C.
Chapter 119, establishing standards and specifications for the position of
mounting of the alternate reflective material authorized by this division,
permit, as a minimum, the alternate reflective material to be black, gray, or
silver in color. The alternate reflective material shall be mounted on the
animal-drawn vehicle so as to be visible, at all times specified in R.C. §
4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, from a distance of
not less than 500 feet to the rear when illuminated by the lawful lower beams
of headlamps.
   (G)   (1)   Every unit of farm machinery that is designed by its
manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour shall display
a slow- moving vehicle emblem and a speed identification symbol that meets the
specifications contained in the American Society of Agricultural Engineers
Standard ANSI/ASAE S584 JAN2005, Agricultural Equipment: Speed Identification
Symbol (SIS) when the unit is operated upon a street or highway, irrespective
of the speed at which the unit is operated on the street or highway. The speed
identification symbol shall indicate the maximum speed in miles per hour at
which the unit of farm machinery is designed by its manufacturer to operate.
The display of the speed identification symbol shall be in accordance with the
standard prescribed in this division.
      (2)   If an agricultural tractor that is designed by its manufacturer to
operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour is being operated on a street
or highway at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour and is towing, pulling, or
otherwise drawing a unit of farm machinery, the unit of farm machinery shall
display a slow-moving vehicle emblem and a speed identification symbol that is
the same as the speed identification symbol that is displayed on the
agricultural tractor.
   (H)   When an agricultural tractor that is designed by its manufacturer to
operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour is being operated on a street
or highway at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour, the operator shall
possess some documentation published or provided by the manufacturer indicating
the maximum speed in miles per hour at which the manufacturer designed the
agricultural tractor to operate.
   (I)   As used in this section, BOAT TRAILER means any vehicle designed and
used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage and a marina,
or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or highway for a
distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less.
(R.C. § 4513.11)
   (J)   Lights and reflector requirements for multi- wheel agricultural
tractors or farm machinery.
      (1)   (a)   Every multi-wheel agricultural tractor whose model year was
2001 or earlier, when being operated or traveling on a street or highway at the
times specified in R.C. § 4513.03, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, at a minimum shall be equipped with and display reflectors and
illuminated amber lamps so that the extreme left and right projections of the
tractor are indicated by flashing lamps displaying amber light, visible to the
front and the rear; by amber reflectors, all visible to the front; and by red
reflectors, all visible to the rear.
         (b)   The lamps displaying amber light need not flash simultaneously
and need not flash in conjunction with any directional signals of the tractor.
         (c)   The lamps and reflectors required by division (J)(1)(a) of this
section and their placement shall meet standards and specifications contained
in rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety in accordance with R.C.
Chapter 119. The rules governing the amber lamps, amber reflectors, and red
reflectors and their placement shall correlate with and, as far as possible,
conform with paragraphs 4.1.4.1, 4.1.7.1, and 4.1.7.2, respectively, of the
American Society of Agricultural Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE S279.10 OCT98,
Lighting and Marking of Agricultural Equipment on Highways.
      (2)   Every unit of farm machinery whose model year was 2002 or later,
when being operated or traveling on a street or highway at the times specified
in R.C. § 4513.03, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, shall be
equipped with and display markings and illuminated lamps that meet or exceed
the lighting, illumination, and marking standards and specifications that are
applicable to that type of farm machinery for the unit’s model year specified
in the American Society of Agricultural Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE S279.11
APR01, Lighting and Marking of Agricultural Equipment on Highways, or any
subsequent revisions of that standard.
      (3)   The lights and reflectors required by division (J)(1) of this
section are in addition to the slow-moving vehicle emblem and lights required
or permitted by R.C. § 4513.11 or 4513.17, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, to be displayed on farm machinery being operated or
traveling on a street or highway.
      (4)   No person shall operate any unit of farm machinery on a street or
highway or cause any unit of farm machinery to travel on a street or highway in
violation of divisions (J)(1) or (J)(2) of this section.
(R.C. § 4513.111)
   (K)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. §§ 4513.11(I), 4513.111(E))
§ 74.13  SPOTLIGHT AND AUXILIARY DRIVING LIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than one
spotlight and every lighted spotlight shall be so aimed and used upon
approaching another vehicle that no part of the high-intensity portion of the
beam will be directed to the left of the prolongation of the extreme left side
of the vehicle, nor more than 100 feet ahead of the vehicle.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than three
auxiliary driving lights mounted on the front of the vehicle. Any such lights
which do not conform to the specifications for auxiliary driving lights and the
regulations for their use prescribed by the Director of Public Safety shall not
be used.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.12)
§ 74.14  COWL, FENDER, AND BACK-UP LIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with side cowl or fender
lights which shall emit a white or amber light without glare.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with lights on each side thereof
which shall emit a white or amber light without glare.
      (3)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with back-up lights, either
separately or in combination with another light. No back-up lights shall be
continuously lighted when the motor vehicle is in forward motion.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.13)
§ 74.15  TWO LIGHTS DISPLAYED.
   (A)   At all times mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, at least two lighted lights shall be displayed, one near
each side of the front of every motor vehicle, except when such vehicle is
parked subject to the regulations governing lights on parked vehicles.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.14)
§ 74.16  HEADLIGHTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Whenever a motor vehicle is being operated on a roadway or shoulder
adjacent thereto during the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the driver shall use a
distribution of light, or composite beam, directed high enough and of
sufficient intensity to reveal persons, vehicles and substantial objects at a
safe distance in advance of the vehicle, subject to the following requirements:
      (1)   Whenever the driver of a vehicle approaches an oncoming vehicle,
such driver shall use a distribution of light, or composite beam, so aimed that
the glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of the oncoming driver.
      (2)   Every new motor vehicle registered in this state which has
multiple-beam road lighting equipment shall be equipped with a beam indicator,
which shall be lighted whenever the uppermost distribution of light from the
headlights is in use, and shall not otherwise be lighted. This indicator shall
be so designed and located that, when lighted, it will be readily visible
without glare to the driver of the vehicle.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.15)
§ 74.17  LIGHTS OF LESS INTENSITY.
   (A)   Any motor vehicle may be operated under the conditions specified in
R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance when it is
equipped with two lighted lights upon the front thereof capable of revealing
persons and substantial objects 75 feet ahead, in lieu of lights required in
R.C. § 4513.14 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, provided that
such vehicle shall not be operated at a speed in excess of 20 miles per hour.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.16)
§ 74.18  NUMBER OF LIGHTS PERMITTED; RED AND FLASHING LIGHTS.
   (A)   Whenever a motor vehicle equipped with headlights is also equipped
with any auxiliary lights or spotlight or any other light on the front thereof
projecting a beam of an intensity greater than 300 candlepower, not more than a
total of five of any such lights on the front of a vehicle shall be lighted at
any one time when the vehicle is upon a highway.
   (B)   Any lighted light or illuminating device upon a motor vehicle, other
than headlights, spotlights, signal lights, or auxiliary driving lights, that
projects a beam of light of an intensity greater than 300 candlepower shall be
so directed that no part of the beam will strike the level of the roadway on
which the vehicle stands at a distance of more than 75 feet from the vehicle.
   (C)   (1)   Flashing lights are prohibited on motor vehicles, except as a
means for indicating a right or a left turn, or in the presence of vehicular
traffic hazard requiring unusual care in approaching, or overtaking or passing.
This prohibition does not apply to emergency vehicles, road service vehicles
servicing or towing a disabled vehicle, traffic line stripers, snow plows,
rural mail delivery vehicles, vehicles as provided in R.C. § 4513.182 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, Department of Transportation
maintenance vehicles, funeral hearses, funeral escort vehicles, and similar
equipment operated by the Department or local authorities, which shall be
equipped with and display, when used on a street or highway for the special
purpose necessitating such lights, a flashing, oscillating or rotating amber
light, but shall not display a flashing, oscillating or rotating light of any
other color, nor to vehicles or machinery permitted by R.C. § 4513.11 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to have a flashing red light.
      (2)   When used on a street or highway, farm machinery and vehicles
escorting farm machinery may be equipped with and display a flashing,
oscillating or rotating amber light, and the prohibition contained in division
(C)(1) of this section does not apply to such machinery or vehicles. Farm
machinery may also display the lights described in R.C. § 4513.11 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   Except a person operating a public safety vehicle, as defined in R.C.
§ 4511.01(E), or a school bus, no person shall operate, move, or park upon or
permit to stand within the right-of-way of any public street or highway any
vehicle or equipment that is equipped with and displaying a flashing red or a
flashing combination red and white light, or an oscillating or rotating red
light, or a combination red and white oscillating or rotating light; and except
a public law enforcement officer, or other person sworn to enforce the criminal
and traffic laws of the state, operating a public safety vehicle when on duty,
no person shall operate, move or park upon or permit to stand within the right-
of-way of any street or highway any vehicle or equipment that is equipped with,
or upon which is mounted, and displaying a flashing blue or a flashing
combination blue and white light, or an oscillating or rotating blue light, or
a combination blue and white oscillating or rotating light.
   (E)   This section does not prohibit the use of warning lights required by
law or the simultaneous flashing of turn signals on disabled vehicles or on
vehicles being operated in unfavorable atmospheric conditions in order to
enhance their visibility. This section also does not prohibit the simultaneous
flashing of turn signals or warning lights whether on farm machinery or
vehicles escorting farm machinery when used on a street or highway.
(R.C. § 4513.17)
   (F)   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a motor vehicle
operated by a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator may be equipped
with a flashing, oscillating or rotating red or blue light and siren, whistle
or bell capable of emitting sound audible under normal conditions from a
distance of not less than 500 feet. Such a vehicle may display the flashing,
oscillating or rotating red or blue light and may give the audible signal of
the siren, whistle or bell only when responding to a fatality or a fatal motor
vehicle accident on a street or highway and only at those locations where the
stoppage of traffic impedes the ability of the coroner, deputy coroner or
coroner’s investigator to arrive at the site of the fatality.
      (2)   This division (F) does not relieve the coroner, deputy coroner or
coroner’s investigator operating a motor vehicle from the duty to drive with
due regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(R.C. § 4513.171)
   (G)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. §§ 4513.17(F), 4513.171(B))
§ 74.19  STANDARDS FOR LIGHTS ON SNOW REMOVAL EQUIPMENT AND OVERSIZE VEHICLES.
   (A)   It is unlawful to operate snow removal equipment on a highway unless
the lights thereon comply with and are lighted when and as required by the
standards and specifications adopted by the Director of Transportation pursuant
to R.C. § 4513.18.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.18)
§ 74.20  FLASHING LIGHTS PERMITTED FOR CERTAIN TYPES OF VEHICLES.
   Rural mail delivery vehicles, state highway survey vehicles, and funeral
escort vehicles are permitted to use flashing lights.
(R.C. § 4513.181)
§ 74.21  LIGHTS AND SIGN ON TRANSPORTATION FOR PRESCHOOL CHILDREN.
   (A)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle owned, leased, or hired by a
nursery school, kindergarten, or day-care center, while transporting preschool
children to or from such an institution unless the motor vehicle is equipped
with and displaying two amber flashing lights mounted on a bar attached to the
top of the vehicle, and a sign bearing the designation “Caution — Children,”
which shall be attached to the bar carrying the amber flashing lights in such a
manner as to be legible to persons both in front of and behind the vehicle. The
lights and sign shall meet standards and specifications adopted by the Director
of Public Safety.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle displaying the lights and sign
required by this section for any purpose other than the transportation of
preschool children as provided in this section.
(R.C. § 4513.182)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.22  FOCUS AND AIM OF HEADLIGHTS.
   (A)   No person shall use any lights mentioned in R.C. §§ 4513.03 through
4513.18, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, upon any motor
vehicle, trailer or semitrailer unless these lights are equipped, mounted and
adjusted as to focus and aim in accordance with regulations which are
prescribed by the Director of Public Safety.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.19)
§ 74.23  BRAKE EQUIPMENT; SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The following requirements govern as to brake equipment on vehicles:
      (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, when operated upon a
highway shall be equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of and
to stop and hold the motor vehicle, including two separate means of applying
the brakes, each of which means shall be effective to apply the brakes to at
least two wheels. If these two separate means of applying the brakes are
connected in any way, then on such motor vehicles, manufactured or assembled
after January 1, 1942, they shall be so constructed that failure of any one
part of the operating mechanism shall not leave the motor vehicle without
brakes on at least two wheels.
      (2)   Every motorcycle, when operated upon a highway shall be equipped
with at least one adequate brake, which may be operated by hand or by foot.
      (3)   Every motorized bicycle shall be equipped with brakes meeting the
rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety under R.C. § 4511.521.
      (4)   When operated upon the highways, the following vehicles shall be
equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and to
hold the vehicle, designed to be applied by the driver of the towing motor
vehicle from its cab, and also designed and connected so that, in case of a
breakaway of the towed vehicle, the brakes shall be automatically applied:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, every trailer or
semitrailer, except a pole trailer, with an empty weight of 2,000 pounds or
more, manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1942;
         (b)   Every manufactured home or travel trailer with an empty weight
of 2,000 pounds or more, manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 2001.
      (5)   Every watercraft trailer with a gross weight or manufacturer’s
gross vehicle weight rating of 3,000 pounds or more that is manufactured or
assembled on or after January 1, 2008, shall have separate brakes equipped with
hydraulic surge or electrically operated brakes on two wheels.
      (6)   In any combination of motor-drawn trailers or semitrailers equipped
with brakes, means shall be provided for applying the rearmost brakes in
approximate synchronism with the brakes on the towing vehicle, and developing
the required braking effort on the rearmost wheels at the fastest rate; or
means shall be provided for applying braking effort first on the rearmost
brakes; or both of the above means, capable of being used alternatively, may be
employed.
      (7)   Every vehicle and combination of vehicles, except motorcycles and
motorized bicycles, and except trailers and semitrailers of a gross weight of
less than 2,000 pounds, and pole trailers, shall be equipped with parking
brakes adequate to hold the vehicle on any grade on which it is operated, under
all conditions of loading, on a surface free from snow, ice, or loose material.
The parking brakes shall be capable of being applied in conformance with the
foregoing requirements by the driver’s muscular effort or by spring action or
by equivalent means. Their operation may be assisted by the service brakes or
other source of power provided that failure of the service brake actuation
system or other power assisting mechanism will not prevent the parking brakes
from being applied in conformance with the foregoing requirements. The parking
brakes shall be so designed that when once applied they shall remain applied
with the required effectiveness despite exhaustion of any source of energy or
leakage of any kind.
      (8)   The same brake drums, brake shoes and lining assemblies, brake shoe
anchors, and mechanical brake shoe actuation mechanism normally associated with
the wheel brake assemblies may be used for both the service brakes and the
parking brakes. If the means of applying the parking brakes and the service
brakes are connected in any way, they shall be so constructed that failure of
any one part shall not leave the vehicle without operative brakes.
      (9)   Every motor vehicle or combination of motor-drawn vehicles shall,
at all times and under all conditions of loading, be capable of being stopped
on a dry, smooth, level road free from loose material, upon application of the
service or foot brake, within the following specified distances, or shall be
capable of being decelerated at a sustained rate corresponding to these
distances:
         (a)   Vehicles or combinations of vehicles having brakes on all wheels
shall come to a stop in 30 feet or less from a speed of 20 miles per hour.
         (b)   Vehicles or combinations of vehicles not having brakes on all
wheels shall come to a stop in 40 feet or less from a speed of 20 miles per
hour.
      (10)   All brakes shall be maintained in good working order and shall be
so adjusted as to operate as equally as practicable with respect to the wheels
on opposite sides of the vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.20)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.24  BRAKE FLUID.
   (A)   No hydraulic brake fluid for use in motor vehicles shall be sold in
this municipality if the brake fluid is below the minimum standard of
specifications for heavy duty type brake fluid established by the society of
automotive engineers and the standard of specifications established by 49
C.F.R. § 571.116, as amended.
   (B)   All manufacturers, packers, or distributors of brake fluid selling
such fluid in this municipality shall state on the containers that the brake
fluid meets or exceeds the applicable minimum SAE standard of specifications,
and the standard of specifications established in 49 C.F.R. § 571.116, as
amended.
(R.C. § 4513.201)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.25  MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR BRAKES AND COMPONENTS.
   (A)   No brake lining, brake lining material, or brake lining assemblies for
use as repair and replacement parts in motor vehicles shall be sold in this
municipality if these items do not meet or exceed the minimum standard of
specifications established by the Society of Automotive Engineers and the
standard of specifications established in 49 C.F.R. § 571.105, as amended, and
49 C.F.R. § 571.135, as amended.
   (B)   All manufacturers or distributors of brake lining, brake lining
material, or brake lining assemblies selling these items for use as repair and
replacement parts in motor vehicles shall state that the items meet or exceed
the applicable minimum standard of specifications.
   (C)   As used in this section, MINIMUM STANDARD OF SPECIFICATIONS means a
minimum standard for brake system or brake component performance that meets the
need for motor vehicle safety and complies with the applicable SAE standards
and recommended practices, and the federal motor vehicle safety standards that
cover the same aspect of performance for any brake lining, brake lining
material, or brake lining assemblies.
(R.C. § 4513.202)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.26  HORNS, SIRENS, AND WARNING DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle when operated upon a highway shall be
equipped with a horn which is in good working order and capable of emitting
sound audible, under normal conditions, from a distance of not less than 200
feet.
      (2)   No motor vehicle shall be equipped with, nor shall any person use
upon a vehicle, any siren, whistle, or bell. Any vehicle may be equipped with a
theft alarm signal device which shall be so arranged that it cannot be used as
an ordinary warning signal. Every emergency vehicle shall be equipped with a
siren, whistle or bell, capable of emitting sound audible under normal
conditions from a distance of not less than 500 feet and of a type approved by
the Director of Public Safety. Such equipment shall not be used except when
such vehicle is operated in response to an emergency call or is in the
immediate pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law, in which case
the driver of the emergency vehicle shall sound such equipment when it is
necessary to warn pedestrians and other drivers of the approach thereof.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.21)
§ 74.27  MUFFLERS; EXCESSIVE SMOKE OR GAS.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle and motorcycle with an internal combustion
engine shall at all times be equipped with a muffler which is in good working
order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise, and no
person shall use a muffler cutout, bypass or similar device upon a motor
vehicle on a highway. Every motorcycle muffler shall be equipped with baffle
plates.
      (2)   No person shall own, operate or have in the person’s possession any
motor vehicle or motorcycle equipped with a device for producing excessive
smoke or gas, or so equipped as to permit oil or any other chemical to flow
into or upon the exhaust pipe or muffler of such vehicle, or equipped in any
way to produce or emit smoke or dangerous or annoying gases from any portion of
such vehicle, other than the ordinary gases emitted by the exhaust of an
internal combustion engine under normal operation.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.22)
§ 74.28  REARVIEW MIRRORS.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle and motorcycle shall be equipped with a mirror so
located as to reflect to the operator a view of the highway to the rear of such
vehicle or motorcycle. Operators of vehicles and motorcycles shall have a clear
and unobstructed view to the front and to both sides of their vehicles and
motorcycles and shall have a clear view to the rear of their vehicles and
motorcycles by mirror.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.23)
§ 74.29  WINDSHIELDS AND WIPERS.
   (A)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle on a street or highway in this
municipality, other than a motorcycle or motorized bicycle, that is not
equipped with a windshield.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle, other than a bus, with
any sign, poster, or other nontransparent material upon the front windshield,
sidewings, side, or rear windows of such vehicle other than a certificate or
other paper required to be displayed by law, except that there may be in the
lower left-hand or right-hand corner of the windshield a sign, poster, or decal
not to exceed four inches in height by six inches in width. No sign, poster, or
decal shall be displayed in the front windshield in such a manner as to conceal
the vehicle identification number for the motor vehicle when, in accordance
with federal law, that number is located inside the vehicle passenger
compartment and so placed as to be readable through the vehicle glazing without
moving any part of the vehicle.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
driving a passenger car with an electronic device, including an antenna,
electronic tolling or other transponder, camera, directional navigation device,
or other similar electronic device located in the front windshield if the
device meets both of the following:
         (a)   It does not restrict the vehicle operator’s sight lines to the
road and highway signs and signals.
         (b)   It does not conceal the vehicle identification number.
      (3)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
driving a commercial car with an electronic device, including an antenna,
electronic tolling or other transponder, camera, directional navigation device,
or other similar electronic device located in the front windshield if the
device meets both of the following:
         (a)   It does not restrict the vehicle operator’s sight lines to the
road and highway signs and signals.
         (b)   It is mounted not more than six inches below the upper edge of
the windshield and is outside the area swept by the vehicle’s windshield
wipers.
   (C)   The windshield on every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a device
for cleaning rain, snow, or other moisture from the windshield. The device
shall be maintained in good working order and so constructed as to be
controlled or operated by the operator of the vehicle.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.24)
§ 74.30  SOLID TIRE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every solid tire, as defined in R.C. § 4501.01, on a vehicle shall
have rubber or other resilient material on its entire traction surface at least
one inch thick above the edge of the flange of the entire periphery.
(R.C. § 4513.25)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.31  REQUIREMENTS FOR SAFETY GLASS IN MOTOR VEHICLES; USE OF TINTED GLASS
OR REFLECTORIZED MATERIAL.
   (A)   Safety glass.
      (1)   No person shall sell any new motor vehicle nor shall any new motor
vehicle be registered, and no person shall operate any motor vehicle, which is
registered in this state and which has been manufactured or assembled on or
after January 1, 1936, unless the motor vehicle is equipped with safety glass,
wherever glass is used in the windshields, doors, partitions, rear windows, and
windows on each side immediately adjacent to the rear window.
      (2)   SAFETY GLASS means any product composed of glass so manufactured,
fabricated, or treated as substantially to prevent shattering and flying of the
glass when it is struck or broken, or such other or similar product as may be
approved by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles.
      (3)   Glass other than safety glass shall not be offered for sale, or
sold for use in, or installed in any door, window, partition, or windshield
that is required by this section to be equipped with safety glass.
(R.C. § 4513.26)
   (B)   Tinted or reflectorized material.
      (1)   No person shall operate, on any highway or other public or private
property open to the public for vehicular travel or parking, lease, or rent any
motor vehicle that is registered in this state unless the motor vehicle
conforms to the requirements concerning tinted glass and reflectorized material
of R.C. § 4513.241 and of any applicable rule adopted under that section.
      (2)   No person shall install in or on any motor vehicle, any glass or
other material that fails to conform to the requirements of R.C. § 4513.241 or
of any rule adopted under that section.
      (3)   No used motor vehicle dealer or new motor vehicle dealer, as
defined in R.C. § 4517.01, shall sell any motor vehicle that fails to conform
to the requirements of R.C. § 4513.241 or of any rule adopted under that
section.
      (4)   No reflectorized materials shall be permitted upon or in any front
windshield, side windows, sidewings, or rear window.
      (5)   This division (B) does not apply to the manufacturer’s tinting or
glazing of motor vehicle windows or windshields that is otherwise in compliance
with or permitted by Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard #205.
      (6)   With regard to any side window behind a driver’s seat or any rear
window other than any window on an emergency door, this division (B) does not
apply to any school bus used to transport a child with disabilities pursuant to
R.C. Chapter 3323, whom it is impossible or impractical to transport by regular
school bus in the course of regular route transportation provided by a school
district. As used in this division, CHILD WITH DISABILITIES has the same
meaning as in R.C. § 3323.01.
      (7)   This division (B) does not apply to any school bus that is to be
sold and operated outside the municipality.
(R.C. § 4513.241(C) - (I))
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3) or (B)(4) of this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.241(J))
Statutory reference:
   Administrative regulations, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-41
§ 74.32  DIRECTIONAL SIGNALS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle manufactured or
assembled on or after January 1, 1954, unless the vehicle is equipped with
electrical or mechanical directional signals.
      (2)   No person shall operate any motorcycle or motor-driven cycle
manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1968, unless the vehicle is
equipped with electrical or mechanical directional signals.
   (B)   DIRECTIONAL SIGNALS means an electrical or mechanical signal device
capable of clearly indicating an intention to turn either to the right or to
the left and which shall be visible from both the front and rear.
   (C)   All mechanical signal devices shall be self- illuminating devices when
in use at the times mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.261)
§ 74.33  INSTALLATION AND SALE OF SEAT SAFETY BELTS REQUIRED; DEFINITION.
   (A)   As used in this section and in R.C. § 4513.263 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the component parts of a SEAT SAFETY BELT
include a belt, anchor attachment assembly, and a buckle or closing device.
   (B)   No person shall sell, lease, rent, or operate any passenger car, as
defined in R.C. § 4501.01(E), that is registered or to be registered in this
state and that is manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1962, unless
the passenger car is equipped with sufficient anchorage units at the attachment
points for attaching at least two sets of seat safety belts to its front seat.
Such anchorage units at the attachment points shall be of such construction,
design, and strength to support a loop load pull of not less than 4,000 pounds
for each belt.
   (C)   No person shall sell, lease, or rent any passenger car, as defined in
R.C. § 4501.01(E), that is registered or to be registered in this state and
that is manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1966, unless the
passenger car has installed in its front seat at least two seat safety belt
assemblies.
   (D)   After January 1, 1966, neither any seat safety belt for use in a motor
vehicle nor any component part of any such seat safety belt shall be sold in
this municipality unless the seat safety belt or the component part satisfies
the minimum standard of specifications established by the society of automotive
engineers for automotive seat belts and unless the seat safety belt or
component part is labeled so as to indicate that it meets those minimum
standard specifications.
   (E)   Each sale, lease, or rental in violation of this section constitutes a
separate offense.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.262)
Statutory reference:
   Child restraint systems, administrative regulations, see O.A.C. Chapter
4501-37
§ 74.34  REQUIREMENTS FOR EXTRA SIGNAL EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   No person shall operate any motor truck, bus, or commercial tractor
upon any highway at any time from sunset to sunrise unless there is carried in
such vehicle, except as provided in division (B) of this section, the following
equipment which shall be of the types approved by the Director of
Transportation.
      (1)   At least three flares or three red reflectors or three red electric
lanterns, each of which is capable of being seen and distinguished at a
distance of 500 feet under normal atmospheric conditions at nighttime;
      (2)   At least three red-burning fusees, unless red reflectors or red
electric lanterns are carried;
      (3)   At least two red cloth flags, not less than two inches square, with
standards to support them;
      (4)   The type of red reflectors shall comply with such standards and
specifications in effect on September 16, 1963, or later established by the
Interstate Commerce Commission and must be certified as meeting such standards
by Underwriters Laboratories.
   (B)   No person shall operate at the time and under the conditions stated in
this section any motor vehicle used in transporting flammable liquids in bulk,
or in transporting compressed flammable gases, unless there is carried in such
vehicle three red electric lanterns or three red reflectors meeting the
requirements stated in division (A) of this section. There shall not be carried
in any such vehicle any flare, fusee, or signal produced by a flame.
   (C)   This section does not apply to any person who operates any motor
vehicle in a work area designated by protection equipment devices that are
displayed and used in accordance with the manual adopted by the Department of
Transportation under R.C. § 4511.09.
(R.C. § 4513.27)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.35  DISPLAY OF WARNING DEVICES ON DISABLED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever any motor truck, bus, commercial tractor, trailer,
semitrailer, or pole trailer is disabled upon any freeway, expressway, thruway
and connecting, entering, or exiting ramps within the municipality, at any time
when lighted lamps are required on vehicles, the operator of such vehicle shall
display the following warning devices upon the highway during the time the
vehicle is so disabled on the highway except as provided in division (B) of
this section:
      (1)   A lighted fusee shall be immediately placed on the roadway at the
traffic side of such vehicle, unless red electric lanterns or red reflectors
are displayed.
      (2)   Within the burning period of the fusee and as promptly as possible,
three lighted flares or pot torches, or three red reflectors or three red
electric lanterns shall be placed on the roadway as follows:
         (a)   One at a distance of 40 paces or approximately 100 feet in
advance of the vehicle;
         (b)   One at a distance of 40 paces or approximately 100 feet to the
rear of the vehicle, except as provided in this section, each in the center of
the lane of traffic occupied by the disabled vehicle;
         (c)   One at the traffic side of the vehicle.
   (B)   Whenever any vehicle used in transporting flammable liquids in bulk,
or in transporting compressed flammable gases, is disabled upon a highway at
any time or place mentioned in division (A) of this section, the driver of such
vehicle shall display upon the roadway the following warning devices:
      (1)   One red electric lantern or one red reflector shall be immediately
placed on the roadway at the traffic side of the vehicle;
      (2)   Two other red electric lanterns or two other red reflectors shall
be placed to the front and rear of the vehicle in the same manner prescribed
for flares in division (A) of this section.
   (C)   When a vehicle of a type specified in division (B) of this section is
disabled, the use of flares, fusees, or any signal produced by flame as warning
signals is prohibited.
   (D)   Whenever any vehicle of a type referred to in this section is disabled
upon any freeway, expressway, thruway, and connecting, entering, or exiting
ramps within the municipality, at any time when the display of fusees, flares,
red reflectors, or electric lanterns is not required, the operator of such
vehicle shall display two red flags upon the roadway in the lane of traffic
occupied by the disabled vehicle, one at a distance of 40 paces or
approximately 100 feet in advance of the vehicle, and one at a distance of 40
paces or approximately 100 feet to the rear of the vehicle, except as provided
in this section.
   (E)   The flares, fusees, lanterns, red reflectors, and flags to be
displayed as required in this section shall conform with the applicable
requirements of R.C. § 4513.27 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (F)   In the event the vehicle is disabled near a curve, crest of a hill, or
other obstruction of view, the flare, flag, reflector, or lantern in that
direction shall be placed as to afford ample warning to other users of the
highway, but in no case shall it be placed less than 40 paces or approximately
100 feet nor more than 120 paces or approximately 300 feet from the disabled
vehicle.
   (G)   This section does not apply to the operator of any vehicle in a work
area designated by protection equipment devices that are displayed and used in
accordance with the manual adopted by the Department of Transportation under
R.C. § 4511.09.
   (H)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.28)
§ 74.36  REQUIREMENTS FOR VEHICLES TRANSPORTING EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   Any person operating any vehicle transporting explosives upon a
highway shall at all times comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   The vehicle shall be marked or placarded on each side and on the
rear with the word “EXPLOSIVES” in letters not less than eight inches high, or
there shall be displayed on the rear of such vehicle a red flag not less than
24 inches square marked with the word “DANGER” in white letters six inches
high, or shall be marked or placarded in accordance with Section 177.823 of the
United States Department of Transportation regulations.
      (2)   The vehicle shall be equipped with not less than two fire
extinguishers, filled and ready for immediate use, and placed at convenient
points on such vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.29)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.37  STUDDED TIRES; SEASONAL USE PERMITTED.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, STUDDED TIRE means any tire designed
for use on a vehicle and equipped with metal studs or studs of wear- resisting
material that project beyond the tread of the traction surface of the tire.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, no person
shall operate any motor vehicle other than a public safety vehicle or school
bus that is equipped with studded tires on any street or highway in this
municipality, except during the period extending from November 1 of each year
through April 15 of the succeeding year.
      (2)   A person may operate a motor vehicle that is equipped with
retractable studded tires with the studs retracted at any time of the year, but
shall operate the motor vehicle with the studs extended only as provided in
division (B)(1) of this section.
   (C)   This section does not apply to the use of tire chains when there is
snow or ice on the streets or highways where such chains are being used, or the
immediate vicinity thereof.
(R.C. § 5589.081)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 5589.99(B))
§ 74.38  SAFETY INSPECTION DECALS FOR BUSES.
   (A)   Definitions.   For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BUS.
         (a)   BUS means any vehicle used for the transportation of passengers
that meets at least one of the following:
            1.   Was originally designed by the manufacturer to transport more
than 15 passengers, including the driver;
            2.   Either the gross vehicle weight rating or the gross vehicle
weight exceeds 10,000 pounds.
         (b)   BUS does not include a church bus as defined in R.C. § 4503.07
or a school bus unless the church bus or school bus is used in the
transportation of passengers by a motor carrier.
         (c)   BUS also does not include any of the following:
            1.   Any vehicle operated exclusively on a rail or rails;
            2.   A trolley bus operated by electric power derived from a fixed
overhead wire furnishing local passenger transportation similar to street-
railway service;
            3.   Vehicles owned or leased by government agencies or political
subdivisions.
      MOTOR CARRIER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4923.01.
(R.C. § 4513.50)
   (B)   Safety inspection decals.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, on and after
July 1, 2001, no person shall operate a bus, nor shall any person being the
owner of a bus or having supervisory responsibility for a bus, permit the
operation of any bus unless the bus displays a valid, current safety inspection
decal issued by the State Highway Patrol under R.C. § 4513.52.
      (2)   For the purpose of complying with the requirements of this section
and R.C. § 4513.52, the owner or other operator of a bus may drive the bus
directly to an inspection site conducted by the State Highway Patrol and
directly back to the person’s place of business without a valid registration
and without displaying a safety inspection decal, provided that no passengers
may occupy the bus during such operation.
(R.C. § 4513.51(A), (B))
   (C)   Violation.  Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section is guilty
of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4513.51(D))
§ 74.39  AIR BAGS.
   (A)   As used in this section, AIR BAG has the same meaning as in 49 C.F.R.
§ 579.4, as amended.
   (B)   No person shall install or reinstall in any motor vehicle any object
to fulfill the function of an air bag, including an air bag, other than an air
bag that was designed in conformance with or that is regulated by Federal Motor
Vehicle Safety Standard Number 208 for the make, model, and model year of the
vehicle, knowing that the object is not in accordance with that standard.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of improper
replacement of a motor vehicle air bag, a misdemeanor of the first degree on a
first offense. On each subsequent offense, the person is guilty of a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 4549.20) 
LOADS
§ 74.40  PERMIT REQUIRED TO EXCEED LOAD LIMITS.
   (A)   The municipality, with respect to highways under its jurisdiction,
upon application in writing and for good cause shown, may issue a special
permit in writing authorizing the applicant to operate or move a vehicle or
combination of vehicles of a size or weight of vehicle or load exceeding the
maximum specified in R.C. §§ 5577.01 through 5577.09, or otherwise not in
conformity with R.C. §§ 4513.01 through 4513.37, upon any highway under its
jurisdiction.
   (B)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 715.22 and 723.01, the holder of a special
permit issued by the Director of Transportation under R.C. § 4513.34 may move
the vehicle or combination of vehicles described in the special permit on any
highway that is a part of the state highway system when the movement is partly
within and partly without the corporate limits of the municipality. No local
authority shall require any other permit or license or charge any license fee
or other charge against the holder of a permit for the movement of a vehicle or
combination of vehicles on any highway which is a part of the state highway
system. The Ohio Director of Transportation shall not require the holder of a
permit issued by the municipality to obtain a special permit for the movement
of vehicles or combination of vehicles on highways within the jurisdiction of
the municipality. Permits may be issued for any period of time not to exceed
one year, as the local authority in its discretion determines advisable or for
the duration of any public construction project.
   (C)   The application for a permit shall be in the form that the
municipality prescribes. The municipality may prescribe a permit fee to be
imposed and collected when any permit described in this section is issued. The
permit fee may be in an amount sufficient to reimburse the municipality for the
administrative costs incurred in issuing the permit, and also to cover the cost
of normal and expected damage caused to the roadway or a street or highway
structure as the result of the operation of the nonconforming vehicle or
combination of vehicles. For the purposes of this section and of rules adopted
by the Director under R.C. § 4513.34, milk transported in bulk by vehicle is
deemed a nondivisible load.
   (D)   The municipality may issue or withhold a permit. If a permit is to be
issued, the municipality may limit or prescribe conditions of operation for the
vehicle and may require the posting of a bond or other security conditioned
upon the sufficiency of the permit fee to compensate for damage caused to the
roadway or a street or highway structure. In addition, the municipality, as a
condition of issuance of an overweight permit, may require the applicant to
develop and enter into a mutual agreement with the municipality to compensate
for or to repair excess damage caused to the roadway by travel under the
permit.
   (E)   Every permit shall be carried in the vehicle or combination of
vehicles to which it refers and shall be open to inspection by any police
officer or authorized agent of any authority granting the permit. No person
shall violate any of the terms of a permit.
(R.C. § 4513.34)
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
Statutory reference:
   Overweight or oversized vehicles, state permit regulations, see O.A.C.
Chapter 5501:2-1
§ 74.41  LIMITATION OF LOAD EXTENSION ON LEFT SIDE OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   No passenger-type vehicle shall be operated on a highway with any load
carried on the vehicle which extends more than six inches beyond the line of
the fenders on the vehicle’s left side.
(R.C. § 4513.30)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.42  ALL LOADS SHALL BE PROPERLY SECURED.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any highway unless the vehicle
is so constructed, loaded, or covered as to prevent any of its load from
dropping, sifting, leaking, or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand
or other substances may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or
water or other substances may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or
maintaining the roadway.
   (B)   Except for a farm vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or
agricultural production materials or a rubbish vehicle in the process of
acquiring its load, no vehicle loaded with garbage, swill, cans, bottles, waste
paper, ashes, refuse, trash, rubbish, waste, wire, paper, cartons, boxes,
glass, solid waste, or any other material of an unsanitary nature that is
susceptible to blowing or bouncing from a moving vehicle shall be driven or
moved on any highway unless the load is covered with a sufficient cover to
prevent the load or any part of the load from spilling onto the highway.
(R.C. § 4513.31)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.43  TOWING REQUIREMENTS; EXCEPTION TO SIZE AND WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   When one vehicle is towing another vehicle, the drawbar or other
connection shall be of sufficient strength to pull all the weight towed
thereby, and the drawbar or other connection shall not exceed 15 feet from one
vehicle to the other, except the connection between any two vehicles
transporting poles, pipe, machinery, or other objects of structural nature
which cannot readily be dismembered.
      (2)   When one vehicle is towing another and the connection consists only
of a chain, rope, or cable, there shall be displayed upon such connection a
white flag or cloth not less than 12 inches square.   
      (3)   In addition to such drawbar or other connection, each trailer and
each semitrailer which is not connected to a commercial tractor by means of a
fifth wheel shall be coupled with stay chains or cables to the vehicle by which
it is being drawn. These chains or cables shall be of sufficient size and
strength to prevent the towed vehicle’s parting from the drawing vehicle in
case the drawbar or other connection should break or become disengaged. In case
of a loaded pole trailer, the connecting pole to the drawing vehicle shall be
coupled to the drawing vehicle with stay chains or cables of sufficient size
and strength to prevent the towed vehicle’s parting from the drawing vehicle.
      (4)   Every trailer or semitrailer, except pole and cable trailers and
pole and cable dollies operated by a public utility as defined in R.C. §
5727.01, shall be equipped with a coupling device which shall be so designed
and constructed that the trailer will follow substantially in the path of the
vehicle drawing it, without whipping or swerving from side to side. Vehicles
used to transport agricultural produce or agricultural production materials
between a local place of storage and supply and the farm, when drawn or towed
on a street or highway at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less, and vehicles
designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage
and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or
highway for a distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of 25 miles per
hour or less, shall have a drawbar or other connection, including the hitch
mounted on the towing vehicle, which shall be of sufficient strength to pull
all the weight towed thereby. Only one such vehicle used to transport
agricultural produce or agricultural production materials as provided in this
section may be towed or drawn at one time except as follows:
         (a)   An agricultural tractor may tow or draw more than one such
vehicle;
         (b)   A pickup truck or straight truck designed by the manufacturer to
carry a load of not less than one-half ton and not more than two tons may tow
or draw not more than two such vehicles that are being used to transport
agricultural produce from the farm to a local place of storage. No vehicle
being so towed by such a pickup truck or straight truck shall be considered to
be a motor vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.32)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
   (C)   Exception to size and weight restrictions.
      (1)   The size and weight provisions of this chapter and R.C. Chapter
5577 do not apply to a person who is engaged in the initial towing or removal
or a wrecked or disabled motor vehicle from the site of an emergency on a
public highway where the vehicle became wrecked or disabled to the nearest site
where the vehicle can be brought into conformance with the requirements of this
chapter and R.C. Chapter 5577 or to the nearest qualified repair facility.
      (2)   Any subsequent towing of a wrecked or disabled vehicle shall comply
with the size and weight provisions of this chapter and R.C. Chapter 5577.
      (3)   No court shall impose any penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or
any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or the civil liability
established in R.C. § 5577.12 upon a person towing or removing a vehicle in the
manner described in division (C)(1) of this section.
(R.C. § 5577.15)
§ 74.44  WEIGHING OF VEHICLE; REMOVAL OF EXCESS LOAD.
   (A)   Any police officer having reason to believe that the weight of a
vehicle and its load is unlawful may require the driver of the vehicle to stop
and submit to a weighing of it by means of a compact, self-contained, portable,
sealed scale specially adapted to determining the wheel loads of vehicles on
highways; a sealed scale permanently installed in a fixed location, having a
load-receiving element specially adapted to determining the wheel loads of
highway vehicles; a sealed scale, permanently installed in a fixed location,
having a load-receiving element specially adapted to determining the combined
load of all wheels on a single axle or on successive axles of a highway
vehicle; or a sealed scale adapted to weighing highway vehicles, loaded or
unloaded.
   (B)   The driver of the vehicle shall, if necessary, be directed to proceed
to the nearest available sealed scales to accomplish the weighing, provided the
scales are within three miles of the point where the vehicle is stopped.
   (C)   Any vehicle stopped in accordance with this section may be held by the
police officer for a reasonable time only to accomplish the weighing as
prescribed by this section.
   (D)   All scales used in determining the lawful weight of a vehicle and its
load shall be annually compared by a municipal, county or state sealer with the
state standards or standards approved by the state, and the scales shall not be
sealed if they do not conform to the state standards or standards approved by
the state.
   (E)   At each end of a permanently installed scale, there shall be a
straight approach in the same plane as the platform, of sufficient length and
width to insure the level positioning of vehicles during weight determinations.
During determination of weight by compact, self-contained, portable, sealed
scales, specially adapted to determining the wheel loads of vehicles on
highways, they shall always be used on a level terrain of sufficient length and
width to accommodate the entire vehicle being weighed. Such terrain shall be
level, or if not level, it shall be of such elevation that the difference in
elevation between the wheels on any one axle does not exceed two inches and the
difference in elevation between axles being weighed does not exceed one-quarter
inch per foot of the distance between such axles.
   (F)   In all determinations of all weights, except gross weight, by compact,
self-contained, portable, sealed scales, specially adapted to determining the
wheel loads of vehicles on highways, all successive axles, 12 feet or less
apart, shall be weighed simultaneously by placing one such scale under the
outside wheel of each such axle. In determinations of gross weight by the use
of compact, self-contained, portable, sealed scales, specially adapted to
determining the wheel loads of vehicles on highways, all axles shall be weighed
simultaneously by placing one such scale under the outside wheel of each axle.
   (G)   Whenever an officer, upon weighing a vehicle and load, determines that
the weight is unlawful, he or she may require the driver to stop the vehicle in
a suitable place and remain standing until such portion of the load is removed
as is necessary to reduce the weight of the vehicle to the limit permitted
under R.C. §§ 5577.01 through 5577.14 and this chapter.
(R.C. § 4513.33)
Statutory reference:
   Alteration of weight limits, approval of Director required, see R.C. §
4513.33
§ 74.45  OPERATION OF VEHICLE EXCEEDING WEIGHT LIMITS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No traction engine, steam roller, or other vehicle, load, object or
structure, whether propelled by muscular or motor power, not including vehicles
run upon stationary rails or tracks, fire engines, fire trucks, or other
vehicles or apparatus belonging to or used by any municipal or volunteer fire
department in the discharge of its functions, shall be operated or moved over
or upon the improved public streets, highways, bridges, or culverts in this
municipality upon wheels, rollers or otherwise, weighing in excess of the
weights prescribed in this subchapter or R.C. §§ 5577.01 et seq., including the
weight of the vehicle, object, structure or contrivance and load, except upon
special permission granted as provided by R.C. § 4513.34 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 5577.02)
   (B)   Whoever violates the weight provisions of this section shall be fined
$80 for the first 2,000 pounds, or fraction thereof, of overload; for overloads
in excess of 2,000 pounds, but not in excess of 5,000 pounds, such person shall
be fined $100, and in addition thereto $1 per 100 pounds of overload; for
overloads in excess of 5,000 pounds but not in excess of 10,000 pounds, such
person shall be fined $130, and in addition thereto $2 per 100 pounds of
overload, or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both. For all overloads in
excess of 10,000 pounds, such person shall be fined $160, and in addition
thereto $3 per 100 pounds of overload, or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or
both. Whoever violates the weight provisions of vehicle and load relating to
gross load limits shall be fined not less than $100. No penalty prescribed in
this division (B)(2) shall be imposed on any vehicle combination if the
overload on any one axle does not exceed 1,000 pounds, and if the immediately
preceding or following axle, excepting the front axle of the vehicle
combination, is underloaded by the same or greater amount. For purposes of this
division (B)(2), two axles on one vehicle less than eight feet apart shall be
considered as one axle.
(R.C. § 5577.99(A))
§ 74.46  LOAD LIMITS.
   (A)   Weight of load; width of tire. No person, firm or corporation shall
transport over the improved public streets, alleys, intercounty highways, state
highways, bridges or culverts in this municipality, in any vehicle propelled by
muscular, motor or other power, any burden, including weight of vehicle and
load, greater than the following:
      (1)   (a)   In vehicles having metal tires three inches or less in width,
a load of 500 pounds for each inch of the total width of the tire on all
wheels;
         (b)   When the tires on such vehicles exceed three inches in width, an
additional load of 800 pounds shall be permitted for each inch by which the
total width of the tires on all wheels exceeds 12 inches.
      (2)   In vehicles having tires of rubber or other similar substance, for
each inch of the total width of tires on all wheels, as follows:
 
Tire Width  Load Limit
(in inches) (in pounds)
3           450
3-1/2       450
4           500
5           600
6 and over  650
 
      (3)   The total width of tires on all wheels shall be, in the case of
solid tires of rubber or other similar substance, the actual width in inches of
all such tires between the flanges at the base of the tires, but in no event
shall that portion of tire coming in contact with the road surface be less than
two-thirds the width so measured between the flanges.
      (4)   In the case of pneumatic tires, of rubber or other similar
substance, the total width of tires on all wheels shall be the actual width of
all such tires, measured at the widest portion thereof when inflated and not
bearing a load.
      (5)   In no event shall the load, including the proportionate weight of
vehicle that can be concentrated on any wheel, exceed 650 pounds to each inch
in width of the tread as defined in this division (A) for solid tires, or each
inch in the actual diameter of pneumatic tires measured when inflated and not
bearing a load.
(R.C. § 5577.03)
   (B)   Vehicles with pneumatic tires, load limits.
      (1)   The maximum wheel load of any one wheel of any vehicle, load,
object or structure operated or moved upon improved public highways, streets,
bridges or culverts shall not exceed 650 pounds per inch width of pneumatic
tire, measured as prescribed by division (A) of this section.
      (2)   The weight of the vehicle and load imposed upon a road surface that
is part of the interstate system by vehicles with pneumatic tires shall not
exceed any of the following weight limitations:
         (a)   On any one axle, 20,000 pounds;
         (b)   On any tandem axle, 34,000 pounds;
         (c)   On any two or more consecutive axles, the maximum weight as
determined by application of the formula provided in division (B)(3) of this
section.
      (3)   (a)   For purposes of division (B)(2)(c) of this section, the
maximum gross weight on any two or more consecutive axles shall be determined
by application of the following formula:
            W = 500[(LN/–1) + 12N + 36]
         (b)   In this formula, W equals the overall gross weight on any group
of two or more consecutive axles to the nearest 500 pounds, L equals the
distance in rounded whole feet between the extreme of any group of two or more
consecutive axles, and N equals the number of axles in the group under
consideration. However, two consecutive sets of tandem axles may carry a gross
load of 34,000 pounds each, provided the overall distance between the first and
last axles of such consecutive sets of tandem axles is 36 feet or more.
      (4)   Except as provided in division (B)(9) of this section, the weight
of vehicle and load imposed upon a road surface that is not part of the
interstate system by vehicles with pneumatic tires shall not exceed any of the
following weight limitations:
         (a)   On any one axle, 20,000 pounds.
         (b)   On any two successive axles:
            1.   Spaced four feet or less apart, and weighed simultaneously,
24,000 pounds;
            2.   Spaced more than four feet apart, and weighed simultaneously,
34,000 pounds, plus 1,000 pounds per foot or fraction thereof, over four feet,
not to exceed 40,000 pounds.
         (c)   On any three successive load- bearing axles designed to equalize
the load between such axles and spaced so that each such axle of the three-axle
group is more than four feet from the next axle in the three-axle group and so
that the spacing between the first axle and the third axle in the three- axle
group is no more than nine feet, and with such load-bearing three-axle group
weighed simultaneously as a unit:
            1.   48,000 pounds, with the total weight of the vehicle and load
not exceeding 38,000 pounds plus an additional 900 pounds for each foot of
spacing between the front axle and the rearmost axle of the vehicle;
            2.   As an alternative to division (B)(4)(c)1. of this section,
42,500 pounds, if part of a six-axle vehicle combination with at least 20 feet
of spacing between the front axle and rearmost axle, with the total weight of
the vehicle and load not exceeding 54,000 pounds plus an additional 600 pounds
per each foot of spacing between the front axle and the rearmost axle of the
vehicle.
         (d)   The total weight of the vehicle and load utilizing any
combination of axles, other than as provided for three-axle groups in division
(B)(4) of this section, shall not exceed 38,000 pounds plus an additional 900
pounds for each foot of spacing between the front axle and the rearmost axle of
the vehicle.
      (5)   Notwithstanding divisions (B)(2) and (B)(4) of this section, the
maximum overall gross weight of a vehicle and load imposed upon the road
surface shall not exceed 80,000 pounds.
      (6)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, when a vehicle is
towing another vehicle, such drawbar or other connection shall be of a length
such as will limit the spacing between nearest axles of the respective vehicles
to a distance not in excess of 12-1/2 feet.
      (7)   As used in division (B)(2) of this section, TANDEM AXLE means two
or more consecutive axles whose centers may be included between parallel
transverse vertical planes spaced more than 40 inches but not more than 96
inches apart, extending across the full width of the vehicle.
      (8)   This division (B) does not apply to passenger bus type vehicles
operated by a regional transit authority pursuant to R.C. §§ 306.30 through
306.54.
      (9)   Either division (B)(2) or (B)(4) of this section applies to the
weight of a vehicle and its load imposed upon any road surface that is not a
part of the interstate system by vehicles with pneumatic tires. As between
divisions (B)(2) and (B)(4) of this section, only the division that yields the
highest total gross vehicle weight limit shall be applied to any such vehicle.
Once that division has been determined, only the limits contained in the
subdivisions of that division shall apply to that vehicle.
(R.C. § 5577.04)
   (C)   Axle and wheel load, gross weights and towing connection length for
solid rubber tires.
      (1)   No vehicle, load, object or structure having a maximum axle load
greater than 16,000 pounds when such vehicle is equipped with solid rubber
tires shall be operated or moved upon the improved public highways, streets,
bridges or culverts. The maximum wheel load of any one wheel of such vehicle
shall not exceed 650 pounds per inch width of tire, measured as prescribed by
division (A) of this section, nor shall any solid tire or rubber or other
resilient material, on any wheel of any such vehicle, be less than one inch
thick when measure from the top of the flanges of the tire channel.
      (2)   The weight of vehicle and load imposed upon the road surface by any
two successive axles, spaces four feet or less apart, shall not exceed 19,000
pounds for solid tires; or by any two successive axles spaced more than four
feet but less than eight feet apart, shall not exceed 24,000 pounds for solid
tires; or by any two successive axles, spaced eight feet or more apart, shall
not exceed 28,000 pounds for solid tires; nor shall the total weight of vehicle
and load exceed, for solid rubber tires, 28,000 pounds plus an additional 600
pounds for each foot or fraction thereof of spacing between the front axle and
the rear-most axle of the vehicle; nor shall the weight of the vehicle and load
imposed upon the road surface by any vehicle equipped with solid rubber tires
exceed 80% of the permissible weight of vehicle and load as provided for
pneumatic tires.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, when a vehicle is
towing another vehicle, such drawbar or other connection shall be of a length
such as will limit the spacing between the nearest axles of the respective
vehicles to a distance not in excess of 12-1/2 feet. If the provisions of this
division (C) are held to exceed the weight limitations or other provisions set
forth in the “Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1958,” 72 Stat. 902, 23 U.S.C. § 127,
this division (C) shall become null and void to the extent of such
inconsistency.
(R.C. § 5577.041)
   (D)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second or subsequent offense, such person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 5577.99(C))
      (2)   Whoever violates the weight provisions of this section shall be
punished as set forth in §
74.45(B).
   (E)   Modification of load limits. The load limits established in this
section may be modified or waived upon special permission granted as provided
in R.C. § 4513.34 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
§ 74.47  MAXIMUM WIDTH, HEIGHT, AND LENGTH.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be operated upon the public highways, streets,
bridges, and culverts within this municipality whose dimensions exceed those
specified in this section.
   (B)   No such vehicle shall have a width in excess of:
      (1)   104 inches for passenger bus type vehicles operated exclusively
within the municipality.
      (2)   102 inches, excluding such safety devices as are required by law,
for passenger bus type vehicles operated over freeways, and such other state
roads with minimum pavement widths of 22 feet, except those roads or portions
of roads over which operation of 102-inch buses is prohibited by order of the
Director of Transportation.
      (3)   132 inches for traction engines.
      (4)   102 inches for recreational vehicles, excluding safety devices and
retracted awnings and other appurtenances of six inches or less in width and
except that the Director may prohibit the operation of 102-inch recreational
vehicles on designated state highways or portions of highways.
      (5)   102 inches, including load, for all other vehicles, except that the
Director may prohibit the operation of 102-inch vehicles on such state highways
or portions of state highways as the Director designates.
   (C)   No such vehicle shall have a length in excess of:
      (1)   66 feet for passenger bus type vehicles and articulated passenger
bus type vehicles operated by a regional transit authority pursuant to R.C. §§
306.30 through 306.54.
      (2)   45 feet for all other passenger bus type vehicles.
      (3)   53 feet for any semitrailer when operated in a commercial tractor-
semitrailer combination, with or without load, except that the Director may
prohibit the operation of any such commercial tractor-semitrailer combination
on such state highways or portions of state highways as the Director
designates.
      (4)   28-1/2 feet for any semitrailer or trailer when operated in a
commercial tractor-semitrailer- trailer or commercial tractor-semitrailer-
semitrailer combination, except that the Director may prohibit the operation of
any such commercial tractor-semitrailer- trailer or commercial tractor-
semitrailer-semitrailer combination on such state highways or portions of state
highways as the Director designates.
      (5)   (a)   97 feet for drive-away saddlemount vehicle transporter
combinations and drive-away saddle-mount with fullmount vehicle transporter
combinations when operated on any interstate, United States route, or state
route, including reasonable access travel on all other roadways for a distance
not to exceed one road mile from any interstate, United States route, or state
route, not to exceed three saddlemounted vehicles, but which may include one
fullmount;
         (b)   75 feet for drive-away saddlemount vehicle transporter
combinations and drive-away saddle-mount with fullmount vehicle transporter
combinations when operated on any roadway not designated as an interstate,
United States route, or state route, not to exceed three saddlemounted
vehicles, but which may include one fullmount.
      (6)   65 feet for any other combination of vehicles coupled together,
with or without load, except as provided in division (C)(3) and (C)(4), and in
division (E) below.
      (7)   45 feet for recreational vehicles.
      (8)   40 feet for all other vehicles, except trailers and semitrailers,
with or without load.
   (D)   No such vehicle shall have a height in excess of 13-1/2 feet, with or
without load.
   (E)   An automobile transporter or boat transporter shall be allowed a
length of 65 feet, and a stinger-steered automobile transporter or stinger-
steered boat transporter shall be allowed a length of 75 feet, except that the
load thereon may extend no more than four feet beyond the rear of such vehicles
and may extend no more than three feet beyond the front of such vehicles, and
except further that the Director may prohibit the operation of a stinger-
steered automobile transporter, stinger-steered boat transporter, or a B-train
assembly on any state highway or portion of any state highway that the Director
designates.
   (F)   (1)   The widths prescribed in division (B) of this section shall not
include side mirrors, turn signal lamps, marker lamps, handholds for cab entry
and egress, flexible fender extensions, mud flaps, splash and spray suppressant
devices, and load-induced tire bulge.
      (2)   The widths prescribed in division (B)(5) of this section shall not
include automatic covering devices, tarp and tarp hardware, and tiedown
assemblies, provided these safety devices do not extend more than three inches
from either side of the vehicle.
      (3)   The lengths prescribed in divisions (C)(2) through (C)(7) shall not
include safety devices, bumpers attached to the front or rear of such bus or
combination, non-property carrying devices or components that do not extend
more than 24 inches beyond the rear of the vehicle and are needed for loading
or unloading, B-train assembly used between the first and second semitrailer of
a commercial tractor-semitrailer-semitrailer combination, energy conservation
devices as provided in any regulations adopted by the Secretary of the United
States Department of Transportation, or any noncargo-carrying refrigerator
equipment attached to the front of trailers and semitrailers. In special cases,
vehicles that dimensions exceed those prescribed by this section may operate in
accordance with rules adopted by the Director.
   (G)   (1)   This section does not apply to fire engines, fire trucks, or
other vehicles or apparatus belonging to the municipality or to the volunteer
fire department thereof or used by such department in the discharge of its
functions. This section does not apply to vehicles and pole trailers used in
the transportation of wooden and metal poles, nor to the transportation of
pipes or well-drilling equipment, nor to farm machinery and equipment. The
owner or operator of any vehicle, machinery, or equipment not specifically
enumerated in this section but the dimensions of which exceed the dimensions
provided by this section, when operating the same on the highways and streets
of the municipality, shall comply with the rules of the Director governing such
movement. Any person adversely affected shall have the same right of appeal as
provided in R.C. Chapter 119.
      (2)   This section does not require the municipality or any railroad or
other private corporation to provide sufficient vertical clearance to permit
the operation of such vehicle, or to make any changes in or about existing
structures now crossing streets, roads, and other public thoroughfares.
   (H)   As used in this section, RECREATIONAL VEHICLE has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 4501.01.
(R.C. § 5577.05)
   (I)   No person shall violate any rule or regulation promulgated by the
Director of Transportation in accordance with R.C. § 5577.05.
(R.C. § 5577.06)
   (J)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second or subsequent offense, such person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 5577.99(C))
§ 74.48  STATEMENT OF GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT.
   (A)   No person shall issue or aid in issuing any bill of lading or other
document of like nature in lieu thereof, which bill or document is to accompany
a shipment of goods or property by truck, trailer, semitrailer, commercial
tractor, or any other commercial vehicle used for the transportation of
property, the gross weight of which, with load, exceeds three tons, with intent
to defraud by misrepresentation thereon the weight of such goods of property to
be so transported.
   (B)   Any driver or operator of a commercial car, trailer or semitrailer may
obtain from any person, firm, partnership, corporation or association,
including the owner, lessee, or operator of such commercial car, trailer or
semitrailer, owning and operating sealed scales in this state, a written
“statement of gross vehicle weight” showing the gross weight of the vehicle
including the cargo on the vehicle, the name and address of the person issuing
the statement, and the date and place where the vehicle and its cargo were
weighed. The driver or operator of the commercial car, trailer or semitrailer
shall retain such statement of gross vehicle weight on his or her person, and
any law enforcement officer may request that such driver or operator exhibit it
to him or her. If, upon examining the statement of gross vehicle weight, the
law enforcement officer has reason to believe that the information contained
therein is correct in every respect, he or she shall indorse it with his or her
name and the date and place where it was exhibited to him or her. The law
enforcement officer may then permit such driver or operator to proceed without
weighing by a law enforcement officer. No person shall willfully issue a
written statement of gross vehicle weight and knowingly give any false
information in such statement.
(R.C. § 5577.10)
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section shall be fined not more
than $5,000 or imprisoned for not less than 30 days nor more than six months,
or both.
(R.C. § 5577.99(D))
§ 74.49  WHEEL PROTECTORS REQUIRED ON HEAVY COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall drive or operate, or cause to be driven or operated,
any commercial car, trailer, or semitrailer, used for the transportation of
goods or property, the gross weight of which, with load, exceeds three tons,
upon the public highways, streets, bridges, and culverts within the
municipality, unless such vehicle is equipped with suitable metal protectors or
substantial flexible flaps on the rearmost wheels of such vehicle or
combination of vehicles to prevent, as far as practicable, the wheels from
throwing dirt, water, or other materials on the windshields of following
vehicles. Such protectors or flaps shall have a ground clearance of not more
than one-third of the distance from the center of the rearmost axle to the
center of the flaps under any conditions of loading of the vehicle, and they
shall be at least as wide as the tires they are protecting. If the vehicle is
so designed and constructed that such requirements are accomplished by means of
fenders, body construction, or other means of enclosure, then no such
protectors or flaps are required. Rear wheels not covered at the top by
fenders, bodies, or other parts of the vehicle shall be covered at the top by
protective means extending at least to the center line of the rearmost axle.
(R.C. § 5577.11)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $25.
(R.C. § 5577.99(E))
§ 74.50  LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES; PROSECUTION; APPLICATION OF MONIES.
   Any person violating any law relating to or regulating the use of the
improved public roads shall be liable for all damage resulting to any such
street, highway, bridge or culvert by reason of such violation. In case of any
injury to such street, highway, bridge or culvert, such damages shall be
collected by civil action for recovery of such damages brought by the proper
authorities of the municipality. All damages collected under this section shall
be paid into the treasury of the municipality and credited to any fund for the
repairs of streets, highways, roads, bridges or culverts.
(R.C. § 5577.12)
§ 74.51  WEIGHT EXCEPTIONS FOR CERTAIN VEHICLES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
      COAL TRUCK. A truck transporting coal from the site where it is mined
when the truck is operated in accordance with this section.
      FARM COMMODITIES. Includes livestock, bulk milk, corn, soybeans, tobacco
and wheat.
      FARM MACHINERY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      FARM TRUCK. A truck used in the transportation from a farm of farm
commodities when the truck is operated in accordance with this section.
      LOG TRUCK. A truck used in the transportation of timber from the site of
its cutting when the truck is operated in accordance with this section.
      SOLID WASTE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3743.01.
      SOLID WASTE HAUL VEHICLE. A vehicle hauling solid waste for which a bill
of lading has not been issued.
   (B)   (1)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 5577.02 and 5577.04, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the following vehicles under the
described conditions may exceed by no more than 7.5% the weight provisions of
R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially similar municipal ordinance,
and no penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any substantially similar
municipal ordinance, shall be imposed:
         (a)   A coal truck transporting coal, from the place of production to
the first point of delivery where title to the coal is transferred;
         (b)   A farm truck or farm machinery transporting farm commodities,
from the place of production to the first point of delivery where the
commodities are weighed and title to the commodities is transferred;
         (c)   A log truck transporting timber, from the site of its cutting to
the first point of delivery where the timber is transferred;
         (d)   A solid waste haul vehicle hauling solid waste, from the place
of production to the first point of delivery where the solid waste is disposed
of or title to the solid waste is transferred.
      (2)   In addition, if any of the vehicles listed in division (B)(1) of
this section and operated under the conditions described in that division does
not exceed by more than 7.5% the gross vehicle weight provisions of R.C. §§
5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and
does not exceed the wheel or axle-load limits of those sections by more than
7.5%, no penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, for a wheel or axle overload shall be imposed.
   (C)   If any of the vehicles listed in division (B)(1) of this section and
operated under the conditions described in that division exceeds the weight
provisions of R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, by more than the percentage allowance of either divisions
(B)(1) or (B)(2) of this section, both of the following apply without regard to
the allowance provided by this division (B) of this section:
      (1)   The applicable penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (2)   The civil liability imposed by R.C. § 5577.12, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   (1)   Division (B) of this section does not apply to the operation of
a farm truck, log truck, or farm machinery transporting farm commodities during
the months of February and March.
      (2)   Regardless of when the operation occurs, division (B) of this
section does not apply to the operation of a vehicle on either of the
following:
         (a)   A highway that is part of the interstate system;
         (b)   A highway, road, or bridge that is subject to reduced maximum
weights under R.C. § 4513.33, 5577.07, 5577.071, 5577.08, 5577.09, or 5591.42,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 5577.042)
   (E)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 5577.02 and 5577.04, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the following vehicles under the described
conditions may exceed by no more than 7.5% the weight provisions of R.C. §§
5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and no
penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, shall be imposed:
      (1)   A surface mining truck transporting minerals from the place where
the minerals are loaded to any of the following:
         (a)   The construction site where the minerals are discharged;
         (b)   The place where title to the minerals is transferred;
         (c)   The place of processing.
      (2)   A vehicle transporting hot mix asphalt material from the place
where the material is first mixed to the paving site where the material is
discharged;
      (3)   A vehicle transporting concrete from the place where the material
is first mixed to the site where the material is discharged;
      (4)   A vehicle transporting manure, turf, sod, or silage from the site
where the material is first produced to the first place of delivery;
      (5)   A vehicle transporting chips, sawdust, mulch, bark, pulpwood,
biomass, or firewood from the site where the product is first produced or
harvested to first point where the product is transferred.
   (F)   In addition, if any of the vehicles listed in division (E) of this
section and operated under the conditions described in that division do not
exceed by more than 7.5% the gross vehicle weight provisions of R.C. §§ 5577.01
to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and do not
exceed the wheel or axle-load limits of those sections by more than 7.5%, no
penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, for a wheel or axle overload shall be imposed.
   (G)   If any of the vehicles listed in division (E) of this section and
operated under the conditions described in that division exceed the weight
provisions of R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, by more than the percentage allowance of either divisions
(E) or (F) of this section, both of the following apply without regard to the
allowance provided by division (E) or (F) of this section:
      (1)   The applicable penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (2)   The civil liability imposed by R.C. § 5577.12, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (H)   Divisions (E) and (F) of this section do not apply to the operation of
a vehicle listed in division (E) of this section on either of the following:
      (1)   A highway that is part of the interstate system;
      (2)   A highway, road, or bridge that is subject to reduced maximum
weights under R.C. § 4513.33, 5577.07, 5577.071, 5577.08, 5577.09, or 5591.42,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 5577.043)
§ 74.52  SPECIAL WEIGHT AND TIRE RESTRICTIONS DESIGNATED BY TRAFFIC SIGN.
   Whenever in the judgment of the Mayor or Street Commissioner any highway or
part thereof would be injured or damaged by general use by vehicles having
solid tires or by vehicles exceeding in gross weight or in weight per inch of
tire width the limits which he or she shall determine to be safe for such
highway or part thereof, he or she shall erect appropriate traffic signs
prohibiting the operation of vehicles having solid tires, or indicating and
designating such weight limits, and it shall be unlawful to operate over any
such highway or part thereof any vehicle having solid tires or exceeding such
weight limits, without securing a permit thereunto as provided in §
74.40.
§ 74.53  THROUGH TRUCK TRAFFIC PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership, firm or corporation
to operate any bus, truck, commercial tractor, trailer, or semitrailer on any
of the public streets within the municipal boundaries.  The following are
exceptions to this rule:
      (1)   The public street may at all times be used by motor vehicles of the
United States of America carrying United States mail;
      (2)   The public streets may be used by such vehicles for the purpose of
loading or unloading, in whole or part, the vehicles at a residence, place of
business, or industry within the municipal boundaries;
      (3)   The public streets may be used by such vehicles for the purpose of
traveling to or from a residence, place of business, or industry where the
vehicle or vehicles are registered or hired;
      (4)   The trucks, commercial tractors, trailers, or semitrailers may be
operated over Vine Street.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any vehicle operated by any municipal
fire department.
(Ord. 12-89, passed 8-8-1989; Am. Ord. 03-09, passed 3-10-2009; Am. Ord. 03-09,
passed 3-10-2009)  Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 75:  BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES, AND OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
75.01   Bicycles; application of Title VII
   
75.02   Operation of motorized bicycle
   
75.03   Rules for bicycles, motorcycles, and snowmobiles
   
75.04   Prohibition against attaching bicycles and sleds to vehicles
   
75.05   Riding bicycles; motorcycles abreast
   
75.06   Equipment of bicycles
   
75.07   Use of certain play vehicles and toys on paved or traveled portions of
streets prohibited
Snowmobiles, Off-Highway Motorcycles, and All-Purpose Vehicles
   
75.25   Definitions
   
75.26   Equipment
   
75.27   Code application; prohibited operation
   
75.28   Permitted operation
   
75.29   Licensing requirements of operator
   
75.30   Maintenance of vehicles for hire
   
75.31   Accident reports
   
75.32   Impounding of vehicle
   
75.33   Local control within police power
   
75.34   Registration of vehicles
   
75.35   Display of registration number on snowmobiles
   
75.36   Certificate of title; prohibitions
Statutory reference:
   Bicycle regulations to be consistent with state law, see R.C. § 4511.07(A)
(8)
   Protective eye devices required for motorcycle operators and passengers;
helmets required for persons under 18 years of age, see O.A.C. § 4501-17-01
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 75.01  BICYCLES; APPLICATION OF TITLE VII.
   (A)   The provisions of this title that are applicable to bicycles apply
whenever a bicycle is operated upon any highway or upon any path set aside for
the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (D) of this section, a bicycle operator
who violates any provisions of this title described in division (A) of this
section that is applicable to bicycles may be issued a ticket, citation, or
summons by a law enforcement officer for the violation in the same manner as
the operator of a motor vehicle would be cited for the same violation. A person
who commits any such violation while operating a bicycle shall not have any
points assessed against the person’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, or probationary license under R.C. §
4510.036.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (D) of this section, in the case of a
violation of any provision of this title described in division (A) of this
section by a bicycle operator or by a motor vehicle operator when the trier of
fact finds that the violation by the motor vehicle operator endangered the
lives of bicycle riders at the time of the violation, the court,
notwithstanding any provision of the Ohio Revised Code to the contrary, may
require the bicycle operator or motor vehicle operator to take and successfully
complete a bicycling skills course approved by the court in addition to or in
lieu of any penalty otherwise prescribed by this traffic code or the Ohio
Revised Code for that violation.
   (D)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to violations of
R.C. § 4511.19, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 4511.52)
§ 75.02  OPERATION OF MOTORIZED BICYCLE.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motorized bicycle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking, unless all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The person is 14 or 15 years of age and holds a valid probationary
motorized bicycle license issued after the person has passed the test provided
for in this section, or the person is 16 years of age or older and holds either
a valid commercial driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4506 or a
driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid motorized bicycle
license issued after the person has passed the test provided for in this
section, except that if a person is 16 years of age, has a valid probationary
motorized bicycle license and desires a motorized bicycle license, the person
is not required to comply with the testing requirements provided for in this
section;
      (2)   The motorized bicycle is equipped in accordance with the rules
adopted under division (B) of this section and is in proper working order;
      (3)   The person, if under 18 years of age, is wearing a protective
helmet on the person’s head with the chin strap properly fastened and the
motorized bicycle is equipped with a rearview mirror;
      (4)   The person operates the motorized bicycle when practicable within
three feet of the right edge of the roadway obeying all traffic rules
applicable to vehicles.
   (B)   The Director of Public Safety, subject to R.C. Chapter 119, shall
adopt and promulgate rules concerning protective helmets, the equipment of
motorized bicycles, and the testing and qualifications of persons who do not
hold a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license. The test shall be as near
as practicable to the examination required for a motorcycle operator’s
endorsement under R.C. § 4507.11. The test shall also require the operator to
give an actual demonstration of the operator’s ability to operate and control a
motorized bicycle by driving one under the supervision of an examining officer.
   (C)   Every motorized bicycle license expires on the birthday of the
applicant in the fourth year after the date it is issued, but in no event shall
any motorized bicycle license be issued for a period longer than four years.
   (D)   No person operating a motorized bicycle shall carry another person
upon the motorized bicycle.
   (E)   The protective helmet and rearview mirror required by division (A)(3)
of this section shall, on and after January 1, 1985, conform with rules adopted
by the Director under division (B) of this section.
   (F)   Each probationary motorized bicycle license or motorized bicycle
license shall be laminated with a transparent plastic material.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (A), (D), or (E) of this section is guilty
of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.521)
Statutory reference:
   Revocation of probationary motorized bicycle license by the state, see R.C.
§ 4510.34
§ 75.03  RULES FOR BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES, AND SNOWMOBILES.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, SNOWMOBILE has the same meaning as given
that term in R.C. § 4519.01.
   (B)   (1)   No person operating a bicycle shall ride other than upon or
astride the permanent and regular seat attached thereto or carry any other
person upon such bicycle other than upon a firmly attached and regular seat
thereon, and no person shall ride upon a bicycle other than upon such a firmly
attached and regular seat.
      (2)   No person operating a motorcycle shall ride other than upon or
astride the permanent and regular seat or saddle attached thereto, or carry any
other person upon such motorcycle other than upon a firmly attached and regular
seat or saddle thereon, and no person shall ride upon a motorcycle other than
upon such a firmly attached and regular seat or saddle.
      (3)   No person shall ride upon a motorcycle that is equipped with a
saddle other than while sitting astride the saddle, facing forward, with one
leg on each side of the motorcycle.
      (4)   No person shall ride upon a motorcycle that is equipped with a seat
other than while sitting upon the seat.
      (5)   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle, or
article that prevents the driver from keeping at least one hand upon the
handlebars.
      (6)   No bicycle or motorcycle shall be used to carry more persons at one
time than the number for which it is designed and equipped, nor shall any
motorcycle be operated on a highway when the handlebars or grips are more than
15 inches higher than the seat or saddle for the operator.
      (7)   No person shall operate or be a passenger on a snowmobile or
motorcycle without using safety glasses or other protective eye device. No
person who is under the age of 18 years, or who holds a motorcycle operator’s
endorsement or license bearing a “NOVICE” designation that is currently in
effect as provided in R.C. § 4507.13, shall operate a motorcycle on a highway,
or be a passenger on a motorcycle, unless wearing a protective helmet on the
person’s head, and no other person shall be a passenger on a motorcycle
operated by such a person unless similarly wearing a protective helmet. The
helmet, safety glasses, or other protective eye device shall conform with rules
adopted by the Director of Public Safety. The provisions of this paragraph or a
violation thereof shall not be used in the trial of any civil action.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall operate a motorcycle with a valid temporary
instruction permit and temporary instruction permit identification card issued
by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles pursuant to R.C. § 4507.05 unless the
person, at the time of such operation, is wearing on the person’s head a
protective helmet that conforms with rules adopted by the Director of Public
Safety.
      (2)   No person shall operate a motorcycle with a valid temporary
instruction permit and temporary instruction permit identification card issued
by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles pursuant to R.C. § 4507.05 in any of the
following circumstances:
         (a)   At any time when lighted lights are required by R.C. § 4513.03
(A)(1).
         (b)   While carrying a passenger.
         (c)   On any limited access highway.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting the carrying
of a child in a seat or trailer that is designed for carrying children and is
firmly attached to the bicycle.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.53)
§ 75.04  PROHIBITION AGAINST ATTACHING BICYCLES AND SLEDS TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled,
or toy vehicle shall attach the same or self to any vehicle upon a roadway.
      (2)   No operator shall knowingly permit any person riding upon any
bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, or toy vehicle to attach the same or
self to any vehicle while it is moving upon a roadway.
      (3)   This section does not apply to towing a disabled vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.54)
§ 75.05  RIDING BICYCLES; MOTORCYCLES ABREAST.
   (A)   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to
the right side of the roadway as practicable obeying all traffic rules
applicable to vehicles and exercising due care when passing a standing vehicle
or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (B)   Persons riding bicycles or motorcycles upon a roadway shall ride not
more than two abreast in a single lane, except on paths or parts of roadways
set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles or motorcycles.
   (C)   This section does not require a person operating a bicycle to ride at
the edge of the roadway when it is unreasonable or unsafe to do so. Conditions
that may require riding away from the edge of the roadway include when
necessary to avoid fixed or moving objects, parked or moving vehicles, surface
hazards, or if it otherwise is unsafe or impracticable to do so, including if
the lane is too narrow for the bicycle and an overtaking vehicle to travel
safely side by side within the lane.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.55)
§ 75.06  EQUIPMENT OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   Every bicycle when in use at the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or
a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance shall be equipped with the
following:
      (1)   A lamp mounted on the front of either the bicycle or the operator
that shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to
the front and 300 feet to the sides. A generator-powered lamp that emits light
only when the bicycle is moving may be used to meet this requirement;
      (2)   A red reflector on the rear that shall be visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet to the rear when directly in front of
lawful lower beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle;
      (3)   A lamp emitting either flashing or steady red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear shall be used in addition to the red
reflector. If the red lamp performs as a reflector in that it is visible as
specified in division (A)(2) of this section, the red lamp may serve as the
reflector and a separate reflector is not required.
   (B)   Additional lamps and reflectors may be used in addition to those
required under division (A) of this section, except that red lamps and red
reflectors shall not be used on the front of the bicycle and white lamps and
white reflectors shall not be used on the rear of the bicycle.
   (C)   A bicycle may be equipped with a device capable of giving an audible
signal, except that a bicycle shall not be equipped with nor shall any person
use upon a bicycle any siren or whistle.
   (D)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with an adequate brake when used on a
street or highway.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.56)
§ 75.07  USE OF CERTAIN PLAY VEHICLES AND TOYS ON PAVED OR TRAVELED PORTIONS OF
STREETS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride, use, or in any way employ
any play vehicle, remote- controlled toy, or motorized or nonmotorized toy upon
the paved or traveled portions of any street or highway.
   (B)   As used in this section, PLAY VEHICLE means coasters, scooters,
skateboards, rollerskates, rollerblades, in-line skates, sleds, toboggans,
unicycles, other nonmotorized toy vehicles upon which a person may ride, or any
similar device, but does not include bicycles.
   (C)   Any person having the care, custody or control of any minor under the
age of 18 years who knowingly permits the minor to violate the provisions of
division (A) above, also violates this division (C).
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.  If the person has a previous conviction of division (A) of this
section then that person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(Ord. 11-05, passed 6-14-2005)
SNOWMOBILES, OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLES, AND ALL-PURPOSE VEHICLES
§ 75.25  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-PURPOSE VEHICLE. Any self-propelled vehicle designed primarily for
cross-country travel on land and water, or on more than one type of terrain,
and steered by wheels or caterpillar treads, or any combination thereof,
including vehicles that operate on a cushion of air, vehicles commonly known as
all- terrain vehicles, all season vehicles, mini-bikes and trail bikes. The
term does not include a utility vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4501.01 or any
vehicle principally used in playing golf, any motor vehicle or aircraft
required to be registered under R.C. Chapter 4503 or R.C. Chapter 4561, and any
vehicle excepted from definition as a motor vehicle by R.C. § 4501.01(B).
   DEALER. Any person or firm engaged in the business of manufacturing or
selling snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, or all-purpose vehicles at
wholesale or retail, or who rents, leases or otherwise furnishes snowmobiles,
off-highway motorcycles, or all-purpose vehicles for hire.
   ELECTRONIC and ELECTRONIC RECORD. Have the same meanings as in R.C. §
4501.01.
   ELECTRONIC DEALER. A dealer whom the Registrar of Motor Vehicles designates
under R.C. § 4519.511.
   INTERSTATE HIGHWAY. Any part of the interstate system of highways as defined
in subsection (e), 90 Stat. 431 (1976), 23 U.S.C. § 103, as amended.
   LIMITED ACCESS HIGHWAY OR FREEWAY. Have the same meanings as in R.C. §
5511.02.
   OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLE. Every motorcycle, as defined in R.C. § 4511.01, that
is designed to be operated primarily on lands other than a street or highway.
   OPERATOR. Any person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle.
   OWNER. Any person or firm, other than a lienholder or dealer, having title
to a snowmobile, off- highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle, or other
right to the possession thereof.
   SNOWMOBILE. Any self-propelled vehicle designed primarily for use on snow or
ice, and steered by skis, runners, or caterpillar treads.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. Have the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
(R.C. § 4519.01)
§ 75.26  EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   In addition to any rules or regulations promulgated by the Ohio
Director of Public Safety pursuant to R.C. § 4519.20 and R.C. Chapter 119,
equipment of snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, and all-purpose vehicles
shall include but not necessarily be limited to requirements for the following
items of equipment:
      (1)   At least one headlight having a minimum candlepower of sufficient
intensity to reveal persons and objects at a distance of at least 100 feet
ahead under normal atmospheric conditions during hours of darkness;
      (2)   At least one red tail light having a minimum candlepower of
sufficient intensity to be plainly visible from a distance of 500 feet to the
rear under normal atmospheric conditions during hours of darkness;
      (3)   Every snowmobile, while traveling on packed snow, shall be capable
of carrying a driver who weighs 175 pounds or more, and, while carrying such
driver, be capable of stopping in no more than 40 feet from an initial steady
speed of 20 miles per hour, or locking its traction belt; and
      (4)   A muffler system capable of precluding the emission of excessive
smoke or exhaust fumes, and of limiting the engine noise of vehicles. On
snowmobiles manufactured after January 1, 1973, such requirement shall include
sound dampening equipment such that noise does not exceed 82 decibels on the
“A” scale at 50 feet as measured according to SAE J192 (September 1970).
   (B)   No person shall operate any snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or
all-purpose vehicle in violation of this section, except that equipment
specified in division (A)(1) and (A)(2) of this section shall not be required
on snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, or all-purpose vehicles operated
during the daylight hours.
(R.C. § 4519.20(A), (B))
   (C)   No person shall sell, offer for sale, lease, rent or otherwise furnish
for hire in this municipality any new snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or
all- purpose vehicle that fails to comply with any rule adopted by the Ohio
Director of Public Safety under R.C. § 4519.20 after the effective date of the
rule.
(R.C. § 4519.22(A))
   (D)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (B) of this section shall be fined not more than $50. If the offender
within the preceding year previously has committed a violation of division (B)
of this section or of R.C. § 4519.20(B), whoever violates division (B) of this
section shall be fined not less than $15 nor more than $100, imprisoned not
more than three days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.20(C))
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (C) of this section shall be fined not more than $50. If the offender
within the preceding year previously has committed a violation of division (C)
of this section or of R.C. § 4519.22(A), whoever violates this section shall be
fined not less than $15 nor more than $100, imprisoned not more than three
days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.22(B))
§ 75.27  CODE APPLICATION; PROHIBITED OPERATION.
   (A)   The applicable provisions of this traffic code shall be applied to the
operation of snowmobiles, off- highway motorcycles, and all-purpose vehicles,
except that no snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all- purpose vehicle
shall be operated as follows:
      (1)   On any street, highway, limited access highway or freeway or the
right-of-way thereof, except for emergency travel only during such time and in
such manner as the Ohio Director of Public Safety or local authority having
jurisdiction shall designate, and except as provided in §
75.28;
      (2)   On any private property, or in any nursery or planting area,
without the permission of the owner or other person having the right to
possession of the property;
      (3)   On any land or waters controlled by the state, except at those
locations where a sign has been posted permitting such operation;
      (4)   On the tracks or right-of-way of any operating railroad;
      (5)   While transporting any firearm, bow or other implement for hunting
that is not unloaded and securely encased;
      (6)   For the purpose of chasing, pursuing, capturing or killing any
animal or wild fowl; or
      (7)   During the time from sunset to sunrise, unless displaying lighted
lights as required by R.C. § 4519.20 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $50 nor
more than $500, imprisoned not less than 3 nor more than 30 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.40)
§ 75.28  PERMITTED OPERATION.
   Snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, and all- purpose vehicles may be
operated as follows:
   (A)   To make a crossing of a highway, other than a highway as designated in
R.C. § 4519.40(A)(1) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
whenever the crossing can be made in safety and will not interfere with the
movement of vehicular traffic approaching from any direction on the highway,
and provided that the operator yields the right-of-way to any approaching
traffic that presents an immediate hazard;
   (B)   On highways in the county or township road systems whenever the local
authority having jurisdiction over such highways so permits;
   (C)   Off and alongside street or highway for limited distances from the
point of unloading from a conveyance to the point at which the snowmobile, off-
highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle is intended and authorized to be
operated;
   (D)   On the berm or shoulder of a highway, other than a highway as
designated in R.C. § 4519.40(A)(1) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, when the terrain permits such operation to be undertaken safely and
without the necessity of entering any traffic lane;
   (E)   On the berm or shoulder or a county or township road, while traveling
from one area of operation of the snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-
purpose vehicle to another such area.
(R.C. § 4519.41)
§ 75.29  LICENSING REQUIREMENTS OF OPERATOR.
   (A)   No person who does not hold a valid, current motor vehicle driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, motorcycle operator’s endorsement or probationary
license, issued under R.C. Chapter 4506 or R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid,
current driver's license issued by another jurisdiction, shall operate a
snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle on any street or
highway in this municipality, on any portion of the right-of-way thereof, or on
any public land or waters.
   (B)   No person who is less than 16 years of age shall operate a snowmobile,
off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle on any land or waters other than
private property or waters owned by or leased to the person’s parent or
guardian, unless accompanied by another person who is 18 years of age or older,
and who holds a license as provided in division (A) of this section, except
that the Ohio Department of Natural Resources may permit such operation on
state controlled land under its jurisdiction when such person is less than 16
years of age and is accompanied by a parent or guardian who is a licensed
driver 18 years of age or older.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $50 nor
more than $500, imprisoned not less than three nor more than 30 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.44)
§ 75.30  MAINTENANCE OF VEHICLES FOR HIRE.
   (A)   Any dealer who rents, leases or otherwise furnishes a snowmobile, off-
highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle for hire shall maintain the vehicle
in safe operating condition. No dealer, or agent or employee of a dealer, shall
rent, lease, or otherwise furnish a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-
purpose vehicle for hire to any person who does not hold a license as required
by R.C. § 4519.44(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or to
any person whom the dealer or an agent or employee of the dealer has reasonable
cause to believe is incompetent to operate the vehicle in a safe and lawful
manner.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $100 nor
more than $500.
(R.C. § 4519.45)
§ 75.31  ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   (A)   The operator of a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose
vehicle involved in any accident resulting in bodily injury to or death of any
person or damage to the property of any person in excess of $100 shall report
the accident within 48 hours to the Chief of Police, and within 30 days shall
forward a written report of the accident to the Ohio Registrar of Motor
Vehicles on a form prescribed by the Registrar. If the operator is physically
incapable of making the reports and there is another participant in the
accident not so incapacitated, the participant shall make the reports. In the
event there is no other participant, and the operator is other than the owner,
the owner, within the prescribed periods of time, shall make the reports.
   (B)   Any law enforcement officer or other person authorized by R.C. §§
4519.42 and 4519.43 who investigates or receives information of an accident
involving a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle shall
forward to the Registrar a written report of the accident within 48 hours.
(R.C. § 4519.46)
§ 75.32  IMPOUNDING OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   Whenever a person is found guilty of operating a snowmobile, off-
highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle in violation of any rule authorized
to be adopted under R.C. § 4519.21 or 4519.42, the trial judge of any court of
record, in addition to or independent of any other penalties provided by law,
may impound for not less than 60 days the certificate of registration and
license plate, if applicable, of that snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or
all-purpose vehicle. The court shall send the impounded certificate of
registration and license plate, if applicable, to the Registrar of Motor
Vehicles, who shall retain the certificate of registration and license plate,
if applicable, until the expiration of the period of impoundment.
   (B)   If a court impounds the certificate of registration and license plate
of an all-purpose vehicle pursuant to R.C. § 2911.21, the court shall send the
impounded certificate of registration and license plate to the Registrar, who
shall retain them until the expiration of the period of impoundment.
(R.C. § 4519.47)
§ 75.33  LOCAL CONTROL WITHIN POLICE POWER.
   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall prevent the municipality from
regulating the operation of snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycle, and all-
purpose vehicles on streets and highways and other public property under
municipal jurisdiction, and within the reasonable exercise of the police power,
except that no registration or licensing of any snowmobile, off-highway
motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle required to be registered or titled under
R.C. Chapter 4519 shall be required.
(R.C. § 4519.48)
§ 75.34  REGISTRATION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B), (C) and (D) of this section, no
person shall operate any snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose
vehicle within this municipality unless the snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle,
or all-purpose vehicle is registered and numbered in accordance with R.C. §§
4519.03 and 4519.04.
   (B)   (1)   No registration is required for a snowmobile or off-highway
motorcycle that is operated exclusively upon lands owned by the owner of the
snowmobile or off-highway motorcycle, or on lands to which the owner of the
snowmobile or off-highway motorcycle has a contractual right.
      (2)   No registration is required for an all-purpose vehicle that is used
primarily for agricultural purposes when the owner qualifies for the current
agricultural use valuation tax credit, unless it is to be used on any public
land, trail, or right-of-way.
      (3)   Any all-purpose vehicle exempted from registration under division
(B)(2) of this section and operated for agricultural purposes may use public
roads and rights-of-way when traveling from one farm field to another, when
such use does not violate R.C. § 4519.41.
   (C)   No registration is required for a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle,
or all-purpose vehicle owned and used in this state by a resident of another
state whenever that state has in effect a registration law similar to R.C.
Chapter 4519 and the snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle
is properly registered under that state’s law. Any snowmobile, off-highway
motorcycle, or all- purpose vehicle owned and used in this state by a resident
of a state not having a registration law similar to R.C. Chapter 4519 shall
comply with R.C. § 4519.09.
   (D)   No registration is required for a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle,
or all-purpose vehicle owned and used in this municipality by the United
States, another state or a political subdivision thereof, but the snowmobile,
off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle shall display the name of the
owner thereon.
   (E)   The owner or operator of any all-purpose vehicle operated or used upon
the waters in this municipality shall comply with R.C. Chapter 1547 and R.C.
Chapter 1548 relative to the operation of watercraft.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section shall be fined not less
than $50 nor more than $100.
(R.C. § 4519.02)
Statutory reference:
   Destruction or disposal of vehicle; transfer of ownership;  change of
address; loss of certificate, see R.C. § 4519.05
   Registration of emergency vehicles, see R.C. § 4519.08
   Registration procedure, see R.C. § 4519.03
   Temporary license placards and fees, see R.C. § 4519.10
   Temporary operating permit for certain nonresidents, see R.C. § 4519.09
§ 75.35  DISPLAY OF REGISTRATION NUMBER ON SNOWMOBILES.
   Upon receipt of a certificate of registration for a snowmobile, the owner
shall paint upon each side of the forward cowling of the snowmobile the
identifying registration number, in block characters of not less than two
inches in height and of such color as to be distinctly visible and legible.
(R.C. § 4519.04(B))
§ 75.36  CERTIFICATE OF TITLE; PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate in this state an off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose
vehicle without having a certificate of title for the off-highway motorcycle or
all-purpose vehicle if such a certificate is required by R.C. Chapter 4519 to
be issued for the off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle, or, if a
physical certificate of title has not been issued for it, operate an off-
highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle knowing that the ownership
information related to the motorcycle or vehicle has not been entered into the
automated title processing system by a Clerk of a Court of Common Pleas.
      (2)   Operate in this municipality an off- highway motorcycle or all-
purpose vehicle is a certificate of title to the off-highway motorcycle or all-
purpose vehicle has been issued and then has been canceled.
      (3)   Fail to surrender any certificate of title upon cancellation of it
by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles and notice of the cancellation as prescribed
in R.C. Chapter 4519.
      (4)   Fail to surrender the certificate of title to a Clerk of a Court of
Common Pleas as provided in R.C. Chapter 4519, in case of the destruction or
dismantling of, or change in, the off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle
described in the certificate of title.
      (5)   Violate any provision of R.C. §§ 4519.51 through 4519.70 for which
no penalty is otherwise provided or any lawful rules adopted pursuant to those
sections.
      (6)   Operate in this state an off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose
vehicle knowing that the certificate of title to or ownership of the motorcycle
or vehicle as otherwise reflected in the automated title processing system has
been canceled.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $200,
imprisoned not more than 90 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.66)
Statutory reference:
   Certificate of title: rules and procedures, see R.C. §§ 4519.51 et seq.
   Stolen vehicles and restrictions on sale or transfer, felony provisions, see
R.C. § 4519.67
CHAPTER 76:  PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
76.01   Prohibition against parking on highways
   
76.02   Condition when motor vehicle left unattended
   
76.03   Police may remove illegally parked vehicle
   
76.04   Parking prohibitions
   
76.05   Parking near curb; privileges for persons with disabilities
   
76.06   Parking on private property in violation of posted prohibition
   
76.07   Standing or parking for sale, business, advertising, or washing
   
76.08   Parking continuously more than 24 hours
   
76.09   Owner responsible for vehicle’s operation
   
76.10   Parking tags; impounding vehicles; impounding tagged vehicles
   
76.11   Semitrailer and truck parking prohibited
   
76.12   Residential disabled parking spaces
   
76.13   Village merchants parking lot
   
76.14   Truck loading zones
   
76.15   Bus stops and taxicab stands
   
76.16   Parking in alleys and narrow streets; exceptions
   
76.17   Registered owner prima facie liable for unlawful parking
   
76.18   Waiver
Parking Meters
   
76.20   Parking prohibited or limited
   
76.21   Construction of parking meters
   
76.22   Metered spaces
   
76.23   Parking in metered spaces
   
76.24   Limited parking
   
76.25   Repeat metering prohibited
   
76.26   Slugs and coin substitutes
   
76.27   Defacing parking meters
   
76.28   Collection
Statutory reference:
   Noncriminal parking infractions, local option to create, see R.C. Chapter
4521
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 76.01  PROHIBITION AGAINST PARKING ON HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   (1)   Upon any highway, no person shall stop, park, or leave standing
any vehicle, whether attended or unattended, upon the paved or main traveled
part of the highway if it is practicable to stop, park, or so leave such
vehicle off the paved or main traveled part of the highway. In every event a
clear and unobstructed portion of the highway opposite such standing vehicle
shall be left for the free passage of other vehicles, and a clear view of such
stopped vehicle shall be available from a distance of 200 feet in each
direction upon such highway.
      (2)   This section does not apply to the driver of any vehicle which is
disabled while on the paved or improved or main traveled portion of a highway
in such manner and to such extent that it is impossible to avoid stopping and
temporarily leaving the disabled vehicle in such position.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.66)
§ 76.02  CONDITION WHEN MOTOR VEHICLE LEFT UNATTENDED.
   (A)   (1)   No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit
it to stand unattended without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition,
removing the key from the ignition, effectively setting the parking brake, and,
when the motor vehicle is standing upon any grade, turning the front wheels to
the curb or side of the highway.
      (2)   The requirements of this section relating to the stopping of the
engine, locking of the ignition, and removing the key from the ignition of a
motor vehicle shall not apply to an emergency vehicle or a public safety
vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.661)
§ 76.03  POLICE MAY REMOVE ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLE.
   (A)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a highway in
violation of R.C. § 4511.66 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
the officer may move the vehicle, or require the driver or other person in
charge of the vehicle to move the same, to a position off the paved or improved
or main traveled part of such highway.
   (B)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any
highway, bridge, or causeway, or in any tunnel, where the vehicle constitutes
an obstruction to traffic, the officer may provide for the removal of the
vehicle to the nearest garage or other place of safety.
(R.C. § 4511.67)
§ 76.04  PARKING PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or to comply with the provisions of this
title, or while obeying the directions of a police officer or a traffic-control
device, in any of the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk, except a bicycle;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within ten feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (7)   Within 30 feet of, and upon the approach to, any flashing beacon,
stop sign, or traffic- control device;
      (8)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by a traffic-control device;
      (9)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (10)   Within 20 feet of a driveway entrance to any fire station and, on
the side of the street opposite the entrance to any fire station, within 75
feet of the entrance when it is properly posted with signs;
      (11)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
such standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (12)   Alongside any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street;
      (13)   Upon any bridge or elevated structure upon a highway, or within a
highway tunnel;
      (14)   At any place where signs prohibit stopping;
      (15)   Within one foot of another parked vehicle; or
      (16)   On the roadway portion of a freeway, expressway, or thruway.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.68)
§ 76.05  PARKING NEAR CURB; PRIVILEGES FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES.
   (A)   Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway where there is an
adjacent curb shall be stopped or parked with the right-hand wheels of the
vehicle parallel with and not more than 12 inches from the right-hand curb,
unless it is impossible to approach so close to the curb; in such case the stop
shall be made as close to the curb as possible and only for the time necessary
to discharge and receive passengers or to load or unload merchandise. Local
authorities by ordinance may permit angle parking on any roadway under their
jurisdiction, except that angle parking shall not be permitted on a state route
within the municipality unless an unoccupied roadway width of not less than 25
feet is available for free-moving traffic.
   (B)   Local authorities by ordinance may permit parking of vehicles with the
left-hand wheels adjacent to and within 12 inches of the left-hand curb of a
one- way roadway.
   (C)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, no
vehicle shall be stopped or parked on a road or highway with the vehicle facing
in a direction other than the direction of travel on that side of the road or
highway.
      (2)   The operator of a motorcycle may back the motorcycle into an angled
parking space so that when the motorcycle is parked it is facing in a direction
other than the direction of travel on the side of the road or highway.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any statute or any rule, regulation, resolution, or
ordinance, air compressors, tractors, trucks, and other equipment, while being
used in the construction, reconstruction, installation, repair, or removal of
facilities near, on, over, or under a street or highway, may stop, stand, or
park where necessary in order to perform such work, provided a flagperson is on
duty or warning signs or lights are displayed as may be prescribed by the
Director of Transportation.
   (E)   Special parking locations and privileges for persons with disabilities
that limit or impair the ability to walk, also known as disabled parking spaces
or disability parking spaces, shall be provided and designated by all political
subdivisions and by the state and all agencies and instrumentalities thereof at
all offices and facilities where parking is provided, whether owned, rented, or
leased, and at all publicly owned parking garages. The locations shall be
designated through the posting of an elevated sign, whether permanently affixed
or movable, imprinted with the international symbol of access and shall be
reasonably close to exits, entrances, elevators, and ramps. All elevated signs
posted in accordance with this division and R.C. § 3781.111(C) shall be mounted
on a fixed or movable post, and the distance from the ground to the bottom edge
of the sign shall measure not less than five feet. If a new sign or a
replacement sign designating a special parking location is posted on or after
October 14, 1999, there also shall be affixed upon the surface of that sign or
affixed next to the designating sign a notice that states the fine applicable
for the offense of parking a motor vehicle in the special designated parking
location if the motor vehicle is not legally entitled to be parked in that
location.
   (F)   (1)   No person shall stop, stand, or park any motor vehicle at
special parking locations provided under division (E) of this section, or at
special clearly marked parking locations provided in or on privately owned
parking lots, parking garages, or other parking areas and designated in
accordance with that division, unless one of the following applies:
         (a)   The motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of a
person with a disability that limits or impairs the ability to walk and is
displaying a valid removable windshield placard or special license plates; or
         (b)   The motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of a
disabled person and is displaying a parking card or special disabled license
plates.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle that is parked in a special marked parking
location in violation of division (F)(1)(a) or (F)(1)(b) of this section may be
towed or otherwise removed from the parking location by the law enforcement
agency of the municipality. A motor vehicle that is so towed or removed shall
not be released to its owner until the owner presents proof of ownership of the
motor vehicle and pays all towing and storage fees normally imposed by the
municipality for towing and storing motor vehicles. If the motor vehicle is a
leased vehicle, it shall not be released to the lessee until the lessee
presents proof that that person is the lessee of the motor vehicle and pays all
towing and storage fees normally imposed by the municipality for towing and
storing motor vehicles.
      (3)   If a person is charged with a violation of division (F)(1)(a) or
(F)(1)(b) of this section, it is an affirmative defense to the charge that the
person suffered an injury not more than 72 hours prior to the time the person
was issued the ticket or citation and that, because of the injury, the person
meets at least one of the criteria contained in R.C. § 4503.44(A)(1).
   (G)   When a motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of a
person with a disability that limits or impairs the ability to walk and is
displaying a removable windshield placard or a temporary removable windshield
placard or special license plates, or when a motor vehicle is being operated by
or for the transport of a disabled person, and is displaying a parking card or
special disabled license plates, the motor vehicle is permitted to park for a
period of two hours in excess of the legal parking period permitted by local
authorities, except where local ordinances or police rules provide otherwise or
where the vehicle is parked in such a manner as to be clearly a traffic hazard.
   (H)   No owner of an office, facility, or parking garage where special
parking locations are required to be designated in accordance with division (E)
of this section shall fail to properly mark the special parking locations in
accordance with that division or fail to maintain the markings of the special
locations, including the erection and maintenance of the fixed or movable
signs.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require a person or
organization to apply for a removable windshield placard or special license
plates if the parking card or special license plates issued to the person or
organization under prior law have not expired or been surrendered or revoked.
   (J)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
      DISABLED PERSON. Means any person who has lost the use of one or both
legs or one or both arms, who is blind, deaf, or so severely disabled as to be
unable to move without the aid of crutches or a wheelchair, or whose mobility
is restricted by a  permanent cardiovascular, pulmonary, or other disabling
condition.
      PERSON WITH A DISABILITY THAT LIMITS OR IMPAIRS THE ABILITY TO WALK. Has
the same meaning as in R.C. § 4503.44.
      SPECIAL LICENSE PLATES and REMOVABLE WINDSHIELD PLACARD. Mean any license
plates or removable windshield placard or  temporary removable windshield
placard issued under R.C. § 4503.41 or 4503.44, and also mean any substantially
equivalent license plates or removable windshield placard or temporary
removable windshield placard issued by a state, district, country, or
sovereignty.
   (K)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (A) or (C) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (F)(1)(a) or (F)(1)(b) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in
division (K)(2)(a) and (K)(2)(b) of this section. Except as otherwise provided
in division (K)(2)(a) of this section, an offender who violates division (F)(1)
(a) or (F)(1)(b) of this section shall be fined not less than $250 nor more
than $500. An offender who violates division (F)(1)(a) or (F)(1)(b) of this
section shall be fined not more than $100 if the offender, prior to sentencing,
proves either of the following to the satisfaction of the court:
            1.   At the time of the violation of division (F)(1)(a) of this
section, the offender or the person for whose transport the motor vehicle was
being operated had been issued a removable windshield placard that then was
valid or special license plates that then were valid but the offender or the
person neglected to display the placard or license plates as described in
division (F)(1)(a) of this section.
            2.   At the time of the violation of division (F)(1)(b) of this
section, the offender or the person for whose transport the motor vehicle was
being operated had been issued a parking card that then was valid or special
disabled license plates that then were valid but the offender or the person
neglected to display the card or license plates as described in division (F)(1)
(b) of this section.
         (b)   In no case shall an offender who violates division (F)(1)(a) or
(F)(1)(b) be sentenced to any term of imprisonment.
         (c)   An arrest or conviction for a violation of division (F)(1)(a) or
(F)(1)(b) of this section does not constitute a criminal record and need not be
reported by the person so arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries
contained in any application for employment, license, or other right or
privilege, or made in connection with the person’s appearance as a witness.
         (d)   The Clerk of the Court shall pay every fine collected under
division (K)(2) of this section to the municipality. Except as provided in
division (K)(2) of this section, the municipality shall use the fine monies it
receives under division (K)(2) of this section to pay the expenses it incurs in
complying with the signage and notice requirements contained in division (E) of
this section. The municipality may use up to 50% of each fine it receives under
division (K)(2) of this section to pay the costs of educational, advocacy,
support, and assistive technology programs for persons with disabilities, and
for public improvements within the municipality that benefit or assist persons
with disabilities, if governmental agencies or nonprofit organizations offer
the programs.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (H) of this section shall be punished as
follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (K)(3) of this section,
the offender shall be issued a warning.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (H) of this section or of a municipal
ordinance that is substantially equivalent to that division, the offender shall
not be issued a warning but shall be fined not more than $25 for each parking
location that is not properly marked or whose markings are not properly
maintained.
(R.C. § 4511.69)
Cross-reference:
   Unlawful furnishing of prescription to enable persons to be issued disabled
parking placards or license plates, see §
138.17
Statutory reference:
   Buildings, access for disabled persons, see R.C. § 3781.111
§ 76.06  PARKING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY IN VIOLATION OF POSTED PROHIBITION.
   (A)   If an owner of private property posts on the property in a conspicuous
manner a prohibition against parking on the property or conditions and
regulations under which parking is permitted, no person shall do either of the
following:
      (1)   Park a vehicle on the property without the owner’s consent;
      (2)   Park a vehicle on the property in violation of any condition or
regulation posted by the owner.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.681)
Cross-reference:
   Towing from private property, requirements, see §
95.01
§ 76.07  STANDING OR PARKING FOR SALE, BUSINESS, ADVERTISING, OR WASHING.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle upon any highway for the principal
purpose of:
   (A)   Displaying it for sale;
   (B)   Using it or permitting it to be used on the streets and public places
of the village for the manufacture or repair of shoes, clothing, furniture,
metal ware, tools, or other articles of personal or household use;
   (C)   Washing, greasing, or repairing the vehicle except repairs
necessitated by an emergency;
   (D)   Advertising.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.08  PARKING CONTINUOUSLY MORE THAN 24 HOURS.
   (A)   No person shall park his or her motor vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer
or permit his or her motor vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer to be parked
continuously in the same place for more than 24 hours on any highway, street,
or alley in the city.
   (B)   Any motor vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer parked in violation of this
section shall be towed off the highway, street, or alley and stored by the
city.  The owner of the motor vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer must pay all
towing charges and storage charges at the rate of $1.50 per day or fraction
thereof that the motor vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer is stored before the
motor vehicle is returned to his or her possession.
   (C)   Any motor vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer left in possession of the
city for more than 30 days shall be disposed of in the manner established by
R.C. § 4513.62 for the disposition of vehicles ordered into storage.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.09  OWNER RESPONSIBLE FOR VEHICLE’S OPERATION.
   If any vehicle is found upon a street, highway, alley, park, or other public
grounds, in violation of this code or any ordinance of the municipality
regulating the stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles, and the identity of
the driver cannot be determined, the owner or person in whose name such vehicle
is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for such violation.
§ 76.10  PARKING TAGS; IMPOUNDING VEHICLES; IMPOUNDING TAGGED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Police officers shall be provided with tags for giving notice of
parking violations to owners, drivers, or operators of automobiles and other
vehicles.  When a tag is attached to the vehicle left parked on a municipal
street, highway, alley, or avenue in violation of the provisions herein, the
owner, operator, or driver shall comply with all instructions appearing on the
tag which pertain to the violation.
   (B)   No one shall refuse or fail to comply with the directions on the tag. 
When a tag has been attached in a conspicuous place, legal and sufficient
summons shall be served upon the owner, driver, or operator to appear at the
designated place, day, and hour for the purposes stated thereon.  However, this
section shall not abridge the power of police officers to arrest for crimes and
misdemeanors.
§ 76.11  SEMITRAILER AND TRUCK PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No semitrailer or truck shall be parked in any residential area at any
time.  Such vehicles are not permitted to park in any metered zone between the
hours of 6:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. of the following morning.
   (B)   Division (A) above shall not apply to commercial vehicles on regular
delivery or service calls or to dual purpose passenger commercial cars, such as
station wagons, sedan delivery, parcel delivery, or panel delivery vehicles.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.12  RESIDENTIAL DISABLED PARKING SPACES.
   (A)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this section the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DISABLED PERSON.  Refer to state law definition as defined in §
76.05(J).
      TEMPORARY DISABLED PERSON.  Any disabled person whose disability is
expected to continue for less than 12 months or any woman who  at the time of
application is pregnant and can provide evidence that her pregnancy has
produced a condition so that walking is likely to result in extreme discomfort
or endanger the health of the applicant or her fetus.  The evidence supporting
and defining this condition shall be a physician’s statement.
   (B)   Disabled parking spaces.
      (1)   The applicant for a disabled parking space shall either own an
automobile and provide the registration of the vehicle as evidence of
ownership, or be a permanent member of a household and the auto is owned by a
spouse, parent, sibling or child of the applicant.  This auto shall display
either a special license plate or a removable windshield placard, as defined in
§
76.06(J).
      (2)   The Chief of Police shall designate the closest on-street space to
the applicant’s residence.
      (3)   No public on-street disabled parking space shall be assigned to
anyone having an accessible driveway.
   (C)   Application for disabled parking spaces.  Applications for parking
spaces designated “disabled parking spaces” shall be made to the Chief of
Police.  The application shall be on a form provided by the Chief of Police. 
In addition to the conditions stated in division (B) above, the Chief may
require a physician’s statement verifying any condition which is not obvious. 
In the case of temporary parking space designations, the permit issued by the
Police Chief shall specify the date of termination.
   (D)   Illegal use of disabled parking space.  No person who is not disabled
or operating a motor vehicle to transport a disabled person shall stop, stand
or park any motor vehicle at specially marked parking locations provided for
the disabled.  This includes all locations with parking reserved for disabled
persons, whether the location is on a street or in a publicly or privately
owned parking lot or garage.  No person who is not disabled shall willfully and
falsely represent that he or she is disabled for the purpose of obtaining a
disabled parking space.
   (E)   Renewal of designated space.
      (1)   A designated disabled parking space must be applied for yearly. 
Failure to renew a designated disabled parking space within 15 days of
expiration will result in the revocation of the privilege.  The application for
renewal shall be made to the Chief of Police on a form provided by the Police
Department.  The Chief of Police shall judge whether the designated parking
space shall be renewed.  Unless the disability condition is obvious, the Chief
may require a physician’s letter.
      (2)   Any space currently designated “disabled parking” shall be renewed
within 90 days.
      (3)   The village shall paint the curb blue and post a sign indicating
“resident only” parking for every designated disabled parking space.
      (4)   Any disabled parking space which is not used by the designated
disabled person shall be revoked by the Chief.
   (F)   Violations.  Whoever violates any provision of this section is guilty
of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined as set forth in §
70.99.
(Ord. 11-89, passed 12-5-1989)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.13  VILLAGE MERCHANTS PARKING LOT.
   (A)   Dual rear wheels prohibited.  No person shall be permitted to park a
vehicle equipped with dual rear wheels in the merchants parking lot located at
Walnut and Linden Streets.
   (B)   Hours restricted.  Between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.,
Monday through Saturday, no person shall permit a vehicle to be parked within
the merchants lot for a period of more than two hours.
(Ord. 8-93, passed 4-6-1993)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.14  TRUCK LOADING ZONES.
   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle for any purpose or length of
time, other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pickup and
loading of materials, in any place marked as a truck loading zone during hours
when the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect. In no case shall
the stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed 30 minutes.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.15  BUS STOPS AND TAXICAB STANDS.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle other than a bus in a
bus stop, or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand, when any such stop or
stand has been officially designated and appropriately posted, except that the
driver of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of,
and while actually engaged in, loading or unloading passengers when such
stopping does not interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about
to enter such zone, and then only for a period not to exceed three minutes, if
such stopping is not prohibited therein by posted signs.
   (B)   No operator of a bus shall stop, stand, or park such vehicle upon any
street or other public way at any place for the purpose of loading or unloading
passengers or their baggage other than at a bus stop so designated and posted
as such, except in case of an emergency.
   (C)   No operator of a bus shall fail to enter a bus stop on a street or
other public way in such a manner that the bus when stopped to load or unload
passengers or baggage is in a position with the right front wheel of such
vehicle not further than 18 inches from the curb and the bus approximately
parallel to the curb so as not to unduly impede the movement of other vehicular
traffic.
   (D)   No operator of a taxicab shall stand or park such vehicle upon any
street or other public way at any place other than in a taxicab stand so
designated and posted as such. This provision shall not prevent the operator of
a taxicab from temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or
parking provisions at any place for the purpose of, and while actually engaged
in, the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.16  PARKING IN ALLEYS AND NARROW STREETS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand, or park any vehicle upon a street, other
than an alley, in such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available
less than 10 feet of the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular
traffic, except that a driver may stop temporarily during the actual loading or
unloading of passengers or when directed to by a police officer or traffic-
control signal.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided by law, no person shall stop, stand, or
park a vehicle within an alley except while actually loading and unloading, and
then only for a period not to exceed 30 minutes.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.17  REGISTERED OWNER PRIMA FACIE LIABLE FOR UNLAWFUL PARKING.
   In any hearing on a charge of illegally parking a motor vehicle, testimony
that a vehicle bearing a certain license plate was found unlawfully parked as
prohibited by the provisions of this traffic code, and further testimony that
the record of the Ohio Registrar of Motor Vehicles shows that the license plate
was issued to the defendant, shall be prima facie evidence that the vehicle
which was unlawfully parked, was so parked by the defendant. A certified
registration copy, showing such fact, from the Registrar shall be proof of such
ownership.
§ 76.18  WAIVER.
   Any person charged with a violation of any provision of this chapter for
which payment of a prescribed fine may be made, may pay such sum in the manner
prescribed on the issued traffic ticket. Such payment shall be deemed a plea of
guilty, waiver of court appearance and acknowledgment of conviction of the
alleged offense and may be accepted in full satisfaction of the prescribed
penalty for such alleged violation. Payment of the prescribed fine need not be
accepted when laws prescribe that a certain number of such offenses shall
require court appearance.
PARKING METERS
§ 76.20  PARKING PROHIBITED OR LIMITED.
   The Mayor, unless the Council shall direct otherwise, or the Council, by
administrative order, is hereby empowered to prohibit parking or limit the time
and periods of time during which a vehicle may be parked on any street, part of
a street, or other village-owned area either by erecting and maintaining
appropriate signs plainly indicating the purport of such parking regulations or
by installing and maintaining parking meters in the manner hereinafter provided
or by a combination of both of such methods.  No person shall disobey the
directions of any sign erected in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.21  CONSTRUCTION OF PARKING METERS.
   Each parking meter shall be so designed and constructed as to display a
signal showing lawful parking following a deposit of coins of the United States
therein during a period of time conforming to the parking limit now or
hereafter provided for the part of the street upon which such a meter is
placed.  Each meter shall bear a sign or legend setting forth the time limit of
parking, which sign or legend may be in lieu of any other vehicles in the
adjacent parts of the street.  Each such meter shall also be so designed and
constructed that upon the expiration of such parking limit, it will indicate by
automatic operation of a visual signal that the lawful parking period has
expired.
§ 76.22  METERED SPACES.
   The Mayor or the Council, as the case may be, shall cause lines or marks to
be placed on the curb or on the street about or alongside of each parking meter
to designate the parking space for which it is to be used and each vehicle
parking alongside of or next to any parking meter shall park within the lines
or markings so established. It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle across any
such line or marker or to park the vehicle in such a way that the same shall
not be within the area so designated by such lines or markings, unless such
vehicle be too large to be confined in any one such place.
§ 76.23  PARKING IN METERED SPACES.
   Whenever during hours of limited parking any vehicle shall be parked in any
designated space at which there is located a parking meter, the owner,
operator, manager, or driver of the vehicle upon parking such vehicle shall
immediately deposit coins of the United States in such parking meter, provided
that in the parking of vehicles too large to be confined in a single space,
only the meter nearest the hood or front end of the vehicle need be operated. 
Thereupon the parking space may be used by such vehicle during the parking
period provided for the part of the street in which the parking space is
located.  If a vehicle shall remain parked in any such parking space beyond the
parking limit fixed for such parking space and the parking meters shall display
a signal indicating illegal parking then and in that event, such vehicle shall
be considered as parked overtime.
§ 76.24  LIMITED PARKING.
   No person shall, during hours of limited parking, permit a vehicle to remain
parked in a designated space when the parking meter for the space indicates
that the car is illegally parked.  The fact that a vehicle is parked in a
metered parking space during the hours of limited parking with the meter time
signals showing no parking permitted shall be prima facie evidence that the
vehicle has been parked at that space longer than the lawfully permitted
parking period.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.25  REPEAT METERING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall deposit or cause to be deposited in a parking meter a coin
for the purpose of obtaining an extension of indicated parking time beyond the
limit of time prescribed for parking a vehicle in the designated space along
side of or next to the parking meter.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.26  SLUGS AND COIN SUBSTITUTES.
   No person shall deposit or cause to be deposited in any parking meter any
slug, device, or other substitute for a coin of the United States of America.
Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Making or using slugs, §
131.14
§ 76.27  DEFACING PARKING METERS.
   No person shall deface, injure, tamper with, open, break, or destroy any
parking meter or otherwise impair its usefulness.
Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Tampering with coin machines, §
131.07
§ 76.28  COLLECTION.
   The Chief of Police shall designate some member or members of the Police
Department to collect coins deposited in parking meters.  The coins are
deposited in the bank weekly and an accounting is made weekly to the Clerk-
Treasurer.
CHAPTER 77:  CIVIL PENALTIES FOR AUTOMATED SPEED ENFORCEMENT VIOLATIONS
Section
   
77.01   Definitions
   
77.02   General
   
77.03   Offense
   
77.04   Notice of liability
   
77.05   Civil penalties
   
77.06   Collection of civil penalty
   
77.07   Administrative appeal
§ 77.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMATED SPEED ENFORCEMENT PROGRAM.  A program intended to reduce speeding
violations using an automated speed enforcement system.
   AUTOMATED SPEED ENFORCEMENT SYSTEM.  A system with one or more sensors
working in conjunction with a speed measuring device to produce recorded images
of motor vehicles traveling at a prohibited rate of speed.
   DATE OF ISSUANCE OF NOTICE OF LIABILITY.  Shall be the date printed on the
notice of liability immediately prior to its mailing.
   HEARING OFFICER.  The independent third party appointed by the Village
Manager.
   MOTOR VEHICLE.  Has the same definition as in §
70.01 of the Codified Ordinances of the Village of Elmwood Place Ohio.
   RECORDED IMAGES.  Images recorded by an automated speed enforcement system
photographic system on any of the following:
      (1)   Two or more photographs;
      (2)   Two or more microphotographs;
      (3)   Two or more electronic images;
      (4)   Two or more digital images;
      (5)   Videotape; or
      (6)   Any other medium and showing the front or rear of a motor vehicle
and on at least one image or portion of tape, clearly identifying the license
plate number of the motor vehicle.
   VEHICLE OWNER.  The person or entity identified by the Ohio Bureau of Motor
Vehicles, or registered with any other state vehicle registration office, as
the registered owner of a vehicle or a lessee of a motor vehicle under a lease
of six months or more.
(Ord. 09-12, passed 7-10-2012)
§ 77.02  GENERAL.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this traffic code, the village
hereby adopts a civil enforcement program for automated speed enforcement
system violations as outlined in this section.  Said program imposes monetary
liability on the owner of a vehicle for failure of an operator thereof to
strictly comply with the posted speed limit in school zones or streets or
highways within the village.
   (B)   The Elmwood Place Police Department shall be responsible for
administering the automated speed enforcement program.  Specifically, the
Elmwood Place Police Department shall be empowered to install and operate the
automated speed enforcement system within the village using trained technicians
who may or may not be police officers, Police Department employees, or other
trained technicians who are not employees of the Elmwood Place Police
Department.
   (C)   Any citation for an automated speed system violation pursuant to this
section, known as a "notice of liability" shall:
      (1)   Be approved by officials or agents of the village;
      (2)   Be forwarded by first-class mail or personal service to the
vehicle's registered owner's address as given on the state's motor vehicle
registration; and
      (3)   Clearly state the manner in which the violation may be appealed.
(Ord. 09-12, passed 7-10-2012)
§ 77.03  OFFENSE.
   (A)   The owner of a vehicle shall be liable for a penalty imposed pursuant
to this section if such vehicle is operated at a speed in excess of those set
forth in §
73.10 of the Codified Ordinances of the Village of Elmwood Place, Ohio or R.C.
§ 4511.21 as each may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   If the motor vehicle involved in the violation is commercial motor
vehicle and the notice of liability issued to a corporate entity, the corporate
entity must provide to the Elmwood Place Police Department or its designee an
affidavit, sworn to or affirmed by the statutory agent of the corporate entity,
that:
      (1)   States that the person/entity named in the notice of liability was
not in operation of the commercial motor vehicle at the time of the violation;
and
      (2)   Provides the name, address, and driver's license identification
number of the person who was in operation of the commercial motor vehicle at
the time of the violation.
   (C)   The owner of the motor vehicle shall not be responsible for the
violation if, within 20 calendar days from the date of issuance of the notice
of liability, the owner furnishes the Elmwood Place Police Department or its
designee with:
      (1)   The name and address of the person who leased, rented, borrowed, or
otherwise had the care, custody, and control of the motor vehicle at the time
of the violation, a signed affidavit sworn to before a notary public that the
affiant was operating the motor vehicle, and payment of the appropriate civil
penalty as set forth herein; or
      (2)   An affidavit by the owner stating that at the time of the
violation, the motor vehicle or the license plates of the motor vehicle
involved were stolen or were in the care, custody, and control of some person
who did not have the owner's permission to use the motor vehicle, or that the
motor vehicle or license plates of the motor vehicle were stolen before the
violation occurred and were not under the control or possession of the owner at
the time of the violation. In order to demonstrate that the motor vehicle or
license plates were stolen before the violation occurred and were not under the
control or possession of the owner at the time of the violation, the owner must
submit proof that a police report, incident report/general offense report about
the stolen motor vehicle or license plates was filed prior to the violation or
within 48 hours after the violation occurred.
   (D)   A certified copy if the notice of liability alleging the violation of
this chapter occurred, sworn to or affirmed by a duly authorized Elmwood Place
Police Officer, with the recorded images produced by an automated speed
enforcement system photographic system shall be prima facie evidence of the
facts contained therein and shall be admissible in a proceeding alleging a
violation under this chapter.
   (E)   Exception for emergency or public safety vehicles: the provisions of
this chapter shall not apply to emergency vehicles or public safety vehicles
when those vehicles are responding to emergency or call for emergency service.
   (F)   Exception: vehicles which are the property of the village: the
provision of this chapter relating to owner liability shall not apply to a
vehicle owned by the village, which is being driven by a village employee at
the time of violation. In such circumstances, the employee and not the village
shall be liable for the civil penalty to be incurred as a result of the
violation(s).
(Ord. 09-12, passed 7-10-2012)
§ 77.04  NOTICE OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The notice of liability shall be processed by the Elmwood Place Police
Department or its designee and shall be served by ordinary mail to the owner's
address as given on the motor vehicle registration from the Bureau of Motor
Vehicles, or its equivalent, of the state registered. The notice of liability
shall include:
      (1)   The name and address of the registered owner of the motor vehicle;
      (2)   The license plate number of the motor vehicle involved in the
violation;
      (3)   The violation charged;
      (4)   The location of the violation;
      (5)   The date and time of the violation;
      (6)   A copy of the recorded image(s);
      (7)   The amount of the civil penalty imposed and the date by which the
civil penalty should be paid and where the payment should be made;
      (8)   Information advising the person alleged to be liable of the options
as provided in §
77.03; and
      (9)   The time, place, and manner in which an administrative appeal can
be initiated and a warning that failure to exercise the options provided under
§
77.06 in a timely manner is an admission of liability.
   (B)   A notice of liability issued under this chapter shall be mailed no
later than 15 calendar days after the alleged violation.
   (C)   Except as provided under §
77.03(C), the Elmwood Place Police Department or its designee may not mail a
notice of liability to a person who is not the owner of the motor vehicle.
   (D)   It is prima facie evidence that the person registered as the owner of
the vehicle with the Ohio Bureau of Motor Vehicles (or with any other state
vehicle registration office) was operating the vehicle at the time of the
offense set out in §
77.03(B) and (C).
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the liability of
an owner of a vehicle for any violation of §
77.03(B) or (C).
(Ord. 09-12, passed 7-10-2012)
§ 77.05  CIVIL PENALTIES.
   (A)   Unless the driver of the motor vehicle received a citation from a
police officer at the time of the violation, or unless one of the exceptions or
defenses to liability set forth in §
77.03(E) and (F) applies, the owner or responsible party for the motor vehicle
is subject to a civil penalty if the motor vehicle is recorded by an automated
speed enforcement system while being operated in violation of this chapter.
   (B)   The civil penalty under this ordinance shall be in accordance with the
following schedule:
      (1)   If the civil penalty is paid within 20 calendar days of the date of
issuance of the notice of liability - $105;
      (2)   If the civil penalty is paid more than 20 calendar days, but within
45 calendar days after date of issuance of the notice of liability - $135;
      (3)   If the civil penalty is paid more than 45 calendar days of the date
of issuance of the notice of liability - $195;
      (4)   The failure to respond to a "Notice of Liability" in a timely
fashion as set forth in §
77.03(B) shall constitute a waiver of the right to contest liability for the
violation under division (C) of this section. Said failure shall result in an
additional penalty of $25.
      (5)   Persons who choose to pay the civil penalty without appearing
before a Hearing Officer may do so in the manner indicated on the notice of
liability.
      (6)   A violation for which a civil penalty is imposed under this chapter
is not a moving violation for the purpose of assessing points under R.C. §
4507.021 for minor misdemeanor moving traffic offenses and may not be recorded
on the driving record of the owner or operator of the motor vehicle and shall
not be reported to Bureau of Motor Vehicles.
(Ord. 09-12, passed 7-10-2012)
§ 77.06  COLLECTION OF CIVIL PENALTY.
   If the civil penalty is not paid, the civil penalty imposed under the
provisions of this chapter shall be collectable, together with any interest and
penalties thereon, in any manner authorized by law including but not limited to
civil suit.
(Ord. 09-12, passed 7-10-2012)
§ 77.07  ADMINISTRATIVE APPEAL.
   (A)   An owner or responsible party who receives a "notice of liability,"
under this chapter may do one of the following:
      (1)   Pay the civil penalty, in accordance with the instructions on the
notice of liability;
      (2)   Within 60 calendar days of the date of issuance of the notice of
liability provide the Elmwood Place Police Department or its designee,
information as to the driver of the motor vehicle at the time of the violation;
or
      (3)   Contest the notice of liability by filing a written request for
review of the notice of liability. A written notice of request for review must
be filed within 20 calendar days after issuance of the notice of liability. The
failure to give notice of request for review within this time period shall
constitute a waiver of the right to contest the notice of liability. A Hearing
Officer shall hear reviews. Hearings shall be held within 20 business days of
the receipt of the request for review; this time may be extended upon a written
request for additional time.
         (a)   The Hearing Officer shall determine whether a preponderance of
evidence establishes that a violation of this chapter occurred and the person
requesting a review is liable. A certified copy of the notice of liability
alleging the violation of this chapter occurred, sworn to or affirmed by a duly
authorized Elmwood Place Police Officer, with the recorded images or data
produced by an automated speed enforcement system shall be prima facie evidence
of the facts contained therein and shall be admissible in a proceeding alleging
a violation under this chapter.  Adjudication of liability shall be based on a
preponderance of the evidence.
         (b)   If the Hearing Officer finds a sufficient evidence of a
violation, but the owner or responsible party is not liable, the Hearing
Officer shall, in writing, issue a decision finding the owner or responsible
party not liable and submit it to the Elmwood Place Police Department.
   (B)   If the owner or responsible party chooses to contest the notice of
liability, the Hearing Officer may consider any of the following as an
affirmative defense of a violation upon the defense being established by a
preponderance of the evidence by the owner or responsible party:
      (1)   That the motor vehicle or license plates of the motor vehicle were
stolen before the violation occurred and were not under control or possession
of the owner at the time of the violation.  In order to demonstrate that the
motor vehicle or license plates were stolen before the violation occurred and
were not under the control or possession of the owner at the time of the
violation, the owner must submit proof that a police report about the stolen
motor vehicle or license plates was filed prior to the violation or within 48
hours after the violation occurred.
      (2)   That the motor vehicle was under the custody and/or control of
another person at the time of the violation.  In order to establish this, the
owner or responsible person must provide the name and address of the person who
had custody and/or control of the motor vehicle at the time of the violation.
      (3)   That this section is unenforceable because at the time and place of
the alleged violation, the automated speed enforcement was not in proper
position and the recorded image is not legible enough to determine the
information needed.
      (4)   Evidence, other than that adduced pursuant to §
77.06(B)(1), that the owner or person named in the notice of liability was not
operating the motor vehicle at the time of the violation.  To satisfy the
evidentiary burden under this division (B)(4), the owner or person named in the
notice of liability shall provide to the Hearing Officer evidence showing the
identity of the person who was operating the motor vehicle at the time of the
violation, including, but not limited to, the operator's name and current
address, and any other evidence the Hearing Officer deems pertinent.
   (C)   If the Hearing Officer finds that the person or entity named in the
notice of liability was not operating the motor vehicle at the time of the
violation or receives evidence under §
77.06(B)(4) identifying the person driving the motor vehicle at the time of the
violation, the Hearing Officer shall provide to the Elmwood Place Police
Department or its designee within five calendar days, a copy of any evidence
substantiating who was operating the motor vehicle at the time of the
violation.
      (1)   Upon receipt of evidence of the responsible party pursuant to this
division (C)(1) or pursuant to §
77.03(B) and (C), the Elmwood Place Police Department or its designee may issue
a notice of liability, with the name and address of the responsible party and
the information required by §
77.04, to the person that the evidence indicates was operating the motor
vehicle at the time of the violation.
      (2)   A notice of liability issued under §
77.04, shall be sent by the village or its designee by ordinary mail no later
than 15 business days after the receipt of the evidence from the Hearing
Officer or the owner.
   (D)   If the owner or responsible party chooses to contest the notice of
liability, the Hearing Officer shall administer a $25 fee per notice of
liability contested.  The Hearing Officer may waive this administrative hearing
fee only if the owner or responsible person pleads guilty prior to commencement
of the hearing.
(Ord. 09-12, passed 7-10-2012; Am. Ord. 10-12, passed 9-11-2012; Am. Ord. 12-
12, passed 10-22-2012)
CHAPTER 78:  IMPOUNDMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
   
78.01   Impoundment of motor vehicles
   
78.02   Delinquent motor vehicles
   
78.03   Forfeiture of bond
   
78.04   Notice of impoundment
   
78.05   Impounding fees
   
78.06   Appeal procedure
   
78.07   Sales of impounded vehicles
§ 78.01  IMPOUNDMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLES.
   Any police officer may impound and cause to be towed any motor vehicle:
   (A)   Which is stolen;
   (B)   Which is parked in violation of law;
   (C)   Which is involved in an accident;
   (D)   Which has been declared delinquent because of one or more outstanding
traffic capiases or two or more outstanding traffic citations which have not
been paid, or a bond posted pursuant to §
78.02;
   (E)   Which has been declared delinquent because of one or more outstanding
traffic judgments or two or more outstanding parking infractions which have not
been paid or a bond;
   (F)   Which does not display currently valid license plates;
   (G)   Which is parked so as to block ingress or egress to a street, alley,
roadway, driveway, parking facility or loading facility;
   (H)   Which is in the possession of a physically arrested person;
   (I)   Which is driven by a person who is under the influence of alcohol or
drugs or a combination thereof;
   (J)   When the person in possession of a motor vehicle requests it to be
impounded for safekeeping; or
   (K)   Which motor vehicle was used in the commission of an offense in
violation of R.C. § 2921.331, Failure to Comply with Order or Signal of Police
Officer.  A motor vehicle which is subject to impoundment under divisions (H)
or (I) above shall not be impounded if owner of the vehicle is not the arrested
subject and can legally operate the vehicle in accordance with state and local
law.
(Ord. 08-12, passed 6-12-2012)
§ 78.02  DELINQUENT MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   A motor vehicle shall not be declared delinquent because of
outstanding parking infractions.
   (B)   A motor vehicle shall not be declared delinquent because of traffic
citations until the notice procedures of this section have been followed.
   (C)   Written notice of at least one outstanding traffic citation shall be
given to the registered owner of the motor vehicle against which the traffic
citations were issued.  Notice, when practicable, shall be given by regular
U.S. mail mailed to the last known address of the registered owner. Notice by
regular U.S. mail shall be deemed delivered unless such notice is returned as
undeliverable within ten days of mailing. Where notice by mail is not
practicable, written notice of possible impoundment placed on the motor vehicle
at the time of citation shall be deemed to be sufficient notice. The written
notice sent by regular U.S. mail shall include:
      (1)   Identity of the outstanding traffic citations;
      (2)   How information regarding the outstanding traffic citations can be
obtained;
      (3)   Persons to whom evidence of prior disposition of the outstanding
traffic citations may be submitted;
      (4)   A warning that failure to pay the traffic citations or post a bond
equal to the amount of the accumulated fines and to register the traffic
citations for a court hearing may subject the owner to arrest and/or the motor
vehicle to impoundment; and
      (5)   A schedule of impounding and storage fees.
   (D)   Any motor vehicle impounded as delinquent because of traffic citations
shall be released upon:
      (1)   Proof of payment of the outstanding traffic citation(s) or parking
infraction(s) and payment of the accumulated impounding and storage fees; or
      (2)   Posting of a cash bond with the clerk of court(s) in an amount
equal to the sum of the accumulated penalties; proof of payment of impounding
and storage fees through the village impoundment lot; registration of the
outstanding traffic citations for court or parking infractions for hearing. The
motor vehicle shall be released without fee if the traffic citations were paid
prior to the impoundment.
(Ord. 08-12, passed 6-12-2012)
§ 78.03  FORFEITURE OF BOND.
   Any person posting a cash bond pursuant to this chapter shall be deemed to
have forfeited the cash bond to the village if that person fails to appear for
court or hearing upon the designated day or fails to pay the accumulated fines,
penalties, costs, impounding fees and storage costs stemming from the traffic
citations or parking infractions. Notice of the right of the village to forfeit
the cash bond shall either be given in person to the party posting the bond or
mailed to their last known address.
(Ord. 08-12, passed 6-12-2012)
§ 78.04  NOTICE OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   Within three days, or as soon as practicable after the impoundment of any
motor vehicle under the provisions of §
78.01, notice shall be given of the impoundment to the owner of the motor
vehicle personally; or by regular mail sent to the last known address of the
registered owner; or by certified mail where notice of the date of the auction
of the motor vehicle as unclaimed is to be held is included. Such notice shall
state:
   (A)   That the motor vehicle has been taken into custody and stored;
   (B)   The location where the motor vehicie is stored;
   (C)   The reason for impoundment;
   (D)   The procedure for obtaining release of the motor vehicle;
   (E)   The basic charges for impoundment and storage;
   (F)   That the person claiming the motor vehicle can challenge the validity
of the impoundment at a hearing before a person designated by the Chief of
Police; and
   (G)   That failure to obtain release of the motor vehicle within 20 days
after impoundment may cause it to be sold at public auction if unclaimed.
(Ord. 08-12, passed 6-12-2012)
§ 78.05  IMPOUNDING FEES.
   (A)   All impounded motor vehicles except as set forth in this section shall
be released to the owner or other person authorized by the owner to claim the
motor vehicle upon the payment of a basic impounding charge of $110 plus $18
per day for the time the impounded motor vehicle is in storage. Provided,
however, that an additional service extended storage fee of $50 shall be
charged as a condition of the release of any motor vehicle which the owner has
willfully failed to claim within 120 hours after the notice of impoundment has
been mailed or personally given to the registered owner. Such person may also
be required to pay for towing services other than those described above, and
for any service performed by the village in order to properly maintain said
impounded motor vehicle. The fee for a heavy duty tow is $250 per hour. An
impound fee of $100 shall be charged for vehicles impounded in accordance with
an administrative license suspension in addition to all other applicable fees.
Impounded motor vehicles which are stolen and abandoned by the thief, or which
were disabled at the time of impoundment may be released without charge at the
discretion of the police chief upon evidence establishing that the motor
vehicle was stolen or disabled at the time of its impoundment.
   (B)   The owner or person entitled to possession of an impounded motor
vehicle which is retained in police custody for law enforcement purposes not
related to the original impoundment shall not be responsible for any impounding
fees related solely to the continuing possession of the motor vehicle by the
City of Cincinnati for law enforcement purposes.
(Ord. 08-12, passed 6-12-2012)
§ 78.06  APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   At the time that the owner or other person authorized by the owner to
claim the motor vehicle attempts to claim an impounded motor vehicle such
person shall be advised that he or she may have the propriety of the
impoundment of the motor vehicle reviewed immediately by a person designated by
the Chief of Police and that this decision can be appealed to the City
Solicitor.  The person challenging the impoundment shall be entitled to present
witnesses and documentary evidence in support of his or her position, the
person designated by the Chief of Police to hear the case shall immediately
investigate the matter if further investigation is necessary and make a prompt
written decision following the conclusion of the hearing stating the basis for
the decision. Such decision shall be rendered within 48 hours of the hearing.
   (B)   All impounding charges must be paid prior to the release of an
impounded motor vehicle except in those instances where the hearing officer is
unable to reach an immediate decision.  Impounded motor vehicles shall not
incur additional storage fees until a decision has been made.  An adverse
decision may be appealed by filing a written statement with the City Solicitor
within ten days of such adverse decision.  The City Solicitor shall render a
decision within 30 days of receipt of the claim, the only issue to be
considered at the hearing or on appeal shall be the correctness of the
impoundment of the motor vehicle. Any question of the merits of any traffic
citation or of a parking infraction issued concurrently with or underlying, the
impoundment of the motor vehicle shall not be considered.
(Ord. 08-12, passed 6-12-2012)
§ 78.07  SALES OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever any vehicle which has been impounded by a police officer
remains in the possession of the village, unclaimed by any person having the
right to possession of such vehicle, for a period of 20 days, such vehicle
shall be sold under the direction of the Chief of Police at public auction to
the highest bidder, after a notice of such auction has been given by
advertisement published three times in the Village Bulletin or in a newspaper
of given circulation within the City of Cincinnati, or otherwise disposed of to
a junk yard or other appropriate facility in accordance with the provisions of
R.C. § 4513.64.
   (B)   At least 15 days prior to such sale, a notice shall be mailed by
certified mail, return receipt requested, to the owner of such motor vehicle,
if ascertainable, and to all mortgage and lien holders of record, advising them
of their rights to claim the vehicle upon payment of all towing, storage and
impounding fees, and in addition thereto, the costs of any services performed
by the city in order to properly maintain the impounded vehicle.
   (C)   In addition to junk yards, scrap metal processors who can guarantee
that a junk motor vehicle will never again appear back upon the city streets
are hereby determined to be a proper facility relating to the disposition of
junk motor vehicles as required by R.C. § 4513.64.
(Ord. 08-12, passed 6-12-2012)
TITLE IX:  GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
92.   INTOXICATING LIQUOR
      
93.   NUISANCES
      
94.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
95.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
CHAPTER 90:  ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Cruelty to animals
   
90.03   Using newly hatched fowl as toy
   
90.04   Birds
   
90.05   Poisonous substances
   
90.06   Confining animal found at large; publication of notice; lien
   
90.07   Unavoidable escapes
   
90.08   Compensation and expenses recoverable from owner or keeper
   
90.09   Disposition of large animals
   
90.10   Administrative officer to make necessary agreements
   
90.11   Keeping of bees prohibited
Dogs
   
90.25   Dogs running at large
   
90.26   Dangerous or vicious dogs; possession of pit bull dogs prohibited
   
90.27   Loud dog; interfering with enforcement
   
90.28   Rabies control
   
90.29   Inoculation and tags
Administration and Enforcement
   
90.40   Animal Control Officer
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL.  Any and all types of animals both domesticated and wild, male and
female, singular and plural.
   AT  LARGE.  Off the premises of the owner or custodian of the animal or
fowl, and not under the immediate control of the owner or custodian.
   FOWL.  Any and all fowl, domesticated and wild, male and female, singular
and plural.
   HARBORING.  Any person who shall allow any animal of the canine species
habitually to remain and be lodged and be fed within his or her home, store, or
enclosure.
§ 90.02  CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall:
      (1)   Torture an animal, deprive one of necessary sustenance,
unnecessarily or cruelly beat, needlessly mutilate or kill, or impound or
confine an animal without supplying it during the confinement with a sufficient
quantity of good wholesome food and water;
      (2)   Impound or confine an animal without affording it, during the
confinement, access to shelter from wind, rain, snow, or excessive direct
sunlight, if it can reasonably be expected that the animal would otherwise
become sick or in some other way suffer.  This division does not apply to
animals impounded or confined prior to slaughter.  For the purpose of this
section, SHELTER means an artificial enclosure, windbreak, sunshade, or natural
windbreak or sunshade that is developed from the earth’s contour, tree
development, or vegetation;
      (3)   Carry or convey an animal in a cruel or inhuman manner;
      (4)   Keep animals other than cattle, poultry or fowl, swine, sheep, or
goats in an enclosure without wholesome exercise and change of air, nor feed
cows on food that produces impure or unwholesome milk; or
      (5)   Detain livestock in railroad cars or compartments longer than 28
hours after they are so placed without supplying them with necessary food,
water, and attention, nor permit the stock to be so crowded as to overlie,
crush, wound, or kill each other.
   (B)   Upon the written request of the owner or person in custody of any
particular shipment of livestock, which written request shall be separate and
apart from any printed bill of lading or other railroad form, the length of
time in which the livestock may be detained in any cars or compartment without
food, water, and attention may be extended to 36 hours without penalty
therefor.  This section does not prevent the dehorning of cattle.
   (C)   All fines collected for violations of this section shall be paid to
the society or association for the prevention of cruelty to animals, if there
is one in the municipality; otherwise, all fines shall be paid to the general
fund.
(R.C. § 959.13)
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the second degree.  In addition, the court may order the
offender to forfeit the animal or livestock and may provide for its disposition
including, but not limited to, the sale of the animal or livestock.  If an
animal or livestock is forfeited and sold pursuant to this division, the
proceeds from the sale first shall be applied to pay the expenses incurred with
regard to the care of the animal from the time it was taken from the custody of
the former owner.  The balance of the proceeds from the sale, if any, shall be
paid to the former owner of the animal. 
(R.C. § 959.99(D))  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03  USING NEWLY HATCHED FOWL AS TOY.
   (A)   No person shall use any live, newly hatched fowl or bird as a toy or
pet, or subject the same to mistreatment or careless handling, or dye the
same.  It shall further be unlawful to sell or give away such fowl in lots of
less than six birds.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be punished by a fine of not more
than $25.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04  BIRDS.
   Whoever shall kill or injure any wild bird, or shall throw, fire, or shoot a
bullet, stone, arrow, or other missile at the bird, or shall break, tear down,
or destroy any bird’s nest or the eggs or other contents of the nest, or
whoever shall catch or capture any wild bird, or set traps or spread nets or
snares, with intent to catch or capture the same, or shall follow or pursue the
same, with intent to catch or injure the bird, shall be fined not more than
$10.
§ 90.05  POISONOUS SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   No person shall maliciously, or willfully and without the consent of
the owner, administer poison, except a licensed veterinarian acting in that
capacity, to a dog, cat, or any other domestic animal that is the property of
another; and no person shall, willfully and without the consent of the owner,
place any poisoned food where it may be easily found and eaten by any such
animal, either upon his or her own lands or the lands of another. 
(R.C. § 959.03)
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section shall be fined as set
forth in §
90.99. 
(R.C. § 959.99(C))
   (C)   This section does not apply to a person killing or injuring an animal
or attempting to do so while endeavoring to prevent it from trespassing upon
his or her enclosure, or while it is so trespassing, or while driving it away
from his or her premises; provided that within 15 days thereafter, payment is
made for damages done to the animal by killing or injuring, less the actual
amount of damage done by the animal while so trespassing, or a sufficient sum
of money is deposited with the nearest judge of a county court or judge of a
municipal court having jurisdiction within that time to cover the damages.  The
deposit shall remain in the custody of the judge until there is a determination
of the damage resulting from the killing or injury and from the trespass.  The
judge and his or her bondspeople shall be responsible for the safekeeping of
the money and for the payment thereof as for money collected upon a judgment. 
(R.C. § 959.04)
§ 90.06  CONFINING ANIMAL FOUND AT LARGE; PUBLICATION OF NOTICE; LIEN.
   A person finding an animal at large in violation of R.C. § 951.02 may, and a
law enforcement officer of the municipality on view or information shall, take
and confine that animal, promptly giving notice of the taking and confining of
the animal to the owner or keeper, if known, and if not known, by publishing a
notice describing the animal once in a newspaper of general circulation in the
county or municipality where the animal was found. If the owner or keeper does
not appear and claim the animal and pay the compensation prescribed in §
90.08 for so taking, advertising, and keeping it within ten days from the date
of the notice, that person or the county shall have a lien for that
compensation and the animal may be sold at public auction as provided in R.C. §
1311.49. The residue of the proceeds of sale shall be paid and deposited by the
Treasurer in the General Funds of the county.
(R.C. § 951.11)
§ 90.07  UNAVOIDABLE ESCAPES.
   If it is proven that an animal running at large in violation of R.C. §
951.02 escaped from its owner or keeper without the owner’s or keeper’s
knowledge or fault, the animal shall be returned to its owner or keeper upon
payment of the compensation prescribed in §
90.08 for its taking, advertising and keeping.
(R.C. § 951.12)
§ 90.08  COMPENSATION AND EXPENSES RECOVERABLE FROM OWNER OR KEEPER.
   (A)   The person or municipality whose law enforcement officer takes an
animal running at large in violation of R.C. § 951.02 is entitled to receive
from the owner or keeper of the animal the following compensation:
      (1)   For taking and advertising each horse, mule, head of cattle, bison,
swine, sheep, goat, llama, alpaca, or goose, $5; and
      (2)   Reasonable expenses actually incurred for keeping each animal
described in division (A)(1) of this section.
   (B)   Compensation for taking, advertising, and keeping a single herd or
flock shall not exceed $50 when the flock or herd belongs to one person.
(R.C. § 951.13)
§ 90.09  DISPOSITION OF LARGE ANIMALS.
   Should the Animal Control Officer or designated person upon call or upon his
or her own initiative pick up a large animal such as a horse, cow, or mule or
any other animal not acceptable by any animal hospital or shelter, he or she is
authorized to call a trucking firm or company.  The firm or company will convey
the animal outside the corporate limits to one of the farms which has a working
agreement with the village to handle such cases.  The disposition of the animal
in this case shall be handled in the same manner as though it were an animal
hospital or shelter.
§ 90.10  ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER TO MAKE NECESSARY AGREEMENTS.
   The Director of Public Service and Safety is instructed to enter into
necessary agreements with the animal hospitals, shelters, and farms to carry
out the terms of this chapter.
§ 90.11  KEEPING OF BEES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall own or possess bees within the corporate limits of the
village.
Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Apiaries, see R.C. Chapter 909
DOGS
§ 90.25  DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   No owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog shall permit or allow the dog
to roam at large on, over, or across public streets, parks, or grounds within
the corporate limits.
   (B)   The owner, keeper, or harborer of the dog must keep the dog under
control at all times and must remove the debris left by the dog from the
property of other residents of the village or from village property.
   (C)   Division (B) of this section is enforceable by private complaint only
filed with the Police Department.
(Ord. 27-71, passed 11-17-1971)  Penalty, see  §
90.99
§ 90.26  DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS DOGS; POSSESSION OF PIT BULL DOGS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Dangerous dog to be properly confined or leashed.  The owner or
harborer of a dangerous dog shall keep said dog:
      (1)   When outdoors and on the premises in a securely fenced area or on a
leash controlled by a competent adult.
      (2)   When not on the premises, securely restrained with a leash, not
exceeding six feet in length, and under the control of a competent adult.
   (B)   Vicious dog to be properly confined or leashed.  The owner or harborer
of a vicious dog shall:
      (1)   When the dog is indoors secure all means of egress so that the dog
may not exit;
      (2)   When the dog is outside and on the premises of the owner or
harborer, confined at all times in a roofed, securely fenced, and locked,
barricade designed so that the dog may not dig its way out.  The barricade must
be at least six feet in height measuring from the ground with an attached top,
and posted with a sign stating vicious dog by both symbol and words, and
constructed so that a child can not penetrate the barricade with his hand;
      (3)   When the dog is off the premises of the owner or harborer, muzzled
and securely restrained with a leash not exceeding three feet in length and
under the control of a competent adult.  In the alternative said vicious dog
may be confined in a locked crate which is constructed of material of
sufficient strength to prevent escape and posted with a sign stating vicious
dog by both symbol and words, and constructed so that a child can not
penetrate, the barricade with his hand;
      (4)   When the dog is in a vehicle or is being transported in an open
truck bed, or other conveyance, it shall be confined in a locked crate or cage
which is constructed of material of sufficient strength to prevent escape and
posted with a sign stating vicious dog by both symbol and words, and
constructed so that a child can not penetrate the barricade with his hand.
   (C)   Possession of a dangerous or vicious dog prohibited.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own or harbor a dangerous or
vicious dog that is not a pit bull terrier unless said dog has been registered
pursuant to this chapter.  It shall be unlawful for any person to breed, sell
or transfer ownership of a vicious dog. It shall not be a violation of this
section for a person to transfer ownership of a vicious dog to an animal
shelter.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, possess, control,
harbor, breed, sell or transfer ownership of a pit bull terrier; as defined
herein, within the incorporated limits of the village.
         (a)   PIT BULL TERRIER is hereby defined as any Staffordshire Bull
Terrier or American Staffordshire Terrier breed of dog, or any mixed breed of
dog which contains as an element of its breeding the breed of Staffordshire
Bull Terrier or American Staffordshire Terrier, as to be identifiable as
partially of the breed of Staffordshire Bull Terrier or American Staffordshire
Terrier.
         (b)   Testimony by a veterinarian, zoologist, Elmwood Police officer
trained in animal control, or animal control officer (SPCA) that a particular
dog exhibits distinguishing physical characteristics of a pit bull shall
establish a rebuttable presumption that the dog is a pit bull.
      (3)   This section is a necessary control to eliminate the risk of attack
by pit bulls on human beings in the village which has become a threat to the
health, safety and welfare of the public in all areas of the village; and the
lack of knowledge or lack of intent is not a defense to any violation thereof.
      (4)   It shall not be a violation of this section for animal shelters and
veterinary clinics, as defined herein, to own, keep, possess, control, or
harbor a pit bull terrier or vicious dog within the municipal limits of Elmwood
Place.
      (5)   Animal shelter shall mean an incorporated humane society or a
registered nonprofit foundation.
      (6)   Veterinary clinic shall mean a legal entity with validly licensed
veterinarian(s) under R.C. Chapter 4741, that maintains custody of the dog for
the purpose of providing medical treatment.
   (D)   Possession of a dangerous or vicious dog limited.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own or harbor more than
three dangerous dogs.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own or harbor more than one
vicious dog, which is over the age of six months, at one time.
   (E)   Dangerous and vicious dogs to be registered.  The owner or harborer of
a dangerous and/or vicious dog shall, within seven days of possession, comply
with divisions (E)(1) through (3) of this section; and with all other divisions
as indicated herein.
      (1)   Have the dangerous dog identified using a micro chip inserted
between the top of the dog's shoulder blades at the withers, by an individual
licensed to practice veterinary medicine in the State of Ohio.
      (2)   Have the vicious dog tattooed on an inside thigh and have an
identifying micro chip inserted between the top of the dog's shoulder blades at
the withers, by an individual licensed to practice veterinary medicine in the
State of Ohio.  The tattoo shall be a number provided by the Elmwood Place
Police Department.
      (3)   Provide the Elmwood Place Police Department with:
         (a)   Documentation from the veterinarian describing the tattoo and
microchip number;
         (b)   Current color photographs of the dog showing the front face,
side head, and whole body of the dog, and any other identifying characteristic
such as color marking or scars; and
         (c)   The name, address, and phone number of the owner or harborer.
         (d)   If the owner or harborer has registered a dangerous or vicious
dog he/she shall notify within 24 hours, the Elmwood Place Police Department of
a change of his address and/or phone number;
         (e)   If the owner or harborer of a dangerous or vicious dog has sold,
given away, or if control of said dog has in any other manner been transferred
for more than 48 consecutive hours, he shall notify the Elmwood Place Police
Department within 24 hours of the name and address of the individual harboring
the dog.
         (f)   Within 72 hours of taking possession of a dog registered under
this chapter, register the dog with the Elmwood Place Police Department, if the
dog is harbored in the village.
         (g)   The owner or harborer of a dangerous or vicious dog shall re-
register the dog with the Elmwood Place Police Department annually.
         (h)   The owner or harborer of a vicious dog shall immediately notify
the Elmwood Place Police Department when the dog is loose or has attacked a
person.
         (i)   This section does not apply to those pit bulls, which are not
permitted to be owned, possessed, harbored, or controlled within the limits of
the village.
   (F)   Liability insurance required.  The owner or harborer of a vicious dog,
or in the event the owner is a minor, the owner's parent or guardian shall
obtain and keep in force liability insurance, in an amount of not less than
$100,000, protecting against injury or death caused by such vicious dog. The
owner or harborer, or in the event the owner or harborer is a minor, the
owner's or harborer's parent or guardian shall provide the Elmwood Place Police
Division with proof of the insurance required herein.
   (G)   Pit bull identification.  A pit bull may be identified by veterinarian
licensed by the State of Ohio, the Hamilton County Dog Warden, an Elmwood Place
Police Officer trained in animal control, or a deputy Hamilton County Dog
Warden.
   (H)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (A) or (F) of this section shall be
guilty of a second degree misdemeanor.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B), (C), (D), or (E) of this section
shall be guilty of a first degree misdemeanor.
      (3)   In addition to divisions (H)(1) and (2) of this section, any
vicious dog which attacks a human being or domestic animal may be ordered
destroyed when, in the court's judgment, such vicious dog represents a
continuing threat of severe harm to human beings or domestic animals.
      (4)   In addition, any person found guilty of violating division (B) of
this section shall pay all expenses including shelter, food, and transportation
of the dog, expenses for identification of the breed of animal and veterinary
expenses necessitated by the seizure of any dog for the protection of the
public.
(Ord. 07-10, passed 10-12-2010)
§ 90.27  LOUD DOG; INTERFERING WITH ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   No person shall own, harbor or keep in custody a dog which disturbs
the peace by barking, yelping, howling or making other loud noises to the
annoyance and/or discomfort of any person. Continuous barking, yelping, howling
and/or making other loud noises for 15 consecutive minutes by such dog, whether
confined inside a residence or building or to the outside area, shall be deemed
to have disturbed the peace and to have caused the annoyance and discomfort of
persons; provided, that at the time of the complaint, no person or persons were
trespassing or threatening to trespass upon the private property of the owner,
and provided that the dog was not being teased or provoked in any manner.
   (B)   Any person who shall allow any dog habitually to remain, be lodged or
fed within any dwelling, building, yard or enclosure owned or occupied by such
person shall be considered as harboring or keeping such dog.
   (C)   Upon an initial complaint, an enforcement officer shall warn the
person in writing of the violation. Upon a second such complaint within 30
days, the enforcement officer shall charge the person with a violation of this
section.
   (D)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to owners, operators or
employees of licensed veterinary hospitals, licensed kennels, or licensed
animal boarding establishments, nor does this section apply to blind, deaf or
hearing impaired, or mobility impaired persons when the dog serves as an
assistance dog.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. No
owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog shall permit or allow such dog to annoy or
disturb one or more of the inhabitants of two or more separate residences of
this municipality by the frequent or habitual howling, yelping, barking, or
making of any other unreasonably loud and disturbing noises of such character,
intensity, and duration as to disturb the peace, quiet and good order of the
municipality. Any person who shall allow any animal habitually to remain, be
lodged or fed within any dwelling, building, yard or enclosure owned or
occupied by such person shall be considered as keeping or harboring such
animal.
   (F)   Whoever shall molest or interfere with the Animal Control Officer of
the village or any other designated person while engaged in enforcing an order
issued under this section shall be fined as set forth in §
90.99.
§ 90.28  RABIES CONTROL.
   (A)   Whenever, in the judgment of the Director of Health, and city or
general health district board of health, or persons performing the duties of a
board of health, rabies is prevalent, the Director of Health, the Board, or
those persons shall declare a quarantine of all dogs in the health district or
in a part of it. During the quarantine, the owner, keeper, or harborer of any
dog shall keep it confined on the premises of the owner, keeper, or harborer,
or in a suitable pound or kennel, at the expense of the owner, keeper, or
harborer; except that a dog may be permitted to leave the premises of its
owner, keeper, or harborer if it is under leash or under the control of a
responsible person. The quarantine order shall be considered an emergency and
need not be published.
   (B)   When the quarantine has been declared, the Director of Health, the
Board, or those persons may require vaccination for rabies of all dogs within
the health district or part of it. Proof of rabies vaccination within a
satisfactory period shall be demonstrated to the County Auditor before any
registration is issued under R.C. § 955.01 for any dog that is required to be
vaccinated.
   (C)   The Public Health Council shall determine appropriate methods of
rabies vaccination and satisfactory periods for purposes of quarantines under
this section.
   (D)   When a quarantine of dogs has been declared in any health district or
part of a health district, the County Dog Warden and all other persons having
the authority of police officers shall assist the health authorities in
enforcing the quarantine order. When rabies vaccination has been declared
compulsory in any health district or part of a health district, the Dog Warden
shall assist the health authorities in enforcing the vaccination order.
   (E)   Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, a city or general
health district board of health may make orders pursuant to R.C. §§ 3709.20 and
3709.21 requiring the vaccination of dogs.
(R.C. § 955.26)
   (F)   No person shall violate a rabies quarantine order issued under R.C. §
955.26. 
(R.C. § 955.39)
   (G)   Whoever violates R.C. §§ 955.261, 955.39, or 955.50 is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor on a first offense and of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree
on each subsequent offense. 
(R.C. § 955.99(C))
§ 90.29  INOCULATION AND TAGS.
   (A)   All owners or harborers of dogs in the village shall cause the dogs to
be inoculated by a reputable veterinarian.
   (B)   Within five days of the inoculation the owner or harborer of the dog
shall cause to be filed with the Clerk a certificate from the veterinarian who
has made the inoculation certifying that the inoculation has been done and that
it has been made so as to prevent the communication of rabies, and in addition
to the certificate the owners or harborers shall have a tag placed upon the
collar of the dog or dogs inoculated.  The tag shall indicate that the dog or
dogs has been inoculated to prevent the communication of rabies.
   (C)   Within 12 months of the inoculation and within each succeeding 12
months thereafter all owners or harborers of dogs within the municipality shall
cause them to be inoculated again to prevent the communication of rabies and
shall file with the Clerk the certificate of inoculation, together with a new
tag, to be fastened to the collar of the dog.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined as set forth in §
90.99.
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 90.40  ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   (A)   Position established. There is hereby created the position of Animal
Control Officer within the village, who shall have authority to enforce all
provisions of this chapter and shall be an officer of the village for such
purposes.
   (B)   Appointment. The Mayor shall have the power to appoint an Animal
Control Officer with the consent of the Village Council, and the Animal Control
Officer shall serve at the continuing pleasure of the Village Council.
   (C)   Compensation. The Animal Control Officer shall be compensated a sum as
established by ordinance, and shall furnish all necessary equipment and
supplies without reimbursement by the village.
(Ord. 23-91, passed 11-12-1991)
§ 90.99  PENALTY.
   Violation or failure to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter
for which no penalty is otherwise provided shall be a minor misdemeanor. 
(Ord. 16-96, passed 10-1-1996)
CHAPTER 91:  FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fire Hazards
   
91.01   Fire inspection
   
91.02   Removal of inflammables or obstructions
   
91.03   Protective appliances
   
91.04   Compliance with orders
   
91.05   Waste receptacles
   
91.06   Fires in streets
Fireworks  and  Explosives
   
91.20   Definitions
   
91.21   Possession, sale and use of fireworks
   
91.22   Permit to use fireworks
   
91.23   Paper balloons
   
91.24   Sale of explosives to minors
   
91.25   Blasting; permit
   
91.26   Storage and handling of flammable or explosive material
   
91.27   Flammable and explosive liquid wastes; disposal of
   
91.28   Corrosive wastes; disposal of
Unvented Gas Heaters
   
91.40   Use of unvented heaters prohibited
   
91.41   Inspection
   
91.42   Exceptions
Fire Prevention Code
   
91.55   Adoption of the Fire Prevention Codes
Smoke Detectors
   
91.65   Installation required
   
91.66   Maintenance and use
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Security key box required according to Fire Department standards, see §
150.50
FIRE HAZARDS
§ 91.01  FIRE INSPECTION.
   The Fire Chief or any deputy designated by him or her is authorized and
empowered at any and all reasonable times and, upon complaint or information,
shall be required to enter and inspect any premises, buildings, or structure
within the municipality with regard to the presence, arrangement, or deposit of
materials or matter which may constitute a fire hazard or create danger in case
of fire.  He or she is further authorized, empowered and required to inspect
the conditions, size, arrangement, and efficiency of all appliances on or in
the premises, for protection against fire.
§ 91.02  REMOVAL OF INFLAMMABLES OR OBSTRUCTIONS.
   Any inflammable or combustible materials not arranged or stored in such a
manner as to afford reasonable safety against the danger of fire, or any matter
stored or arranged in such a manner as to impede or prevent access to, or exit
from, the premises in case of fire, shall be ordered by the Fire Chief to be
removed or rearranged in such manner as to eliminate any fire hazard.  This
order shall be in writing and delivered to the owner, lessee, or occupant of
the premises.
§ 91.03  PROTECTIVE APPLIANCES.
   If the Fire Chief shall find upon inspection that the appliances mentioned
in §
91.01 are wholly wanting or are inadequate in number, condition, size,
arrangement, or efficiency for the reasonable protection of the premises
against fire, he or she shall cause an order in writing to be delivered to the
owner, lessee, or occupant, requiring the installation, replacement, or repair
of appliances adequate for the reasonable protection of the premises in case of
fire.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04  COMPLIANCE WITH ORDERS.
   Any order or orders hereinbefore mentioned shall be directed to the owner,
lessee, or occupant of the premises, building, or structure, or to the person
in control of the articles, materials, goods, wares, or merchandise herein
referred to, or to the owner thereof, as the circumstances may require, and it
is made the duty of the owner, lessee, or occupant of the premises, building,
or structure, and of the person in control of the articles, materials, goods,
wares, and merchandise, or the owner thereof, to comply with the order or
orders with all reasonable dispatch and diligence.  In the event the owner,
lessee, or occupant shall fail or refuse to comply with any order made pursuant
to §§
91.02 and
91.03, or in case of emergency, the matter therein referred to may be removed
or rearranged by the Fire Department.
Penalty, see  §
91.99
§ 91.05  WASTE RECEPTACLES.
   Waste paper, ashes, oil rags, waste rags, excelsior, or any material of a
similar hazardous nature shall not be accumulated in any cellar or any other
portion of any building of any kind, and proper fireproof receptacles shall be
provided for such hazardous materials.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06  FIRES IN STREETS.
   No person or persons shall kindle, or cause to be kindled, any fire in or
upon any of the streets, lanes, parks, or any of the public places within the
limits of the municipality, unless the same be confined within a proper and
safe receptacle.
Penalty, see §
91.99
FIREWORKS AND EXPLOSIVES
§ 91.20  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   1.3G FIREWORKS.  Display fireworks consistent with regulations of the United
States Department of Transportation as expressed using the designation
“Division 1.3” in C.F.R. 49.
   1.4G FIREWORKS.  Consumer fireworks consistent with regulations of the
United States Department of Transportation as expressed using the designation
“Division 1.4” in C.F.R. 49.
   BEER and INTOXICATING LIQUOR.  Have the same meaning as in R.C. § 4301.01.
   BOOBY TRAP.  A small tube that has a string protruding from both ends that
has a friction-sensitive composition and that is ignited by pulling the ends of
the string.
   CIGARETTE LOAD.  A small wooden peg that is coated with a small quantity of
explosive composition and that is ignited in a cigarette.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   EXPLOSIVE.  Any chemical compound, mixture, or device, the primary or common
purpose of which is to function by explosion. The term  includes all materials
that have been classified as division 1.1, division 1.2, division 1.3, or
division 1.4 explosives by the United States Department of Transportation in
its regulations and includes but is not limited to dynamite, black powder,
pellet powders, initiating explosives, blasting caps, electric blasting caps,
safety fuses, fuse igniters, squibs, cordeau detonant fuses, instantaneous
fuses, and igniter cords and igniters. The term does not include “fireworks”,
as defined in R.C. § 3743.01, or any substance or material otherwise meeting
the definition of explosive set forth in this section that is manufactured,
sold, possessed, transported, stored, or used in any activity described in R.C.
§ 3743.80, provided the activity is conducted in accordance with all applicable
laws, rules, and regulations, including but not limited to the provisions of
R.C. § 3743.80 and the rules of the Fire Marshal adopted pursuant to R.C. §
3737.82.
(R.C. § 2923.11)
   FIREWORKS.  Any composition or device prepared for the purpose of producing
a visible or an audible effect by combustion, deflagration, or detonation,
except ordinary matches and except as provided in R.C. § 3743.80.
   FIREWORKS PLANT.  All buildings and other structures in which the
manufacturing of fireworks, or the storage or sale of manufactured fireworks by
a manufacturer, takes place.
   HIGHWAY.  Any public street, road, alley, way, lane or other public
thoroughfare.
   LICENSED BUILDING.  A building on the licensed premises of a licensed
manufacturer or wholesaler of fireworks that is approved for occupancy by the
building official having jurisdiction.
   LICENSED EXHIBITOR OF FIREWORKS or LICENSED EXHIBITOR.  A person licensed
pursuant to R.C. §§ 3743.50 through 3743.55.
   LICENSED MANUFACTURER OF FIREWORKS or LICENSED MANUFACTURER.  A person
licensed pursuant to R.C. §§ 3743.02 through 3743.08.
   LICENSED PREMISES.  The real estate upon which a licensed manufacturer or
wholesaler of fireworks conducts business.
   LICENSED WHOLESALER OF FIREWORKS or LICENSED WHOLESALER.  A person licensed
pursuant to R.C. §§ 3743.15 through 3743.21.
   MANUFACTURING OF FIREWORKS.  The making of fireworks from raw materials,
none of which in and of themselves constitute fireworks, or the processing of
fireworks.
   NOVELTIES and TRICK NOISEMAKERS.
      (1)   Devices that produce a small report intended to surprise the user,
including but not limited to booby traps, cigarette loads, party poppers, and
snappers;
      (2)   Snakes or glow worms;
      (3)   Smoke devices;
      (4)   Trick matches.
   PARTY POPPER.  A small plastic or paper item that contains not more than 16
milligrams of friction- sensitive explosive composition that is ignited by
pulling a string protruding from the item, and from which paper streamers are
expelled when the item is ignited.
   PROCESSING OF FIREWORKS.  The making of fireworks from materials all or part
of which in and of themselves constitute fireworks, but does not include the
mere packaging or repackaging of fireworks.
   RAILROAD.  Any railway or RAILROAD that carries freight or passengers for
hire, but does not include auxiliary tracks, spurs, and sidings installed and
primarily used in serving a mine, quarry, or plant.
   RETAIL SALE or SELL AT RETAIL.  A sale of fireworks to a purchaser who
intends to use the fireworks and not to resell them.
   SMOKE DEVICE.  A tube or sphere that contains pyrotechnic composition that,
upon ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
   SNAKE or GLOW WORM.  A device that consists of a pressed pellet of
pyrotechnic composition that produces a large snake-like ash upon burning,
which ash expands in length as the pellet burns.
   SNAPPER.  A small paper-wrapped item that contains a minute quantity of
explosive composition coated on small bits of sand and that, when dropped,
implodes.
   TRICK MATCH.  A kitchen or book match that is coated with a small quantity
of explosive composition and that, upon ignition, produces a small report or a
shower of sparks.
   WHOLESALE SALE or SELL AT WHOLESALE.  A sale of fireworks to a purchaser who
intends to resell the fireworks so purchased.
   WIRE SPARKLER.  A sparkler consisting of a wire or stick coated with a
nonexplosive pyrotechnic mixture that produces a shower of sparks upon ignition
and that contains no more than 100 grams of this mixture.
(R.C. § 3743.01)
§ 91.21  POSSESSION, SALE AND USE OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   No person shall possess fireworks in this municipality or shall
possess for sale or sell fireworks in this municipality, except a licensed
manufacturer of fireworks as authorized by R.C. §§ 3743.02 through 3743.08, a
licensed wholesaler of fireworks as authorized by R.C. §§ 3743.15 through
3743.21, a shipping permit holder as authorized by R.C. § 3743.40, an out-of-
state resident as authorized by R.C. § 3743.44, a resident of this state as
authorized by R.C. § 3743.45, or a licensed exhibitor of fireworks as
authorized by R.C. §§ 3743.50 through 3743.55, or as authorized by any
municipal ordinance that is substantially similar to any of these statutes, and
except as provided in R.C. § 3743.80 or a substantially similar municipal
ordinance.
   (B)   Except as provided in R.C. § 3743.80 or a substantially similar
municipal ordinance, and except for licensed exhibitors of fireworks authorized
to conduct a fireworks exhibition pursuant to R.C. §§ 3743.50 through 3743.55
or a substantially similar municipal ordinance, no person shall discharge,
ignite, or explode any fireworks in this municipality.
   (C)   No person shall use in a theater or public hall what is technically
known as fireworks showers, or a mixture containing potassium chlorate and
sulphur.
   (D)   No person shall sell fireworks of any kind to a person under 18 years
of age.  No person under 18 years of age shall enter a fireworks sales showroom
unless that person is accompanied by a parent, legal guardian, or other
responsible adult. No person under 18 years of age shall touch or possess
fireworks on a licensed premises without the consent of the licensee. A
licensee may eject any person from a licensed premises that is in any way
disruptive to the safe operation of the premises.
   (E)   No person, other than a licensed manufacturer, licensed wholesaler,
licensed exhibitor, or shipping permit holder shall possess 1.3G fireworks in
this municipality.
(R.C. § 3743.65(A) - (E))  Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Felony offense for disabling a fire suppression system, see R.C. § 3743.65
(F)
§ 91.22  PERMIT TO USE FIREWORKS.
   (A)   An exhibitor of fireworks licensed under R.C. §§ 3743.50 through
3743.55 who wishes to conduct a public fireworks exhibition shall apply for
approval to conduct the exhibition to the Fire Chief and Police Chief, or if
there is no Fire Chief or Police Chief of the municipality, to the Fire Chief
or Police Chief of the political subdivision for which there is a contract for
fire protection or police services between political subdivisions covering the
premises on which the exhibition will take place, or if there is no such
contract, to the fire prevention officer and law enforcement officer having
jurisdiction over the premises.
   (B)   The approval required by division (A) of this section shall be
evidenced by the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and the Police Chief or
law enforcement officer signing a permit for the exhibition.  Any exhibitor of
fireworks who wishes to conduct a public fireworks exhibition may obtain a copy
of the form from the State Fire Marshal or, if available, from the Fire Chief,
fire prevention officer, Police Chief or law enforcement officer.
   (C)   Before signing a permit and issuing it to a licensed exhibitor of
fireworks, the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and the Police Chief or
law enforcement officer shall inspect the premises on which the exhibition will
take place and shall determine that, in fact, the applicant for the permit is a
licensed exhibitor of fireworks.  Each applicant shall show his or her license
as an exhibitor of fireworks to the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and
to the Police Chief or law enforcement officer.
   (D)   The Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and the Police Chief or law
enforcement officer shall give his or her approval to conduct a public
fireworks exhibition only if satisfied, based on the inspection, that the
premises on which the exhibition will be conducted allow the exhibitor to
comply with the rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal pursuant to R.C. §
3743.53(B) and that the applicant is, in fact, a licensed exhibitor of
fireworks.  The Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and the Police Chief or
law enforcement officer may inspect the premises immediately prior to the
exhibition to determine if the exhibitor has complied with the rules, and may
revoke a permit for noncompliance with the rules.
   (E)   If the Legislative Authority has prescribed a fee for the issuance of
a permit for a public fireworks exhibition, the Fire Chief or fire prevention
officer and Police Chief or law enforcement officer shall not issue a permit
until the exhibitor pays the requisite fee.
   (F)   Each exhibitor shall provide an indemnity bond in the amount of at
least $1,000,000 with surety satisfactory to the Fire Chief or fire prevention
officer and the Police Chief or law enforcement officer, conditioned for the
payment of all final judgments that may be rendered against the exhibitor on
account of injury, death, or loss to person or property emanating from the
fireworks exhibitor, or proof of insurance coverage of at least $1,000,000 for
liability arising from injury, death, or loss of persons or property emanating
from the fireworks exhibition.  The Legislative Authority may require the
exhibitor to provide an indemnity bond or proof of insurance coverage in
amounts greater than those required by this division.  The Fire Chief or fire
prevention officer and Police Chief or law enforcement officer shall not issue
a permit until the exhibitor provides the bond or proof of the insurance
coverage required by this division or by the Legislative Authority.
   (G)   Each permit for a fireworks exhibition issued by the Fire Chief or
fire prevention officer and the Police Chief or law enforcement officer shall
contain a distinct number, designate the municipality, and identify the
certified fire safety inspector, Fire Chief, or fire prevention officer who
will be present before, during and after the exhibition, where appropriate.  A
copy of each permit issued shall be forwarded by the Fire Chief or fire
prevention officer and the Police Chief or law enforcement officer issuing it
to the State Fire Marshal.  A permit is not transferable or assignable.
   (H)   The Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and Police Chief or law
enforcement officer shall keep a record of issued permits for fireworks
exhibitions.  In this list, the Fire Chief, fire prevention officer, Police
Chief or law enforcement officer shall list the name of the exhibitor, his or
her license number, the premises on which the exhibition will be conducted, the
date and time of the exhibition, and the number and political subdivision
designation of the permit issued to the exhibitor for the exhibition.
   (I)   The Legislative Authority shall require that a certified fire safety
inspector, Fire Chief or fire prevention officer be present before, during and
after the exhibition, and shall require the certified fire safety inspector,
Fire Chief, or fire prevention officer to inspect the premises where the
exhibition is to take place and determine whether the exhibition is in
compliance with this chapter.
(R.C. § 3743.54)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.23  PAPER BALLOONS.
   No person shall sell or offer for sale or give away a paper balloon to which
a burning light or flame may be attached, or to release into the air any
balloon with burning light or flame.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.24  SALE OF EXPLOSIVES TO MINORS.
   No person shall sell, offer for sale, or give away to a minor any explosive
cap, cartridge, shell, guncotton, or other similar article containing
explosives.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.25  BLASTING; PERMIT.
   No person shall cause a blast to occur within the municipality without
making application in writing beforehand, setting forth the exact nature of the
intended operation, and receiving a permit to blast from the Mayor of the
municipality.  The Mayor before granting the permit may require the applicant
to provide a bond to indemnify the village and all other persons against injury
or damages which might result from the proposed blasting.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.26  STORAGE AND HANDLING OF FLAMMABLE OR EXPLOSIVE MATERIAL.
   The storage and handling of flammable or explosive material in existing
buildings or structures shall be in accordance with the regulations of the
Building Code.
§ 91.27  FLAMMABLE AND EXPLOSIVE LIQUID WASTES; DISPOSAL OF.
   (A)   No explosive or flammable liquids such as automobile crank case
drainage or other flammable waste product or products that may produce
explosive gases shall be permitted to drain into a village sewer, directly or
indirectly.
   (B)   A proper means of drainage shall be provided for all buildings or
structures where flammable or explosive liquids or other similar substances are
used or handled.  All such drains shall be so designed and constructed as to
intercept all oil, gasoline, or other flammable liquids or substances, as well
as sand, silt, and other solids, for the purpose of excluding them from the
sewerage system to prevent them from flowing onto or over any street, alley, or
other adjacent paved area.
   (C)   Such drains shall dispose into an approved sump as required in the
Building Code.  Each floor drain shall be separately trapped.  No trap shall be
more than ten feet from the main drain unless it is vented.
   (D)   Accumulated oils, gasoline, and other flammable liquids or substances,
sand, silt, and other solids shall be removed from the sump at intervals
necessary to ensure their exclusion from the sewerage system.
   (E)   The material for vent pipes shall be the same as required for building
drains when underground and for soil and waste vents when above ground.
   (F)   A wash basin or sink in a garage, filling station, or hanger may
discharge into the vent pipe from the sump.
   (G)   No drain shall be permitted in any work pit below the grade or floor
level unless the drain can be disposed into a drainage system as required in
this section.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.28  CORROSIVE WASTES; DISPOSAL OF.
   (A)   No corrosive wastes shall dispose directly into any building drain,
building sewer, or village sewer; corrosive wastes shall dispose into an
approved neutralizing sump or device of noncorrosive material, so as to make
its wastes, vapors, and gases noninjurious to ordinary building drains,
building sewers, or village sewers.  Neutralizing agents forming only soluble
compounds shall be used.
   (B)   All waste drain and vent pipe and fittings used as carriers of
corrosive wastes shall be made of corrosive-proof metal, plastic, chemical
stoneware, lead, glass, or rubber.  All joints between metal pipes and fittings
shall be made with asbestos packing and poured lead joints or standard screwed
joints with drainage type fittings.  All joints between chemical stoneware or
glass pipe and fittings shall be made with asbestos packing and poured
bituminous compound.  All joints in lead construction shall be welded joints.
Penalty, see §
91.99
UNVENTED GAS HEATERS
§ 91.40  USE OF UNVENTED HEATERS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The use of a brazier, salamander, space heater, room heater, furnace,
water heater, or other burner or heater using wood, coal, coke, fuel oil,
kerosene, gasoline, natural gas, liquid petroleum gas or similar fuel, and
tending to give off carbon monoxide or other harmful gases must comply with the
following provisions:
      (1)   When used in living quarters, or in any enclosed building or space
in which persons are usually present, shall be used with a flue or vent so
designed, installed, and maintained as to vent the products of combustion
outdoors; except in storage, factory, or industrial buildings which are
provided with sufficient ventilation to avoid the danger of carbon monoxide
poisoning; and/or
      (2)   When used as a portable or temporary burner or heater at a
construction site, or in a warehouse, shed, or structure in which persons are
temporarily present, shall be vented as provided in division (A)(1) or used
with sufficient ventilation to avoid the danger of carbon monoxide poisoning.
   (B)   This section does not apply to domestic ranges, laundry stoves, gas
logs installed in a fireplace with an adequate flue, or hot plates, unless the
same are used as space or room heaters.
   (C)   No person shall negligently use or, being the owner, person in charge,
or occupant of premises, negligently permit the use of a burner or heater in
violation of the standards for venting and ventilation provided in this
section.
   (D)   Division (A) above does not apply to any kerosene-fired space or room
heater that is equipped with an automatic extinguishing tip-over device, or to
any natural gas-fired or liquid petroleum gas-fired space or room heater that
is equipped with an oxygen depletion safety shut-off system, and that has its
fuel piped from a source outside the building in which it is located, that are
approved by an authoritative source recognized by the State Fire Marshal in the
State Fire Code adopted by him or her under R.C. § 3737.82.
   (E)   The State Fire Marshal may make rules to ensure the safe use of
unvented kerosene, natural gas, or liquid petroleum gas heaters exempted from
division (A) above when used in assembly buildings, business buildings, high
hazard buildings, institutional buildings, mercantile buildings, and type R-
1 and R-2 residential buildings, as these groups of buildings are defined in
rules adopted by the Board of Building Standards under R.C. § 3781.10.  No
person shall negligently use or, being the owner, person in charge or occupant
of premises, negligently permit the use of a heater in violation of any rules
adopted under this division.
   (F)   The State Fire Marshal may make rules prescribing standards for
written instructions containing ventilation requirements and warning of any
potential fire hazards that may occur in using a kerosene, natural gas, or
liquid petroleum gas heater.  No person shall sell or offer for sale any
kerosene, natural gas, or liquid petroleum gas heater unless the manufacturer
provides with the heater written instructions that comply with any rules
adopted under this division.
   (G)   No product labeled as a fuel additive for kerosene heaters and having
a flash point below 100°F or 37.8°C shall be sold, offered for sale, or used in
any kerosene space heater.
   (H)   No device that prohibits any safety feature on a kerosene, natural
gas, or liquid petroleum gas space heater from operating shall be sold, offered
for sale, or used in connection with any kerosene, natural gas, or liquid
petroleum gas space heater.
   (I)   No person shall sell or offer for sale any kerosene-fired, natural
gas, or liquid petroleum gas- fired heater that is not exempt from division (A)
above, unless it is marked conspicuously by the manufacturer on the container
with the phrase “Not Approved For Home Use.”
   (J)   No person shall use a cabinet-type, liquid petroleum gas-fired heater
having a fuel source within the heater, inside any building, except as
permitted by the State Fire Marshal in the State Fire Code adopted by him or
her under R.C. § 3737.82.
(R.C. § 3701.82)
   (K)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree. 
(R.C. § 3701.99(C))
§ 91.41  INSPECTION.
   If, on inspection by a representative or inspector of the Police or Fire
Department of the village of any dwelling house, hotel, rooming house,
furnished room, or any place where the same is used for sleeping quarters or as
a bathroom, there is in use or intended for use any stove, heater, or plate
burning gas for space heating that is not properly vented to a chimney or
outside vent, approved by the Fire Department, the inspector, or representative
of the Police or Fire Department shall give notice to the occupant or occupants
of the quarters to immediately cause the unvented stove, heater plate, or other
equipment to be shut off and disconnected with proper capping.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.42  EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to any stove or equipment
that has been approved by the National Board of Underwriters for cooking
purposes.
FIRE PREVENTION CODE
§ 91.55  ADOPTION OF THE FIRE PREVENTION CODES.
   (A)   The Ohio Fire Code, The Unified Fire Code, and The Southwest Ohio Fire
Safety Council Code as currently written are hereby adopted by the Council of
the Village of Elmwood Place, Ohio.
(Am. Ord. 16-00, passed 12-5-2000)
   (B)   One copy each of the above-named codes shall be filed as a part of the
ordinance records of the village and the same are adopted and incorporated as
if fully set out at length herein, and from the date on which this section
shall take effect, the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the
limits of the village.
   (C)   All sections of this chapter shall remain in full force and effect,
except where inconsistent or where in conflict with any of the provisions of
the aforementioned fire prevention codes.
(Ord.  20-71, passed  8-4-1971; Am. Ord. 18-83, passed 6-7-1983)
SMOKE DETECTORS
§ 91.65  INSTALLATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Smoke detectors shall be installed in all new and existing single-
family and multi-family rental dwellings when or if the following conditions
exist or take place:
      (1)   The building is newly constructed and all or part thereof will be
used for residential rental purposes;
      (2)   The building changes owners for any reason and all or a part
thereof will remain or become a residential rental dwelling; and/or
      (3)   A building has remained residential rental property for a period of
more than six months after the date of the adoption of this code.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the property owner, or the owner’s
agent, to install and maintain the household fire warning system as herein
described.
   (C)   Only ionization or photoelectronic type household fire warning devices
that are approved by Underwriters Laboratory, Inc. (UL) or Factory Mutual
Systems (FM) shall be acceptable.  Detectors shall be powered by 110 volt A.C.
electric household current and be hard-wired to the electric system.
   (D)   Smoke detectors shall be installed in accordance with the National
Fire Code #74.  Smoke detectors shall be installed at or near the ceiling, but
not closer than four inches from the wall or ceiling.  Smoke detectors shall be
installed in the following locations:
      (1)   Smoke detectors shall be installed outside of each separate
sleeping area in the immediate vicinity of the bedrooms;
      (2)   In all halls or corridors of which serve as access to individual
living units;
      (3)   In buildings having basements or cellars, additional smoke
detectors shall be installed in the basement or cellar in a location approved
by the Fire Official; and
      (4)   In buildings having furnace rooms and/or storage rooms which are
not provided with an approved automatic sprinkler system, smoke detectors shall
be installed in a location as approved by the Fire Official.
(Ord. 87-21, passed 11-10-1987)
§ 91.66  MAINTENANCE AND USE.
   All smoke detectors shall be maintained in accordance with the National Fire
Code #74 and shall be operative at all times.
(Ord. 87-21, passed 11-10-1987)
§ 91.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever shall violate or fail to comply with any of the provisions of
this chapter, for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall be
subject to the penalty provided in §
10.99.
   (B)   Any owner, lessee, or occupant of a building, premises, or structure,
or any person in control of such articles, goods, wares, or merchandise as
referred to in §§
91.02 through
91.04, or the owner thereof, who shall violate any of the provisions of §§
91.02,
91.03 or
91.04, shall be fined as set forth in §
10.99.
   (C)   Whoever violates any provisions of §§
91.21 or
91.22 is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. 
(R.C. § 3743.99(C))
   (D)   Whoever throws, deposits, drains, or permits the same to be thrown,
deposited, or drained, gasoline, oil, petrol, carbon, naphtha, or other
spontaneous combustion or highly volatile liquids and gas forming liquids, from
any manufacturing plant or factory, or permits to be drained any still or well,
holding any of the material, or the emptying of any vat, oil tank, gasoline
tank, naphtha tank of combustible liquids or powders, into the sewers located
within Elmwood Place, shall be fined as set forth in §
10.99.
   (E)   Anyone failing or refusing to comply with the order of the
representatives or inspectors of the Police or Fire Department of Elmwood Place
to immediately disconnect, shut off, and cap the unvented stove, heater, plate,
or equipment for space heating, or who reconnects or uses the same in any
bathroom or sleeping quarters, without the proper approved vents, shall be
fined as set forth in §
10.99.
   (F)   Any person, corporation, or unincorporated association who shall
violate any of the provisions of §
91.55 or fail to comply therewith, or who shall violate or fail to comply with
any order made thereunder, or shall build in violation of any detailed
statement of specifications or plans submitted and approved thereunder, or any
certificate or permit issued thereunder, and from which no appeal has been
taken, or who shall fail to comply with such an order as affirmed or modified
by the Fire Chief or by a court of competent jurisdiction, within the time
fixed herein, shall severally for each and every such violation and
noncompliance respectively, be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine as
set forth in §
10.99.  The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not excuse the
violation or permit it to continue; and all such persons, corporations, or
unincorporated associations shall be required to correct or remedy the
violations or defects within a reasonable time.  When not otherwise specified,
each ten days that a prohibited condition is maintained shall constitute a
separate violation and offense.  The application of the above penalty shall not
prevent the enforced removal of the prohibited condition.
   (G)   Any person, firm, corporation, or organization who shall violate any
provision of §§
91.65 or
91.66 or fail to comply therewith, or who shall violate or fail to comply with
any order issued pursuant to any section thereof, shall be guilty of a minor
misdemeanor and shall be fined as set forth in §
10.99. 
(Ord. 87-21, passed 11-10-1987)
CHAPTER 92:  INTOXICATING LIQUOR
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Exemptions from chapter
   
92.03   Restrictions applicable to sale of beer and intoxicating liquor for
consumption on the premises
   
92.04   Restrictions on sale of beer and liquor
   
92.05   Permit required; activities prohibited without permit
   
92.06   Illegal transportation prohibited
   
92.07   Open container prohibited; exception
   
92.08   Underage person shall not purchase intoxicating liquor or beer
   
92.09   Prohibitions; minors under 18 years; low-alcohol beverages
   
92.10   Prohibitions; minors under 21 years
   
92.11   Misrepresentation to obtain alcoholic beverage for a minor prohibited
   
92.12   Misrepresentation by a minor under 21 years
   
92.13   Sale to underage persons prohibited
   
92.14   Posting of card
   
92.15   Good faith acceptances of spurious identification
   
92.16   Consumption in motor vehicle prohibited
   
92.17   Hours of sale or consumption
   
92.18   Obstructing search of premises prohibited
   
92.19   Illegal possession of intoxicating liquor prohibited
   
92.20   Sale or possession of diluted liquor and refilled containers prohibited
   
92.21   Keeping place where beer or intoxicating liquors are sold in violation
of law
   
92.22   Intoxicating liquors shall not be sold in brothels
   
92.23   Use of intoxicating liquor in a public dance hall prohibited;
exceptions
   
92.24   Poisonously adulterated liquors
   
92.25   Tavern keeper permitting rioting or drunkenness
   
92.26   Notice of action to prohibit liquor business
   
92.27   Procedure when injunction violated
   
92.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Driving while intoxicated or drugged, implied consent, see §§
73.01 and
73.011
Statutory reference:
   Administrative regulations, see O.A.C. Chapter 4301:1-1
   Liquor permits, see R.C. Chapter 4303
   Local option elections, see R.C. §§ 4301.32 et seq.
§ 92.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL.  Ethyl alcohol, whether rectified or diluted with water or not,
whatever its origin may be, and includes synthetic ethyl alcohol.  The term
does not include denatured alcohol and wood alcohol.
   AT RETAIL.  For use or consumption by the purchaser and not for resale.
   BEER, MALT LIQUOR or MALT BEVERAGES.  All brewed or fermented malt products
containing 0.5% or more of alcohol by volume but not more than 6% of alcohol by
weight.
   CIDER.  All liquids that are fit to use for beverage purposes that contain
0.5% of alcohol by volume, but not more than 6% of alcohol by weight that are
made through the normal alcoholic fermentation of the juice of sound, ripe
apples, including without limitation flavored, sparkling, or carbonated cider
and cider made from pure condensed apple must.
   CLUB.  A corporation or association of individuals organized in good faith
for social, recreational, benevolent, charitable, fraternal, political,
patriotic, or athletic purposes, which is the owner, lessor, or occupant of a
permanent building or part thereof operated solely for those purposes,
membership in which entails the prepayment of regular dues, and includes the
place so operated.
   COMMUNITY FACILITY.  Means either of the following:
      (1)   Any convention, sports or entertainment facility or complex, or any
combination of these, that is used by or accessible to the general public and
that is owned or operated in whole or in part by the state, a state agency, or
a political subdivision of the state or that is leased from, or located on
property owned by or leased from the state, a state agency, a political
subdivision of the state, or a convention facilities authority created pursuant
to R.C. § 351.02;
      (2)   An area designated as a community entertainment district pursuant
to R.C. § 4301.80.
   CONTROLLED ACCESS ALCOHOL AND BEVERAGE CABINET.  A closed container, either
refrigerated, in whole or in part, or nonrefrigerated, access to the interior
of which is restricted by means of a device which requires the use of a key,
magnetic card, or similar device and from which beer, intoxicating liquor,
other beverages, or food may be sold.
   HOTEL.  The meaning set forth in R.C. § 3731.01, subject to the exceptions
mentioned in R.C. § 3731.03.
   INTOXICATING LIQUOR and LIQUOR.  All liquids and compounds, other than beer
as defined  above, containing 0.5% or more of alcohol by volume which are fit
to use for beverage purposes, from whatever source and by whatever process
produced, by whatever name called, and whether the same are medicated,
proprietary, or patented.  The phrase includes wine, as defined below in this
section even if it contains less than 4% of alcohol by volume, mixed beverages,
as defined in this section even if they contain less than 4% of alcohol by
volume, cider as defined above in this section, alcohol, and all solids and
confections which contain any alcohol.
   LOW-ALCOHOL BEVERAGE.  Any brewed or fermented malt product or any product
made from the fermented juices of grapes, fruits, or other agricultural
products that contains either no alcohol or less than 0.5% of alcohol by
volume.  The beverages described in this definition do not include a soft drink
such as root beer, birch beer, or ginger beer.
   MANUFACTURE.  All processes by which beer or intoxicating liquor is
produced, whether by distillation, rectifying, fortifying, blending,
fermentation, brewing, or in any other manner.
   MANUFACTURER.  Any person engaged in the business of manufacturing beer or
intoxicating liquor.
   MIXED BEVERAGES.  Bottled and prepared cordials, cocktails, and highballs,
produced by mixing any type of whiskey, neutral spirits, brandy, gin or other
distilled spirits with, or over, carbonated or plain water, pure juices from
flowers and plants, and other flavoring materials.  The completed product shall
contain not less than 0.5% of alcohol by volume and not more than 21% of
alcohol by volume.
   NIGHTCLUB.  A place habitually operated for profit, where food is served for
consumption on the premises, and one or more forms of amusement are provided or
permitted for a consideration which may be in the form of a cover charge or may
be included in the price of the food and beverages, or both, purchased by the
patrons thereof.
   PERSON.  Includes firms and corporations.
   PHARMACY.  An establishment as defined in R.C. § 4729.01, which is under the
management or  control of a licensed pharmacist in accordance with R.C. §
4729.27.
   RESTAURANT.  A place located in a permanent building provided with space and
accommodations wherein, in consideration of the payment of money, hot meals are
habitually prepared, sold, and served at noon and evening, as the principal
business of the place.  The term does not include pharmacies, confectionery
stores, lunch stands, nightclubs, and filling stations.
   SALE and SELL.  The exchange, barter, gift, offer for sale, sale,
distribution, and delivery of any kind, and the transfer of title or possession
of beer and intoxicating liquor either by constructive or actual delivery by
any means or devices whatever, including the sale of beer or intoxicating
liquor by means of a controlled access alcohol and beverage cabinet pursuant to
R.C. § 4301.21.  Such terms do not include the mere solicitation of orders for
beer or intoxicating liquor from the holders of permits issued by the Division
of Liquor Control authorizing the sale of the beer or intoxicating liquor, but
no solicitor shall solicit any orders until the solicitor has been registered
with the Division pursuant to R.C. § 4303.25.
   SEALED CONTAINER.  Any container having a capacity of not more than 128
fluid ounces, the opening of which is closed to prevent the entrance of air.
   SPIRITUOUS LIQUOR.  All intoxicating liquors containing more than 21% of
alcohol by volume.
   VEHICLE.  All means of transportation by land, by water, or by air, and
everything made use of in any way for such transportation.
   WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTOR and DISTRIBUTOR.  A person engaged in the business of
selling to retail dealers for purposes of resale.
   WINE.  All liquids fit to use for beverage purposes containing not less than
0.5% of alcohol by volume and not more than 21% of alcohol by volume, which is
made from the fermented juices of grapes, fruits, or other agricultural
products.  Except as  provided in R.C. § 4301.01(B)(3), the term does not
include cider.
(R.C. § 4301.01)
§ 92.02  EXEMPTIONS FROM CHAPTER.
   The provisions of this chapter do not prevent:
   (A)   The storage of intoxicating liquor in bonded warehouses, established
in accordance with the Acts of Congress and under the regulation of the United
States, located in the municipality, or the transportation of intoxicating
liquor to or from bonded warehouses of the United States wherever located;
   (B)   The manufacture of cider from fruit for the purpose of making vinegar,
and nonintoxicating cider and fruit juices for use and sale;
   (C)   A licensed physician or dentist from administering or dispensing
intoxicating liquor or alcohol to a patient in good faith in the actual course
of the practice of his or her profession;
   (D)   The sale of alcohol to physicians, dentists, druggists, veterinary
surgeons, manufacturers, hospitals, infirmaries, or medical or educational
institutions using the same for medicinal, mechanical, chemical, or scientific
purposes;
   (E)   The sale, gift, or keeping for sale by druggists and others of any of
the medicinal preparations manufactured in accordance with the formulas
prescribed by the United States Pharmacopoeia and National Formulary, patent or
proprietary preparations, and other bona fide medicinal and technical
preparations, which contain no more alcohol than is necessary to hold the
medicinal agents in solution and to preserve the same, which are manufactured
and sold as medicines and not as beverages, are unfit for use for beverage
purposes, and the sale of which does not require the payment of a United States
liquor dealer’s tax;
   (F)   The manufacture and sale of tinctures or of toilet, medicinal and
antiseptic preparations and solutions not intended for internal human use nor
to be sold as beverages, and which are unfit for beverage purposes, if upon the
outside of each bottle, box, or package of which there is printed in English,
conspicuously and legibly, the quantity by volume of alcohol in such
preparation or solution;
   (G)   The manufacture and keeping for sale of the food products known as
flavoring extracts when manufactured and sold for cooking, culinary or
flavoring purposes, and which are unfit for use for beverage purposes;
   (H)   The lawful sale of wood alcohol or of ethyl alcohol for external use
when combined with such other substances as to make it unfit for internal use;
   (I)   The purchase and importation into the municipality or the purchase at
wholesale from A or B permit holders in this state of beer and intoxicating
liquor for use in manufacturing processes of nonbeverage food products under
such terms as are prescribed by the Division, provided that the terms
prescribed by the Division shall not increase the cost of the beer or
intoxicating liquor to any person, firm or corporation purchasing and importing
the same into this municipality or purchasing it from an A or B permit holder
for any such use;
   (J)   Any resident of this state or any member of the armed forces of the
United States who has attained the age of 21 years from bringing into this
municipality for personal use and not for resale not more than one liter of
spirituous liquor, 4.5 liters of wine, or 288 ounces of beer in any 30-day
period, and the same is free of any tax consent fee when the resident or member
of the armed forces physically possesses and accompanies such spirituous
liquor, wine or beer on returning from a foreign country, another state, or an
insular possession of the United States; or
   (K)   Persons at least 21 years of age who collect ceramic commemorative
bottles containing spirituous liquor which have unbroken federal tax stamps
thereon from selling or trading such bottles to other collectors.  Such bottles
must originally have been purchased at retail from the Division, legally
imported under division (J) of this section, or legally imported pursuant to a
consent to import issued by the Division.  The sales shall be for the purpose
of exchanging a ceramic commemorative bottle between private collectors and
shall not be for the purpose of selling the spirituous liquor for personal
consumption.  The sale or exchange authorized by this division shall not occur
on the premises of any permit holder, shall not be made in connection with the
business of any permit holder, and shall not be made in connection with any
mercantile business.
   (L)   The sale of beer or intoxicating liquor without a liquor permit at a
private residence, not more than five times per calendar year at a residence
address, at an event that has the following characteristics:
      (1)   The event is for a charitable, benevolent, or political purpose,
but shall not include any event the proceeds of which are for the profit or
gain of any individual;
      (2)   The event has in attendance not more than 50 people;
      (3)   The event shall be for a period not to exceed 12 hours;
      (4)   The sale of beer and intoxicating liquor at the event shall not
take place between 2:30 a.m. and 5:30 a.m.;
      (5)   No person under 21 years of age shall purchase or consume beer or
intoxicating liquor at the event and no beer or intoxicating liquor shall be
sold to any person under 21 years of age at the event; and
      (6)   No person at the event shall sell or furnish beer or intoxicating
liquor to an intoxicated person.
   (M)   The possession or consumption of beer or intoxicating liquor by a
person who is under 21 years of age and who is a student at an accredited
college or university, provided that both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person is required to taste and expectorate the beer or
intoxicating liquor for a culinary, food service, or hospitality course.
      (2)   The person is under the direct supervision of the instructor of the
culinary, food service, or hospitality course.
(R.C. § 4301.20)
§ 92.03  RESTRICTIONS APPLICABLE TO SALE OF BEER AND INTOXICATING LIQUOR FOR
CONSUMPTION ON THE PREMISES.
   (A)   The sale of beer or intoxicating liquor for consumption on the
premises is subject to the following restrictions, in addition to those imposed
by the rules and orders of the Division of Liquor Control:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C. Chapter
4301, beer or intoxicating liquor may be served to a person not seated at a
table unless there is reason to believe that the beer or intoxicating liquor so
served will be consumed by a person under 21 years of age.
      (2)   Beer or intoxicating liquor may be served by a hotel in the room of
a bona fide guest, and may be sold by a hotel holding a D-5a permit, or a hotel
holding a D-3 or D-5 permit that otherwise meets all of the requirements for
holding a D-5a permit, by means of a controlled access alcohol and beverage
cabinet that shall be located only in the hotel room of a registered guest.  A
hotel may sell beer or intoxicating liquor as authorized by its permit to a
registered guest by means of a controlled access alcohol and beverage cabinet
in accordance with the following requirements:
         (a)   Only a person 21 years of age or older who is a guest registered
to stay in a guestroom shall be provided a key, magnetic card, or other similar
device necessary to obtain access to the contents of a controlled access
alcohol and beverage cabinet in that guestroom.
         (b)   The hotel shall comply with R.C. § 4301.22, or a substantially
similar municipal ordinance, in connection with the handling, restocking, and
replenishing of the beer and intoxicating liquor in the controlled access
alcohol and beverage cabinet.
         (c)   The hotel shall replenish or restock beer and intoxicating
liquor in any controlled access alcohol and beverage cabinet only during the
hours during which the hotel may serve or sell beer and intoxicating liquor.
         (d)   The registered guest shall verify in writing that the guest has
read and understands the language that shall be posted on the controlled access
alcohol and beverage cabinet as required by division (A)(2)(e) of this section.
         (e)   A hotel authorized to sell beer and intoxicating liquor pursuant
to division (A)(2) of this section shall post on the controlled access alcohol
and beverage cabinet, in conspicuous language, the following notice:
         “The alcoholic beverages contained in this cabinet shall not be
removed from the premises.”
         (f)   The hotel shall maintain a record of each sale of beer or
intoxicating liquor made by the hotel by means of a controlled access alcohol
and beverage cabinet for any period in which the permit holder is authorized to
hold the permit pursuant to R.C. §§ 4303.26 and 4303.27 and any additional
period during which an applicant exercises its right to appeal a rejection by
the Division of Liquor Control to renew a permit pursuant to R.C. § 4303.271. 
The records maintained by the hotel shall comply with both of the following:
            1.   Include the name, address, age, and signature of each hotel
guest who is provided access by the hotel to a controlled access alcohol and
beverage cabinet pursuant to division (A)(2)(a) of this section; and
            2.   Be made available during business hours to authorized agents
of the Division of Liquor Control pursuant to R.C. § 4301.10(A)(6) or to
enforcement agents of the Department of Public Safety pursuant to R.C. §§
5502.13 to 5502.19.
         (g)   The hotel shall observe all other applicable rules adopted by
the Division of Liquor Control and the Liquor Control Commission.
      (3)   The seller shall not require the purchase of food with the purchase
of beer or intoxicating liquor; nor shall the seller of beer or intoxicating
liquor give away food of any kind in connection with the sale of beer or
intoxicating liquor, except as authorized by rule of the State Liquor Control
Commission.
      (4)   The seller shall not permit the purchaser to remove beer or
intoxicating liquor so sold from the premises.
      (5)   A hotel authorized to sell beer and intoxicating liquor pursuant to
division (A)(2) of this section shall provide a registered guest with the
opportunity to refuse to accept a key, magnetic card, or other similar device
necessary to obtain access to the contents of a controlled access alcohol and
beverage cabinet in that guest room.  If a registered guest refuses to accept
the key, magnetic card, or other similar device, the hotel shall not assess any
charges on the registered guest for use of the controlled access alcohol and
beverage cabinet in that guest room.
(R.C. § 4301.21)
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04  RESTRICTIONS ON SALE OF BEER AND LIQUOR.
   (A)   Restrictions on sales.  Sales of beer and intoxicating liquor under
all classes of permits and from liquor stores are subject to the following
restrictions, in addition to those imposed by the rules or orders of the State
Division of Liquor Control.
      (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C.
Chapter 4301, no beer or intoxicating liquor shall be sold to any person under
21 years of age.
         (b)   No low-alcohol beverage shall be sold to any person under 18
years of age.  No permit issued by the Department shall be suspended, revoked,
or cancelled because of a violation of this division (A)(1)(b).
         (c)   No intoxicating liquor shall be handled by any person under 21
years of age, except that a person 18 years of age or older employed by a
permit holder may handle or sell beer or intoxicating liquor in sealed
containers in connection with wholesale or retail sales, and any person 19
years of age or older employed by a permit holder may handle intoxicating
liquor in open containers when acting in the capacity of a server in a hotel,
restaurant, club, or night club, as defined in R.C. § 4301.01, or in the
premises of a D-7 permit holder.  This section does not authorize persons under
21 years of age to sell intoxicating liquor across a bar.  Any person employed
by a permit holder may handle beer or intoxicating liquor in sealed containers
in connection with manufacturing, storage, warehousing, placement, stocking,
bagging, loading, or unloading, and may handle beer or intoxicating liquor in
open containers in connection with cleaning tables or handling empty bottles or
glasses.
      (2)   No permit holder and no agent or employee of a permit holder shall
sell or furnish beer or intoxicating liquor to an intoxicated person.
      (3)   No sales of intoxicating liquor shall be made after 2:30 a.m. on
Sunday, except that intoxicating liquor may be sold on Sunday under authority
of a permit which authorizes Sunday sale.
      (4)   No holder of a permit shall give away any beer or intoxicating
liquor of any kind at any time in connection with his or her business.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, no retail permit
holder shall display or permit the display on the outside of any licensed
retail premises, on any lot of ground on which the licensed premises are
situated, or on the exterior of any building of which the licensed premises are
a part, any sign, illustration, or advertisement bearing the name, brand name,
trade name, trademark, designation, or other emblem of, or indicating the
manufacturer, producer, distributor, place of manufacture, production, or
distribution of, any beer or intoxicating liquor.  Signs, illustrations, or
advertisements bearing the name, brand name, trade name, trademark,
designation, or other emblem of or indicating the manufacturer, producer,
distributor, place of manufacture, production, or distribution of beer or
intoxicating liquor may be displayed and permitted to be displayed on the
interior or in the show windows of any licensed premises, if the particular
brand or type of product so advertised is actually available for sale on the
premises at the time of display.  The Liquor Control Commission shall determine
by rule the size and character of signs, illustrations, or advertisements.
      (6)   No retail permit holder shall possess on the licensed premises any
barrel or other container from which beer is drawn, unless there is attached to
the spigot or other dispensing apparatus the name of the manufacturer of the
product contained therein, provided that where the beer is served at a bar the
manufacturer’s name or brand must appear in full view of the purchaser.  The
Commission shall regulate the size and character of the devices provided for in
this section.
      (7)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, no sale of any gift
certificate shall be permitted whereby beer or intoxicating liquor of any kind
is to be exchanged for a certificate, unless the gift certificate can be
exchanged only for food, and beer or intoxicating liquor, for on-premises
consumption and the value of the beer or intoxicating liquor does not exceed
more than 30% of the total value of the gift certificate.  The sale of gift
certificates for the purchase of beer, wine, or mixed beverages shall be
permitted for the purchase of beer, wine, or mixed beverages for off-premises
consumption.  Limitations on the use of a gift certificate for the purchase of
beer, wine, or mixed beverages for off-premises consumption may be expressed by
clearly stamping or typing on the face of the certificate that the certificate
may not be used for the purchase of beer, wine, or mixed beverages for on-
premises consumption.
(R.C. § 4301.22)
   (B)   Division (A)(1) not modified or affected.  The provisions of R.C. §§
4301.633 through 4301.637, or substantially similar municipal ordinances, shall
not be deemed to modify or affect division (A)(1) of this section or R.C. §
4301.22(A).
(R.C. § 4301.638)
   (C)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates divisions (A)(1)(b) or (A)(4) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates divisions (A)(1)(a), (A)(1)(c), (A)(2) or (A)(3)
of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(D), (H))  Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Suspension of beer and liquor sales during emergency, see R.C. § 4301.251
§ 92.05  PERMIT REQUIRED; ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED WITHOUT PERMIT.
   (A)   Permit required.
      (1)   No person, by himself, herself or by his or her clerk, agent, or
employee, shall manufacture, manufacture for sale, offer, keep, or possess for
sale, furnish or sell, or solicit the purchase or sale of any beer or
intoxicating liquor in this state, or transport, or import, or cause to be
transported or imported any beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol in or into
this municipality for delivery, use or sale, unless the person has fully
complied with R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303 or is the holder of a permit issued
by the Division of Liquor Control and in force at the time.
      (2)   No manufacturer, supplier, wholesale distributor, broker, or
retailer of beer or intoxicating liquor, or other person shall employ, retain,
or otherwise utilize any person in this state to act as an employee, agent,
solicitor, or salesperson, or act in any other representative capacity to sell,
solicit, take orders, or receive offers to purchase or expressions of interest
to purchase beer or intoxicating liquor from any person, at any location other
than a liquor permit premises, except as specifically authorized by R.C.
Chapter 4301 or R.C. Chapter 4303 or rules adopted thereunder. No function,
event, or party shall take place at any location other than a liquor permit
premises where any person acts in any manner to sell, solicit, take orders, or
receive offers to purchase or expressions of intent to purchase beer or
intoxicating liquor to or from any person, except as specifically authorized by
R.C. Chapter 4301 or R.C. Chapter 4303 Code or rules adopted thereunder.
(R.C. § 4303.25)
   (B)   Activities prohibited without permit.
      (1)   No person, personally or by the person's clerk, agent, or employee,
who is not the holder of an A permit issued by the Division of Liquor Control,
in force at the time, and authorizing the manufacture of beer or intoxicating
liquor, or who is not an agent or employee of the Division authorized to
manufacture beer or intoxicating liquor, shall manufacture any beer or
intoxicating liquor for sale, or shall manufacture spirituous liquor.
      (2)   No person, personally or by the person's clerk, agent, or employee,
who is not the holder of an A, B, C, D, E, F, G, I, or S permit issued by the
Division, in force at the time, and authorizing the sale of beer, intoxicating
liquor, or alcohol, or who is not an agent or employee of the Division or the
Tax Commissioner authorized to sell beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol,
shall sell, keep, or possess beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol for sale to
any persons other than those authorized by this chapter and R.C. Chapters 4301
and 4303 to purchase any beer or intoxicating liquor, or sell any alcohol at
retail.  This division does not apply to or affect the sale or possession for
sale of any low-alcohol beverage.
      (3)   No person, personally or by the person's clerk, agent, or employee,
who is the holder of a permit issued by the Division, shall sell, keep, or
possess for sale any intoxicating liquor not purchased from the Division or
from the holder of a permit issued by the Division authorizing the sale of
intoxicating liquor, unless the same has been purchased with the special
consent of the Division.  The Division shall revoke the permit of any person
convicted of a violation of this division.
(R.C. § 4301.58)
   (C)   Penalty.  Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06  ILLEGAL TRANSPORTATION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person, who is not the holder of an H permit shall transport beer,
intoxicating liquor, or alcohol in this municipality.  This section does not
apply to the transportation and delivery of beer, alcohol, or intoxicating
liquor purchased or to be purchased from the holder of a permit issued by the
Division of Liquor Control, in force at the time, and authorizing the sale and
delivery of the beer, alcohol, or intoxicating liquor so transported, or to the
transportation and delivery of beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol purchased
from the Division or the Tax Commissioner, or purchased by the holder of an A
or B permit outside this state, and transported within this municipality by
them in their own trucks for the purpose of sale under their permits.
(R.C. § 4301.60)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
§ 92.07  OPEN CONTAINER PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
      CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINE. Means a vehicle registered under R.C. § 4503.24.
      STREET, HIGHWAY, and MOTOR VEHICLE. Have the same meanings as in R.C. §
4511.01.
   (B)   No person shall have in the person's possession an opened container of
beer or intoxicating liquor in any of the following circumstances:
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(1)(e) of this section, in a
state liquor store;
      (2)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, on the premises
of the holder of any permit issued by the Division of Liquor Control;
      (3)   In any other public place;
      (4)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) of this section, while
operating or being a passenger in or on a motor vehicle on any street, highway,
or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking;
      (5)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) of this section, while
being in or on a stationary motor vehicle on any street, highway, or other
public or private property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking.
   (C)   (1)   A person may have in the person’s possession an opened container
of any of the following:
         (a)   Beer or intoxicating liquor that has been lawfully purchased for
consumption on the premises where bought from the holder of an A-1-A, A-2, A-
3a, D-1, D-2, D-3, D-3a, D-4, D-4a, D-5, D-5a, D-5b, D-5c, D-5d, D-5e, D-5f, D-
5g, D-5h, D-5i, D-5j, D-5k, D-5l, D-5m, D-5n, D-5o, D-7, D-8, E, F, F-2, F-5,
F-7, or F-8 permit;
         (b)   Beer, wine, or mixed beverages served for consumption on the
premises by the holder of an F-3 permit or wine served for consumption on the
premises by the holder of an F-4 or F-6 permit;
         (c)   Beer or intoxicating liquor consumed on the premises of a
convention facility as provided in R.C. § 4303.201;
         (d)   Beer or intoxicating liquor to be consumed during tastings and
samplings approved by rule of the Liquor Control Commission;
         (e)   Spiritous liquor to be consumed for purposes of a tasting
sample, as defined in R.C. 4301.171.
      (2)   A person may have in the person’s possession on an F liquor permit
premises an opened container of beer of intoxicating liquor that was not
purchased from the holder of the F permit, if the premises for which the F
permit is issued is a music festival and the holder of the F permit grants
permission for such possession on the premises during the period for which the
F permit is issued.  As used in this division (C)(2), MUSIC FESTIVAL means a
series of outdoor live musical performances extending for a period of at least
three consecutive days and located on an area of land of at least 40 acres.
      (3)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession on a D-2 liquor
permit premises an opened or unopened container of wine that was not purchased
from the holder of the D-2 permit if the premises for which the D-2 permit is
issued is an outdoor performing arts center, the person is attending an
orchestral performance, and the holder of the D-2 permit grants permission for
the possession and consumption of wine in certain predesignated areas of the
premises during the period for which the D-2 permit is issued.
         (b)   As used in division (C)(3)(a) of this section:
            ORCHESTRAL PERFORMANCE. Means a concert comprised of a group of not
fewer than 40 musicians playing various musical instruments.
            OUTDOOR PERFORMING ARTS CENTER. Means an outdoor performing arts
center that is located on not less than 150 acres of land and that is open for
performances from the first day of April to the last day of October of each
year.
      (4)   A person may have in the person’s possession an opened or unopened
container of beer or intoxicating liquor at an outdoor location at which the
person is attending an orchestral performance as defined in division (C)(3)(b)
of this section if the person with supervision and control over the performance
grants permission for the possession and consumption of beer or intoxicating
liquor in certain predesignated areas of that outdoor location.
      (5)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession on an F-9 liquor
permit premises an opened or unopened container of beer or intoxicating liquor
that was not purchased from the holder of the F-9 permit if the person is
attending an orchestral performance and the holder of the F-9 permit grants
permission for the possession and consumption of beer or intoxicating liquor in
certain predesignated areas of the premises during the period for which the F-
9 permit is issued.
         (b)   As used in division (C)(5) of this section, ORCHESTRAL
PERFORMANCE has the same meaning as in division (C)(3)(b) of this section.
   (D)   This section does not apply to a person who pays all or a portion of
the fee imposed for use of a chauffeured limousine pursuant to a prearranged
contract or the guest of such a person, when all of the following apply:
      (1)   The person or guest is a passenger in the limousine;
      (2)   The person or guest is located in the limousine, but is not
occupying a seat in the front compartment of the limousine where the operator
of the limousine is located; and
      (3)   The limousine is located on any street, highway, or other public or
private property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking.
(R.C. § 4301.62)
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. 
(R.C. § 4301.99(A))
§ 92.08  UNDERAGE PERSON SHALL NOT PURCHASE INTOXICATING LIQUOR OR BEER.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C. Chapter 4301,
no person under the age of 21 years shall purchase beer or intoxicating liquor.
(R.C. § 4301.63)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $25 nor
more than $100.  The court imposing a fine for a violation of this section may
order that the fine be paid by the performance of public work at a reasonable
hour rate established by the court.  The court shall designate the time within
which the public work shall be completed.
(R.C. § 4301.99(E))
§ 92.09  PROHIBITIONS; MINORS UNDER 18 YEARS; LOW-ALCOHOL BEVERAGES.
   (A)   As used in this section, UNDERAGE PERSON means a person under 18 years
of age.
   (B)   No underage person shall purchase any low-alcohol beverage.
   (C)   No underage person shall order, pay for, share the cost of, or attempt
to purchase any low- alcohol beverage.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly furnish any false information as to the
name, age, or other identification of any underage person for the purpose of
obtaining or with the intent to obtain any low-alcohol beverage for an underage
person, by purchase or as a gift.
   (E)   No underage person shall knowingly show or give false information
concerning his or her name, age, or other identification for the purpose of
purchasing or otherwise obtaining any low-alcohol beverage in any place in this
municipality.
   (F)   No person shall sell or furnish any low-alcohol beverage to, or buy
any low-alcohol beverage for, an underage person, unless given by a physician
in the regular line of his or her practice or given for established religious
purposes, or unless the underage person is accompanied by a parent, spouse who
is not an underage person, or legal guardian.
   (G)   (1)   No person who is the owner or occupant of any public or private
place shall knowingly allow any underage person to remain in or on the place
while possessing or consuming any low-alcohol beverage, unless the low-alcohol
beverage is given to the person possessing or consuming it by that person’s
parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian, and the
parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian is present when
the person possesses or consumes the low-alcohol beverage.
      (2)   An owner of a public or private place is not liable for acts or
omissions in violation of division (G)(1) that are committed by a lessee of
that place, unless the owner authorizes or acquiesces in the lessee’s acts or
omissions.
   (H)   No permit issued by the Division of Liquor Control shall be suspended,
revoked, or cancelled because of a violation of either division (F) or (G).
   (I)   No underage person shall knowingly possess or consume any low-alcohol
beverage in any public or private place, unless he or she is accompanied by a
parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian, or unless the
low-alcohol beverage is given by a physician in the regular line of his or her
practice or given for established religious purposes.
   (J)   No parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian of
an underage person shall knowingly permit the underage person to violate this
section.
(R.C. § 4301.631)
   (K)   (1)   Whoever violates any provision of this section for which no
other penalty is provided is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section shall be fined not
less than $25 nor more than $100.  The court imposing a fine for a violation of
division (B) of this section may order that the fine be paid by the performance
of public work at a reasonable hour rate established by the court.  The court
shall designate the time within which the public work shall be completed.
(R.C. § 4301.99(E))  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.10  PROHIBITIONS; MINORS UNDER 21 YEARS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C. Chapter 4301,
no person under the age of 21 years shall order, pay for, share the cost of, or
attempt to purchase any beer or intoxicating liquor, or consume any beer or
intoxicating liquor, either from a sealed or unsealed container, or by the
glass or by the drink, or possess any beer or intoxicating liquor in any public
or private place.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.  If an offender who violates this section was under the age of 18 years
at the time of the offense and the offense occurred while the offender was the
operator of or a passenger in a motor vehicle, the court, in addition to any
other penalties it imposes upon the offender, shall suspend the offender’s
temporary instruction permit or probationary driver’s license for a period of
six months.  If the offender is 15 years and six months of age or older and has
not been issued a temporary instruction permit or probationary driver’s
license, the offender shall not be eligible to be issued such a license or
permit for a period of six months.  If the offender has not attained the age of
15 years and six months, the offender shall not be eligible to be issued a
temporary instruction permit until the offender attains the age of 16 years.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C)) 
§ 92.11  MISREPRESENTATION TO OBTAIN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE FOR A MINOR PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C. Chapter 4301,
no person shall knowingly furnish any false information as to the name, age, or
other identification of any person under 21 years of age, for the purpose of
obtaining, or with the intent to obtain, beer or intoxicating liquor for a
person under 21 years of age, by purchase or as a gift.
(R.C. § 4301.633)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
§ 92.12  MISREPRESENTATION BY A MINOR UNDER 21 YEARS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C. Chapter 4301,
no person under the age of 21 years shall knowingly show or give false
information concerning his or her name, age, or other identification for the
purpose of purchasing or otherwise obtaining beer or intoxicating liquor in any
place in this municipality where beer or intoxicating liquor is sold under a
permit issued by the Division of Liquor Control, or sold by the Division of
Liquor Control.
(R.C. § 4301.634)
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.  If, in committing a first violation of
division (A), the offender presented to the permit holder or his or her
employee or agent a false, fictitious, or altered identification card, a false
or fictitious driver’s license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver’s
license issued by any state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not less than $250 and not
more than $1,000, and may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more
than six months.
      (2)   On a second violation in which, for the second time, the offender
presented to the permit holder or his or her employee or agent a false,
fictitious, or altered identification card, a false or fictitious driver’s
license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver’s license issued by any
state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree and shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $1,000, and
may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than six months.  The
court also may suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or permit or nonresident operation privilege or deny the offender the
opportunity to be issued a driver’s or commercial driver’s license for a period
not exceeding 60 days.
      (3)   On a third or subsequent violation in which, for the third or
subsequent time, the offender presented to the permit holder or his or her
employee or agent a false, fictitious, or altered identification card, a false
or fictitious driver’s license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver’s
license issued by any state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not less than $500 nor more
than $1,000, and may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than
six months.  Except as provided in this division, the court also may suspend
the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privilege or deny the offender the opportunity to be issued a
driver’s or commercial driver’s license for a period of 90 days, and the court
may order that the suspension or denial remain in effect until the offender
attains the age of 21 years.  The court, in lieu of suspending the offender's
temporary instruction permit, probationary driver's license, or driver's
license, instead may order the offender to perform a determinate number of
hours of community service, with the court determining the actual number of
hours and the nature of the community service the offender shall perform.
(R.C. § 4301.99(F)) 
§ 92.13  SALE TO UNDERAGE PERSONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C. Chapter 4301,
no person shall sell beer or intoxicating liquor to an underage person, shall
buy beer or intoxicating liquor for an underage person, or shall furnish it to
an underage person unless given by a physician in the regular line of the
physician’s practice or given for established religious purposes or unless the
underage person is accompanied by a parent, spouse who is not an underage
person, or legal guardian.  In proceedings before the Liquor Control
Commission, no permit holder, or the employee or agent of a permit holder,
charged with a violation of this division shall be charged, for the same
offense, with a violation of R.C. § 4301.22(A)(1) or a substantially similar
municipal ordinance.
   (B)   No person who is the owner or occupant of any public or private place
shall knowingly allow any underage person to remain in or on the public place
while possessing or consuming beer or intoxicating liquor, unless the
intoxicating liquor or beer is given to the person possessing or consuming it
by that person’s parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal
guardian and the parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal
guardian is present at the time of the person’s possession or consumption of
the beer or intoxicating liquor.  An owner of a public or private place is not
liable for acts or omissions in violation of this division that are committed
by a lessee of that place, unless the owner authorizes or acquiesces in the
lessee’s acts or omissions.
   (C)   No person shall engage or use accommodations at a hotel, inn, cabin,
campground, or restaurant when the person knows or has reason to know either of
the following:
      (1)   That beer or intoxicating liquor will be consumed by an underage
person on the premises of the accommodations that the person engages or uses,
unless the person engaging or using the accommodations is the spouse of the
underage person and who is not an underage person, or is the parent or legal
guardian of all of the underage persons, who consume beer or intoxicating
liquor on the premises and that person is on the premises at all times when
beer or intoxicating liquor is being consumed by an underage person.
      (2)   That a drug of abuse will be consumed on the premises of the
accommodations by any person, except a person who obtained the drug of abuse
pursuant to a prescription issued by a licensed health professionals authorized
to prescribe drugs and has the drug of abuse in the original container in which
it was dispensed to the person.
   (D)   (1)   No person is required to permit the engagement of accommodations
at any hotel, inn, cabin, or campground by an underage person or for an
underage person, if the person engaging the accommodations knows or has reason
to know that the underage person is intoxicated, or that the underage person
possesses any beer or intoxicating liquor and is not accompanied by a parent,
spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian who is or will be
present at all times when the beer or intoxicating liquor is being consumed by
the underage person.
      (2)   No underage person shall knowingly engage or attempt to engage
accommodations at any hotel, inn, cabin, or campground by presenting
identification that falsely indicates that the underage person is 21 years of
age or older for the purpose of violating this section.
   (E)   No underage person shall knowingly possess or consume any beer or
intoxicating liquor, in any public or private place, unless the underage person
is accompanied by a parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal
guardian, or unless the beer or intoxicating liquor is given by a physician in
the regular line of the physician’s practice or given for established religious
purposes.
   (F)   No parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian of
a minor shall knowingly permit the minor to violate this section or R.C. §§
4301.63, 4301.633, or 4301.634.
   (G)   The operator of any hotel, inn, cabin, or campground shall make the
provisions of this section available in writing to any person engaging or using
accommodations at the hotel, inn, cabin, or campground.
   (H)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DRUG OF ABUSE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.011.
      HOTEL.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3731.01.
      LICENSED HEALTH PROFESSIONAL AUTHORIZED TO PRESCRIBE DRUGS and
PRESCRIPTION.  Have the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
      MINOR.  A person under the age of 18 years.
      UNDERAGE PERSON.  A person under the age of 21 years.
(R.C. § 4301.69)
   (I)   The provisions of R.C. §§ 4301.633 through 4301.637, or substantially
similar municipal ordinances, shall not be deemed to modify or affect divisions
(A) through (H) of this section or R.C. § 4301.69.
(R.C. § 4301.638)
   (J)   (1)   Except as provided in division (J)(2) of this section, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor, shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $1000, and in
addition to the fine, may be imprisoned for a definite term of not more than
six months.
(R.C. § 4301.99(I))
Statutory reference:
   Changes to law if federal uniform drinking age repealed or declared
unconstitutional, see R.C. § 4301.691
§ 92.14  POSTING OF CARD.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 4301.691, every place in
this municipality where beer, intoxicating liquor, or any low-alcohol beverage
is sold for beverage purposes shall display at all times, in a prominent place
on the premises thereof, a printed card, which shall be furnished by the
Division of Liquor Control and which shall read substantially as follows:
   WARNING TO PERSONS UNDER AGE
   If you are under the age of 21
Under the statutes of the state of Ohio, if you order, pay for, share the cost
of, or attempt to purchase, or possess or consume beer or intoxicating liquor
in any public place, or furnish false information as to name, age, or other
identification, you are subject to a fine of up to $1,000, or imprisonment up
to 6 months, or both.
   If you are under the age of 18
Under the statutes of the state of Ohio, if you order, pay for, share the cost
of, or attempt to purchase, or posses or consume, any type of beer or wine that
contains either no alcohol or less than one-half of one per cent of alcohol by
volume in any public place, or furnish false information as to the name, age,
or other identification, you are subject to a fine of up to $250 or to
imprisonment up to 30 days, or both.
      (2)   No person shall be subject to any criminal prosecution or any
proceedings before the Division or the Liquor Control Commission for failing to
display this card.  No permit issued by the Division shall be suspended,
revoked, or canceled because of the failure of the permit holder to display
this card.
   (B)   (1)   Every place in this municipality for which a D permit has been
issued under R.C. Chapter 4303 shall be issued a printed card by the Division
of Liquor Control that shall read substantially as follows:
   WARNING
   If you are carrying a firearm
Under the statutes of Ohio, if you possess a firearm in any room in which
liquor is being dispensed in premises for which a D permit has been issued
under Chapter 4303 of the Revised Code, you may be guilty of a felony and may
be subjected to a prison term of up to one year.
      (2)   No person shall be subject to any criminal prosecution or any
proceedings before the Division of Liquor Control or the Liquor Control
Commission for failing to display this card.  No permit issued by the Division
shall be suspended, revoked, or canceled because of the failure of the permit
holder to display this card.
(R.C. § 4301.637)  Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Carrying concealed weapon, felony, see R.C. § 2923.12
   Possessing firearm in liquor permit premises, exceptions, defenses, see R.C.
§ 2923.121
§ 92.15  GOOD FAITH ACCEPTANCES OF SPURIOUS IDENTIFICATION.
   No permit holder, his or her agent or employee, or any other person may be
found guilty of a violation of any section of this chapter in which age is any
element of the offense, if any court of record finds all of the following:
   (A)   That the person buying, at the time of so doing, exhibited to the
permit holder, his or her agent or employee, or the other person a driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or an identification card issued under R.C. §§
4507.50 through 4507.52, or a military identification card issued by the United
States Department of Defense, that displays a picture of the individual for
whom the license or card was issued and shows that the person buying was then
at least 21 years of age if he or she was buying beer as defined in R.C. §
4301.01 or intoxicating liquor, or that he or she was then at least 18 years of
age if he or she was buying any low-alcohol beverage;
   (B)   That the permit holder, his or her agent or employee, or the other
person made a bona fide effort to ascertain:
      (1)   The true age of the person buying by checking the identification
presented at the time of the purchase;
      (2)   That the description on the identification compared with the
appearance of the buyer; and
      (3)   That the identification presented had not been altered in any way.
   (C)   That the permit holder, his or her agent or employee, or the other
person had reason to believe that the person buying was of legal age.
(R.C. § 4301.639)
§ 92.16  CONSUMPTION IN MOTOR VEHICLE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall consume any beer or intoxicating liquor in a motor
vehicle.  This section does not apply to persons described in R.C. § 4301.62(D)
or a substantially similar municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 4301.64)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If an offender who violates this section was under the age of 18 years
at the time of the offense, the court, in addition to any other penalties it
imposes upon the offender, may suspend the offender’s temporary instruction
permit, probationary driver’s license or driver’s license for a period of not
less than six months and not more than one year. In lieu of suspending the
offender’s temporary instruction permit, probationary driver’s license, or
driver’s license, the court instead may require the offender to perform
community service for a number of hours determined by the court. If the
offender is 15 years and six months of age or older and has not been issued a
temporary instruction permit or probationary driver’s license, the offender
shall not be eligible to be issued such a license or permit for a period of six
months. If the offender has not attained the age of 15 years and six months,
the offender shall not be eligible to be issued a temporary instruction permit
until the offender attains the age of 16 years.
(R.C. § 4301.99(B))
§ 92.17  HOURS OF SALE OR CONSUMPTION.
   (A)   No beer or other malt beverages shall be sold by, delivered by, or be
permitted to be consumed on weekdays upon the premises of a C-1, C-2, D-1, D-
2 or D-4 permit holder between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:30 a.m.  The above
restriction on hours of operation shall also apply to retail sales by an A-
1 permit holder.
   (B)   No wine, prepared highball, cocktails or other mixed drinks, as
defined in the Liquor Control Act, shall be sold by, delivered by, or be
permitted to be consumed on weekdays upon the premises of an A-2, C-2, D-2 or
D-4 permit holder between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:30 a.m.
   (C)   No beer or intoxicating liquor shall be sold by, delivered by, or be
permitted to be consumed on weekdays on the premises of a D-3a, D-5, D-5a or A-
1-A permit holder between the hours of 2:30 a.m. and 5:30 a.m. and no
intoxicating liquor shall be sold by, delivered by, or be permitted to be
consumed on weekdays on the premises of a D-3 permit holder between the hours
of 1:00 a.m. and 5:30 a.m.
   (D)   No beer or intoxicating liquor shall be sold by, delivered by, or be
permitted to be consumed on weekdays on the premises of a D-4 permit holder
between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:30 a.m.
   (E)   No intoxicating liquor may be sold by, delivered by, or be permitted
to be consumed on the premises of any permit holder during the hours between 1:
00 a.m. on Sunday and Sunday midnight, except on the premises of a D-3a, D-5,
D-5a or A-1-A permit holder.  As to holders of these excepted classes, no
intoxicating liquor shall be sold or permitted to be consumed after 2:30 a.m.
on Sunday.
   (F)   No beer, whether by the package or by the glass, shall be sold by,
delivered by, or permitted to be consumed on the premises of a permit holder on
Sunday between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:30 a.m. except on the premises of a
holder of a D-3a permit who is also the holder of a D-1 permit or the holder of
a D-5, D-5a or A-1-A permit.  As to holders of these excepted classes, neither
shall sell, deliver, or permit beer to be consumed on the premises between the
hours of 2:30 a.m. and 5:30 a.m.
   (G)   The holder of a D-6 permit may sell or allow the consumption of
intoxicating liquors, as authorized by his or her other permits, between the
hours of 1:00 p.m. Sunday and Sunday midnight, for on-the- premises consumption
only.
(O.A.C. § 4301:1-1-49)
   (H)   No association, corporation, local unit of an association or
corporation, or D permit holder who holds an F-2 permit shall sell beer or
intoxicating liquor beyond the hours of sale allowed by the permit.  This
division imposes strict liability on the holder of the permit and on any
officer, agent or employee of the permit holder.
(R.C. § 4303.202(B))
   (I)   Whoever violates division (H) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4303.99(D))  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.18  OBSTRUCTING SEARCH OF PREMISES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall hinder or obstruct any agent or employee of the
Division of Liquor Control, any enforcement agent of the Department of Public
Safety or any officer of the law from making an inspection or search of any
place, other than a bona fide private residence, where beer or intoxicating
liquor is possessed, kept, sold, or given away.
(R.C. § 4301.66)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
   (C)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the hindrance,
obstruction, resistance, or interference alleged consisted of constitutionally
protected speech only.
§ 92.19  ILLEGAL POSSESSION OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall have possession of any spirituous liquor, in excess of
one liter, in one or more containers, which was not purchased at wholesale or
retail from the Division of Liquor Control or otherwise lawfully acquired
pursuant to this chapter, R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303, or any other
intoxicating liquor or beer, in one or more containers, which was not lawfully
acquired pursuant to those chapters.
(R.C. § 4301.67)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(B))
§ 92.20  SALE OR POSSESSION OF DILUTED LIQUOR AND REFILLED CONTAINERS
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall sell, offer for sale, or possess with the intent to
sell intoxicating liquor in any original container which has been diluted,
refilled, or partly refilled.
(R.C. § 4301.68)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
§ 92.21  KEEPING PLACE WHERE BEER OR INTOXICATING LIQUORS ARE SOLD IN VIOLATION
OF LAW.
   (A)   No person shall keep a place where beer or intoxicating liquors are
sold, furnished, or given away in violation of law.  The court, on conviction
for a subsequent offense, shall order the place where the beer or intoxicating
liquor is sold, furnished, or given away to be abated as a nuisance, or shall
order the person convicted for the offense to give bond payable to the state in
the sum of $1,000, with sureties to the acceptance of the court, that the
person will not sell, furnish, or give away beer or intoxicating liquor in
violation of law, and will pay all fines, costs, and damages assessed against
him or her for a violation.  The giving away of beer or intoxicating liquors,
or other device to evade this section, constitutes unlawful selling.
   (B)   As used in this section, BEER has the meaning set forth in R.C. §
4301.01.
(R.C. § 4399.09)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $100 nor
more than $500 on a first offense and shall be fined not less than $200 nor
more than $500 on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4399.99(B))
§ 92.22  INTOXICATING LIQUORS SHALL NOT BE SOLD IN BROTHELS.
   (A)   No person shall sell, exchange, or give away intoxicating liquor in a
brothel.
(R.C. § 4399.10)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $100 nor
more than $500 and imprisoned not less than one nor more than six months.
(R.C. § 4399.99(C))
§ 92.23  USE OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR IN A PUBLIC DANCE HALL PROHIBITED;
EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person who is the proprietor of any public dance hall, or who
conducts, manages, or is in charge of any public dance hall, shall allow the
use of any intoxicating liquor or the presence of intoxicated persons in the
dance hall or on the premises on which the dance hall is located; but the
prohibition against the use of any intoxicating liquor does not apply to
establishments that are holders of a D-1, D-2, D-3, D-4, or D-5 permit whose
principal business consists of conducting a hotel, a restaurant, a club, or a
nightclub, as defined by R.C. § 4301.01.  No person who is the proprietor of
any public dance hall, or who conducts, manages, or is in charge thereof, shall
permit the presence at the public dance hall of any child younger than 18 years
of age, not accompanied by his or her father, mother, or legal guardian.
(R.C. § 4399.14)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $25 nor
more than $500, imprisoned not more than six months, or both.
(R.C. § 4399.99(D))
§ 92.24  POISONOUSLY ADULTERATED LIQUORS.
   (A)   No person, for the purpose of sale, shall adulterate spirituous,
alcoholic, or malt liquor used or intended for drink or medicinal or mechanical
purposes, with cocculus indicus, vitriol, grains of paradise, opium, alum,
capsicum, copperas, laurel water, logwood, brazilwood, cochineal, sugar of
lead, aloes, glucose, tannic acid, or any other substance which is poisonous or
injurious to health, or with a substance not a necessary ingredient in the
manufacture thereof, or sell, offer, or keep for sale liquors so adulterated.
   (B)   In addition to the penalties provided in division (C) of this section,
a person convicted of violating this section shall pay all necessary costs and
expenses incurred in inspecting and analyzing liquors so adulterated, sold,
kept, or offered for sale.
(R.C. § 4399.15)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $20 nor
more than $100, imprisoned not less than 20 nor more than 60 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4399.99(E))
§ 92.25  TAVERN KEEPER PERMITTING RIOTING OR DRUNKENNESS.
   (A)   No tavern keeper shall permit rioting, intoxication, or drunkenness in
or on his or her premises.
(R.C. § 4399.16)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $5 nor more
than $100.
(R.C. § 4399.99(A))
§ 92.26  NOTICE OF ACTION TO PROHIBIT LIQUOR BUSINESS.
   Any party bringing an action to prohibit the operation of a business under a
liquor permit issued pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4303 shall, upon filing the
complaint in the action, notify the Division of Liquor Control of the filing of
the complaint.
(R.C. § 4303.40)
§ 92.27  PROCEDURE WHEN INJUNCTION VIOLATED.
   (A)   Any person subject to an injunction, temporary or permanent, granted
pursuant to R.C. § 3767.05(D) or (E) involving a condition described in
division (3) of the definition of “nuisance” in R.C. § 3767.01, or a
substantially similar municipal ordinance, shall obey the injunction.  If the
person violates the injunction, the court, or in vacation a judge thereof, may
summarily try and punish the violator.  The proceedings for punishment for
contempt shall be commenced by filing with the Clerk of the court from which
the injunction issued, information under oath setting out the alleged facts
constituting the violation, whereupon the court shall cause a warrant to issue
under which the defendant shall be arrested.  The trial may be had upon
affidavits, or either party may demand the production and oral examination of
the witnesses.
(R.C. § 4301.74)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
§ 92.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other penalty
has been provided is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. §§ 4301.70, 4301.99(A))
Statutory reference:
   Liquor Director to be notified of court decision regarding permit holder,
employee or agent, see R.C. § 4301.991
CHAPTER 93:  NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Application of chapter
   
93.02   Provisions of chapter do not limit village powers
   
93.03   Additional nuisances
   
93.04   Music and loud noises in public establishments
   
93.05   Buildings or structures constituting a nuisance
Unclean Habitations
   
93.15   Permitting unclean habitations
   
93.16   When deemed unsanitary
   
93.17   Order for abatement or vacation of premises
   
93.18   Vacation and abatement hearings
   
93.19   Posting notice of vacation
   
93.20   Enforcement of vacation order by Chief of Police
   
93.21   Enforcement through court proceedings
   
93.22   Cleanliness; hotels, lodging houses
   
93.23   Unsightly conditions on private property
Vaults, Cesspools, Refuse
   
93.35   Privy vaults, cesspools
   
93.36   Unsanitary vaults
   
93.37   Removal of contents of vault
   
93.38   Deposit of dead animals, offal, upon land or water
   
93.39   Dumping refuse in village forbidden
   
93.40   Draining slops
Cleaning of Premises
   
93.50   Order to clean up premises
   
93.51   Sanitary inspection
   
93.52   Individual orders for abatement
   
93.53   Copy of resolution to be served or published
   
93.54   Unclean premises prohibited
   
93.55   Periodic inspection
   
93.56   Enforcement; court proceedings
Weeds and Litter on Private Property
   
93.70   Keeping down weeds
   
93.71   Notice to owner to cut noxious weeds, remove litter; service
   
93.72   Fees for service and return
   
93.73   Procedure when owner fails to comply with notice
   
93.74   Written return to County Auditor; amount as a lien upon property
Trimming Trees and Shrubbery
   
93.80   Owner of every lot within village limits shall keep shrubbery and trees
trimmed and neat
   
93.81   Village Service Director/Street Commissioner to take action
   
93.82   Owner responsible for any tree or shrubbery growing contiguous to any
public property
   
93.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01  APPLICATION OF CHAPTER.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforceable within the municipality
concurrently with the state and federal laws relative to sanitation and health,
and the ordinances or orders of the County Health District relative thereto,
and shall not be construed as modifying, repealing, limiting, or affecting in
any manner such laws, ordinances, or orders.
§ 93.02  PROVISIONS OF CHAPTER DO NOT LIMIT VILLAGE POWERS.
   This chapter shall be deemed to be an enlargement and not a limitation or
restriction on the power or authority of the village or any officer thereof to
take any action or bring any suit or proceeding in respect to public nuisance
otherwise provided for by law or ordinance of this village.
§ 93.03  ADDITIONAL NUISANCES.
   In addition to what are specifically declared in this chapter to be public
nuisances, those offenses which are known to the common law and the statutes of
Ohio as public nuisances may, in case any thereof exists within the village
limits, be treated as such and be proceeded against as is provided in this
chapter, or in accordance with any other provisions of law.  Wherever the word
NUISANCE is used in this chapter it refers to a public nuisance.
§ 93.04  MUSIC AND LOUD NOISES IN PUBLIC ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   No person, association, firm, or corporation, operating a restaurant,
summer garden, or other place of refreshment or entertainment, shall permit,
nor shall any person in or about the restaurant, summer garden, or other place
of refreshment or entertainment engage in the playing or rendition of music of
any kind, singing, loud talking, or other noises on or about the premises, in
such a manner as to disturb the peace and quiet of the neighborhood, having due
regard to the proximity of places of residence or other residential
institutions, and to any other conditions affected by such noises.
   (B)   It shall be prima facie unlawful for any person, association, firm, or
corporation operating a restaurant, summer garden, or other place of
entertainment or refreshment to permit, or for any person in or about the
restaurant, summer garden, or other place of refreshment or entertainment, to
engage in the playing or rendition of music of any kind, singing, loud talking,
or other noises on or about the premises during the night season after 11:00
p.m.
   (C)   In every charge of violation of this section the affidavit shall state
the hour at which the offense is alleged to have occurred.
(Ord. 16-74, passed  8-7-1974)
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05  BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES CONSTITUTING A NUISANCE.
   In addition to the existing provisions of this chapter, any structure or
building or any portion thereof, whether used for human habitation or not,
which is or may be injurious to public health, safety or interest, or is
dangerous in nature, or is in unsightly condition, is hereby declared to
constitute a public nuisance.
(Ord. 86-8, passed 7-1-1986)  Penalty, see §
93.99
UNCLEAN HABITATIONS
§ 93.15  PERMITTING UNCLEAN HABITATIONS.
   No person shall lease, let, permit the occupancy of, permit the continuation
of the occupancy of, or continue the occupancy of any structure or building or
any portion thereof used for human habitation, unless the structure or building
or portion thereof be free from unclean and unsanitary conditions, as defined
in the subsequent sections of this subchapter, and unless the provisions of the
subsequent sections are complied with.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.16  WHEN DEEMED UNSANITARY.
   (A)   Any structure or building or any portion thereof used for human
habitation shall be deemed to be in an unclean and unsanitary condition by
reason of any portion of the building being infected with a communicable
disease, by reason of the absence therein of toilet facilities as required by
law or ordinance, or by reason of the known presence of sewer gas therein or
thereon.
   (B)   Any structure or building, or any portion thereof, used for human
habitation shall be deemed to be in an unclean and unsanitary condition when
unfit for human habitation or in a condition dangerous or harmful to the lives
or health of the occupants by reason of the inhabited portion of the house
being damp or wet, by reason of the lack of repair, by reason of the
accumulation of dirt, filth, litter, refuse, or other offensive or dangerous
substances or liquids, by reason of the defects in, lack of repair of, or
improper use of the drainage, plumbing, or ventilation, or by reason of the
existence on the premises of such a nuisance or other condition as is likely to
cause sickness among the occupants.  Any structure or building, or any portion
thereof, used for human habitation, which is in such unclean or unsanitary
condition, is hereby declared to constitute a PUBLIC NUISANCE.
§ 93.17  ORDER FOR ABATEMENT OR VACATION OF PREMISES.
   (A)   Whenever the Board of Health of the county ascertains from examination
or reports of its inspectors, sanitary officers, or otherwise that a public
nuisance exists, as defined in §
93.16, in or upon any structure or building, or portion thereof, and is of the
opinion that the nuisance is capable of being abated without immediate vacation
of the premises or that portion thereof, it shall serve notice upon the owner
of the house or his or her lessee or agent, or the person in possession,
charge, or control thereof, directing him or her to abate the nuisance and
remove the unclean or unsanitary conditions within such reasonable time as may
be fixed by the Board and specified in the notice.  It shall then be the duty
of the owner, agent, or person to abate the nuisance within that time.
   (B)   Whenever the abatement does not take place within that time, or
whenever, in the opinion of the Board, the abatement is impossible or
impracticable without an immediate vacation of the house or portion thereof,
the Board shall serve notice upon the owner, lessee, agent, or person in
possession, charge, or control thereof to vacate or cause the vacation of the
house or portion thereof designated in the notice.  It shall then be the duty
of the owner, lessee, agent, or person to vacate or cause the vacation of the
house or portion thereof within 20 days from the date of the service of the
notice, or within a shorter time (not less than 24 hours in any case) as may be
specified in the notice.
   (C)   Whenever, either in addition to or without the service of the notices
on the owner, lessee, agent, or person in possession, charge, or control, the
Board is of the opinion that the nuisance can be abated by a tenant or other
occupant of the house or portion thereof, and the notices, either for abatement
of the nuisance or for vacation of the premises, are served upon the tenant or
other occupant, then it shall be the duty of the tenant or other occupant to
comply with the terms of the notices and to abate the nuisance or vacate the
premises accordingly.
   (D)   After any notice or order of vacation it shall be unlawful to occupy
or permit the occupancy of the premises or portion thereof until the nuisance
shall have been completely abated and the building or portion thereof shall
have been rendered clean and sanitary in accordance with the terms of the
notices of the Board of Health.
   (E)   When there is no owner, agent, lessee, or person in charge,
possession, or control who is a resident of or can be served in the
municipality, then personal service outside of the municipality on any such
owner, agent, lessee, or person in charge, possession, or control, by anyone
delegated by the Board of Health to make this service, or by registered letter
or, if the address of the owner, lessee, agent, or person in possession,
charge, or control be unknown, or service be not secured by registered letter
after effort to do so, by notice by publication once a week for two consecutive
weeks in any newspaper of general circulation in the municipality, or by the
posting or attaching to or on the outside of the structure or building of a
copy of the notice or order consecutively for two weeks shall have the same
effect as service within the municipality.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.18  VACATION AND ABATEMENT HEARINGS.
   (A)   When the notice or order of vacation follows a notice or order of
abatement, as provided in §
93.17, this notice or order of vacation shall not be enforced as provided in
this chapter, unless the notice or order of abatement specifies a time when the
person so notified or ordered may appear before the Board or officer issuing
same to show cause why the order or notice of vacation should not be issued,
and unless the Board (or a majority thereof) or officer is present at its or
his or her office at the time so specified; such time to be not less than 24
hours after the service of the notice or order.
   (B)   When the notice or order of vacation is issued as provided in §
93.17 without a previous notice or order of abatement, this notice or order of
vacation shall not be enforced as provided in this chapter unless it specifies
a time, not less than five days after the service thereof, when the person so
notified or ordered may appear before the Board issuing same to show cause why
the notice or order should not be enforced, and the Board or a majority thereof
is present at its office at the time so specified.
   (C)   However, when, in the opinion of at least four-fifths of the members
of the Board, an emergency exists which requires, for the protection of the
health of occupants, the vacation of the building or portion thereof without a
delay of five days, then no such fixing of a time for hearing shall be
required.
§ 93.19  POSTING NOTICE OF VACATION.
   Whenever such procedure, in the opinion of the Board of Health, is desirable
or necessary, the Board of Health may affix conspicuously on the building or
part thereof the notice or order of vacation.
§ 93.20  ENFORCEMENT OF VACATION ORDER BY CHIEF OF POLICE.
   When the notice or order of vacation has not been complied with, and the
Board of Health certifies the fact to the Chief of Police, together with a copy
of the order or notice, it shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to enforce
the notice or order of vacation and to cause the premises to be vacated in
accordance with the terms of the notice or order.
§ 93.21  ENFORCEMENT THROUGH COURT PROCEEDINGS.
   Whenever the Board of Health shall certify to the Solicitor any failure to
comply with any order or notice of vacation, with the request that civil
proceedings for the enforcement thereof be instituted, the Solicitor shall
institute any and all proceedings, either legal or equitable, that may be
appropriate or necessary for the enforcement of the order or notice and the
abatement of the nuisance against which the order or notice was directed; such
suits or proceedings to be brought in the name of the municipality. 
Proceedings under this section shall not relieve any party defendant from
criminal prosecution or punishment under this code or any other criminal law or
ordinance in force within the municipality.
§ 93.22  CLEANLINESS; HOTELS, LODGING HOUSES.
   Every owner of, and every agent in charge of, a tenement house, lodging
house, tourist home, tourist cabin or hotel, or part thereof, shall cause to be
kept thoroughly clean all parts of the premises not within the occupied
apartments.  No person shall place filth, urine, or fecal matter in any place
other than provided for the same, or keep filth, urine, or fecal matter in his
or her apartment or upon his or her premises any length of time as to create a
nuisance, and every tenant shall keep his or her apartment in clean and
sanitary condition.  The walls of courts and shafts, unless built in a light
color brick or stone, shall be thoroughly whitewashed or painted a light color,
and shall be so maintained.  The whitewash or paint shall be renewed as
required by the Board of Health.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.23  UNSIGHTLY CONDITIONS ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No person shall permit rubbish, used building materials, motor vehicles in
inoperative condition, automobile parts, scrap metal, or other unsightly items
to be left exposed on private property.
(Ord. 25-76, passed 5-4-1976)
Penalty, see §
93.99
VAULTS, CESSPOOLS, REFUSE
§ 93.35  PRIVY VAULTS, CESSPOOLS.
   No person being the owner, occupant, or person in charge of any premises so
situated as to permit connection with any sanitary sewer shall maintain or
permit to be maintained on or in connection with the premises any privy vault,
cesspool, septic tank, or other repository for human excreta.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.36  UNSANITARY VAULTS.
   No person being the owner, lessor, occupant, or person in charge of any
premises upon which a privy vault, cesspool, or septic tank is located shall
permit the vault, pool, or tank, or any building, fixture, or device
appurtenant thereto, to become foul, noisome, filthy, or offensive to
neighboring property owners.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.37  REMOVAL OF CONTENTS OF VAULT.
   Whenever any part of the waste in any privy vault or cesspool extends to a
point less than two feet below the surface of the ground adjacent thereto, or
whenever use of any vault or cesspool is abandoned, or where the use or
maintenance is prohibited by ordinance or health order, the owner, lessor,
occupant, or person in charge of the premises shall cause the vault or cesspool
to be emptied of its contents, thoroughly cleaned and disinfected and, if
abandoned, to be filled with clean earth or mineral matter to the level of the
adjacent ground.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.38  DEPOSIT OF DEAD ANIMALS, OFFAL, UPON LAND OR WATER.
   (A)   No person shall put the carcass of a dead animal or the offal from a
slaughter house, butcher’s establishment, packing house or fish house, or
spoiled meat, spoiled fish, or other putrid substance, or the contents of a
privy vault, upon or into a lake, river, bay, creek, pond, canal, road, street,
alley, lot, meadow, public ground, market place, or common.  No owner or
occupant of such place shall knowingly permit such thing to remain therein to
the annoyance of any citizen or neglect to remove or abate the nuisance
occasioned thereby within 24 hours after knowledge of the existence thereof, or
after notice thereof in writing from the designated municipal official. 
(R.C. § 3767.16)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. 
(R.C. § 3767.99(D))
§ 93.39  DUMPING REFUSE IN VILLAGE FORBIDDEN.
   No person shall dump, cause to be dumped, or permit to be dumped on any
publicly or privately owned land or water in the municipality, any paper,
brush, rubbish, tin cans, vegetation, garbage, or refuse of any kind, without
first having obtained a written license from the Mayor so to do.  The Mayor
shall issue a license permitting dumping of designated materials, where it
appears that filling of the land is necessary and that the material deposited
will immediately be covered with earth, or will not be objectionable to the
citizens of the neighborhood or injurious to health.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.40  DRAINING SLOPS.
   No person shall drain, cause to be drained, or allow to drain from any
property occupied by him or her any kitchen slops or other greasy or impure
matter in the open gutters or waterways in the municipality, unless the
drainage has been drained into a vault and filtered through a lesser vault
filled with sand and fine gravel, built under the inspection of the County
Board of Health.
Penalty, see §
93.99
CLEANING OF PREMISES
§ 93.50  ORDER TO CLEAN UP PREMISES.
   Prior to May 10 in every year, the Mayor shall cause a notice or
proclamation to be inserted in one or more newspapers of general circulation
within the municipality, ordering persons to clean thoroughly and provide
proper drainage for all lands, yards, vaults, cesspools, sheds, and barns, and
to cause all tin cans, trash, and other unclean and unsightly matter to be
removed therefrom on or before May 10.
§ 93.51  SANITARY INSPECTION.
   Thereafter, in the month of May of each year the County Health Officer or,
in his or her absence, the Chief of Police, shall make a thorough sanitary
inspection of all public and private property in the municipality, and shall
transmit his or her report together with his or her recommendations to Council
on or before June 1.  A copy of the report shall also be sent to the State
Department of Health.
§ 93.52  INDIVIDUAL ORDERS FOR ABATEMENT.
   If, upon inspection, it is found that the published order has not been
complied with as to any lot or parcel of ground, Council shall by resolution
direct the owner, occupant, or person in charge of the land to abate the
nuisance within ten days, setting forth the nature of the violation and the
acts required to be done.  The resolution shall provide that, upon failure or
refusal to comply with the order, the work required will be done by the
municipality with the amount expended therefor to be a valid claim against the
owner or occupant and charged as a lien upon the land and recovered by the
village by suit in a court of competent jurisdiction.
§ 93.53  COPY OF RESOLUTION TO BE SERVED OR PUBLISHED.
   A copy of the resolution adopted under §
93.52 may be served personally, or at the usual place of residence of the
occupant or person in charge of the land, or by registered mail; or in lieu of
the service may be published for two consecutive weeks in a newspaper of
general circulation in the municipality.
§ 93.54  UNCLEAN PREMISES PROHIBITED.
   No owner, occupant, or person in charge of any lot or parcel of ground shall
cause or permit water to accumulate thereon and become stagnant, or permit
culverts, drains, or natural watercourses thereon to become obstructed, or
cause or permit any putrid or unsanitary substance to accumulate thereon.
§ 93.55  PERIODIC INSPECTION.
   Independent of the annual cleanup and inspection provided for in §§
93.50 and
93.51, the County Health Officer or Chief of Police shall make periodic
inspection of properties within the municipality and shall report all
violations of §
93.54 to Council who shall thereupon by resolution proceed to order the
nuisances abated as provided in §§
93.52 and
93.53.
§ 93.56  ENFORCEMENT; COURT PROCEEDINGS.
   In case of failure or refusal to comply with any resolution of Council, the
work required thereby may be done at the expense of the corporations and the
amount of money expended therefor shall be a valid claim against the owner,
occupant, or person in charge, and a lien upon the land which may be enforced
by suit in any court of competent jurisdiction.  Proceedings under this section
shall not relieve any party defendant from criminal prosecution or punishment
for violation of any section of this code or any other criminal law or
ordinance in force within the municipality.
WEEDS AND LITTER ON PRIVATE PROPERTY
§ 93.70  KEEPING DOWN WEEDS.
   (A)   Any person owning or having charge of land within the municipality
shall keep the property free and clear from all noxious weeds and rank
vegetation and shall be required to cut all such weeds and vegetation on the
lots owned or controlled by him or her at least twice in every year, once
between June 1 and July 1 and once between August 1 and September 1.
   (B)   Noxious weeds and rank vegetation shall include but not be limited to:
      (1)   Any weeds such as the following:
   Noxious Weeds
   Buckthorn         Musk thistle
   Canada thistle         Oxeye daisy
   Corncockle         Perennial sowthistle
   Cressleaf groundsel      Poison hemlock
   Curly dock         Purple loosestrife
   Dodder            Quackgrass
   Field bindweed      Russian knapweed
   French weed         Russian thistle
   Hairy whitetop      Serrated tussock
   Hedge bindweed      Shatter cane
   Hoary cress         Wild carrot
   Horsenettle         Wild garlic
   Johnsongrass         Wild mustard
   Leafy spurge         Wild onion
   Mile-a-minute weed      Wild parsnip
      (2)   Grapevines when growing in groups of 100 or more and not pruned,
sprayed, cultivated, or otherwise maintained for two consecutive years;
(O.A.C. §§ 901:5-31-01 and 901:5-37-01)
      (3)   Bushes of the species of tall, common, or European barberry,
further known as Berberis vulgaris or its horticultural varieties; and
      (4)   Any weeds, grass, or plants, other than trees, bushes, flowers, or
other ornamental plants, growing to a height exceeding 12 inches.
Statutory reference:
   List of prohibited and secondary noxious weeds, see O.A.C. §§ 901:5-31-01
and 901:5-37-01
§ 93.71  NOTICE TO OWNER TO CUT NOXIOUS WEEDS, REMOVE LITTER; SERVICE.
   (A)   Upon written information that noxious weeds are growing on lands in
the municipality and are about to spread or mature seeds, the Legislative
Authority shall cause written notice to be served on the owner, lessee, agent,
or tenant having charge of the land, notifying him or her that noxious weeds
are growing on the lands and that they must be cut and destroyed within five
days after service of the notice.
   (B)   Upon a finding by the Legislative Authority that litter has been
placed on lands in a municipality, and has not been removed, and constitutes a
detriment to public health, the Legislative Authority shall cause a written
notice to be served upon the owner and, if different, upon the lessee, agent,
or tenant having charge of the littered land, notifying him or her that litter
is on the land, and that it must be collected and removed within 15 days after
the service of the notice.
   (C)   As used in this section and §
93.73, LITTER includes any garbage, waste, peelings of vegetables or fruits,
rubbish, ashes, cans, bottles, wire, paper,  cartons, boxes, parts of
automobiles, wagons, furniture, glass, oil of an unsightly or unsanitary
nature, or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature.
   (D)   If the owner or other person having charge of the land is a
nonresident of the municipality whose address is known, the notice shall be
sent to his or her address by certified mail.  If the address of the owner or
other person having charge of the land is unknown, it is sufficient to publish
the notice once in a newspaper of general circulation in the county.
   (E)   This section does not apply to land being used under a municipal
building or construction permit or license, a municipal permit or license, or a
conditional zoning permit or variance to operate a junkyard, scrap metal
processing facility, or similar business, or a permit or license issued
pursuant to R.C. Chapter 3734, §§ 4737.05 to 4737.12, or R.C. Chapter 6111.
(R.C. § 731.51)
§ 93.72  FEES FOR SERVICE AND RETURN.
   The Police Chief, any police officer, or Clerk-Treasurer may make service
and return of the notice provided for in §
93.71 and shall be allowed the same fees as that provided for service and
return of summons in civil cases before a magistrate.
(R.C. § 731.52)
§ 93.73  PROCEDURE WHEN OWNER FAILS TO COMPLY WITH NOTICE.
   If the owner, lessee, agent, or tenant having charge of the lands mentioned
in §
93.71 fails to comply with the notice required by such section, the Legislative
Authority shall cause such noxious weeds to be cut and destroyed or such litter
removed and may employ the necessary labor to perform the task.  All expenses
incurred shall, when approved by the Legislative Authority, be paid out of the
money in the treasury of the municipality not otherwise appropriated.
(R.C. § 731.53)
§ 93.74  WRITTEN RETURN TO COUNTY AUDITOR; AMOUNT AS A LIEN UPON PROPERTY.
   The Legislative Authority shall make a written return to the County Auditor
of their action under §§
93.71,
93.72, and
93.73, with a statement of the charges for their services, the amount paid for
labor, the fees of the officers serving the notices, and a proper description
of the premises.  These amounts, when allowed, shall be entered upon the tax
duplicate and be a lien upon such lands from and after the date of entry and be
collected as other taxes and returned to the municipality with the General
Fund.
(R.C. § 731.54)
TRIMMING TREES AND SHRUBBERY
§ 93.80  OWNER OF EVERY LOT WITHIN VILLAGE LIMITS SHALL KEEP SHRUBBERY AND
TREES TRIMMED AND NEAT.
   The owner of every lot or parcel of land within the corporate limits of the
village upon which a tree, plant, or shrubbery stands with any part thereof
upon or overhanging a public street or sidewalk shall conform to the
regulations herein provided; otherwise the village shall cause such trees to be
trimmed, or cut down and removed, in accordance with these regulations, and
assess the cost thereof against the owner of the lot or parcel of land.
   (A)   The owner shall trim or cause to be trimmed any tree, plant, or
shrubbery so that a clear height of eight feet between the lowest branches of
the same and the street or sidewalk is maintained.
   (B)   The owner shall trim or remove, as the case may require, every dead,
decayed, or broken tree, plant, or shrubbery, or part thereof, so that the same
shall not fall to the street or sidewalk.
   (C)   The owner shall cut down and remove any tree, plant, or shrubbery, or
any part thereof, as may be necessary to provide a clear and unobstructed view
of traffic from all directions at any street intersection, or to abate any
nuisance necessary to protect life, limb, or property of persons, drivers of
any vehicles, or pedestrians using the street or sidewalk.
(Ord.  18-71, passed  6-11-1971)
§ 93.81  VILLAGE SERVICE DIRECTOR/STREET COMMISSIONER TO TAKE ACTION.
   In the event the owner does not trim or remove any tree, plant, or
shrubbery, or any part thereof, in accordance with the provisions of §
93.80, then the Village Service Director/Street Commissioner is authorized, and
it is declared to be his or her duty to have enforced the provisions of this
section, and to cause to be trimmed or removed the tree, plant, or shrubbery,
or part thereof.
(Ord.  18-71, passed  6-11-1971)
§ 93.82  OWNER RESPONSIBLE FOR ANY TREE OR SHRUBBERY GROWING CONTIGUOUS TO ANY
PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   Whenever any tree, plant, or shrubbery, or part thereof, is growing in any
street, public place, or upon private property contiguous to a street or
sidewalk, or public place, and is trimmed or removed by the village, then,
after the work is done, the village shall give five days’ notice, by registered
mail, to the owner of the lot or parcel of land, at his or her last known
address, to pay the cost of the trimming or removal of trees, plants, or
shrubbery, or parts thereof; the notice shall be accompanied by a statement of
the amount of cost incurred.  In the event the same is not paid within 30 days
after the mailing of the notice, then such amount shall be certified to the
County Auditor for collection of the same as other taxes and assessments are
collected or may be by the village, as in any other civil matter.
(Ord.  18-71, passed  6-11-1971)
§ 93.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation or failure to comply with any provisions of this chapter,
including §
93.05, for which no other penalty is provided, shall be a minor misdemeanor for
the first offense and a fourth degree misdemeanor for each offense thereafter. 
(Ord. 86-8, passed 7-1-1986)
   (B)   Whoever violates §
93.04 shall be fined as set forth in §
10.99.
   (C)   A violation of §
93.23 shall constitute a nuisance, which shall carry a fine, if not corrected
within seven days of receiving notice of the nuisance.  Each day after the
eighth day that the nuisance is not corrected shall constitute a violation and
subject the violator to a fine as set forth in §
10.99.
   (D)   Whoever violates §
93.80 and does not correct the violation within the 48-hour period shall be
fined as set forth in §
10.99.  Each day the violation continues after the 48-hour notice shall
constitute a separate offense. 
(Ord. 12-1980, passed 7-1-1980)
CHAPTER 94:  PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
94.01   Elmwood Avenue Park restricted to residents
   
94.02   Bottles and glasses prohibited in village parks and play areas
   
94.03   Recreation Board
   
94.04   Municipal swimming pool; duties of Park Director
§ 94.01  ELMWOOD AVENUE PARK RESTRICTED TO RESIDENTS.
   (A)   The Elmwood Avenue Park shall be restricted to use by Elmwood Place
residents only.
(Am. Ord. 14-00, passed 11-7-2000)
   (B)   Violation of this section shall be considered a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 21-83, passed 6-7-1983)
§ 94.02  BOTTLES AND GLASSES PROHIBITED IN VILLAGE PARKS AND PLAY AREAS.
   (A)   Bottles and glasses shall not be allowed in the village parks and play
areas.
   (B)   Violation of this section shall be considered a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 4-84, passed 4-3-1984)
§ 94.03  RECREATION BOARD.
   (A)   (1)   In accord with the provisions of R.C. §§ 755.12 through 755.18,
there is hereby established an Elmwood Place Recreation Board.  The Board shall
consist of five persons, two of whom shall be appointed by the School Board. 
The other members shall be appointed by the Mayor with the consent of Council.
      (2)   All members of the Board shall be residents of the village and
shall serve for terms of five years, except that the members first appointed
shall be appointed for such terms that the term of one member shall expire
annually thereafter.  Members of the Board shall serve without pay.  Vacancies
in the Board, occurring otherwise than by expiration of term, shall be for the
unexpired term and shall be filled in the same manner as original appointments.
   (B)   In that the current Recreation Committee was formed in accordance with
division (A) above and is already filling many of the functions of a Recreation
Board, the current Recreation Committee shall assume the positions, duties and
authorities established by this section.
   (C)   The Recreation Board shall elect their own chairperson, secretary,
select all other necessary officers to serve for a period of one year and may
employ such other persons as needed.  The Board may adopt rules for the conduct
of all business within its jurisdiction.
   (D)   The Recreation Board has the authority to supervise, equip, and
maintain all village recreation facilities.  The Board shall organize and
direct all official village recreational activities and events.
   (E)   The Recreation Board shall not have authority for any other activities
or events that are not recreational in nature unless so authorized by the
Village Council.  Council shall likewise, if necessary, define what is or is
not recreational in nature.
   (F)   The Recreation Board has the authority with the approval of Council to
employ such persons as are needed to carry out their programs.  The amount of
compensation for these employees shall be determined by Council.
   (G)   The Recreation Board shall, within the limitations stated in division
(H) below, direct the spending of all funds budgeted to it by Council and such
funds as the Board may raise or otherwise obtain.  The Village Clerk-Treasurer
shall be permitted once yearly, or from time to time as he or she may see fit,
to audit the financial records of the Board and report his or her findings to
Council.
   (H)   The Board must obtain the approval of the Village Council for all
expenditures that exceed 10% of their total yearly budget.
   (I)   The Board may, adopt with the approval of Council, rules for the
preservation of good order within the domain of its jurisdiction.
   (J)   The Mayor shall resolve all questions concerning Recreation Board
jurisdiction relative to other village departments until such time as the
Village Council wishes to address the matter. The Mayor shall be responsible
for the day-to-day supervision of all recreation program personnel. The Mayor
may discipline or dismiss such persons with the approval of Council.
   (K)   The Village Council may by ordinance and majority vote dissolve the
Recreation Board authorized by this section at such time and for any reason it
deems appropriate.
(Ord. 16-94, passed  - -1994)
§ 94.04  MUNICIPAL SWIMMING POOL; DUTIES OF PARK DIRECTOR.
   (A)   In general.  The Park Director shall generally be responsible for
keeping appropriate pool records, for maintaining the health and safety of the
swimming pool environment, for maintaining the premises in a sanitary
condition, for supervising the lifeguards at the municipal swimming pool, and
for providing services to the residents using the pool, as provided more
specifically in further divisions of this section.
   (B)   Records.  The Park Director shall make and preserve records as
follows:
      (1)   All personal injuries to patrons, no matter how small;
      (2)   All disciplinary problems, including lifeguards, and any documents
recording the disbarment of any patron and the reasons therefor;
      (3)   All records required by the Department of Health, including records
of weekly pool operations; and
      (4)   Residency check records and residency cards required to be
completed by all patrons for the pool files, as well as any requests for
temporary swimming permits for guests of residents.
   (C)   Pool safety.  The Park Director shall preserve the safety of the
environment and shall enforce proper rules to keep the premises safe, as
follows:
      (1)   All children under five years of age must be accompanied by an
adult;
      (2)   All bicycles shall be parked in the rear of the building;
      (3)   All swimmers shall immediately exit the pool and the pool must be
closed immediately when bad weather or lightning occurs; and
      (4)   No glass is permitted in the pool at any time.
   (D)   Sanitation; maintenance.  The Park Director shall preserve the
sanitation of the pool environment and shall observe and enforce the following
rules and procedures:
      (1)   All swimmers must wear proper swimming attire;
      (2)   The following procedures shall be completed daily before the pool
is opened to the pool patrons:
         (a)   Clean the filter pit and recoat the filters;
         (b)   Put up the umbrellas;
         (c)   Vacuum the pool and remove all pool debris;
         (d)   Clean the pool scum gutters;
         (e)   Clean all restrooms and dressing areas, and keep them clean
throughout the day;
         (f)   Clean walkways the area behind the building; and
         (g)   Check and stock the first aid kit.
      (3)   The following procedures shall be completed daily upon closing the
pool for the day:
         (a)   Bring the umbrellas in;
         (b)   Pick up and dispose of all trash;
         (c)   Record water readings; and
         (d)   Lock all doors and gates before leaving.
      (4)   The Park Director shall report all maintenance problem conditions
to the Head of Maintenance, who shall determine the need for draining the
refilling the pool and any other corrective measures; and
      (5)   Smoking is permitted only in designated areas.
   (E)   Employee supervision.  The Park Director shall supervise all
lifeguards according to the following rules:
      (1)   Weekly work sheets and schedules shall be prepared in advance,
scheduling all lifeguards;
      (2)   All lifeguards under the age of 18 shall work a maximum of 30 hours
per week, and all lifeguards over the age of 18 shall work a maximum of 40
hours per week;
      (3)   All lifeguards shall be paid for only the hours they work, and none
shall be permitted to “cover” for another;
      (4)   Time sheets are to be filled out daily, recording the entry time in
the morning, times of all breaks and meals, and departure time at the end of
the shift;
      (5)   Lifeguards shall be spread around the pool at all times, including
the baby pool;
      (6)   All lifeguards must have first aid training within the first week
of work;
      (7)   There shall be a lifeguard in the lifeguard chair at all times;
      (8)   Lifeguards shall be assigned maintenance work for times when the
pool is closed for weather and no patrons are admitted; and
      (9)   Lifeguards may use the telephone only for emergencies and as the
Park Director shall permit.
   (F)   Patron health.  The Park Director shall preserve the health of the
patrons by requiring all patrons to shower before entering the pool and by
refusing admission to any patron who may have an infectious condition, as for
example, head lice.
   (G)   Special services; swimming lessons.  The Park Director shall provide
additional services to the patrons including scheduling 15 minutes of adult
swimming in every hour, providing and scheduling swimming lessons to the
residents, and scheduling girls’ nights, boys’ nights, and adult nights.
(Ord. 9-92, passed 6-2-1992)
CHAPTER 95:  STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Construction and Excavations
   
95.01   Conditions precedent to improving streets
   
95.02   Permit required
   
95.03   Street Commissioner’s authority
   
95.04   Permission to close
   
95.05   Permit applications; procedure to apply
   
95.06   Permit application; acceptance of terms
   
95.07   Warning lights
   
95.08   Sidewalk construction
   
95.09   Excavations to repair utilities
   
95.10   Termination order to issue
Maintenance and Repair of Sidewalks
   
95.20   Owners of abutting sidewalks to keep sidewalks in repair
   
95.21   Notice to repair
   
95.22   Nonresident owners
   
95.23   Contents of notice
   
95.24   Right of appeal
   
95.25   Protests
   
95.26   Work done at expense of property owner
   
95.27   Emergencies
   
95.28   Property owners to be billed
   
95.29   Assessment against abutting property
Use, Obstruction of Streets and Sidewalks
   
95.40   Unloading on street, sidewalk
   
95.41   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
95.42   Materials on street or sidewalk
   
95.43   Removal of ice and snow
   
95.44   Display of items for sale near street right-of-way
   
95.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Platting provisions for streets, see
Chapter 152
   Street Commissioner, see §
31.22
CONSTRUCTION AND EXCAVATIONS
§ 95.01  CONDITIONS PRECEDENT TO IMPROVING STREETS.
   No department of the municipality shall accept, lay out, open, improve,
grade, pave, curb, or light any street or other way, unless the street or way:
   (A)   Shall have been accepted or opened, or shall otherwise have received
the legal status of a public street or way prior to the effective date of this
code; or
   (B)   Unless the street or way corresponds in location and extent with a
street or way shown on a recorded plat which shall have been legally accepted
by Council of the municipality.
§ 95.02  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person or agency shall undertake or commence any excavation or removal of
the surface of village streets and roads, or in the public right-of-way,
whether for purposes of repairing underground utilities or otherwise, without
having first obtained a written permit from the village.  For purposes of this
subchapter, the term EXCAVATION shall be construed to include jacking or
tunneling under the roadway.  In cases of emergency, work may be commenced
prior to obtaining a permit, provided that the required permit shall be
obtained without fail on the next working day without exception.
(Ord. 24-90, passed 11-29-1990)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03  STREET COMMISSIONER’S AUTHORITY.
   The Street Commissioner shall be the authorized representative of the
village in all matters pertaining to the granting of permits and shall grant
permits hereunder upon receipt of proper applications therefor, and shall
authorize permittees to close excavations after inspection and approval as
provided herein.
(Ord. 24-90, passed 11-29-1990)
§ 95.04  PERMISSION TO CLOSE.
   Having undertaken excavation under a permit granted hereunder, the permittee
shall not close the excavation without first having given notice of the intent
to close to the Street Commissioner, who shall inspect and authorize closure.
(Ord. 24-90, passed 11-29-1990)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05  PERMIT APPLICATIONS; PROCEDURE TO APPLY.
   (A)   Applications for permits shall be completed on forms provided by the
Street Commissioner, and shall be accompanied by the permit fee set forth
herein, as follows:
      (1)   The permit fee shall be a minimum of $10.00 for any opening up to
three feet by three feet, and $0.50 per lineal foot or fraction thereof for any
portion of the excavation in excess of three feet in any dimension.
      (2)   In addition to the permit fee above, in cases where any underground
service lines are to be uncovered, or are found to be uncovered, there shall be
a charge of $0.50 per lineal foot or a charge of $5.00, whichever is greater.
   (B)   Permit applications shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Exact location of work to be done, with reference to street
address, or intersection;
      (2)   Exact length, width, and depth of cut;
      (3)   Identity of job supervisor;
      (4)   Identity, address, and phone number of the permit applicant and any
contractors and subcontractors who will be involved in completing the work
covered by the permit application; and
      (5)   Anticipated start and finish dates.
(Ord. 24-90, passed 11-29-1990)
§ 95.06  PERMIT APPLICATION; ACCEPTANCE OF TERMS.
   All permits granted hereunder shall be deemed to include the following
conditions and terms, and an application for a permit shall be deemed to be an
acceptance on the part of the permittee of the following terms governing the
permitted work procedures, which shall be construed as conditions of the
permit:
   (A)   All work requiring workers or vehicles to be located on the pavement
or shoulders of the public right-of-way shall comply with the terms of the Ohio
Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices published by the Ohio Department of
Transportation, and any special provisions made by the village and noted on the
permit pertaining to safety procedures to be used to protect passers-by and
workers at or near the job site.
   (B)   All work undertaken under a permit hereunder shall be closed and
permanently restored in accordance with the standards for construction and
materials published by the Ohio Department of Transportation, shown in the
cross-sectional plates attached to Ordinance No. 24-90, which are incorporated
herein and attached hereto by reference, all of which indicate the materials
and methods for restoring various different roadway conditions.
   (C)   In addition to the foregoing, the following conditions and terms shall
be included in all permits:
      (1)   The permit applicant shall be responsible for all contractors and
subcontractors involved;
      (2)   A copy of the permit shall be maintained with a person at the job
site at all times, and shall be shown to village authorities on request;
      (3)   All work shall be completed and performed without cost to the
village;
      (4)   No materials, tools, or vehicles used to complete the work shall be
stored, even temporarily, on the pavement or village right-of-way without the
approval of the village to do so, as appears in the permit granted or as
subsequently approved by the Street Commissioner;
      (5)   All areas disturbed by the operation shall be restored to a
condition comparable or better than to that which existed prior to the work
undertaken;
      (6)   All sidewalks, steps, driveways, drains, mail boxes, traffic signs
and control devices, head walls, poles, fences, and the like that are disturbed
shall be restored to their original condition or better;
      (7)   All pavement and sidewalks shall be kept free of dirt, mud and
debris at all times; and
      (8)   All equipment used on the pavement shall be rubber-tired except for
blacktop rollers.
(Ord. 24-90, passed 11-29-1990)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.07  WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating, or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley, or other
public way, at all times during the night season shall cause at least two
illuminated red lamps to be securely and conspicuously posted on, at, or near
each end of the obstruction or excavation and, if the space involved shall
exceed 50 feet in extent, then at least one additional lamp for each added 50
feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
§ 95.08  SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   It shall be the duty of the Village Engineer or, if none exists, the Street
Commissioner, to supervise construction or repair of sidewalks within the
village.  He or she shall cause specifications to be prepared for the
construction of the various kinds of pavements, and transmit the same to
Council for approval.  When the specifications are approved, Council shall
advertise for proposals to do all the work which may be ordered by the village
in construction and repair of sidewalks, and shall contract therefor, for a
period not exceeding one year, with the lowest responsible bidder, who shall
furnish good and sufficient sureties for the faithful performance of the work. 
The Council, if it deems it advisable, may make separate contracts for the
different kinds of work with different parties.
§ 95.09  EXCAVATIONS TO REPAIR UTILITIES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to excavate village roads and streets, except in
compliance with this section.
   (B)   Any agency which finds it necessary to excavate roadways and streets
in the village to repair utilities shall promptly notify an officer of the
village of the intent to excavate.
   (C)   Upon completion of any such repairs to utilities requiring excavation
of village roads and streets, the repairing agency shall cover the excavation
with steel plate of sufficient strength to carry the traffic over the
excavation without harm to the adjacent roadway and the margins of the
excavation, and shall leave the steel plate in place until permanent repair of
the excavation may be completed.
   (D)   No agency which finds it necessary to excavate in roadways and streets
in the village shall close such an excavation with a temporary asphalt patch.
   (E)   For purposes of construing this section, UTILITIES includes electrical
wiring, telephone cables, gas lines, water lines, and storm and sanitary sewer
lines.
(Ord. 12-90, passed 6-5-1990)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.10  TERMINATION ORDER TO ISSUE.
   The Street Commissioner shall issue a termination order in all cases in
which he or she finds that excavation is taking place without a permit, or
where a permit cannot be produced at the site for display to village
authorities on request.
(Ord. 24-90, passed 11-29-1990)
MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR OF SIDEWALKS
§ 95.20  OWNERS OF ABUTTING SIDEWALKS TO KEEP SIDEWALKS IN REPAIR.
   Where land abuts on a street where there is a paved sidewalk, the owner or
owners of the land shall be jointly and severally responsible for causing the
paved sidewalk or sidewalk area (including driveways and the grass strip)
abutting the land to be kept in repair and free from nuisance.
(Ord. 20-90, passed 1-2-1991)
§ 95.21  NOTICE TO REPAIR.
   Whenever the Street Commissioner or his or her duly authorized
representative shall find that any sidewalk should be constructed or that any
paved sidewalk or sidewalk area (including driveways and the grass strip), is
not in repair or is not free from nuisance, the owner of the abutting property
shall be notified, in writing, to have the necessary construction,
reconstruction or repairs made.
   (A)   Such notice shall be served on the owner or owners or the agent in
charge of the property in the manner provided by law for the service of summons
in civil actions, or by certified mail addressed to the owner or owners or
agent at the last known address or at the address to which tax bills are sent,
or by a combination of the foregoing methods.  The return of the person serving
the notice or a certified copy thereof, or a returned receipt for notice
forwarded by certified mail accepted by the addressee or anyone purporting to
act for the addressee shall be prima facie evidence of the service of notice
under this section.
   (B)   For the purpose of the service, any person charged with the collection
of rents or the payment of taxes on the property or having general control of
it in any way, shall be considered the agent of the owner.
(Ord. 20-90, passed 1-2-1991)
§ 95.22  NONRESIDENT OWNERS.
   If it appears by the return of service or the return of the certified mail
notice provided for in §
95.21 that one or more of the owners cannot be found, the owners shall be
served by publication of the notice once in a newspaper of general circulation
in the County of Hamilton.
(Ord. 20-90, passed 1-2-1991)
§ 95.23  CONTENTS OF NOTICE.
   The notice provided for in §§
95.21 and
95.22 shall identify the property and give the location of the sidewalk and the
period of time allowed the property owner to have the work done by private
contract.  Such time shall be reasonable, but shall not be less than 45 days
from the date of service of notice or the mailing of the certified mail notice
provided for in §
95.21.
(Ord. 20-90, passed 1-2-1991)
§ 95.24  RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall serve as a board to hear and determine any
protests filed by property owners or their agents as to sidewalk construction,
reconstruction, or repair.
(Ord. 20-90, passed 1-2-1991)
§ 95.25  PROTESTS.
   (A)   Protests filed prior to work.  If protests are filed prior to the
doing of the work called for by notice from the Street Commissioner, the Board
of Zoning Appeals shall have authority to notify, alter and revoke any such
notice, as to the amount or type of work required, or the time in which it must
be completed, consistent with the village ordinances and the specifications
regarding sidewalk construction, reconstruction or repair.  The Board shall
also have the authority to waive strict compliance with such requirements where
such compliance would cause undue hardship, provided the waiver will not cause
or continue a public nuisance or an unsafe condition.
   (B)   Protest filed after work is completed.  If protests are filed after
the work provided for in the notice to the property owner has been done, the
Board’s authority shall be limited to determining that the amount of the bill
is correct and is charged against the right property, and that the work done
was in accordance with the notice to the property owner.  If the Board shall
find that an amount has been incorrectly charged against the property, but the
work has been done for which the village contractor is entitled to payment, it
may order the payment made from village funds.
   (C)   Protests to be filed in writing.  Any protests regarding sidewalk
construction, reconstruction or repairs, or the assessment therefor shall be
filed in writing with the Village Engineer, who shall notify the person filing
the protest of the date and place of hearing before the Appeal Board.
(Ord. 20-90, passed 1-2-1991)
§ 95.26  WORK DONE AT EXPENSE OF PROPERTY OWNER.
   If a sidewalk is not constructed, or if a defective sidewalk is not
reconstructed, repaired or freed from nuisance within the period of time
permitted by the notice to the owner of the abutting property, the Street
Commissioner shall cause the work to be done by contract or by village forces,
or both, and the entire cost shall be charged against the property.
(Ord. 20-90, passed 1-2-1991)
§ 95.27  EMERGENCIES.
   In case of emergency, the Street Commissioner is authorized to have
temporary repairs made, or to barricade and red-light the area, or otherwise
provide for the public safety.  The cost of all such emergency repair and
protection shall be charged against the abutting property and shall be
collected as provided in §§
95.28 and
95.29.
(Ord. 20-90, passed 1-2-1991)
§ 95.28  PROPERTY OWNERS TO BE BILLED.
   Upon completion by the village of any sidewalk construction, repairs, or
reconstruction as provided by §§
95.26 and
95.27, the owner of the abutting property, or the owner’s agents, shall be
billed for the cost and expense of the work.  Such bill shall include:
   (A)   All construction costs, including all costs of temporary repairs,
barricading and red-lighting in emergency cases;
   (B)   All permits;
   (C)   A charge for administrative costs of $12.50 or 18% of the construction
costs, whichever is larger.
(Ord. 20-90, passed 1-2-1991)
§ 95.29  ASSESSMENT AGAINST ABUTTING PROPERTY.
   Bills issued under §
95.28 shall be payable within 30 days from the date of the bills.  Bills not
paid within 30 days shall be reported to Council for assessment against the
abutting property, in conformance with R.C. Chapter 729.
(Ord. 20-90, passed 1-2-1991)
USE, OBSTRUCTION OF STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
§ 95.40  UNLOADING ON STREET, SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the
municipality, by throwing or letting the same fall upon the pavement of any
street, alley, sidewalk, or other public way, without first placing some
sufficient protection over the pavement.
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.41  STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   (A)   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public
way in the municipality, by erecting thereon any fence or building, or
permitting any fence or building to remain thereon.  Each day that any such
fence or building is permitted to remain upon the public way shall be deemed a
separate offense.
   (B)   No person shall place any obstruction in or upon a street without
proper authority.
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.42  MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk, or being the owner,
occupant, or person having the care of any building or lot of land bordering on
any street or sidewalk, permit the same to be encumbered with barrels, boxes,
cans, articles, or substances of any kind, so as to interfere with the free and
unobstructed use thereof.
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.43  REMOVAL OF ICE AND SNOW.
   (A)   The owner, occupant, or person having the care of any building or lot
of land bordering on any street with graded or paved sidewalk, within the first
four hours after daylight, following or during a fall of snow, shall cause the
snow to be removed from the walk; and this provision shall include snow or ice
falling from any building.
   (B)   Whenever a sidewalk or any part thereof shall become encumbered with
ice, the owner, occupant, or person in control, within the first four hours
after daylight, following or during its formation, shall cause the sidewalk to
be made safe by removing the ice or sprinkling the same with sand or other
suitable substance.
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.44  DISPLAY OF ITEMS FOR SALE NEAR STREET RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall display any vehicle regulated by
the Ohio Motor Vehicles Law, or any other item of merchandise or produce for
sale along the streets or highways within the village, nearer than 25 feet to
the right-of-way line of the street or highway.  No model or sample from which
the sale of other vehicles or merchandise is to be made shall be so displayed.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A), this section shall not
be construed to prohibit the display or sale of merchandise for sale within the
limits above mentioned where a building or structure is presently erected or is
authorized to be erected under the zoning and building laws of the village, and
the display for sale is no closer to the right-of-way than the front building
line of the building.
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who undertakes excavation on village streets or the public
right-of-way without having first obtained a permit shall be guilty of
unpermitted excavation of public streets, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (B)   Any person who undertakes excavation on village streets pursuant to a
permit obtained under the provisions of §§
95.02 through
95.06 and
95.10, who knowingly or voluntarily breaches a condition of the permit as
defined herein, shall be guilty of violation of an excavation permit, a minor
misdemeanor.
   (C)   In cases of violation hereunder, each day that a condition or
prohibited conduct continues shall be a separate offense, and shall be
separately charged.  (Ord. 24-90, passed 11-29-1990)
   (D)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is otherwise provided shall be fined as set forth in §
10.99.
TITLE XI:  BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
111.   ADMISSION TAX
      
112.   BILLBOARDS
      
113.   COMMERCIAL AMUSEMENTS
      
114.   ROOMING HOUSES
      
115.   TAXICABS AND OTHER PUBLIC VEHICLES
      
116.   VENDORS AND SOLICITORS
      
117.   VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER AUTHORIZATIONS
CHAPTER 110:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Occupational license required; fee; expiration
   
110.02   Application for license
   
110.03   Inspection of business location; notice of issuance or denial
   
110.04   Tax credit
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01  OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE; EXPIRATION.
   (A)   No person shall engage in any business, trade or profession in the
village without first applying for and obtaining an occupational license.
   (B)   The annual fee for the license shall be $100.  The license shall
expire on the last day of the twelfth month and shall be renewed within 15 days
after the date of expiration.
(Ord. 16-88, passed 8-2-1988)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02  APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Application for the license shall require the following information:
      (1)   Name, address, and phone number of company and type of business
contemplated;
      (2)   Name, home address, and phone number of owner;
      (3)   Name, home address, and phone number of chief officer;
      (4)   Number of employees; and
      (5)   Such other information as may be necessary to determine that the
business, trade or profession is permitted by law.
   (B)   All original applications for licenses, unless otherwise specifically
provided, shall be made in writing to the Village Clerk-Treasurer on forms to
be prepared and furnished by the Clerk-Treasurer.  Any person already engaged
in any business, trade or profession shall apply for and obtain a license
within seven days after the effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. 16-88, passed 8-2-1988)
§ 110.03  INSPECTION OF BUSINESS LOCATION; NOTICE OF ISSUANCE OR DENIAL.
   A copy of the application shall be sent to the Building Inspector and Fire
Inspector who shall make an inspection of the business location as soon as
feasible to determine whether or not it is in substantial compliance with the
zoning code, the Hamilton County Building Code, regulations of the Hamilton
County Board of Health, state fire regulations, and in a safe and sanitary
condition.  The Building Inspector shall thereupon either notify the applicant
by certified mail with return receipt that the application has been approved
and that the license can be obtained from the Village Clerk-Treasurer within 30
days, or notify the applicant that his or her business or business place does
not comply with the law and in what respects, and order it to be brought into
compliance within 30 days from the date of the original inspection and a
license secured.
(Ord. 16-88, passed 8-2-1988)
§ 110.04  TAX CREDIT.
   At the end of the fiscal year, the tax office shall issue a $75 credit to
businesses, trades or professions which have paid $75 in taxes to the village.
(Ord. 16-88, passed 8-2-1988)
§ 110.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more than
$100.  Each day the violation continues constitutes a separate offense.
(Ord. 16-88, passed 8-2-1988)
CHAPTER 111:  ADMISSION TAX
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Tax levied
   
111.03   Exemptions from tax
   
111.04   Price to be marked on ticket
   
111.05   Monthly reports
   
111.06   Administration of chapter; rules and regulations
   
111.07   License
   
111.08   Refunds
   
111.09   Lien
   
111.10   Additional assessment
   
111.11   Estimated assessment
   
111.12   Estimated additional assessment
   
111.13   Time of payment
   
111.14   Application for reassessment
   
111.15   Notices authorized to be mailed
   
111.16   Application for refund
   
111.17   Monies received, where credited
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   ADMISSION.  Seats, chairs, tables, and benches, reserved or otherwise, and
other similar accommodations, and charges made, or fees collected, for forms of
entertainment or amusement.
   CLERK.  The Clerk-Treasurer of Elmwood Place.
   PERSON.  Individuals, firms, partnerships, associations, and corporations.
   TREASURER.  The Clerk-Treasurer of the village.
§ 111.02  TAX LEVIED.
   (A)   For the purpose of providing revenue to defray a portion of current
expenses and other expenditures of the village there is levied:
      (1)   A tax of 3% of the amounts received for the admission to any place,
including admission by season ticket or subscription;
      (2)   A tax of 3% on the excess of amounts received for tickets or cards
of admission to theaters, operas, and other places of amusement or
entertainment, sold at newsstands, hotels, and places other than the ticket
offices of the theaters, operas, or other place of amusement or entertainment,
over and above the amount representing the established price thereof at those
ticket offices, such tax to be returned and paid in the manner and subject to
the interest provided in §
111.05, by the person selling the tickets;
      (3)   A tax of 3% on the amount received for admission to any public
performance for profit at any roof garden, cabaret, or other similar
entertainment in case of charge for admission is in the form of a service
charge, or cover charge, or a similar charge in whatsoever form; provided, that
if the charge is in the form of a fixed minimum service charge to the admitted,
the tax shall be computed upon one-third of the fixed minimum service charge;
      (4)   A tax of 3% upon fees collected by horse riding academies, whether
for membership or as rental or hire for horses or other services; and
      (5)   A tax of 3% upon fees collected by bowling alleys, miniature golf
courses, golf practice ranges, swimming pools, and other similar amusement or
entertainment places or devices, for the use of the facilities.
   (B)   In case of persons (except bona fide employees, municipal officers on
official business, and children under the age for which a charge is regularly
made) admitted free or at reduced rates to any place at a time when and under
which an admission charge is made to other persons, an equivalent tax shall be
collected based on the price so charged to these other persons for the same or
similar accommodations, to be paid by the person so admitted.
§ 111.03  EXEMPTIONS FROM TAX.
   (A)   No tax shall be levied under this chapter with respect to any
admissions, all the proceeds of which inure:
      (1)   Exclusively to the benefit of religious, educational, or charitable
institutions, societies, or organizations, societies or organizations for the
prevention of cruelty to children or animals, or societies or organizations
conducted for the sole purpose of maintaining symphony orchestras, and
receiving substantial support from voluntary contributions, if no part of the
net earnings thereof inures to the benefit of any private stockholders or
individual;
      (2)   Exclusively to the benefit of persons in the military or naval
forces of the United States, or of national guard organizations, reserve
officers associations or organizations, if the posts, organizations, units, or
societies are organized in the State of Ohio, and if no part of their net
earnings inure to the benefit of any private stockholder or individual;
      (3)   Exclusively to the benefit of persons who have served in the
military or naval forces of the United States and are in need; and/or
      (4)   Exclusively to the benefit of members of the police or fire
department of any Hamilton County municipal corporation, or the dependents or
heirs of the members.
   (B)   The exemption from tax provided by this section shall not be allowed
in case of admissions to wrestling matches, prize fights, or boxing, sparring,
or other pugilistic matches or exhibitions; nor in the case of admissions to
any athletic game or exhibition the proceeds of which inure wholly or partly to
the benefit of any high school, academy, preparatory, or other school, wherein
the admission price is $.76 or more, or wholly or partly to the benefit of any
college or university. 
§ 111.04  PRICE TO BE MARKED ON TICKET.
   The price (exclusive of any tax to be paid by the person paying for
admission) at which every admission ticket or card is sold shall be
conspicuously and indelibly printed, stamped, or written on the face or back of
that part of the ticket which is to be taken up by the management of the
theater, opera, or any other place of amusement, together with the name of the
vendor if sold other than at a ticket office of the place of amusement. 
Whoever sells an admission ticket or card  on which the name of the vendor and
price is not so printed, stamped, or written, or at a price in excess of the
price so printed, stamped, or written thereon, shall be fined as set forth in §
111.99.
§ 111.05  MONTHLY REPORTS.
   (A)   Every person receiving any payments for admission or fees, taxable
under this chapter, shall, on or before the tenth day of each calendar month,
make a return in duplicate under oath to the Clerk-Treasurer in such form as
the Clerk-Treasurer may prescribe, showing the number of taxable admissions
issued or disposed of and/or the amount of taxable dues and/or fees collected
during the preceding calendar month, the amount of tax hereby imposed on the
same, and any other facts and information as the Clerk-Treasurer may require in
the form of returns prescribed by him or her; one copy of the return shall be
for the use of the Clerk-Treasurer and the other shall be filed by the Clerk-
Treasurer in the municipal office.
   (B)   Each person making such return shall at the time of making the same
pay the amount of taxes shown thereby to the Clerk-Treasurer.  These payments
shall be paid into the municipal treasury.  The Clerk-Treasurer may adopt
uniform rules and regulations not inconsistent with this section governing the
method of making returns and payments.
   (C)   If the tax imposed by this chapter is not paid when due, there shall
be added, as a part of the tax, interest at the rate of 1% a month from the
time when the tax became due until paid.
§ 111.06  ADMINISTRATION OF CHAPTER; RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall have power to adopt and promulgate such
rules and regulations as he or she may deem necessary to carry out the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Each person required by this chapter to collect and pay, or to pay the
taxes imposed hereby, shall keep such records of receipts, issuance of
complimentary tickets, and otherwise, together with tickets, stubs, and other
pertinent requirements on forms as the Clerk-Treasurer may by regulation
require.  These records and other documents shall be open at any time during
business hours to the inspection of the Clerk-Treasurer and shall be preserved
for a period of three years, unless the Clerk-Treasurer shall consent in
writing to their destruction within that period, or require in writing that
they be kept longer.  The Clerk-Treasurer may require any person required by
this chapter to collect and pay the tax hereby imposed to file with him or her
a bond, subject to the approval of the Solicitor, with security to the approval
of the Clerk-Treasurer, and in an amount as the Clerk-Treasurer may fix,
conditioned for the collection and payment of any taxes due or which may become
due from those persons.  The bond when approved by the Clerk-Treasurer shall be
deposited in his or her office.  In lieu of this bond, securities approved by
the Clerk-Treasurer may be deposited and kept by him or her as security for the
payment of the tax, interest, or penalty, or both.  The Clerk-Treasurer may
sell any securities as so deposited with him or her at public or private sale
without notice to the depositor thereof, if it becomes necessary to do so in
order to recover the amount of the tax, interest, or penalty, or both due or
unpaid.  Upon any such sale the surplus, if any, above the amounts so due and
unpaid shall be returned to the depositor of the securities.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer may by these regulations permit any person making
a refund of any payment upon which a tax is collected under this chapter to
repay therewith the amount of the tax collected on the payment, and provide for
the crediting of the amount to subsequent return.
§ 111.07  LICENSE.
   (A)   No person shall conduct any form of amusement at any permanent or
temporary place of amusement or any itinerant form of amusement within the
village without a license therefor, as hereinafter provided.  Every person
desiring to continue to conduct or as hereafter provided to begin to conduct
any such amusement at any permanent or temporary place of amusement or any
itinerant form of amusement within this municipality shall file an application
for a permanent, temporary, or itinerant form of amusement license or licenses,
as the case may be, with the Clerk-Treasurer.  Every application for a license
or licenses shall be made upon a form prescribed, prepared, and furnished by
the Clerk-Treasurer, and shall set forth the name under which the applicant
conducts or intends to conduct an amusement, whether the applicant conducts or
intends to conduct a permanent or temporary form of amusement, the location of
the permanent or temporary place of amusement, and any other information as the
Clerk-Treasurer may require.  If the applicant has or intends to have more than
one place of amusement within the municipality, the application shall state the
location of each place of amusement and, in the case of itinerant form of
amusement, the date and length of time the amusement is to be conducted at each
place.  In the case of the application for a license for a temporary place of
amusement, the application shall state the name and address of the owner, or
lessee, or custodian of the premises upon which the amusement is to be
conducted, and any other information prescribed by the Clerk-Treasurer for the
purpose of identification.  The application shall be signed and verified by
oath or affirmation by the person conducting the amusement, if a natural
person, or in case of an association, by a member or partner thereof, or in the
case of a corporation, by an executive officer thereof or some person
specifically authorized by the corporation to sign the application, to which
shall be attached the written evidence of his or her authority.  At the time of
making the application, the applicant shall pay to the Clerk-Treasurer a fee of
$10 for each license.
   (B)   Upon approval of the application and the payment of any license fee or
fees herein required, the Clerk-Treasurer shall grant and issue to each
applicant (unless withheld for a cause) a permanent, temporary, or itinerant
amusement license for each place of amusement within this municipality set
forth in his or her application.  An amusement license shall be valid only for
a person in whose name it is issued and for the conduct of amusements at the
place designated therein; it shall not be assignable; it shall be conspicuously
displayed at the place or places for which issued during the period of ticket
sale and conduct of amusement.  All licenses for permanent places of amusement
shall be for a period of 12 months following the date upon which they are
issued, unless sooner surrendered by the licensee, or suspended or revoked for
cause by the Clerk-Treasurer.  Licenses for temporary places of amusement or
for forms of itinerant amusement shall expire at the time specified therein. 
The holder of an itinerant amusement license shall notify the Clerk-Treasurer
promptly of any change in the original contemplated itinerary, either as to
date or time of the conduct of the amusement at each place.
   (C)   Licenses issued for permanent places of amusement under the provisions
of this chapter may be renewed annually upon application made to the Clerk-
Treasurer and the payment of a renewal fee of $10.
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer may suspend or, after hearing, revoke an amusement
license whenever he or she finds that the holder thereof has failed to comply
with any of the provisions of this chapter or any rules or regulations of the
Clerk-Treasurer prescribed, adopted, and promulgated under this chapter.  Upon
suspending or revoking any amusement license the Clerk-Treasurer shall require
the holder thereof to surrender to him or her immediately all licenses or
duplicates thereof issued to the holder, and the holder shall surrender
promptly all the licenses to the Clerk-Treasurer as required.  Whenever the
Clerk-Treasurer suspends an amusement license, he or she shall notify the
holder immediately and afford him or her a hearing, if no hearing has already
been afforded and one is desired.  After the hearing the Clerk-Treasurer shall
either rescind his or her order of suspension or, upon good cause appearing
therefor, shall continue the suspension or revoke the license.
   (E)   No owner, lessee, or custodian of the premises upon which an amusement
is to be conducted shall lease or permit the same to be used by any person who
is not the owner of a license duly issued by the Clerk-Treasurer hereunder. 
Any owner, lessee, or custodian who leases to, or permits the premises to be
used for these purposes by a person who is not the owner of a license duly
issued hereunder, shall be liable for the amount of taxes levied under the
provisions of this chapter in connection with any amusement so conducted upon
the premises, and the taxes shall be a lien upon the premises.
   (F)   When an exemption from the payment of the admission tax is granted by
the Clerk-Treasurer for a given amusement or series of amusements in accordance
with the provisions of §
111.03, the exemption shall be considered as the equivalent of the license
herein provided for.  The exemption form, if executed on behalf of the Clerk-
Treasurer, shall be displayed in the same manner as is provided for the
license.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.08  REFUNDS.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall refund any tax or license fee erroneously paid or
to the extent overpaid on license application or tax return or on assessment or
other demand of the Clerk-Treasurer.  The Clerk-Treasurer on application of the
taxpayer or otherwise may determine the amount of any such erroneous or
overpayment and certify the amount to the Clerk-Treasurer.  The Clerk-Treasurer
shall thereupon draw his or her warrant for the certified amount on the Clerk-
Treasurer to the person entitled to the refund.  For the purpose of paying the
refunds, the Clerk-Treasurer shall place $100 from taxes collected under this
chapter in a special fund, which the Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized and
directed to establish and to be known as the “Admissions Tax Rotary Fund,” and
thereafter as required by the depletion thereof he or she shall place to the
credit of the Rotary Fund a sum sufficient to make the total of the fund at the
time of each credit amount to $100. 
§ 111.09  LIEN.
   (A)   The taxes imposed by this chapter shall be a lien upon all the
property of any person required to collect and pay or to pay the same.  If he
or she shall sell out his or her business or shall quit business, the person
shall be required to make out the return provided for under this chapter within
30 days after the date of sale of the business, or retirement therefrom, and
his or her successors in business shall be required to withhold a sufficient
amount of the purchase money to cover the amount of the taxes so collected and
unpaid, together with interest, if any, until such time as the former owner
shall produce a receipt from the Clerk-Treasurer showing that the taxes have
been paid, or a certificate that no taxes are due.  If the purchaser of a
business shall fail to withhold purchase money as above provided, and the taxes
so collected shall be due and unpaid after the 30-day period allowed, he or she
shall be liable for the payment of the taxes collected and unpaid on account of
the operation of the business by the former owner, together with interest, as
provided by this chapter.
   (B)   The lien for unpaid taxes herein imposed shall not become effective
until such time as the Clerk-Treasurer shall certify to the County Auditor of
Hamilton County the amount of taxes delinquent, and the certification is placed
on record by the County Recorder in a book maintained for the purpose.
§ 111.10  ADDITIONAL ASSESSMENT.
   If the Clerk-Treasurer is not satisfied with the return and payment of taxes
made by any person under the provisions of this chapter, he or she is hereby
authorized and empowered to make an additional assessment of the tax due by the
taxpayer, based upon the facts contained in the return or otherwise acquired. 
Promptly after the date of the additional assessment, the Clerk-Treasurer shall
give or send by mail a notice thereof to the person, together with written
notice of a time when, and the place where, the person may be heard on a
petition for reassessment as hereinafter provided.
§ 111.11  ESTIMATED ASSESSMENT.
   If a person whose duty it is to collect and pay or to pay the taxes imposed
by this chapter shall neglect or refuse to file any return required by this
chapter, or having tendered a return shall neglect or refuse to pay the amount
of taxes imposed by this chapter as shown by the return, the Clerk-Treasurer
shall make an estimated assessment of the probable amount of the taxes payable
by the delinquent, to which shall be added a penalty of 10% of the amount
assessed.  The Clerk-Treasurer shall promptly thereafter give or send by mail
notice of the estimated assessment and penalty to the person against whom the
same shall have been made.
§ 111.12  ESTIMATED ADDITIONAL ASSESSMENT.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall have the power to make an estimated additional
assessment, to which shall be added a penalty of 10% of the assessment, against
any person who has filed any return as required by this chapter, but who
refuses to permit the Clerk-Treasurer or a duly authorized deputy to examine
his or her books of account and papers pertaining to the business for which the
return was made.  The Clerk-Treasurer shall promptly thereafter give or send by
mail notice of the estimated additional assessment and penalty to the person,
together with written notice of the time when and the place where the person
may be heard on a petition for reassessment, as hereinafter provided.
§ 111.13  TIME OF PAYMENT.
   All taxes and penalties resulting from any assessment made by the Clerk-
Treasurer shall be due and payable ten days after notice thereof is given or
sent by mail to the person against whom the assessment shall have been made. 
§ 111.14  APPLICATION FOR REASSESSMENT.
   (A)   Any person against whom an additional assessment, estimated
assessment, or estimated additional assessment shall be made by the Clerk-
Treasurer may file an application for reassessment with the Clerk-Treasurer. 
The application shall be filed within 30 days after receipt of notice of the
estimated assessment and penalty from the Clerk-Treasurer, and shall contain
all the arguments and reasons why the assessment and/or penalty should be
reversed, vacated, or modified.  Within 20 days of the filing of the
application for reassessment, the Clerk-Treasurer shall redetermine his or her
former assessment or estimated assessment and shall either affirm, reverse,
vacate, or modify the same.
   (B)   The determination shall be final, and the assessment, estimated
assessment, or estimated additional assessment shall become payable ten days
after notice thereof is given or sent by mail to the person filing the
application, unless the person, within the ten days, shall give notice of
intention to appeal to the Common Pleas Court of Hamilton County, Ohio.  The
appeal to the court shall be filed within 30 days after receipt of the notice
from the Clerk-Treasurer. 
§ 111.15  NOTICES AUTHORIZED TO BE MAILED.
   Any notice authorized or required under the provisions of this chapter may
be given by mailing the same to the person for whom it is intended, in a
postpaid envelope addressed to the person at the address given in the last
return filed by him or her pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, or if no
return has been filed then to such address as may be obtainable.  The mailing
of such notices shall be prima facie evidence of the receipt of the same by the
person to whom addressed.  Any period of time which is determined according to
the provisions of this chapter by the giving of notice shall commence to run
from the date of mailing the notice. 
§ 111.16  APPLICATION FOR REFUND.
   If within one year from the payment of any tax or penalty the payer or his
or her executors, administrators, successors, or assigns shall make application
for a refund, for the benefit of the person from whom the tax was collected,
and the Clerk-Treasurer shall determine that the tax or penalty, or any portion
thereof, was erroneously or illegally collected, and that it can and will be
duly refunded to the persons from whom it was collected, the Clerk-Treasurer
shall issue his or her certificate showing the amount erroneously or illegally
collected, in duplicate, to the Clerk-Treasurer, who shall thereupon draw his
or her warrant for the certified amount on the Clerk-Treasurer to the person
entitled to the refund, out of the Admissions Tax Rotary Fund.  For like cause
and within the same period, a refund may be made on the initiative of the
Clerk-Treasurer; but no refund shall be made of a tax or penalty paid pursuant
to a determination of the Clerk-Treasurer as provided for in §
111.14, unless the Clerk-Treasurer, after a hearing as provided in that
section, or on his or her own motion, shall have reduced the tax or penalty, or
it shall have been established by an appeal to the Common Pleas Court of
Hamilton County, Ohio, as provided in this section, that the determination was
erroneous or illegal, in which event a refund shall be made as herein provided,
upon the termination of the appeal.  An application for a refund, made as
herein provided, shall be deemed a petition for reassessment within the meaning
of §
111.14 and the Clerk-Treasurer may receive additional evidence with respect
thereto.  After making his or her determination, the Clerk-Treasurer shall give
notice thereof to the applicant and the applicant shall have the right to
appeal as provided in §
111.14.
§ 111.17  MONIES RECEIVED, WHERE CREDITED.
   The monies received under the provisions of this chapter shall be credited
to the General Fund of the village.
§ 111.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever begins to conduct or continues to conduct any form of amusement, any
permanent or temporary place of amusement, or any itinerant form of amusement
without having a license, as provided in this chapter; whoever, being a person
charged by any section of this chapter with the duty of collecting or paying
the taxes imposed by this chapter and willfully fails or refuses to charge and
collect or to pay the taxes, or to make return to the Clerk-Treasurer as
required by this chapter, or to permit the Clerk- Treasurer or his or her duly
authorized agent to examine his or her books and other records in or upon any
premises where the same are kept, to the extent necessary to verify any return
made or to ascertain and assess the tax imposed by this chapter if no return
was made, or to maintain and keep for three years or a lesser or greater time
as may be permitted or required by the Clerk-Treasurer, such records, ticket
stubs, and other documents pertaining to the sale or other disposition of
admissions, as may be required by the Clerk-Treasurer; and whoever, being the
holder of a license issued under the provisions of this chapter, displays the
license at the place for which the license was issued, during a period of
suspension or after revocation of the same by the Clerk-Treasurer, and during a
period of ticket sale and conduct or amusement, shall be fined as set forth in
§
10.99.
CHAPTER 112:  BILLBOARDS
Section
   
112.01   Billboards prohibited
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01  BILLBOARDS PROHIBITED.
   No billboard shall be erected or maintained within the municipal limits of
the village.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates §
112.01 shall be fined as set forth in §
10.99.
CHAPTER 113:  COMMERCIAL AMUSEMENTS
Section
Pinball Machines
   
113.01   Pinball and similar amusement machines
   
113.02   Definitions
   
113.03   License fees
   
113.04   Application for license
   
113.05   Reserved
   
113.06   Mechanical requirements
   
113.07   Transfer of license
   
113.08   Inspection by police
   
113.09   Change of location
   
113.10   Information to be furnished by distributors
   
113.11   Revocation of license
   
113.12   Seizure and destruction of pinball machines
   
113.13   Appeal to Council
Billiard Tables and Bowling Alleys
   
113.25   Billiard tables and bowling alleys
   
113.26   Hours of operation of billiard tables
Circuses
   
113.35   Circuses; license fee
   
113.99   Penalty
PINBALL MACHINES
§ 113.01  PINBALL AND SIMILAR AMUSEMENT MACHINES.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall engage in the business of selling,
leasing, renting, operating, or exhibiting pinball machines, without first
obtaining a license so to do and conforming to the regulations provided for the
business in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. 
Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following words and phrases shall
have the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   DISTRIBUTOR.  Any person, firm, or corporation which sells, leases, rents,
or otherwise distributes pinball machines within the village.
   EXHIBITOR.  A person, firm, or corporation owning or conducting a place of
business in the village, and operating or exhibiting one or more pinball
machines at this place of business.
   PINBALL MACHINES.  Pinball machines, electronic machines, marble machines,
and any similar amusement devices, operated by the insertion of a coin, disc,
or other insertion piece and which register or may register a score after the
insertion of  the coin, disc, or other insertion piece.  It shall not include
coin-operated vending machines, music machines, motion picture machines, or
other machines or devices used solely for the vending of service, food, or
merchandise.
(Am. Ord. 19-83, passed 6-7-1983)
§ 113.03  LICENSE FEES.
   Every distributor shall pay an annual license fee of $200 and every
exhibitor shall pay an annual license fee of $25 plus a fee of $50 for each
pinball machine maintained or exhibited.  An exhibitor operating at more than
one location shall pay a license fee for each location.  Each license shall run
for a period of one year, beginning January 1 of each year.
§ 113.04  APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Applications for distributor’s and exhibitor’s license or for pinball
machine licenses shall be made to the Mayor.  Applications for distributor’s
license shall in particular set forth the places of business and residence of
the distributor.  If the distributor is a firm, the place of residence of all
the partners shall be furnished.  If the distributor is a corporation, the
place of residence of the chief business manager or other controlling executive
officer shall be furnished.  Applications for exhibitor’s license shall, in
addition, state the number of pinball machines for which licenses are requested
and the location of the premises in which the pinball machines are to be
exhibited.  If the Mayor and a majority of Council are satisfied that the
applicant has complied with all the provisions of this and the following
sections, and is otherwise eligible to be a licensee, a license shall be issued
to the applicant on payment of the fees.  The license stamps for pinball
machines shall specify the locations in which they are to be exhibited and
maintained.
   (B)   Each license stamp shall be attached to the machine for which it is
issued, so as to be in plain view of the persons playing the same.
(Am. Ord. 29-71, passed 12-15-1971)
§ 113.05  RESERVED.
§ 113.06  MECHANICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No exhibitor or other person shall exhibit, operate, or have in his or her
possession a pinball machine which is so constructed as to make possible,
either directly or by the use of adjustment, the return of cash, tickets, disc,
or other tokens or certificates of any kind to a player operating the same,
whether or not the tokens or certificates have a value of any kind, or
authorize further playing or other privileges.  Only machines operated
exclusively for the amusement provided by the operation thereof shall be
licensed.
Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.07  TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   When the business of a distributor or exhibitor is sold or otherwise
transferred, the license of the distributor or exhibitor may be transferred to
the transferee, with the consent of the Mayor, for the remainder of the license
period, if the latter shall be satisfied that the successor would be eligible
to receive a new license.  The transfer of an exhibitor’s license issued to him
or her shall be noted on the books of the village, and upon the license stamps
issued for the pinball machines. 
§ 113.08  INSPECTION BY POLICE.
   All pinball machines and all premises in which the machines are maintained
or exhibited shall be open to inspection by the police at all times.
§ 113.09  CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   No licensed pinball machine shall be removed from one premises to another,
or from one room to another room on the same premises, unless the new location
shall be approved by the Mayor.
Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.10  INFORMATION TO BE FURNISHED BY DISTRIBUTORS.
   Not later than the fifth day of each month, every distributor shall furnish
the Mayor with a list of all new contracts for the sale, leasing, or renting of
one or more pinball machines entered into during the preceding month, with
persons residing or doing business in Elmwood Place, giving the names and
addresses of these persons and the dates of the contracts.  The Mayor shall
file the reports and maintain them for the inspection of the police, for the
period of not less than one year.
Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.11  REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Should any distributor or exhibitor violate or fail to comply with any of
the provisions of this chapter, it shall be the duty of the Mayor to revoke his
or her license.  In case of revocation of an exhibitor’s license, the licenses
of all machines operated by him or her on his or her premises shall be revoked
and the machines removed from the premises within 24 hours thereafter.  A
distributor or exhibitor whose license has been revoked shall not be eligible
to apply for or receive a new license within the period of one year after the
revocation.
Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.12  SEIZURE AND DESTRUCTION OF PINBALL MACHINES.
   If any pinball machine is used as a gambling device or is otherwise operated
contrary to the provisions of the laws of the state or of this chapter, the
machine may, in the discretion of the Mayor, be seized and destroyed, as in the
case of gaming devices.
Cross-reference:
   Gambling device defined, §
134.01
§ 113.13  APPEAL TO COUNCIL.
   (A)   Any affected person or party may appeal the decisions of the Mayor
involving §§
113.01 through
113.13 to the Council, and the majority vote of Council shall be needed to
overrule the Mayor’s decisions.
   (B)   An appeal from the Mayor’s decision to Council shall be in writing and
shall set forth the reason for the appeal.
(Ord. 34-71, passed 12-31-1971)
BILLIARD TABLES AND BOWLING ALLEYS
§ 113.25  BILLIARD TABLES AND BOWLING ALLEYS.
   Each proprietor of a billiard or pool table shall pay an annual license fee
of $25 per table for a billiard hall license fee.  Each proprietor of a bowling
alley shall pay an annual license fee of $25 for each alley.
§ 113.26  HOURS OF OPERATION OF BILLIARD TABLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any proprietor of a pool or billiard table to
permit the use of the table between the hours of 12:00 a.m. midnight and 6:00
a.m.
CIRCUSES
§ 113.35  CIRCUSES; LICENSE FEE.
   For each circus, carnival, side show, or musical, the license fee shall be
$1,000.
§ 113.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined as set forth
in §
10.99.
CHAPTER 114:  ROOMING HOUSES
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   License required
   
114.03   Application for license; inspection of premises
   
114.04   Application for new facilities
   
114.05   License renewal
   
114.06   License fees
   
114.07   Revocation of license
   
114.08   Transference of license
   
114.09   Appeal from denial or revocation of license
   
114.10   Copy of license to be posted
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the words and phrases defined in this
section shall have the meanings therein respectfully ascribed to them, without
limiting the generalities of the words, unless a different meaning is clearly
indicated by context.
   APARTMENT.  A living unit of more than one room which serves as a living
unit and has cooking facilities and toilet facilities within the unit.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR.  The individual representing the village as its
inspector of properties, appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the Council,
or any authorized representative of the BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   DWELLING.  A building occupied as a place of abode by one or more persons.
   HABITABLE ROOM.  A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be used
for living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes, excluding bathrooms, water
closet compartments, laundries, pantries, foyers or communicating corridors,
closets, and storage spaces.
   OCCUPANT.  Any person living, sleeping, cooking or eating in, or having
possession or use of a dwelling unit or rooming unit.
   OPERATOR.  The owner or other legally responsible person who has charge,
care or control of a building or part thereof in which dwelling units or
rooming units are leased or let, and shall not be construed to mean a caretaker
or custodian who does not share directly in the rents or income resulting from
the operation of the property.
   OWNER.  Any legally responsible person, who, alone or jointly or severally
with others:
      (1)   Shall have legal title to any dwelling; or
      (2)   Shall have charge of, care or control of any dwelling as owner or
agent of the owner, or as executor, executrix, administrator, administratrix,
trustee, or guardian of the estate of the owner.  Any such person thus
representing the owner shall be bound to comply with the provisions of this
chapter to the same extent as if he or she were owner.
   PERSON.  Individual persons, firms or corporation, their agents, trustees,
heirs, or assigns.
   ROOMER.  Any person who is not a member of the family of nor related by
blood, marriage, or legal adoption to the owner of a dwelling or rooming house,
to whom space is provided for sleeping or boarding purposes for rent.
   ROOMING HOUSE.  A dwelling place where three or more habitable rooms are
kept.
   ROOMING UNIT.  Any room or group of rooms in a rooming house or dwelling
forming a single habitable unit used or intended for use for living or
sleeping, but not for cooking or storing food or eating purposes.
(Ord. 18-88, passed 8-2-1988)
§ 114.02  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall own or operate or permit to be operated a rooming house or
apartment, or shall rent or permit to be rented a sleeping room or rooms
without having a permit or a temporary certificate to do so.
(Ord. 18-88, passed 8-2-1988)  Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.03  APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; INSPECTION OF PREMISES.
   (A)   Within 30 days after the effective date of this chapter, the owner or
operator of every existing rooming house shall apply for, as hereinafter
provided, a rooming house permit issued by the Village Clerk-Treasurer in the
name of the individual offering space for rent and for the specific dwelling
within which the rooming house or sleeping room/rooms are contained.
   (B)   The Village Clerk-Treasurer shall furnish forms on which the person
offering space for rent shall indicate:
      (1)   The address of the building in which the rented facilities are
located;
      (2)   The name, address, and telephone number of the owner of the
building;
      (3)   Habitable rooms;
      (4)   The number and location of the toilets;
      (5)   The location and number of available off-street parking spaces; and
      (6)   Fire exits and fire escapes (where required).
   (C)   The Village Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a no-charge temporary
certificate stating that a license has been applied for and that the license
shall be issued or denied within 30 days or less after the date of the
inspection by the Building Inspector.
   (D)   A copy of the application shall be sent to the Building Inspector who
shall make an inspection of the building to determine whether or not it is in
compliance with the village zoning code, the Hamilton County Building Code,
regulations of the Hamilton County Board of Health, state fire regulations and
in safe and sanitary condition.  He or she shall thereupon either notify the
applicant that the application has been approved and that the license can be
obtained from the Village Clerk-Treasurer within 30 days or the use
discontinued, or notify the applicant that his or her building is not in
compliance with the law and in what respects, and order it to be brought into
compliance within 30 days from the date of the original inspection and a
license secured, or to cease operations.
   (E)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall issue this permit when the Building
Inspector certifies in writing that in his or her opinion all applicable
building codes are complied with.  However, no permit may be denied on the
basis of lack of off-street parking, provided all other building code
provisions are complied with.  This exception does not apply to construction
begun on or after December 1, 1988.
(Ord. 18-88, passed 8-2-1988)
§ 114.04  APPLICATION FOR NEW FACILITIES.
   Every person desiring to operate a new rooming house or provide new sleeping
room facilities shall obtain a license before beginning operations. 
Applications shall be made to the Village Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 18-88, passed 8-2-1988)  Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.05  LICENSE RENEWAL.
   All licenses shall be issued annually after inspection and approval by the
Building Inspector and the license shall expire exactly 12 months from the date
of issuance.
(Ord. 18-88, passed 8-2-1988)
§ 114.06  LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   The annual license fee shall be $35 per building which contains either
habitable rooms, rooming units, or apartments.
   (B)   In addition, since each habitable room, rooming unit, or apartment
must be inspected, an additional $10 fee per unit or apartment is required.
(Ord. 18-88, passed 8-2-1988)
§ 114.07  REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   A rooming house license shall be revoked or denied by the Village Clerk-
Treasurer upon certification by the Building Inspector, Zoning Inspector,
Health Inspector, the Fire Chief, or the Chief of Police of any of the
following conditions:
   (A)   Failure to comply with any lawful order to correct violations of the
laws, rules or regulations of the village or the laws of Ohio concerning
safety, health, morals, or general welfare of the occupants of the rented
facilities, or the public in general, within 30 days or within the time stated
in the notice when remedied is so hazardous as to require immediate attention;
   (B)   Conviction of the owner/operator of any illegal or immoral use of the
building, or any crime involving moral turpitude;
   (C)   The presence of cooking facilities in any designated sleeping room or
in any room not legally constituted as a dwelling unit;
   (D)   The use in common of kitchen facilities by more than one family;
   (E)   Continued or repeated instances of unsanitary conditions, or disregard
of fire safety regulations, or inadequate maintenance of the building and/or of
its parts or equipment.
(Ord. 18-88, passed 8-2-1988)
§ 114.08  TRANSFERENCE OF LICENSE.
   No such license shall be transferable.  Any person taking over the operation
or ownership of a licensed rooming house or dwelling or ownership containing
sleeping rooms shall apply for a new license within ten days of taking over the
ownership or operation, or be considered delinquent and charged the double
fee.  No refunds shall be made to those discontinuing operation or selling,
transferring, giving away, or otherwise disposing of the facilities to another
person.
(Ord. 18-88, passed 8-2-1988)
§ 114.09  APPEAL FROM DENIAL OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Any owner or operator aggrieved by the denial or revocation of a
license in matters relating to violations of §
114.07 may request a hearing before a Board of Review composed of the Mayor,
Village Clerk-Treasurer, Zoning Chairperson, Building Inspector, and a Council
member.  The Board of Review shall make its determination within 20 days from
the date of hearing of the appeal.
   (B)   Notice of intention to appeal shall be filed at the office of the
Village Clerk-Treasurer within ten days after receipt of the notices of denial
or revocation of a license.
(Ord. 18-88, passed 8-2-1988)
§ 114.10  COPY OF LICENSE TO BE POSTED.
   The owner or operator shall at all times keep the license posted in a
conspicuous place in every dwelling where accommodations for living, sleeping,
cooking, or eating are kept, used, maintained, advertised, or held out to the
public for pay.
(Ord. 18-88, passed 8-2-1988)  Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other specific
penalty has been provided shall be fined as set forth in §
10.99.  Each day of violation constitutes a separate offense.
(Ord. 18-88, passed 8-2-1988)
CHAPTER 115:  TAXICABS AND OTHER PUBLIC VEHICLES
Section
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   License required
   
115.03   License application; regulations
   
115.04   Issuance of license
   
115.05   Insurance required
   
115.06   Extent of liability
   
115.07   Notice of extent of liability
   
115.08   Bond permitted
   
115.09   Notice of policy expiration date
   
115.10   Regular routes, soliciting prohibited
   
115.11   Passenger light required
   
115.12   Rates of fare
   
115.13   Schedule of rates
   
115.14   Identification, painting, and lettering
   
115.15   Vehicles from outside city
   
115.16   Unapproved painting prohibited
   
115.17   Unlicensed driver prohibited
   
115.18   Transfer of license
   
115.19   Falsely obtaining a license
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   AUTOS FOR HIRE.  Any public vehicle other than funeral car and driverless
autos for hire that does not seek its business on the public streets or in
quasi- public places and which is driven and in charge of the owner or the
employee.  Public vehicles used for livery purposes are AUTOS FOR HIRE.
   DRIVERLESS AUTO FOR HIRE.  Any public vehicle which is rented or hired out
to a person other  than the owner and operated by the person renting or hiring
the same for his or her own use and not for the purpose of transporting persons
for compensation.
   PUBLIC VEHICLES.  Vehicles furnishing individual service as a business in
the transportation of persons, which are classified as PUBLIC VEHICLES, which
seek their business or a part thereof on public streets for the purpose of
transporting passengers for hire, but which do not seek their business thereon
or in quasi-public places to wit: autos for hire, driverless autos for hire. 
Nothing herein shall apply to vehicles furnishing mass service, such as street
railway cars, motor buses, and omnibuses, which move over fixed routes or on a
fixed schedule, or between taxi terminals.
   TAXICAB.  Any public vehicle that seeks its business or a part thereof on
public streets, or in quasi-public places.
   TAXICAB STAND.  A place of business where a taxicab is available for hire.
(Ord. 15-78, passed 5-2-1978)
§ 115.02  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, firm, partnership, association, or corporation, either as
owner or as agent, employee, or driver for, or lessee of the owner, shall
operate or permit to be operated a taxicab, or shall proffer the services of
the taxicab as a public vehicle by solicitation by voice, sign, public
advertisement, light, or otherwise, unless the proper license has been issued
to the owner or operator thereof and is in force.  Every license shall expire
on December 31 of the year for which it is issued.  In case of licenses issued
for the operation on or after July 1 of any year, the fee shall be one-half of
the per annum fee.
   (B)   License fees of $250 per annum for public vehicles, regardless of the
number, shall be payable to the Village Clerk-Treasurer on a business entity
basis.
   (C)   The license fee as indicated by this section shall be in addition to
the fee required under the laws of the state on all motor vehicles.
(Ord. 15-78, passed 5-2-1978)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.03  LICENSE APPLICATION; REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Application for licenses for public vehicles shall be made to the
Clerk-Treasurer upon blanks provided him or her, and shall set forth the name
and address of the applicant and the trade number under which he or she does
business.  The licenses shall be issued to the applicant as a business entity
and shall authorize the applicant to operate the vehicles in the village.
   (B)   An applicant for license shall maintain an office in the village
operated by a dispatcher, which office shall be easily accessible to the
general public.
   (C)   All taxicabs of the applicant operating in the village shall be safe
and fit for public use and shall carry approved safety lane stickers from the
City of Cincinnati.
(Ord. 15-78, passed 5-2-1978)
§ 115.04  ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The Mayor shall investigate each application for license for a taxicab
or auto for hire.  If the Mayor finds from investigation and hearing that the
public convenience and necessity justify the operation of the vehicle for which
license is desired, he or she shall forthwith notify the applicant of his or
her findings.  Within 60 days thereafter the applicant shall furnish the Mayor
with the additional information required and if the Mayor then finds that the
applicant is the owner of the vehicle for which license is desired, that the
vehicle is a safe and fit conveyance, and that it complies with all the
requirements of this code of ordinances, he or she shall notify the Clerk-
Treasurer, who shall issue a license to the applicant upon the payment of the
proper license fee and the furnishing of bond or issuance required.  If the
applicant does not comply with the requirements of this section within 60 days,
the findings of the Mayor shall be null and void.
   (B)   If the Mayor finds from the investigation that the public convenience
and necessity do not justify the operation of the vehicle for which license is
desired, he or she shall forthwith notify the applicant of his or her findings.
   (C)   All owners of taxicabs or autos for hire hereby licensed or hereafter
granted licenses according to law, shall, at the completion of the year for
which they are licensed, be entitled to have their licenses renewed for each
succeeding year, without a finding of convenience and necessity by the Mayor,
provided all other requirements of this code are complied with.
(Ord. 15-78, passed 5-2-1978)
§ 115.05  INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No license to operate any public vehicle shall be issued or renewed by
the Mayor, and it shall be unlawful to operate any public vehicle or permit any
vehicle to be operated, unless and until the applicant shall deposit with the
Mayor a policy or policies of liability insurance, issued by a responsible
insurance company, approved as to sufficiency by the Mayor.
   (B)   The policy of insurance or a bond given in lieu thereof, as referred
to in §
115.08, shall provide that, in case the vehicle is operated, maintained, or
used with the consent or acquiescence of the owner, by one other than the
owner, his or her agent, or employee, and an injury results to persons or
property as indicated above, due to the negligent operation, maintenance, or
use of the vehicle, the insurer or the obligors in the bond, shall pay to any
judgment creditor of the person so maintaining, using, or operating the vehicle
any final judgment rendered against that person.
   (C)   The policy or policies of insurance, and the sureties hereinbefore
required, shall be valid and effective for no less a period than that for which
the license is issued.
(Ord. 15-78, passed 5-2-1978)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.06  EXTENT OF LIABILITY.
   The extent of the liability of the insurer or sureties shall be, as to any
one licensed public vehicle, the sum of $50,000 on account of injuries to or
death of any one person in any one accident; and subject to such limit as
respects injury to, or death of, one person, $150,000 on account of any one
accident resulting in injury to or death of more than one person, and $5,000 on
account of damage to property in any one accident.
(Ord. 15-78, passed 5-2-1978)
§ 115.07  NOTICE OF EXTENT OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   Any insurer limiting his or her total liability as to property damage
in accordance herewith shall notify the Mayor forthwith of any insurance
payments made in behalf of applicant which would operate to reduce the total
outstanding limited liability.
   (B)   The Mayor shall thereupon require adequate additional insurance and,
in the event of the failure of applicant to furnish the same on ten days’
notice, his or her license or licenses shall be suspended until the required
additional insurance is provided; failure of the insurer to notify the Mayor
shall operate to maintain the total liability of the insurer without allowance
for payment made.
(Ord. 15-78, passed 5-2-1978)
§ 115.08  BOND PERMITTED.
   In lieu of the policy or policies of insurance herein provided for,
applicant may furnish a bond executed by a surety company authorized to do
business in the State of Ohio, or by two personal sureties, approved as to
sufficiency by the Clerk-Treasurer, holding and binding the principal and
sureties to the same liability, and subject to the same conditions as in the
case of policies of insurances provided for hereunder.  It shall be further
permissible for the applicant to furnish insurance as to damages for personal
injuries, including death, and an indemnity bond as to property damages, or
vice versa.
(Ord. 15-78, passed 5-2-1978)
§ 115.09  NOTICE OF POLICY EXPIRATION DATE.
   Every policy, certificate, insurance, or bond shall contain a clause
obligating the insurer or surety to give to the Mayor at least ten days’
written notice before the cancellation, expiration, lapse, or other termination
of the insurance, or the expiration, withdrawal of the surety therefrom, or
other termination of the bond, and the license granted shall expire upon the
termination of the insurance or bond, or upon the termination of the liability
of the insurer or surety thereon in accordance with the notice, unless a new
policy or certificate of liability insurance or a new indemnity bond, approved
as hereinbefore provided, shall be substituted therefor.  Failure to give
notice required shall operate to continue the liability of the insurer or
surety for the benefit of the person injured or damaged, as though the policy
continued in full force and effect.
(Ord. 15-78, passed 5-2-1978)
§ 115.10  REGULAR ROUTES, SOLICITING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Owners and drivers of autos for hire and taxicabs are prohibited from
permitting or causing the vehicle:
      (1)   To be operated over any regular routes;
      (2)   To pass any specified point at regular intervals of time or on a
fixed time schedule for the purpose of picking up passengers; or
      (3)   When hired, to accept other passengers until the service for which
it has been hired has been completed, except in cases where a taxicab is
operated under a special trip rate.
   (B)   No autos for hire shall exhibit any sign, symbol, lettering, or
figures on or from any part of the vehicle, except the license tags required by
law, nor shall any autos for hire solicit or accept passengers on the streets,
public places, quasi-public places, or stand on any public taxicab stand; but
autos for hire may be used as funeral cars, or as driverless autos for hire,
without any additional license fee.  Taxicabs shall at all times when in
operation and not engaged furnish service on demand to any orderly person for
lawful purposes.
(Ord. 15-78, passed 5-2-1978)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.11  PASSENGER LIGHT REQUIRED.
   Every public vehicle shall be equipped with a light within the passenger
compartment of the vehicle, capable of being lighted or extinguished by the
passenger.
(Ord. 15-78, passed 5-2-1978)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.12  RATES OF FARE.
   All fares or charges for the use of a taxicab, in and to, or from the
Village of Elmwood Place shall be submitted to the Mayor and meet with his or
her approval.
   (A)   Multiple fares.  When the number of persons desiring taxicabs shall be
in excess of taxicab available, any persons desiring transportation in the same
general direction may thereupon enter the same taxicab as passengers.  The
regular single trip fare may be charged each passenger.  No extra charge is to
be made for extra passengers that are engaging a taxicab from any one stop or
upon request of passengers engaging taxicabs for additional stop or stops to
pick up extra passengers.
   (B)   Posting of rate cards.  Rate cards shall be posted in each vehicle on
the rear of the front seat of the cab and in full view of all passengers and
shall be kept on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer, Police Department,
and office of taxicab company.  Whenever a rate card becomes damaged, soiled,
or illegible, the owner shall provide a new card for the vehicle and the
offices mentioned which meets with the Clerk-Treasurer’s satisfaction.
   (C)   Alteration of rate cards.  Rate cards shall not be altered or tampered
with by any person.
   (D)   Rate receipt.  The driver of a taxicab or auto for hire shall, if
requested, deliver to the person paying for the hire of same, at the time of
payment, a receipt therefor.  Upon this receipt shall be legibly printed or
written the name of the owner, a method of identifying the vehicle or its
driver, all items for which charge is made, the total amount paid, and the date
of payment.
(Ord. 15-78, passed 5-2-1978)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.13  SCHEDULE OF RATES.
   (A)   Every owner of one or more taxicabs shall maintain on file in the
office of the Clerk-Treasurer the complete schedule of rates offered and used
by the taxicabs.  The schedule shall set forth therein in detail the amount
charged by each taxicab for service under the taximeter rate and under the
hourly rate.
   (B)   All schedules of rates on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer
shall be open to public inspection.
   (C)   No driver or other person in control of a taxicab shall charge any
fare or fees for the use of a taxicab except in accordance with the schedule of
rates filed as herein approved.
   (D)   Every taxicab and auto for hire shall carry in it at all times a rate
card issued for the vehicle by the Clerk-Treasurer; this rate card shall
contain in legible type the Clerk-Treasurer’s office address, the name of the
vehicle owner, the class of vehicle, and the date of issuance.  For taxicabs,
the rate card shall carry the complete schedule of rates of fare used as filed
with the Clerk-Treasurer, and autos for hire, the maximum lawful rate of fare. 
The rate card shall be mounted under transparent cover in the rear compartment
or interior of the vehicle in such position that it can be easily read by the
occupants of the vehicles and shall also contain the name, address, and photo
of the driver.
(Ord. 15-78, passed 5-2-1978)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.14  IDENTIFICATION, PAINTING, AND LETTERING.
   (A)   Every person owning or operating a taxicab or taxicabs under license
from Elmwood Place may adopt any trade name, design, color scheme, or method of
painting or lettering these taxicabs that is approved by the Mayor.  This trade
name, design, color scheme, or method of painting or lettering shall include
the following matter:
      (1)   The name of the owner or the trade name under which he or she or it
does business, painted on each side of the taxicab.  Whenever the name of the
owner, or the trade name under which he or she or it does business, does not
include any one of the words “taxicab,” “taxi,” or “cab,” then the word
“taxicab” shall be painted on each side of the taxicab immediately beneath the
name or trade name.
      (2)   Whenever any person owning or operating taxicabs does not adopt and
use an approved trade name, design, color scheme, or method of painting and
lettering as hereinbefore mentioned, then it shall be mandatory for the person
to paint the matter on his, her, or its taxicabs.
      (3)   All mandatory lettering and wording, whether in a particular trade
name, design, color scheme, method of painting or lettering, or otherwise, as
hereinbefore provided, shall be at least two inches in height and shall be of a
color as in the opinion of the Mayor will contrast with the color of the body
of the taxicab.
   (B)   Whenever the word PAINT or PAINTED is used in this chapter it shall
mean the application of coloring matter in oil solution and not in water
solution.
(Ord. 15-78, passed 5-2-1978)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.15  VEHICLES FROM OUTSIDE CITY.
   Public vehicles having no Elmwood Place license and public vehicles owned by
persons having their place of business outside Elmwood Place may bring
passengers into Elmwood Place, but may not pick up any passenger or accept any
business within Elmwood Place, for any destination within Elmwood Place, Ohio,
or any destination contiguous thereto.
(Ord. 15-78, passed 5-2-1978)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.16  UNAPPROVED PAINTING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall cause or permit any taxicab to appear with trade name,
design, color scheme, or method of painting or lettering that is not approved
by the Mayor for the vehicle concerned or that is not in accordance with the
terms of this chapter.
(Ord. 15-78, passed 5-2-1978)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.17  UNLICENSED DRIVER PROHIBITED.
   Each vehicle to be licensed shall be operated by none other than a person
who holds a commercial driver’s license for operation of a motor vehicle, as
defined in the Revised Code of Ohio.  This operator shall have the written
approval of the Chief of Police as to fitness to operate a taxicab, which
approval shall be obtained annually on January 1.  In the event that the
vehicle is so driven in violation of this section, the Clerk-Treasurer may
notify the Mayor, who shall revoke the vehicle license for the vehicle
concerned.
(Ord. 15-78, passed 5-2-1978)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.18  TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   In the event the owner of a licensed public vehicle shall cease to own the
same, or in the event that the vehicle shall become unsuitable for operation,
an affidavit to the effect may be filed with the Clerk-Treasurer and the Clerk-
Treasurer shall thereupon notify the Mayor who shall transfer the license to
any other vehicle belonging to the owner, provided the vehicle is of the same
class and approved by the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 15-78, passed 5-2-1978)
§ 115.19  FALSELY OBTAINING A LICENSE.
   It shall be unlawful to misrepresent or to make a false statement to obtain
a license.
(Ord. 15-78, passed 5-2-1978)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation, or any owner, agent, employee, or
driver of a public vehicle who violates any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be fined as set forth in §
10.99 and costs for each offense, and for the habitual violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter the Mayor, upon recommendation of the Clerk-
Treasurer, shall revoke the license of the business entity.
   (B)   In addition to the penalty provided in division (A) of this section,
any taxicab being operated in violation of any provision of this chapter may be
impounded by the Police Department.  Any person desiring to redeem the
impounded taxicab shall first pay to the municipality a basic charge of $25
plus $5 per day for the time the impounded taxicab is in storage.
CHAPTER 116:  VENDORS AND SOLICITORS
Section
Itinerant Vendors
   
116.01   Definition
   
116.02   License fee
Peddlers
   
116.10   Peddlers by hand
   
116.11   Peddlers from hand-drawn vehicles
   
116.12   Peddlers from other vehicles
   
116.13   Exceptions; when license not required
   
116.99   Penalty
ITINERANT VENDORS
§ 116.01  DEFINITION.
   The term ITINERANT VENDOR when used in this subchapter shall include any
person, natural or artificial, who engages in or conducts a temporary or
transient business of selling goods, wares, and merchandise within the
municipality with the intention of continuing in the business in any one
location for a period of not more than four months, and who, for the purpose of
carrying on this business, hires, leases, or occupies in whole or in part any
room, building, or structure for the exhibition and sale of these goods, wares,
and merchandise.  The term does not apply to hawkers or peddlers; to vendors
engaged in the sale of food or food products for human consumption; to
commercial travelers or selling agents when making sales in the usual course of
business; or to salespersons who sell by sample for future delivery.
§ 116.02  LICENSE FEE.
   Every itinerant vendor shall obtain a license before engaging in business,
and shall pay therefor a fee of $15 for each day that the business is carried
on.  The license shall terminate automatically with the last day for which the
sum shall have been paid.
Penalty, see §
116.99
PEDDLERS
§ 116.10  PEDDLERS BY HAND.
   Every peddler selling goods of any kind carried by hand shall obtain a
license before engaging in business and shall pay therefor a fee of $25 per
annum.
Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.11  PEDDLERS FROM HAND-DRAWN VEHICLES.
   Every peddler selling fruits, vegetables, or goods of any kind from vehicles
drawn by hand shall obtain a license before engaging in business and shall pay
therefor a fee of $25 per annum.
Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.12  PEDDLERS FROM OTHER VEHICLES.
   Every peddler selling fruits, vegetables, or goods of every kind from
vehicles drawn by means other than hand shall obtain a license before engaging
in business and shall pay therefor a fee of $50 per annum.
(Ord. 10-77, passed 2-10-1977)  Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.13  EXCEPTIONS; WHEN LICENSE NOT REQUIRED.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any owner of any product
of his or her own raising or to the manufacturer of any article manufactured by
him, who by himself or his or her agent, peddles or vends any such article or
product; nor shall the same apply to any person who by state or federal law or
constitutional provision has been exempted from obtaining the license; nor to
any sale under order of court or at a bona fide auction; nor to any sale at
wholesale to a retail dealer.
§ 116.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be fined as set forth in §
10.99, and imprisonment of not more than 30 days for each subsequent offense. 
Each sale shall be deemed a separate offense.
CHAPTER 117:  VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER AUTHORIZATIONS
Section
   
117.01   Definitions
   
117.02   Video service provider fee
   
117.03   Video service provider fee notice provision
   
117.04   Video service provider access provision
   
117.05   Access programming requirements
   
117.06   Fee payment requirements
   
117.07   PEG origination point
   
117.08   Notice requirement
   
117.09   Application to incumbent cable providers
§ 117.01  DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions apply to the terms used in this chapter.
   INCUMBENT CABLE PROVIDER.  Any person who, on the effective date of this
chapter, is the holder of a cable franchise agreement with the village as
granted pursuant to requirements of 47 U.S.C. 541.
   PEG.  The activities or actions performed for the benefit of public,
educational and government video programming by the village.
   VIDEO SERVICE.  The service defined in R.C. § 1332.21(1).
   VIDEO SERVICE AUTHORIZATION or VSA. The authorization granted to a video
service provider in accordance with the requirements of R.C. §§ 1332.21 to
1332.34 et seq.
   VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE or VSP FEE.  The fee paid by a VSP in accordance
with the requirements of R.C. § 1332.32.
   VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER or VSP.  A person, firm, or corporation granted a
video service authorization under R.C. §§ 1332.21 to 1332.34 et seq.
(Res. 01-08, passed 1-8-2008)
§ 117.02  VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE.
   (A)   Village Council hereby establishes a Video Service Provider (VSP) fee
that is calculated by applying a VSP fee percentage of 5% to the video service
provider's gross revenues as defined in R.C. § 1332.32(B) of the Video Law. 
For purposes of calculating the VSP fee, the provider's gross revenues shall
include advertising revenues in accordance with R.C. § 1332.23(B)(2)(g) of the
Video Law.
   (B)   The VSP fee percentage and Video Law gross revenues definition, as
modified, shall apply equally to all video service providers and cable
television operators providing video service in the village.
      (1)   Division (B) of this section would only be considered if the gross
revenue definition in the incumbent's franchise is less favorable than the
state gross revenue definition and the incumbent is not planning on applying
for a VSA in the near future. The language would modify the incumbent's "gross
revenue" definition to be consistent with the state definition.
      (2)   Where a cable operator currently pays less than 5% of "gross
revenues" under an existing franchise, discuss with the locality setting this
percentage at a "revenue neutral" rate compared with the franchise fee
percentage and revenue base under the existing franchise.  Many localities will
not want to inadvertently impose a fee increase on residents just by blindly
applying the maximum 5% to the state definition of gross revenues.
   (C)   The VSP fee shall be paid by each video service provider providing
service in the village on a quarterly basis but not sooner than 45 days nor
later than 60 days after the end of each calendar quarter.
(Res. 01-08, passed 1-8-2008; Am. Ord. 10-09, passed 12-8-2009; Am. Ord. 05-10,
passed 4-13-2010)
§ 117.03  VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE NOTICE PROVISION.
   The Mayor is authorized and directed to provide any video service provider
with notice of the VSP fee percentage and gross revenues definition as
determined by Council in §
117.02, which notice shall be given by certified mail, upon receipt of notice
from such video service provider that it will begin providing video service in
the village pursuant to a state-issued video service authorization.
(Res. 01-08, passed 1-8-2008; Am. Ord. 10-09, passed 12-8-2009; Am. Ord. 05-10,
passed 4-13-2010)
§ 117.04  VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER ACCESS PROVISION.
   Upon receipt of notice from a VSP that it will begin providing video service
in the village pursuant to a VSA, the Mayor or his or her designee is
authorized and directed to provide such VSP with notice that the VSP shall be
required to provide the same number of PEG channels in the village under the
same service tier conditions and subject to the same channel reclamation
conditions as may be proscribed by R.C. § 1332.30(A)(1)(a)-(b) for the
incumbent cable provider with the most recent obligation in the village, which
notice shall be delivered in a manner that provides for proof of timely
delivery and shall state the appropriate number of PEG channels and service
tiers required to be provided by the VSP within the village within 120 days
after delivery of such notice.
(Res. 01-08, passed 1-8-2008)
§ 117.05  ACCESS PROGRAMMING REQUIREMENTS.
   In accordance with the requirements of R.C. § 1332.30(A)(1)(a) when more
than three PEG access channels are provided to the village by an incumbent
cable provider or VSP, such additional channel shall be programmed by the
village with at least 40 hours of non-character generated content per week with
at least 60% of the programming being non-repeat and locally produced.  For the
purposes of this section, NON-REPEAT AND LOCALLY PRODUCED shall mean the first
three playbacks of programming produced or provided by any local resident, the
village or its affiliates, or any local public or private agency that provides
services to residents of Hamilton County, or any transmission of a meeting or
proceeding of any local, state, or federal governmental entity.
(Res. 01-08, passed 1-8-2008)
§ 117.06  FEE PAYMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   Any VSP fee or community service fee payments required to be paid to the
village by a VSP shall be made quarterly and be remitted directly to the
village via appropriate negotiable instrument made payable to The Village of
Elmwood Place, 6118 Vine Street, Elmwood Place, Ohio 45216, not later than 60
days after the end of each calendar quarter.
(Res. 01-08, passed 1-8-2008)
§ 117.07  PEG ORIGINATION POINT.
   The PEG programming origination point of the village for the delivery of VSP
access services shall be located at 2942 Commodity Circle, Cincinnati, Ohio
45241.
(Res. 01-08, passed 1-8-2008)
§ 117.08  NOTICE REQUIREMENT.
   Any notice to the village that is required of a VSP in accordance with R.C.
§§ 1332.21 through 1332.34 shall be provided in written form to the Mayor
either by certified mail, express mail or upon personal delivery, all evidenced
by a return receipt.
(Res. 01-08, passed 1-8-2008)
§ 117.09  APPLICATION TO INCUMBENT CABLE PROVIDERS.
   The additional requirements applicable to VSPs enacted in this chapter shall
not apply to incumbent cable providers.  The relationship between the village
and such providers shall continue to be governed by the franchise agreement
between the parties until its expiration or until the incumbent cable provider
is granted a VSA in accordance with R.C. §§ 1332.21 through 1331.34 et seq.
(Res. 01-08, passed 1-8-2008)
TITLE XIII:  GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
      
133.   SEX OFFENSES
      
134.   GAMBLING OFFENSES
      
135.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
      
136.   OFFENSES AGAINST JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
      
137.   WEAPONS CONTROL
      
138.   DRUG OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Application of Title XIII
   
130.02   Definitions
   
130.03   Classification of offenses
   
130.04   Common law offenses abrogated
   
130.05   Rules of construction
   
130.06   Limitation of criminal prosecutions
   
130.07   Requirements for criminal liability; voluntary intoxication
   
130.08   Culpable mental states
   
130.09   Organizational criminal liability
   
130.10   Personal accountability for organizational conduct
   
130.11   Attempt
   
130.12   Complicity
   
130.13   Presumption of innocence; proof of offense; affirmative defense
   
130.14   Battered woman syndrome
   
130.15   Delinquency adjudications deemed convictions
   
130.16   Criminal law jurisdiction
   
130.17   Disposition of unclaimed or forfeited property held by Police
Department
   
130.18   Imposing sentence for misdemeanor
   
130.19   Multiple sentences
   
130.20   Apprehension, detention, or arrest of person on bond
   
130.21   Self-defense: limitations on duty to retreat prior to using force
   
130.99   Penalty for Title XIII
Statutory reference:
   DNA testing of certain delinquent children and certain prisoners, see R.C.
§§ 2152.74 and 2901.07
   Mayor’s Court generally, see R.C. Chapter 1905
   Municipal Court generally, see R.C. Chapter 1901
   Trials, Magistrate Courts, see R.C. Chapter 2938
§ 130.01  APPLICATION OF TITLE XIII.
   (A)   Title XIII of this code of ordinances embodies and prescribes
penalties for offenses against the municipality not classifiable in previous
titles and chapters. The word MISDEMEANORS, as used in this title, is not
exhaustive and does not imply that offenses found elsewhere in this code of
ordinances are not also misdemeanors and punishable as such.
   (B)   Each act or omission for which a fine, imprisonment, or both is
provided under this title or elsewhere in this code, or each act or omission
which is declared a violation of this code, is unlawful and is hereby made a
misdemeanor. Upon conviction, the penalty or penalties so provided shall be
imposed by the court.
§ 130.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTRABAND. Any property that is illegal for a person to acquire or possess
under a statute, ordinance, or rule, or that a trier of fact lawfully
determines to be illegal to possess by reason of the property’s involvement in
an offense. CONTRABAND includes but is not limited to all of the following:
      (1)   Any controlled substance, as defined in R.C. § 3719.01, or any
device or paraphernalia related thereto;
      (2)   Any unlawful gambling device or paraphernalia;
      (3)   Any dangerous ordnance or obscene material.
   DANGEROUS OFFENDER. A person who has committed an offense, whose history,
character and condition reveal a substantial risk that he or she will be a
danger to others, and whose conduct has been characterized by a pattern of
repetitive, compulsive or aggressive behavior with heedless indifference to the
consequences.
   DEADLY FORCE. Any force that carries a substantial risk that it will
proximately result in the death of any person.
   FORCE. Any violence, compulsion, or constraint physically exerted by any
means upon or against a person or thing.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any of the following:
      (1)   A sheriff, deputy sheriff, constable, police officer of a township
or joint police district, marshal, deputy marshal, municipal police officer,
member of a police force employed by a metropolitan housing authority under
R.C. § 3735.31(D) or state highway patrol trooper;
      (2)   An officer, agent, or employee of the state or any of its agencies,
instrumentalities, or political subdivisions, upon whom, by statute, a duty to
conserve the peace or to enforce all or certain laws is imposed and the
authority to arrest violators is conferred, within the limits of such statutory
duty and authority;
      (3)   The Mayor, in a capacity as chief conservator of the peace within
the municipality.
      (4)   A member of an auxiliary police force organized by the county,
township, or municipal law enforcement authorities, within the scope of the
member’s appointment or commission;
      (5)   A person lawfully called pursuant to R.C. § 311.07 to aid a sheriff
in keeping the peace, for the purposes and during the time when the person is
called;
      (6)   A person appointed by a Mayor pursuant to R.C. § 737.01 as a
special patrolling officer during a riot or emergency, for the purposes and
during the time when the person is appointed;
      (7)   A member of the organized militia of this state or the armed forces
of the United States, lawfully called to duty to aid civil authorities in
keeping the peace or protect against domestic violence;
      (8)   A prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, secret
service officer, or municipal prosecutor;
      (9)   A veterans’ home police officer appointed under R.C. § 5907.02;
      (10)   A member of a police force employed by a regional transit
authority under R.C. § 306.35(Y);
      (11)   A special police officer employed by a port authority under R.C. §
4582.04 or 4582.28;
      (12)   The House of Representatives Sergeant at Arms if the House of
Representatives Sergeant at Arms has arrest authority pursuant to R.C. §
101.311(E)(1) and an Assistant House of Representatives Sergeant at Arms;
      (13)   The Senate Sergeant at Arms and an Assistant Senate Sergeant at
Arms;
      (14)   A special police officer employed by a municipal corporation at a
municipal airport, or other municipal air navigation facility, that has
scheduled operations, as defined in 14 C.F.R. § 119.3, as amended, and that is
required to be under a security program and is governed by aviation security
rules of the Transportation Security Administration of the United States
Department of Transportation as provided in 49 C.F.R. parts 1542 and 1544, as
amended.
   NOT GUILTY BY REASON OF INSANITY. A person is NOT GUILTY BY REASON OF
INSANITY relative to a charge of an offense only if the person proves, in the
manner specified in R.C. § 2901.05,  that at the time of the commission of the
offense, he or she did not know, as a result of a severe mental disease or
defect, the wrongfulness of his or her acts.
   OFFENSE OF VIOLENCE.
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.01, 2903.02, 2903.03, 2903.04, 2903.11,
2903.12, 2903.13, 2903.15, 2903.21, 2903.211, 2903.22, 2905.01, 2905.02,
2905.11, 2905.32, 2907.02, 2907.03, 2907.05, 2909.02, 2909.03, 2909.24,
2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2917.01, 2917.02, 2917.03, 2917.31, 2919.25,
2921.03, 2921.04, 2921.34, or 2923.161, division (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)(3) of
R.C. § 2911.12, or of division (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3) or (B)(4) of R.C. §
2919.22, or felonious sexual penetration in violation of former R.C. § 2907.12;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States, substantially equivalent to
any section, division or offense listed in division (1) of this definition;
      (3)   An offense, other than a traffic offense, under an existing or
former municipal ordinance or law of this or any other state or of the United
States, committed purposely or knowingly, and involving physical harm to
persons or a risk of serious physical harm to persons;
      (4)   A conspiracy or attempt to commit, or complicity in committing, any
offense under division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
   PERSON.
      (1)   (a)   Subject to division (2) of this definition, as used in any
section contained in Title XIII of this code that sets forth a criminal
offense, PERSON includes all of the following:
            1.   An individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust,
partnership and association;
            2.   An unborn human who is viable.
         (b)   As used in any section contained in Title XIII of this code that
does not set forth a criminal offense, PERSON includes an individual,
corporation, business trust, estate, partnership and association.
         (c)   As used in division (1)(a)2. of this definition, “unborn human”
means an individual organism of the species Homo sapiens from fertilization
until live birth. “Viable” means the stage of development of a human fetus at
which there is a realistic probability of maintaining and nourishing of a life
outside the womb with or without temporary artificial life-sustaining support.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (1)(a) of this definition, in no case
shall the portion of the definition of the term PERSON that is set forth in
division (1)(a)2. of this definition be applied or construed in any section
contained in Title XIII of this code that sets forth a criminal offense in any
of the following manners:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (2)(a) of this
definition, in a manner so that the offense prohibits or is construed as
prohibiting any pregnant woman or her physician from performing an abortion
with the consent of the pregnant woman, with the consent of the pregnant woman
implied by law in a medical emergency, or with the approval of one otherwise
authorized by law to consent to medical treatment on behalf of the pregnant
woman. An abortion that violates the conditions described in the immediately
preceding sentence may be punished as a violation of R.C. § 2903.01, 2903.02,
2903.03, 2903.04, 2903.05, 2903.06, 2903.08, 2903.11, 2903.12, 2903.13,
2903.14, 2903.21 or 2903.22, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, as applicable. An abortion that does not violate the conditions
described in the second immediately preceding sentence but that does violate
R.C. § 2919.12, 2919.13(B), 2919.151, 2919.17 or 2919.18, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, may be punished as a violation of such section,
as applicable. Consent is sufficient under this division if it is of the type
otherwise adequate to permit medical treatment to the pregnant woman, even if
it does not comply with R.C. § 2919.12.
         (b)   In a manner so that the offense is applied or is construed as
applying to a woman based on an act or omission of the woman that occurs while
she is or was pregnant and that results in any of the following:
            1.   Her delivery of a stillborn baby;
            2.   Her causing, in any other manner, the death in utero of a
viable, unborn human that she is carrying;
            3.   Her causing the death of her child who is born alive but who
dies from one or more injuries that are sustained while the child is a viable,
unborn human;
            4.   Her causing her child who is born alive to sustain one or more
injuries while the child is a viable, unborn human;
            5.   Her causing, threatening to cause, or attempting to cause, in
any other manner, an injury, illness, or other psychological illness or
condition, regardless of its duration or gravity, to a viable, unborn human
that she is carrying.
   PHYSICAL HARM TO PERSONS. Any injury, illness, or other physiological
impairment, regardless of its gravity or duration.
   PHYSICAL HARM TO PROPERTY. Any tangible or intangible damage to property
that, in any degree, results in loss to its value or interferes with its use or
enjoyment. PHYSICAL HARM TO PROPERTY does not include wear and tear occasioned
by normal use.
   PRIVILEGE. An immunity, license, or right conferred by law, or bestowed by
express or implied grant, or arising out of status, position, office, or
relationship, or growing out of necessity.
   PROPERTY.
      (1)   Any property, real or personal, tangible or intangible, and any
interest or license in that property. PROPERTY includes but is not limited to
cable television service, other telecommunications service, telecommunications
devices, information service, computers, data, computer software, financial
instruments associated with computers, other documents associated with
computers, or copies of the documents, whether in machine or human-readable
form, trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights, patents, and property protected by
a trademark, copyright or patent. “Financial instruments associated with
computers” include but are not limited to checks, drafts, warrants, money
orders, notes of indebtedness, certificates of deposit, letters of credit,
bills of credit or debit cards, financial transaction authorization mechanisms,
marketable securities, or any computer system representations of any of them.
      (2)   As used in this definition, “trade secret” has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 1333.61, and “telecommunications service” and “information service”
have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      (3)   As used in this definition and in the definition of “contraband” in
this section, “cable television service,” “computer,” “computer network,”
“computer software,” “computer system,” “data,” and “telecommunications device”
have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   REPEAT OFFENDER. A person who has a history of persistent criminal activity
and whose character and condition reveal a substantial risk that he or she will
commit another offense. It is prima facie evidence that a person is a repeat
offender if any of the following applies:
      (1)   Having been convicted of one or more offenses of violence, as
defined in R.C. § 2901.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for
one or more of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent offense of
violence;
      (2)   Having been convicted of one or more sexually oriented offenses, as
defined in R.C. § 2950.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for
one or more of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent sexually oriented
offense;
      (3)   Having been convicted of one or more theft offenses, as defined in
R.C. § 2913.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for one or more
of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent theft offense;
      (4)   Having been convicted of one or more felony drug abuse offenses, as
defined in R.C. § 2925.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for
one or more of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent felony drug abuse
offense;
      (5)   Having been convicted of two or more felonies, and having been
imprisoned pursuant to sentence for any such offense, he or she commits a
subsequent offense;
      (6)   Having been convicted of three or more offenses of any type or
degree other than traffic offenses, alcoholic intoxication offenses, or minor
misdemeanors, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for any such
offense, he or she commits a subsequent offense.
   RISK. A significant possibility, as contrasted with a remote possibility,
that a certain result may occur or that certain circumstances may exist.
   SCHOOL, SCHOOL BUILDING, and SCHOOL PREMISES. Have the same meanings as in
R.C. § 2925.01.
   SCHOOL ACTIVITY. Any activity held under the auspices of a board of
education of a city, local, exempted village, joint vocational, or cooperative
education school district; a governing authority of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314; a governing board of an educational
service center; or the governing body of a nonpublic school for which the State
Board of Education prescribes minimum standards under R.C. § 3301.07.
   SCHOOL BUS. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   SCHOOL SAFETY ZONE. Consists of a school, school building, school premises,
school activity, and school bus.
   SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO PERSONS. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any mental illness or condition of such gravity as would normally
require hospitalization or prolonged psychiatric treatment;
      (2)   Any physical harm that carries a substantial risk of death;
      (3)   Any physical harm that involves some permanent incapacity, whether
partial or total, or that involves some temporary, substantial incapacity;
      (4)   Any physical harm that involves some permanent disfigurement, or
that involves some temporary, serious disfigurement;
      (5)   Any physical harm that involves acute pain of such duration as to
result in substantial suffering, or that involves any degree of prolonged or
intractable pain.
   SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO PROPERTY. Any physical harm to property that does
either of the following:
      (1)   Results in substantial loss to the value of the property, or
requires a substantial amount of time, effort, or money to repair or replace;
      (2)   Temporarily prevents the use or enjoyment of the property, or
substantially interferes with its use or enjoyment for an extended period of
time.
   SUBSTANTIAL RISK. A strong possibility, as contrasted with a remote or
significant possibility, that a certain result may occur or that certain
circumstances may exist.
(R.C. §§ 2901.01, 2935.36(E))
§ 130.03  CLASSIFICATION OF OFFENSES.
   As used in this title:
   (A)   Offenses include misdemeanors of the first, second, third, and fourth
degree, minor misdemeanors, and offenses not specifically classified.
   (B)   Regardless of the penalty that may be imposed, any offense
specifically classified as a misdemeanor is a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Any offense not specifically classified is a misdemeanor if
imprisonment for not more than one year may be imposed as a penalty.
   (D)   Any offense not specifically classified is a minor misdemeanor if the
only penalty that may be imposed is one of the following:
      (1)   For an offense committed prior to January 1, 2004, a fine not
exceeding $100;
      (2)   For an offense committed on or after January 1, 2004, a fine not
exceeding $150, community service under R.C. § 2929.27(D), or a financial
sanction other than a fine under R.C. § 2929.28.
(R.C. § 2901.02)
§ 130.04  COMMON LAW OFFENSES ABROGATED.
   (A)   No conduct constitutes a criminal offense against the municipality
unless it is defined as an offense in this code.
   (B)   An offense is defined when one or more sections of this code state a
positive prohibition or enjoin a specific duty, and provide a penalty for
violation of such prohibition or failure to meet such duty.
   (C)   This section does not affect the power of a court to punish for
contempt or to employ any sanction authorized by law to enforce an order, civil
judgment or decree.
(R.C. § 2901.03)
§ 130.05  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C) or (D) of this section,
sections of this code defining offenses or penalties shall be strictly
construed against the municipality and liberally construed in favor of the
accused.
   (B)   Rules of criminal procedure and sections of this code providing for
criminal procedure shall be construed so as to effect the fair, impartial,
speedy, and sure administration of justice.
   (C)   Any provision of a section of this code that refers to a previous
conviction of or plea of guilty to a violation of a section of this code, the
Revised Code or a division of a section of this code or the Revised Code shall
be construed to also refer to a previous conviction of or plea of guilty to a
substantially equivalent offense under an existing or former law of this
municipality, state, another state, or the United States or under an existing
or former municipal ordinance.
   (D)   Any provision of this code that refers to a section, or to a division
of a section, of this code that defines or specifies a criminal offense shall
be construed to also refer to an existing or former law of this state, another
state, or the United States, to an existing or former municipal ordinance, or
to an existing or former division of any such existing or former law or
ordinance that defines or specifies, or that defined or specified, a
substantially equivalent offense.
(R.C. § 2901.04)
§ 130.06  LIMITATION OF CRIMINAL PROSECUTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this section
or as otherwise provided in this section, a prosecution shall be barred unless
it is commenced within the following periods after an offense is committed:
         (a)   For a felony, six years;
         (b)   For a misdemeanor other than a minor misdemeanor, two years;
         (c)   For a minor misdemeanor, six months.
      (2)   There is no period of limitation for the prosecution of a violation
of R.C. § 2903.01 or R.C. § 2903.02.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (B) through (H) of this
section, a prosecution of any of the following offenses shall be barred unless
it is commenced within 20 years after the offense is committed:
         (a)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.03, 2903.04, 2905.01, 2907.02,
2907.03, 2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.21, 2909.02, 2909.22, 2909.23, 2909.24,
2909.26, 2909.27, 2909.28, 2909.29, 2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2911.12, or
2917.02, a violation of R.C. § 2903.11 or 2903.12 if the victim is a peace
officer, a violation of R.C. § 2903.13 that is a felony, or a violation of
former R.C. § 2907.12.
         (b)   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing a violation set forth in division (A)(3)(a) of this section.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2) of this section,
if the period of limitation provided in division (A)(1) or (A)(3) of this
section has expired, prosecution shall be commenced for an offense of which an
element is fraud or breach of fiduciary duty within one year after discovery of
the offense either by an aggrieved person or by the aggrieved person’s legal
representative who is not a party to the offense.
      (2)   If the period of limitation provided in division (A)(1) or (A)(3)
of this section has expired, prosecution for a violation of R.C. § 2913.49
shall be commenced within five years after discovery of the offense either by
an aggrieved person or the aggrieved person’s legal representative who is not a
party to the offense.
   (C)   (1)   If the period of limitation provided in division (A)(1) or (A)
(3) of this section has expired,
prosecution shall be commenced for the following offenses during the following
specified periods of time:
         (a)   For an offense involving misconduct in office by a public
servant at any time while the accused remains a public servant, or within two
years thereafter;
         (b)   For an offense by a person who is not a public servant but whose
offense is directly related to the misconduct in office of a public servant, at
any time while that public servant remains a public servant, or within two
years thereafter.
      (2)   As used in this division:
         (a)   The phrase OFFENSE IS DIRECTLY RELATED TO THE MISCONDUCT IN
OFFICE OF A PUBLIC SERVANT includes, but is not limited to, a violation of R.C.
§ 101.71, 101.91, 121.61 or 2921.13, 102.03(F) or (H), 2921.02(A), 2921.43(A)
or (B), or 3517.13(F) or (G), that is directly related to an offense involving
misconduct in office of a public servant, or a violation of any municipal
ordinance substantially equivalent to those Ohio Revised Code sections listed
in this division (C)(2)(a).
         (b)   PUBLIC SERVANT has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.01.
   (D)   An offense is committed when every element of the offense occurs. In
the case of an offense of which an element is a continuing course of conduct,
the period of limitation does not begin to run until such course of conduct or
the accused’s accountability for it terminates, whichever occurs first.
   (E)   A prosecution is commenced on the date an indictment is returned or an
information filed, or on the date a lawful arrest without a warrant is made, or
on the date a warrant, summons, citation, or other process is issued, whichever
occurs first. A prosecution is not commenced by the return of an indictment or
the filing of an information unless reasonable diligence is exercised to issue
and execute process on the same. A prosecution is not commenced upon issuance
of a warrant, summons, citation, or other process unless reasonable diligence
is exercised to execute the same.
   (F)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time when the corpus
delicti remains undiscovered.
   (G)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time when the
accused purposely avoids prosecution. Proof that the accused departed this
municipality or conceals the accused’s identity or whereabouts is prima facie
evidence of the accused’s purpose to avoid prosecution.
   (H)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time a prosecution
against the accused based on the same conduct is pending in this state, even
though the indictment, information, or process that commenced the prosecution
is quashed or the proceedings on the indictment, information, or process are
set aside or reversed on appeal.
   (I)   The period of limitation for a violation of this title or Title XXIX
of the Ohio Revised Code that involves a physical or mental wound, injury,
disability, or condition of a nature that reasonably indicates abuse or neglect
of a child under 18 years of age or of a mentally retarded, developmentally
disabled, or physically impaired child under 21 years of age shall not begin to
run until either of the following occurs:
      (1)   The victim of the offense reaches the age of majority.
      (2)   A public children services agency, or a municipal or county peace
officer that is not the parent or guardian of the child, in the county in which
the child resides or in which the abuse or neglect is occurring or has occurred
has been notified that abuse or neglect is known, suspected, or believed to
have occurred.
   (J)   As used in this section, PEACE OFFICER has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 2935.01.
(R.C. § 2901.13)
Statutory reference:
   Limitation for income tax violations, see R.C. § 718.12
§ 130.07  REQUIREMENTS FOR CRIMINAL LIABILITY; VOLUNTARY INTOXICATION.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, a person is not
guilty of an offense unless both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person’s liability is based on conduct that includes either a
voluntary act, or an omission to perform an act or duty that the person is
capable of performing;
      (2)   The person has the requisite degree of culpability for each element
as to which a culpable mental state is specified by the section defining the
offense.
   (B)   When the section defining an offense does not specify any degree of
culpability, and plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict criminal
liability for the conduct described in the section, then culpability is not
required for a person to be guilty of the offense. When the section neither
specifies culpability nor plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict
liability, recklessness is sufficient culpability to commit the offense.
   (C)   Voluntary intoxication may not be taken into consideration in
determining the existence of a mental state that is an element of a criminal
offense. Voluntary intoxication does not relieve a person of a duty to act if
failure to act constitutes a criminal offense. Evidence that a person was
voluntarily intoxicated may be admissible to show whether or not the person was
physically capable of performing the act with which the person is charged.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
      CULPABILITY. Purpose, knowledge, recklessness, or negligence, as defined
in R.C. § 2901.22.
      INTOXICATION. Includes but is not limited to intoxication resulting from
the ingestion of alcohol, a drug, or alcohol and a drug.
      INVOLUNTARY ACTS. Reflexes,  convulsions, body movements during
unconsciousness or sleep, and body movements that are not otherwise a product
of the actor’s volition are INVOLUNTARY ACTS.
      POSSESSION. A voluntary act if the possessor knowingly procured or
received the thing possessed, or was aware of the possessor’s control of the
thing possessed for a sufficient time to have ended possession.
(R.C. § 2901.21)
§ 130.08  CULPABLE MENTAL STATES.
   (A)   A person acts purposely when it is his or her specific intention to
cause a certain result, or, when the gist of the offense is a prohibition
against conduct of a certain nature, regardless of what the offender intends to
accomplish thereby, it is his or her specific intention to engage in conduct of
that nature.
   (B)   A person acts knowingly, regardless of his or her purpose, when he or
she is aware that his or her conduct will probably cause a certain result or
will probably be of a certain nature. A person has knowledge of circumstances
when he or she is aware that such circumstances probably exist.
   (C)   A person acts recklessly when, with heedless indifference to the
consequences, he or she perversely disregards a known risk that his or her
conduct is likely to cause a certain result or is likely to be of a certain
nature. A person is reckless with respect to circumstances when, with heedless
indifference to the consequences, he or she perversely disregards a known risk
that such circumstances are likely to exist.
   (D)   A person acts negligently when, because of a substantial lapse from
due care, he or she fails to perceive or avoid a risk that his or her conduct
may cause a certain result or may be of a certain nature. A person is negligent
with respect to circumstances when, because of a substantial lapse from due
care, he or she fails to perceive or avoid a risk that such circumstances may
exist.
   (E)   When the section defining an offense provides that negligence suffices
to establish an element thereof, then recklessness, knowledge, or purpose is
also sufficient culpability for such element. When recklessness suffices to
establish an element of an offense, then knowledge or purpose is also
sufficient culpability for such element. When knowledge suffices to establish
an element of an offense, then purpose is also sufficient culpability for such
element.
(R.C. § 2901.22)
§ 130.09  ORGANIZATIONAL CRIMINAL LIABILITY.
   (A)   An organization may be convicted of an offense under any of the
following circumstances:
      (1)   The offense is a minor misdemeanor committed by an officer, agent,
or employee of the organization acting in its behalf and within the scope of
the officer's, agent's, or employee's office or employment, except that if the
section defining the offense designates the officers, agents, or employees for
whose conduct the organization is accountable or the circumstances under which
it is accountable, those provisions shall apply.
      (2)   A purpose to impose organizational liability plainly appears in the
section defining the offense, and the offense is committed by an officer,
agent, or employee of the organization acting in its behalf and within the
scope of the officer's, agent's, or employee's office or employment, except
that if the section defining the offense designates the officers, agents, or
employees for whose conduct the organization is accountable or the
circumstances under which it is accountable, those provisions shall apply.
      (3)   The offense consists of an omission to discharge a specific duty
imposed by law on the organization.
      (4)   If, acting with the kind of culpability otherwise required for the
commission of the offense, its commission was authorized, requested, commanded,
tolerated, or performed by the board of directors, trustees, partners, or by a
high managerial officer, agent, or employee acting in behalf of the
organization and within the scope of such a board's or person's office or
employment.
   (B)   If strict liability is imposed for the commission of an offense, a
purpose to impose organizational liability shall be presumed, unless the
contrary plainly appears.
   (C)   In a prosecution of an organization for an offense other than one for
which strict liability is imposed, it is a defense that the high managerial
officer, agent, or employee having supervisory responsibility over the subject
matter of the offense exercised due diligence to prevent its commission. This
defense is not available if it plainly appears inconsistent with the purpose of
the section defining the offense.
   (D)   As used in this section, ORGANIZATION means a corporation for profit
or not for profit, partnership, limited partnership, joint venture,
unincorporated nonprofit association, estate, trust, or other commercial or
legal entity. ORGANIZATION does not include an entity organized as or by a
governmental agency for the execution of a governmental program.
(R.C. § 2901.23)
§ 130.10  PERSONAL ACCOUNTABILITY FOR ORGANIZATIONAL CONDUCT.
   (A)   An officer, agent, or employee of an organization, as defined in R.C.
§ 2901.23, may be prosecuted for an offense committed by such organization, if
he or she acts with the kind of culpability required for the commission of the
offense, and any of the following apply:
      (1)   In the name of the organization or in its behalf, he or she engages
in conduct constituting the offense, or causes another to engage in such
conduct, or tolerates such conduct when it is of a type for which he or she has
direct responsibility;
      (2)   He or she has primary responsibility to discharge a duty imposed on
the organization by law, and such duty is not discharged.
   (B)   When a person is convicted of an offense by reason of this section, he
or she is subject to the same penalty as if he or she had acted in his or her
own behalf.
(R.C. § 2901.24)
§ 130.11  ATTEMPT.
   (A)   No person, purposely or knowingly, and when purpose or knowledge is
sufficient culpability for the commission of an offense, shall engage in
conduct that, if successful, would constitute or result in the offense.
   (B)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that, in retrospect,
commission of the offense that was the object of the attempt was either
factually or legally impossible under the attendant circumstances, if that
offense could have been committed had the attendant circumstances been as the
actor believed them to be.
   (C)   No person who is convicted of committing a specific offense, of
complicity in the commission of an offense, or of conspiracy to commit an
offense, shall be convicted of an attempt to commit the same offense in
violation of this section.
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that the
actor abandoned his or her effort to commit the offense or otherwise prevented
its commission, under circumstances manifesting a complete and voluntary
renunciation of his or her criminal purpose.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of an attempt to commit
an offense. An attempt to commit aggravated murder, murder, or an offense for
which the maximum penalty is imprisonment for life is a felony of the first
degree, to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. An attempt to commit a
drug abuse offense for which the penalty is determined by the amount or number
of unit doses of the controlled substance involved in the drug abuse offense is
an offense of the same degree as the drug abuse offense attempted would be if
that drug abuse offense had been committed and had involved an amount or number
of unit doses of the controlled substance that is within the next lower range
of controlled substance amounts than was involved in the attempt. An attempt to
commit any other offense is an offense of the next lesser degree than the
offense attempted. In the case of an attempt to commit an offense other than a
violation of R.C. Chapter 3734 that is not specifically classified, an attempt
is a misdemeanor of the first degree if the offense attempted is a felony, and
a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if the offense attempted is a misdemeanor.
In the case of an attempt to commit a violation of any provision of R.C.
Chapter 3734, other than R.C. § 3734.18, that relates to hazardous wastes, an
attempt is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. An attempt to
commit a minor misdemeanor, or to engage in conspiracy, is not an offense under
this section.
      (2)   In addition to any other sanctions imposed pursuant to division (E)
(1) of this section for an attempt to commit aggravated murder or murder in
violation of division (A) of this section, if the offender used a motor vehicle
as the means to attempt to commit the offense, the court shall impose upon the
offender a class two suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial
driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or
nonresident operating privilege as specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(2).
      (3)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to attempted rape and
also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a specification of the type described
in R.C. § 2941.1418, 2941.1419, or 2941.1420, the offender shall be sentenced
to a prison term or term of life imprisonment pursuant to R.C. § 2971.03.
   (F)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
      DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
(R.C. § 2923.02)
Statutory reference:
   Conspiracy, see R.C. § 2923.01
   Solid and hazardous wastes, see R.C. Chapter 3734
§ 130.12  COMPLICITY.
   (A)   No person, acting with the kind of culpability required for the
commission of an offense, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Solicit or procure another to commit the offense;
      (2)   Aid or abet another in committing the offense;
      (3)   Conspire with another to commit the offense in violation of R.C. §
2923.01;
      (4)   Cause an innocent or irresponsible person to commit the offense.
   (B)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that no person with
whom the accused was in complicity has been convicted as a principal offender.
   (C)   No person shall be convicted of complicity under this section unless
an offense is actually committed, but a person may be convicted of complicity
in an attempt to commit an offense in violation of R.C. § 2923.02 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   If an alleged accomplice of the defendant testifies against the
defendant in a case in which the defendant is charged with complicity in the
commission of or an attempt to commit an offense, an attempt to commit an
offense, or an offense, the court shall charge the jury in accordance with R.C.
§ 2923.03(D).
   (E)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that,
prior to the commission of or attempt to commit the offense, the actor
terminated his or her complicity, under circumstances manifesting a complete
and voluntary renunciation of his or her criminal purpose.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of complicity in the
commission of an offense, and shall be prosecuted and punished as if he or she
were a principal offender. A charge of complicity may be stated in terms of
this section, or in terms of the principal offense.
(R.C. § 2923.03)
Statutory reference:
   Conspiracy, see R.C. § 2923.01
§ 130.13  PRESUMPTION OF INNOCENCE; PROOF OF OFFENSE; AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE.
   (A)   Every person accused of an offense is presumed innocent until proven
guilty beyond a reasonable doubt, and the burden of proof for all elements of
the offense is upon the prosecution. The burden of going forward with the
evidence of an affirmative defense, and the burden of proof by a preponderance
of the evidence, for an affirmative defense, is upon the accused.
   (B)   (1)   Subject to division (B)(2) of this section, a person is presumed
to have acted in self defense or defense of another when using defensive force
that is intended or likely to cause death or great bodily harm to another if
the person against whom the defensive force is used is in the process of
unlawfully and without privilege to do so entering, or has unlawfully and
without privilege to do so entered, the residence or vehicle occupied by the
person using the defensive force.
      (2)   (a)   The presumption set forth in division (B)(1) of this section
does not apply if the person against whom the defensive force is used has a
right to be in, or is a lawful resident of, the residence or vehicle.
         (b)   The presumption set forth in division (B)(1) of this section
does not apply if the person who uses the defensive force uses it while in a
residence or vehicle and the person is unlawfully, and without privilege to be,
in that residence or vehicle.
      (3)   The presumption set forth in division (B)(1) of this section is a
rebuttable presumption and may be rebutted by a preponderance of the evidence.
   (C)   As part of its charge to the jury in a criminal case, the court shall
read the definitions of “reasonable doubt” and “proof beyond a reasonable
doubt”, contained in division (D) of this section.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE. An affirmative defense is either of the following:
         (a)   A defense expressly designated as affirmative;
         (b)   A defense involving an excuse or justification peculiarly within
the knowledge of the accused, on which the accused can fairly be required to
adduce supporting evidence.
      DWELLING. Means a building or conveyance of any kind that has a roof over
it and that is designed to be occupied by people lodging in the building or
conveyance at night, regardless of whether the building or conveyance is
temporary or permanent or is mobile or immobile. As used in this division, a
building or conveyance includes but is not limited to an attached porch, and a
building or conveyance with a roof over it includes but is not limited to a
tent.
      PROOF BEYOND A REASONABLE DOUBT. Proof of such character that an ordinary
person would be willing to rely and act upon it in the most important of the
person’s own affairs.
      REASONABLE DOUBT. Reasonable doubt is present when the jurors, after they
have carefully considered and compared all the evidence, cannot say they are
firmly convinced of the truth of the charge.   It is a doubt based on
reasonable and common sense. The term is not mere possible doubt, because
everything relating to human affairs or depending on moral evidence is open to
some possible or imaginary doubt.
      RESIDENCE. Means a dwelling in which a person resides either temporarily
or permanently or is visiting as a guest.
      VEHICLE. Means a conveyance of any kind, whether or not motorized, that
is designed to transport people or property.
(R.C. § 2901.05)
§ 130.14  BATTERED WOMAN SYNDROME.
   (A)   The municipality hereby declares that it recognizes both of the
following, in relation to the “battered woman syndrome:” that the syndrome
currently is a matter of commonly accepted scientific knowledge, and that the
subject matter and details of the syndrome are not within the general
understanding or experience of a person who is a member of the general populace
and are not within the field of common knowledge.
   (B)   If a person is charged with an offense involving the use of force
against another and the person, as a defense to the offense charged, raises the
affirmative defense of self-defense, the person may introduce expert testimony
of the “battered woman syndrome” and expert testimony that the person suffered
from that syndrome as evidence to establish the requisite belief of an imminent
danger of death or great bodily harm that is necessary, as an element of the
affirmative defense, to justify the person’s use of force in question. The
introduction of any expert testimony under this division shall be in accordance
with the Ohio Rules of Evidence.
(R.C. § 2901.06)
§ 130.15  DELINQUENCY ADJUDICATIONS DEEMED CONVICTIONS.
   (A)   If a person is alleged to have committed an offense and if the person
previously has been adjudicated a delinquent child or juvenile traffic offender
for a violation of a law or ordinance, except as provided in division (B) of
this section, the adjudication as a delinquent child or as a juvenile traffic
offender is a conviction for a violation of the law for purposes of determining
the offense with which the person should be charged and, if the person is
convicted of or pleads guilty to an offense, the sentence to be imposed upon
the person relative to the conviction or guilty plea.
   (B)   A previous adjudication of a person as a delinquent child or juvenile
traffic offender for a violation of a law or ordinance is not a conviction for
a violation of the law or ordinance for purposes of determining whether the
person is a repeat violent offender, as defined in R.C. § 2929.01, or whether
the person should be sentenced as a repeat violent offender under R.C. §
2929.14(B)(2) and R.C. § 2941.149.
(R.C. § 2901.08)
Statutory reference:
   DNA testing of certain delinquent children, see R.C. § 2152.74
§ 130.16  CRIMINAL LAW JURISDICTION.
   (A)   A person is subject to criminal prosecution and punishment in this
municipality if any of the following occur:
      (1)   The person commits an offense under the laws of this municipality,
any element of which takes place in this municipality;
      (2)   While in this municipality, the person attempts to commit, or is
guilty of complicity in the commission of, an offense in another jurisdiction,
which offense is an offense under both the laws of this municipality and the
other jurisdiction, or, while in this municipality, the person conspires to
commit an offense in another jurisdiction, which offense is an offense under
both the laws of this municipality and the other jurisdiction, and a
substantial overt act in furtherance of the conspiracy is undertaken in this
municipality by the person or another person involved in the conspiracy,
subsequent to the person’s entrance into the conspiracy. In any case in which a
person attempts to commit, is guilty of complicity in the commission of, or
conspires to commit an offense in another jurisdiction as described in this
division, the person is subject to criminal prosecution and punishment in this
municipality for the attempt, complicity, or conspiracy, and for any resulting
offense that is committed or completed in the other jurisdiction;
      (3)   While out of this municipality, the person conspires or attempts to
commit, or is guilty of complicity in the commission of, an offense in this
municipality;
      (4)   While out of this municipality, the person omits to perform a legal
duty imposed by the laws of this municipality, which omission affects a
legitimate interest of the municipality in protecting, governing or regulating
any person, property, thing, transaction, or activity in this municipality;
      (5)   While out of this municipality, the person unlawfully takes or
retains property and subsequently brings any of the unlawfully taken or
retained property into this municipality;
      (6)   While out of this municipality, the person unlawfully takes or
entices another person and subsequently brings the other person into this
municipality;
      (7)   The person, by means of a computer, computer system, computer
network, telecom- munication, telecommunications device, telecommunications
service, or information service, causes or knowingly permits any writing, data,
image or other telecommunication to be disseminated or transmitted into this
municipality in violation of the law of this state or municipality.
   (B)   In homicide, the element referred to in division (A)(1) of this
section includes the act that causes death, the physical contact that causes
death, the death itself, or any other element that is set forth in the offense
in question. If any part of the body of a homicide victim is found in this
municipality, the death is presumed to have occurred within this municipality.
   (C)   (1)   This municipality includes the land and water within its
boundaries and the air space above that land and water, with respect to which
this municipality has either exclusive or concurrent legislative jurisdiction.
Where the boundary between this municipality and another jurisdiction is
disputed, the disputed territory is conclusively presumed to be within this
municipality for purposes of this section.
      (2)   The courts of common pleas of Adams, Athens, Belmont, Brown,
Clermont, Columbiana, Gallia, Hamilton, Jefferson, Lawrence, Migs, Monroe,
Scad, and Washington counties have jurisdiction beyond the north or northwest
shore of the Ohio River extending to the opposite shore line, between the
extended boundary lines of any adjacent counties or adjacent state. Each of
those courts of common pleas has concurrent jurisdiction on the Ohio River with
any adjacent court of common pleas that borders on that river and with any
court of Kentucky or of West Virginia that borders on the Ohio River and that
has jurisdiction on the Ohio River under the law of Kentucky or the law of West
Virginia, whichever is applicable, or under federal law.
   (D)   When an offense is committed under the laws of this municipality, and
it appears beyond a reasonable doubt that the offense or any element of the
offense took place either in this municipality or in another jurisdiction or
jurisdictions, but it cannot reasonably be determined in which it took place,
the offense or element is conclusively presumed to have taken place in this
municipality for purposes of this section.
   (E)   When a person is subject to criminal prosecution and punishment in
this municipality for an offense committed or completed outside this
municipality, the person is subject to all specifications for that offense that
would be applicable if the offense had been committed within this municipality.
   (F)   Any act, conduct, or element that is a basis of a person being subject
under this section to criminal prosecution and punishment in this municipality
need not be committed personally by the person as long as it is committed by
another person who is in complicity or conspiracy with the person.
   (G)   This section shall be liberally construed, consistent with
constitutional limitations, to allow this municipality the broadest possible
jurisdiction over offenses and persons committing offenses in, or affecting,
this municipality.
   (H)   For purposes of division (A)(2) of this section, an overt act is
substantial when it is of a character that manifests a purpose on the part of
the actor that the object of the conspiracy should be completed.
   (I)   As used in this section, COMPUTER, COMPUTER SYSTEM, COMPUTER NETWORK,
INFORMATION SERVICE, TELECOMMUNICATION, TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE,
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE, DATA and WRITING have the same meanings as in R.C.
§ 2913.01.
(R.C. § 2901.11)
Statutory reference:
   State criminal law jurisdiction, see R.C. § 2901.11
§ 130.17  DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED OR FORFEITED PROPERTY HELD BY POLICE
DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Safekeeping of property in custody.
      (1)   (a)   Any property that has been lost, abandoned, stolen, seized
pursuant to a search warrant, or otherwise lawfully seized or forfeited and
that is in the custody of the Police Department shall be kept safely by the
Police Department, pending the time it no longer is needed as evidence or for
another lawful purpose, and shall be disposed of pursuant to this section or
R.C. §§ 2981.12 and 2981.13.
         (b)   This section does not apply to the custody and disposal of any
of the following:
            1.   Vehicles subject to forfeiture under R.C. Title 45, except as
provided in division (B)(1)(f) of this section;
            2.   Abandoned junk motor vehicles or other property of negligible
value;
            3.   Property held by a department of rehabilitation and correction
institution that is unclaimed, that does not have an identified owner, that the
owner agrees to dispose of, or that is identified by the department as having
little value;
            4.   Animals taken, and devices used in unlawfully taking animals,
under R.C. § 1531.20;
            5.   Controlled substances sold by a peace officer in the
performance of the officer’s official duties under R.C. § 3719.141;
            6.   Property recovered by a township law enforcement agency under
R.C. §§ 505.105 to 505.109;
            7.   Property held and disposed of under an ordinance of the
municipality or under R.C. §§ 737.29 to 737.33, except that if the municipality
has received notice of a citizens’ reward program as provided in division (B)
(5) of this section and disposes of property under an ordinance shall pay 25%
of any monies acquired from any sale or auction to the citizens’ reward
program.
      (2)   (a)   The Police Department shall adopt and comply with a written
internal control policy that does all of the following:
            1.   Provides for keeping detailed records as to the amount of
property acquired by the Police Department and the date property was acquired;
            2.   Provides for keeping detailed records of the disposition of
the property, which shall include but not be limited to both of the following:
               a.   The manner in which it was disposed, the date of
disposition, detailed financial records concerning any property sold, and the
name of any person who received the property. The record shall not identify or
enable identification of the individual officer who seized any item of
property;
               b.   The general types of expenditures made with amounts that
are gained from the sale of the property and that are retained by the agency,
including the specific amount expended on each general type of expenditure,
except that the policy shall not provide for or permit the identification of
any specific expenditure that is made in an ongoing investigation.
            3.   Complies with R.C. § 2981.13 if the Police Department has a
law enforcement trust fund or similar fund created under that section.
         (b)   The records kept under the internal control policy shall be open
to public inspection during the Police Department’s regular business hours. The
policy adopted under this section is a public record open for inspection under
R.C. § 149.43.
      (3)   The Police Department, with custody of property to be disposed of
under this section or R.C. §§ 2981.12 or 2981.13, shall make a reasonable
effort to locate persons entitled to possession of the property, to notify them
of when and where it may be claimed, and to return the property to them at the
earliest possible time. In the absence of evidence identifying persons entitled
to possession, it is sufficient notice to advertise in a newspaper of general
circulation in the county and to briefly describe the nature of the property in
custody and inviting persons to view and establish their right to it.
      (4)   As used in this section:
         CITIZENS’ REWARD PROGRAM has the same meaning as in R.C. § 9.92.
         LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY includes correctional institutions.
         TOWNSHIP LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY means an organized police department
of a township, a township police district, a joint police district, or the
office of a township constable.
(R.C. § 2981.11)
   (B)   Disposition of unclaimed or forfeited property.
      (1)   Unclaimed or forfeited property in the custody of the Police
Department, other than property described in division (A)(1)(b) of this
section, shall be disposed of by order of any court of record that has
territorial jurisdiction over the municipality, as follows:
         (a)   Drugs shall be disposed of pursuant to R.C. § 3719.11 or placed
in the custody of the Secretary of the Treasury of the United States for
disposal or use for medical or scientific purposes under applicable federal
law.
         (b)   Firearms and dangerous ordnance suitable for police work may be
given to a law enforcement agency for that purpose. Firearms suitable for
sporting use or as museum pieces or collectors’ items may be sold at public
auction pursuant to division (B)(2) of this section.  The Police Department may
sell other firearms and dangerous ordnance to a federally licensed firearms
dealer in a manner that the court considers proper. The Police Department shall
destroy any firearms or dangerous ordnance not given to a law enforcement
agency or sold or shall send them to the Bureau of Criminal Identification and
Investigation for destruction by the Bureau.
         (c)   Obscene materials shall be destroyed.
         (d)   Beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol seized from a person who
does not hold a permit issued under R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303 or otherwise
forfeited to the state for an offense under R.C. § 4301.45 or R.C. § 4301.53
shall be sold by the Division of Liquor Control if the Division determines that
it is fit for sale or shall be placed in the custody of the Investigations Unit
in the Ohio Department of Public Safety and be used for training relating to
law enforcement activities. The Ohio Department of Public Safety, with the
assistance of the Division of Liquor Control, shall adopt rules in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 119 to provide for the distribution to state or local law
enforcement agencies upon their request. If any tax imposed under R.C. Title 43
has not been paid in relation to the beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol, any
monies acquired from the sale shall first be used to pay the tax. All other
money collected under this division (B)(1)(d) shall be paid into the State
Treasury. Any beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol that the Division
determines to be unfit for sale shall be destroyed.
         (e)   Money received by an inmate of a correctional institution from
an unauthorized source or in an unauthorized manner shall be returned to the
sender, if known, or deposited in the inmates’ industrial and entertainment
fund of the institution if the sender is not known.
         (f)   1.   Any mobile instrumentality forfeited under R.C. Chapter
2981 may be given to the law enforcement agency that initially seized the
mobile instrumentality for use in performing its duties, if the agency wants
the mobile instrumentality. The agency shall take the mobile instrumentality
subject to any security interest or lien on the mobile instrumentality.
            2.   Vehicles and vehicle parts forfeited under R.C. §§ 4549.61 to
4549.63 may be given to a law enforcement agency for use in performing its
duties. Those parts may be incorporated into any other official vehicle. Parts
that do not bear vehicle identification numbers or derivatives of them may be
sold or disposed of as provided by rules of the Director of Public Safety.
Parts from which a vehicle identification number or derivative of it has been
removed, defaced, covered, altered, or destroyed and that are not suitable for
police work or incorporation into an official vehicle shall be destroyed and
sold as junk or scrap.
         (g)   Computers, computer networks, computer systems, and computer
software suitable for police work may be given to a law enforcement agency for
that purpose or disposed of under division (B)(2) of this section.
         (h)   Money seized in connection with a violation of R.C. § 2905.32,
2907.21, or 2907.22 shall be deposited in the Victims of Human Trafficking Fund
created by R.C. § 5101.87.
      (2)   Unclaimed or forfeited property that is not described in division
(B)(1) of this section or division (A)(1)(b) of this section, with court
approval, may be used by the law enforcement agency in possession of it. If it
is not used by the agency, it may be sold without appraisal at a public auction
to the highest bidder for cash or disposed of in another manner that the court
considers proper.
      (3)   Except as provided in divisions (B)(1) and (B)(5) of this section
and after compliance with division (B)(4) of this section when applicable, any
monies acquired from the sale of property disposed of pursuant to this section
shall be placed in the general revenue fund of the state, or the general fund
of the municipality.
      (4)   If the property was in the possession of the Police Department in
relation to a delinquent child proceeding in a juvenile court, 10% of any
monies acquired from the sale of property disposed of under this section shall
be applied to one or more alcohol and drug addiction treatment programs that
are certified by the Department of Alcohol and Drug Addiction Services under
R.C. § 3793.06. A juvenile court shall not specify a program, except as
provided in this division, unless the program is in the same county as the
court or in a contiguous county. If no certified program is located in any of
those counties, the juvenile court may specify a certified program anywhere in
Ohio. The remaining 90% of the proceeds or cash shall be applied as provided in
division (B)(3) of this section.
      (5)   (a)   If the Board of County Commissioners recognizes a citizens’
reward program under R.C. § 9.92, the Board shall notify the Police Department
of the recognition by filing a copy of its resolution conferring that
recognition with the Police Department. When the Board recognizes a citizens’
reward program and the county includes a part, but not all, of the territory of
the municipality, the Board shall so notify the Police Department of the
recognition of the citizens’ reward program only if the county contains the
highest percentage of the municipality’s population.
         (b)   Upon being so notified, the Police Department shall pay 25% of
any forfeited proceeds or cash derived from each sale of property disposed of
pursuant to this section to the citizens’ reward program for use exclusively to
pay rewards. No part of the funds may be used to pay expenses associated with
the program. If a citizens’ reward program that operates in more than one
county or in another state in addition to this state receives funds under this
section, the funds shall be used to pay rewards only for tips and information
to law enforcement agencies concerning offenses committed in the county from
which the funds were received.
      (6)   Any property forfeited under R.C. Chapter 2981 not be used to pay
any fine imposed upon a person who is convicted of or pleads guilty to an
underlying criminal offense or a different offense arising out of the same
facts and circumstances.
      (7)   Any moneys acquired from the sale of personal effects, tools, or
other property seized because the personal effects, tools, or other property
were used in the commission of a violation of R.C. § 2905.32, 2907.21, or
2907.22 or derived from the proceeds of the commission of a violation of R.C. §
2905.32, 2907.21, or 2907.22 and disposed of pursuant to this division (B)
shall be placed in the Victims of Human Trafficking Fund created by R.C. §
5101.87.
(R.C. § 2981.12)
   (C)   Disposition of contraband, proceeds, or instrumentalities. Except as
otherwise provided in R.C. § 2981.13, property ordered forfeited as contraband,
proceeds, or an instrumentality pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2981 shall be disposed
of, used, or sold pursuant to division (B) of this section or R.C. § 2981.12.
If the property is to be sold under division (B) of this section or R.C. §
2981.12, the prosecutor shall cause notice of the proposed sale to be given in
accordance with law.
(R.C. § 2981.13(A))
Statutory reference:
   Forfeiture of property generally, see R.C. Chapter 2981
§ 130.18  IMPOSING SENTENCE FOR MISDEMEANOR.
   (A)   (1)   Unless a mandatory jail term is required to be imposed by R.C. §
1547.99(G), 4510.14(B), or 4511.19(G), or any other provision of the Revised
Code, or any municipal ordinance, a court that imposes a sentence under this
chapter upon an offender for a misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor has discretion
to determine the most effective way to achieve the purposes and principles of
sentencing set forth in §
130.99(B).
      (2)   Unless a specific sanction is required to be imposed or is
precluded from being imposed by the section setting forth an offense or the
penalty for an offense or by any provision of §
130.99 or
133.99 of this code or R.C. §§ 2929.23 through 2929.28, a court that imposes a
sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor may impose on the offender any
sanction or combination of sanctions under §
130.99(C) through (G). The court shall not impose a sentence that imposes an
unnecessary burden on local government resources.
   (B)   (1)   In determining the appropriate sentence for a misdemeanor, the
court shall consider all of the following factors:
         (a)   The nature and circumstances of the offense or offenses;
         (b)   Whether the circumstances regarding the offender and the offense
or offenses indicate that the offender has a history of persistent criminal
activity and that the offender’s character and condition reveal a substantial
risk that the offender will commit another offense;
         (c)   Whether the circumstances regarding the offender and the offense
or offenses indicate that the offender’s history, character, and condition
reveal a substantial risk that the offender will be a danger to others and that
the offender’s conduct has been characterized by a pattern of repetitive,
compulsive, or aggressive behavior with heedless indifference to the
consequences;
         (d)   Whether the victim’s youth, age, disability, or other factor
made the victim particularly vulnerable to the offense or made the impact of
the offense more serious;
         (e)   Whether the offender is likely to commit future crimes in
general, in addition to the circumstances described in divisions (B)(1)(b) and
(B)(1)(c) of this section.
      (2)   In determining the appropriate sentence for a misdemeanor, in
addition to complying with division (B)(1) of this section, the court may
consider any other factors that are relevant to achieving the purposes and
principles of sentencing set forth in §
130.99(B).
   (C)   Before imposing a jail term as a sentence for a misdemeanor, a court
shall consider the appropriateness of imposing a community control sanction or
a combination of community control sanctions under §
130.99(D), (E), (F), and (G). A court may impose the longest jail term
authorized under §
130.99(C) only upon offenders who commit the worst forms of the offense or upon
offenders whose conduct and response to prior sanctions for prior offenses
demonstrate that the imposition of the longest jail term is necessary to deter
the offender from committing a future crime.
   (D)   (1)   A sentencing court shall consider any relevant oral or written
statement made by the victim, the defendant, the defense attorney, or the
prosecuting authority regarding sentencing for a misdemeanor. This division
does not create any rights to notice other than those rights authorized by R.C.
Chapter 2930.
      (2)   At the time of sentencing for a misdemeanor or as soon as possible
after sentencing, the court shall notify the victim of the offense of the
victim’s right to file an application for an award of reparations pursuant to
R.C. §§ 2743.51 through 2743.72.
(R.C. § 2929.22)
§ 130.19  MULTIPLE SENTENCES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, R.C. § 2929.14(C),
or R.C. § 2971.03(D) or (E), a prison term, jail term, or sentence of
imprisonment shall be served concurrently with any other prison term, jail
term, or sentence of imprisonment imposed by a court of this municipality, the
state, another state, or the United States. Except as provided in division (B)
(2) of this section, a jail term or sentence of imprisonment for misdemeanor
shall be served concurrently with a prison term or sentence of imprisonment for
felony served in a state or federal correctional institution.
   (B)   (1)   A jail term or sentence of imprisonment for a misdemeanor shall
be served consecutively to any other prison term, jail term, or sentence of
imprisonment when the trial court specifies that it is to be served
consecutively or when it is imposed for a misdemeanor violation of R.C. §
2907.322, 2921.34 or 2923.131. When consecutive sentences are imposed for
misdemeanors under this division, the term to be served is the aggregate of the
consecutive terms imposed, except that the aggregate term to be served shall
not exceed 18 months.
      (2)   A jail term or sentence of imprisonment imposed for a misdemeanor
violation of R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.14, 4510.16, 4510.21, or 4511.19, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, shall be served consecutively to
a prison term that is imposed for a felony violation of R.C. § 2903.06,
2903.07, 2903.08 or 4511.19 or a felony violation of R.C. § 2903.04 involving
the operation of a motor vehicle by the offender and that is served in a state
correctional institution when the trial court specifies that it is to be served
consecutively. When consecutive jail terms or sentences of imprisonment and
prison terms are imposed for one or more misdemeanors and one or more felonies
under this division, the term to be served is the aggregate of the consecutive
terms imposed, and the offender shall serve all terms imposed for a felony
before serving any term imposed for a misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2929.41)
§ 130.20  APPREHENSION, DETENTION, OR ARREST OF PERSON ON BOND.
   (A)   No person, other than a law enforcement officer, shall apprehend,
detain, or arrest a principal on bond, wherever issued, unless that person
meets all of the following criteria:
      (1)   The person is any of the following:
         (a)   Qualified, licensed, and appointed as a surety bail bond agent
under R.C. §§ 3905.83 through 3905.95;
         (b)   Licensed as a surety bail bond agent by the state where the bond
was written;
         (c)   Licensed as a private investigator under R.C. Chapter 4749;
         (d)   Licensed as a private investigator by the state where the bond
was written;
         (e)   An off-duty peace officer, as defined in R.C. § 2921.51.
      (2)   The person, prior to apprehending, detaining, or arresting the
principal, has entered into a written contract with the surety or with a
licensed surety bail bond agent appointed by the surety, which contract sets
forth the name of the principal who is to be apprehended, detained, or
arrested. For purposes of this division (A)(2), SURETY has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 3905.83;
      (3)   The person, prior to apprehending, detaining, or arresting the
principal, has notified the local law enforcement agency having jurisdiction
over the area in which such activities will be performed and has provided any
form or identification or other information requested by the law enforcement
agency.
   (B)   No person shall represent the person’s self to be a bail enforcement
agent or bounty hunter, or claim any similar title, in this municipality.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal bail bond agent
practices.
      (1)   A violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree or, if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of division (A) of this section, or any
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree or, if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of division (B) of this section, or any
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.27)
§ 130.21  SELF-DEFENSE: LIMITATIONS ON DUTY TO RETREAT PRIOR TO USING FORCE.
   (A)   As used in this section, RESIDENCE and VEHICLE have the same meanings
as in R.C. § 2901.05.
   (B)   For purposes of any section of this Code that sets forth a criminal
offense, a person who lawfully is in that person’s residence has no duty to
retreat before using force in self-defense, defense of another, or defense of
that person’s residence, and a person who lawfully is an occupant of that
person’s vehicle or who lawfully is an occupant in a vehicle owned by an
immediate family member of the person has no duty to retreat before using force
in self-defense or defense of another.
(R.C. § 2901.09)
§ 130.99  PENALTY FOR TITLE XIII.
   (A)   Generally. Except where otherwise specifically classified within the
body of the section of a chapter of this title, a violation of such section
shall be deemed a misdemeanor punishable upon conviction by a fine of not more
than $500, imprisonment of not more than six months, or both.
(R.C. § 715.67)
   (B)   Considerations in misdemeanor sentencing.
      (1)   A court that sentences an offender for a misdemeanor or minor
misdemeanor violation of any provision of the Ohio Revised Code, or of any
municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to a misdemeanor or minor
misdemeanor violation of a provision of the Ohio Revised Code, shall be guided
by the overriding purposes of misdemeanor sentencing. The overriding purposes
of misdemeanor sentencing are to protect the public from future crime by the
offender and others and to punish the offender. To achieve those purposes, the
sentencing court shall consider the impact of the offense upon the victim and
the need for changing the offender’s behavior, rehabilitating the defender, and
making restitution to the victim of the offense, the public, or the victim and
the public.
      (2)   A sentence imposed for a misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor violation
of an Ohio Revised Code provision or for a violation of a municipal ordinance
that is subject to division (B)(1) of this section shall be reasonably
calculated to achieve the two overriding purposes of misdemeanor sentencing set
forth in division (B)(1) of this section, commensurate with and not demeaning
to the seriousness of the offender’s conduct and its impact upon the victim,
and consistent with sentences imposed for similar offenses committed by similar
offenders.
      (3)   A court that imposes a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor
or minor misdemeanor violation of an Ohio Revised Code provision or for a
violation of a municipal ordinance that is subject to division (B)(1) of this
section shall not base the sentence upon the race, ethnic background, gender,
or religion of the offender.
      (4)   Divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) of this section shall not apply to any
offense that is disposed of by a traffic violations bureau of any court
pursuant to Traffic Rule 13 and shall not apply to any violation of any
provision of the Ohio Revised Code that is a minor misdemeanor and that is
disposed of without a court appearance. Divisions (B)(1) through (B)(3) of this
section do not affect any penalties established by the municipality for a
violation of its ordinances that are not substantially equivalent to a
misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor violation of a provision of the Ohio Revised
Code.
(R.C. § 2929.21)
   (C)   Misdemeanor jail terms.
      (1)   Except as provided in §§
130.18 or
133.99 of this code or R.C. §§ 2929.22 or 2929.23 or division (C)(5) or (C)(6)
of this section and unless another term is required or authorized pursuant to
law, if the sentencing court imposing a sentence upon an offender for a
misdemeanor elects or is required to impose a jail term on the offender
pursuant to this chapter, the court shall impose a definite jail term that
shall be one of the following:
         (a)   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than 180 days;
         (b)   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than 90 days;
         (c)   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than 60 days;
         (d)   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than 30 days.
      (2)   (a)   A court that sentences an offender to a jail term under
division (C) of this section may permit the offender to serve the sentence in
intermittent confinement or may authorize a limited release of the offender as
provided in division (E)(2) of this section.  The court retains jurisdiction
over every offender sentenced to jail to modify the jail sentence imposed at
any time, but the court shall not reduce any mandatory jail term.
         (b)   1.   If a prosecutor, as defined in R.C. § 2935.01, has filed a
notice with the court that the prosecutor wants to be notified about a
particular case and if the court is considering modifying the jail sentence of
the offender in that case, the court shall notify the prosecutor that the court
is considering modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case. The
prosecutor may request a hearing regarding the court’s consideration of
modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case, and, if the
prosecutor requests a hearing, the court shall notify the eligible offender of
the hearing.
            2.   If the prosecutor requests a hearing regarding the court’s
consideration of modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case, the
court shall hold the hearing before considering whether or not to release the
offender from the offender’s jail sentence.
      (3)   If a court sentences an offender to a jail term under division (C)
of this section and the court assigns the offender to a county jail that has
established a county jail industry program pursuant to R.C. § 5147.30, the
court shall specify, as part of the sentence, whether the offender may be
considered for participation in the program. During the offender’s term in the
county jail, the court retains jurisdiction to modify its specification
regarding the offender’s participation in the county jail industry program.
      (4)   If a person sentenced to a jail term pursuant to division (C) of
this section, the court may impose as part of the sentence pursuant to R.C. §
2929.28 a reimbursement sanction, and, if the local detention facility in which
the term is to be served is covered by a policy adopted pursuant to R.C. §§
307.93, 341.14, 341.19, 341.21, 341.23, 753.02, 753.04, 753.16, 2301.56, or
2947.19 and R.C. § 2929.37, both of the following apply:
         (a)   The court shall specify both of the following as part of the
sentence:
            1.   If the person is presented with an itemized bill pursuant to
R.C. § 2929.37 for payment of the costs of confinement, the person is required
to pay the bill in accordance with that section.
            2.   If the person does not dispute the bill described in division
(C)(4)(a)1. of this section and does not pay the bill by the times specified in
R.C. § 2929.37, the Clerk of the Court may issue a certificate of judgment
against the person as described in that section.
         (b)   The sentence automatically includes any certificate of judgment
issued as described in division (C)(4)(a)2. of this section.
      (5)   If an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation
of R.C. § 4511.19(B), or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, also
is convicted of or also pleads guilty to a specification of the type described
in R.C. § 2941.1414 and if the court imposes a jail term on the offender for
the underlying offense, the court shall impose upon the offender an additional
definite jail term of not more than six months. The additional jail term shall
not be reduced pursuant to any provision of the Revised Code. The offender
shall serve the additional jail term consecutively to and prior to the jail
term imposed for the underlying offense and consecutively to any other
mandatory term imposed in relation to the offense.
      (6)   (a)   If an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
misdemeanor violation of R.C. § 2907.23, 2907.24, 2907.241, or 2907.25, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and to a specification of the
type described in R.C. § 2941.1421 and if the court imposes a jail term on the
offender for the misdemeanor violation, the court may impose upon the offender
an additional definite jail term as follows:
            1.   Subject to division (C)(6)(a)2. of this section, an additional
definite jail term of not more than 60 days;
            2.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one or more misdemeanor or felony violations of R.C. § 2907.22,
2907.23, 2907.24, 2907.241, or 2907.25, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, and also was convicted of or pleaded guilty to a
specification of the type described in R.C. § 2941.1421 regarding one or more
of those violations, an additional definite jail term of not more than 120
days.
         (b)   In lieu of imposing an additional definite jail term under
division (C)(6)(a) of this section, the court may directly impose on the
offender a sanction that requires the offender to wear a real- time processing,
continual tracking electronic monitoring device during the period of time
specified by the court. The period of time specified by the court shall equal
the duration of an additional jail term that the court could have imposed upon
the offender under division (C)(6)(a) of this section. A sanction imposed under
this division shall commence on the date specified by the court, provided that
the sanction shall not commence until after the offender has served the jail
term imposed for the misdemeanor violation of R.C. § 2907.23, 2907.24,
2907.241, or 2907.25, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and
any residential sanction imposed for the violation under division (E) of this
section or R.C. § 2929.26. A sanction imposed under this division shall be
considered to be a community control sanction for purposes of division (D) or
this section or R.C. § 2929.25, and all provisions of this Code and the Ohio
Revised Code that pertain to community control sanctions shall apply to a
sanction imposed under this division, except to the extent that they would by
their nature be clearly inapplicable. The offender shall pay all costs
associated with a sanction imposed under this division, including the cost of
the use of the monitoring device.
      (7)   If an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor
violation of R.C. § 2903.13 and also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
specification of the type described in R.C. § 2941.1423 that charges that the
victim of the violation was a woman whom the offender knew was pregnant at the
time of the violation, the court shall impose on the offender a mandatory jail
term that is a definite term of at least 30 days.
      (8)   If a court sentences an offender to a jail term under this division
(C), the sentencing court retains jurisdiction over the offender and the jail
term. Upon motion of either party or upon the court’s own motion, the court, in
the court’s sole discretion and as the circumstances warrant, may substitute
one or more community control sanctions under division (E) or (F) of this
section for any jail days that are not mandatory jail days.
(R.C. § 2929.24)
   (D)   Misdemeanor community control sanctions.
      (1)   (a)   Except as provided in §§
130.18 and
133.99 of this code or R.C. §§ 2929.22 and 2929.23 or when a jail term is
required by law, in sentencing an offender for a misdemeanor, other than a
minor misdemeanor, the sentencing court may do either of the following:
            1.   Directly impose a sentence that consists of one or more
community control sanctions authorized by divisions (E), (F), or (G) of this
section. The court may impose any other conditions of release under a community
control sanction that the court considers appropriate. If the court imposes a
jail term upon the offender, the court may impose any community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions in addition to the jail
term.
            2.   Impose a jail term under division (C) of this section from the
range of jail terms authorized under that division for the offense, suspend all
or a portion of the jail term imposed, and place the offender under a community
control sanction or combination of community control sanctions authorized under
divisions (E), (F), or (G) of this section.
         (b)   The duration of all community control sanctions imposed upon an
offender and in effect for an offender at any time shall not exceed five years.
         (c)   At sentencing, if a court directly imposes a community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions pursuant to division (D)
(1)(a)1. of this section, the court shall state the duration of the community
control sanctions imposed and shall notify the offender that if any of the
conditions of the community control sanctions are violated the court may do any
of the following:
            1.   Impose a longer time under the same community control sanction
if the total time under all of the offender’s community control sanctions does
not exceed the five-year limit specified in division (D)(1)(b) of this section;
            2.   Impose a more restrictive community control sanction under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section, but the court is not required to
impose any particular sanction or sanctions;
            3.   Impose a definite jail term from the range of jail terms
authorized for the offense under division (C) of this section.
      (2)   If a court sentences an offender to any community control sanction
or combination of community control sanctions pursuant to division (D)(1)(a)1.
of this section, the sentencing court retains jurisdiction over the offender
and the period of community control for the duration of the period of community
control. Upon the motion of either party or on the court’s own motion, the
court, in the court’s sole discretion and as the circumstances warrant, may
modify the community control sanctions or conditions of release previously
imposed, substitute a community control sanction or condition of release for
another community control sanction or condition of release previously imposed,
or impose an additional community control sanction or condition of release.
      (3)   (a)   If a court sentences an offender to any community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions authorized under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section, the court shall place the offender
under the general control and supervision of the court or of a department of
probation in the jurisdiction that serves the court for purposes of reporting
to the court a violation of any of the conditions of the sanctions imposed. If
the offender resides in another jurisdiction and a department of probation has
been established to serve the municipal court or county court in that
jurisdiction, the sentencing court may request the municipal court or the
county court to receive the offender into the general control and supervision
of that department of probation for purposes of reporting to the sentencing
court a violation of any of the conditions of the sanctions imposed. The
sentencing court retains jurisdiction over any offender whom it sentences for
the duration of the sanction or sanctions imposed.
         (b)   The sentencing court shall require as a condition of any
community control sanction that the offender abide by the law and not leave the
state without the permission of the court or the offender’s probation officer.
In the interests of doing justice, rehabilitating the offender, and ensuring
the offender’s good behavior, the court may impose additional requirements on
the offender. The offender’s compliance with the additional requirements also
shall be a condition of the community control sanction imposed upon the
offender.
      (4)   (a)   If the court imposing sentence upon an offender sentences the
offender to any community control sanction or combination of community control
sanctions authorized under division (E), (F), or (G) of this section, and the
offender violates any of the conditions of the sanctions, the public or private
person or entity that supervises or administers the program or activity that
comprises the sanction shall report the violation directly to the sentencing
court or to the department of probation or probation officer with general
control and supervision over the offender. If the public or private person or
entity reports the violation to the department of probation or probation
officer, the department or officer shall report the violation to the sentencing
court.
         (b)   If an offender violates any condition of a community control
sanction, the sentencing court may impose upon the violator one or more of the
following penalties:
            1.   A longer time under the same community control sanction if the
total time under all of the community control sanctions imposed on the violator
does not exceed the five-year limit specified in division (D)(1)(b) of this
section;
            2.   A more restrictive community control sanction;
            3.   A combination of community control sanctions, including a jail
term.
         (c)   If the court imposes a jail term upon a violator pursuant to
division (D)(4)(b) of this section, the total time spent in jail for the
misdemeanor offense and the violation of a condition of the community control
sanction shall not exceed the maximum jail term available for the offense for
which the sanction that was violated was imposed. The court may reduce the
longer period of time that the violator is required to spend under the longer
sanction or the more restrictive sanction imposed under division (D)(4)(b) of
this section by all or part of the time the violator successfully spent under
the sanction that was initially imposed.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if an offender, for
a significant period of time, fulfills the conditions of a community control
sanction imposed pursuant to division (E), (F), or (G) of this section in an
exemplary manner, the court may reduce the period of time under the community
control sanction or impose a less restrictive community control sanction.
Fulfilling the conditions of a community control sanction does not relieve the
offender of a duty to make restitution under division (G) of this section.
(R.C. § 2929.25)
   (E)   Community residential sanction.
      (1)   Except when a mandatory jail term is required by law, the court
imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a minor misdemeanor, may
impose upon the offender any community residential sanction or combination of
community residential sanctions under this division (E). Community residential
sanctions include but are not limited to the following:
         (a)   A term of up to 180 days in a halfway house or a term in a
halfway house not to exceed the longest jail term available for the offense,
whichever is shorter, if the political subdivision that would have
responsibility for paying the costs of confining the offender in a jail has
entered into a contract with the halfway house for use of the facility for
misdemeanor offenders;
         (b)   If the offender is an eligible offender, as defined in R.C. §
307.932, a term of up to 60 days in a community alternative sentencing center
or district community alternative sentencing center established and operated in
accordance with that section, in the circumstances specified in that section,
with one of the conditions of the sanction being that the offender complete in
the center the entire term imposed.
      (2)   A sentence to a community residential sanction under division (E)
(1)(c) of this section shall be in accordance with R.C. § 307.932. In all other
cases, the court that sentences an offender to a community residential sanction
under this division (E) may do either or both of the following:
         (a)   Permit the offender to serve the offender’s sentence in
intermittent confinement, overnight, on weekends or at any other time or times
that will allow the offender to continue at the offender’s occupation or care
for the offender’s family;
         (b)   Authorize the offender to be released so that the offender may
seek or maintain employment, receive education or training, receive treatment,
perform community service, or otherwise fulfill an obligation imposed by law or
by the court. A release pursuant to this division shall be only for the
duration of time that is needed to fulfill the purpose of the release and for
travel that reasonably is necessary to fulfill the purposes of release.
      (3)   The court may order that a reasonable portion of the income earned
by the offender upon a release pursuant to division (E)(2) of this section be
applied to any financial sanction imposed under division (G) of this section.
      (4)   No court shall sentence any person to a prison term for a
misdemeanor or to a jail term for a minor misdemeanor.
      (5)   If a court sentences a person who has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a misdemeanor to a community residential sanction as described in
division (E)(1) of this section, at the time of reception and at other times
the person in charge of the operation of the halfway house, community
alternative sentencing center, district community alternative sentencing
center, or other place at which the offender will serve the residential
sanction determines to be appropriate, the person in charge of the operation of
the halfway house, community alternative sentencing center, district community
alternative sentencing center, or other place may cause the convicted offender
to be examined and tested for tuberculosis, HIV infection, hepatitis, including
but not limited to hepatitis A, B, and C, and other contagious diseases. The
person in charge of the operation of the halfway house, community alternative
sentencing center, district community alternative sentencing center, or other
place at which the offender will serve the residential sanction may cause a
convicted offender in the halfway house, community alternative sentencing
center, district community alternative sentencing center, or other place who
refuses to be tested or treated for tuberculosis, HIV infection, hepatitis,
including but not limited to hepatitis A, B, and C, or another contagious
disease to be tested and treated involuntarily.
      (6)   The municipality may enter into a contract with a halfway house for
use of the halfway house to house misdemeanor offenders under a sanction
imposed under division (E)(1)(a) of this section.
(R.C. § 2929.26)
   (F)   Nonresidential sanction where jail term is not mandatory.
      (1)   Except when a mandatory jail term is required by law, the court
imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a minor misdemeanor, may
impose upon the offender any nonresidential sanction or combination of
nonresidential sanctions authorized under this division. Nonresidential
sanctions include but are not limited to the following:
         (a)   A term of day reporting;
         (b)   A term of house arrest with electronic monitoring or continuous
alcohol monitoring or both electronic monitoring and continuous alcohol
monitoring, a term of electronic monitoring or continuous alcohol monitoring
without house arrest, or a term of house arrest without electronic monitoring
or continuous alcohol monitoring;
         (c)   A term of community service of up to 500 hours for misdemeanor
of the first degree or 200 hours for a misdemeanor of the second, third, or
fourth degree;
         (d)   A term in a drug treatment program with a level of security for
the offender as determined necessary by the court;
         (e)   A term of intensive probation supervision;
         (f)   A term of basic probation supervision;
         (g)   A term of monitored time;
         (h)   A term of drug and alcohol use monitoring, including random drug
testing;
         (i)   A curfew term;
         (j)   A requirement that the offender obtain employment;
         (k)   A requirement that the offender obtain education or training;
         (l)   Provided the court obtains the prior approval of the victim, a
requirement that the offender participate in victim-offender mediation;
         (m)   If authorized by law, suspension of the offender’s privilege to
operate a motor vehicle, immobilization or forfeiture of the offender’s motor
vehicle, a requirement that the offender obtain a valid motor vehicle
operator’s license, or any other related sanction;
         (n)   A requirement that the offender obtain counseling if the offense
is a violation of R.C. § 2919.25 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance or a violation of R.C. § 2903.13 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance involving a person who was a family or household member at
the time of the violation, if the offender committed the offense in the
vicinity of one or more children who are not victims of the offense, and if the
offender or the victim of the offense is a parent, guardian, custodian, or
person in loco parentis of one or more of those children. This division does
not limit the court in requiring that the offender obtain counseling for any
offense or in any circumstance not specified in this division.
      (2)   If the court imposes a term of community service pursuant to
division (F)(1)(c) of this section, the offender may request that the court
modify the sentence to authorize the offender to make a reasonable
contribution, as determined by the court, to the general fund of the county,
municipality, or other local entity that provides funding to the court. The
court may grant the request if the offender demonstrates a change in
circumstances from the date the court imposes the sentence or that the
modification would otherwise be in the interests of justice. If the court
grants the request, the offender shall make a reasonable contribution to the
court, and the clerk of the court shall deposit that contribution into the
general fund of the county, municipality, or other local entity that provides
funding to the court. If more than one entity provides funding to the court,
the clerk shall deposit a percentage of the reasonable contribution equal to
the percentage of funding the entity provides to the court in that entity’s
general fund.
      (3)   In addition to the sanctions authorized under division (F)(1) of
this section, the court imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a
minor misdemeanor, upon an offender who is not required to serve a mandatory
jail term may impose any other sanction that is intended to discourage the
offender or other persons from committing a similar offense if the sanction is
reasonably related to the overriding purposes and principles of misdemeanor
sentencing.
      (4)   The court imposing a sentence for a minor misdemeanor may impose a
term of community service in lieu of all or part of a fine. The term of
community service imposed for a minor misdemeanor shall not exceed 30 hours. 
After imposing a term of community service, the court may modify the sentence
to authorize a reasonable contribution, as determined by the court, to the
appropriate general fund as provided in division (F)(2) of this section.
(R.C. § 2929.27)
   (G)   Financial sanctions.
      (1)   In addition to imposing court costs pursuant to R.C. § 2947.23, the
court imposing a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor, including a minor
misdemeanor, may sentence the offender to any financial sanction or combination
of financial sanctions authorized under this division (G). If the court in its
discretion imposes one or more financial sanctions, the financial sanctions
that may be imposed pursuant to this section include but are not limited to the
following:
         (a)   Restitution.
            1.   Unless the misdemeanor offense is a minor misdemeanor or could
be disposed of by the Traffic Violations Bureau serving the court under Traffic
Rule 13, restitution by the offender to the victim of the offender’s crime or
any survivor of the victim, in an amount based upon the victim’s economic loss.
The court may not impose restitution as a sanction pursuant to this division if
the offense is a minor misdemeanor or could be disposed of by the Traffic
Violations Bureau serving the court under Traffic Rule 13. If the court
requires restitution, the court shall order that the restitution be made to the
victim in open court or to the adult probation department that serves the
jurisdiction or the Clerk of the Court on behalf of the victim.
            2.   If the court imposes restitution, the court shall determine
the amount of restitution to be paid by the offender. If the court imposes
restitution, the court may base the amount of restitution it orders on an
amount recommended by the victim, the offender, a presentence investigation
report, estimates or receipts indicating the cost of repairing or replacing
property, and other information, provided that the amount the court orders as
restitution shall not exceed the amount of economic loss suffered by the victim
as a direct and proximate result of the commission of the offense. If the court
decides to impose restitution, the court shall hold an evidentiary hearing on
restitution if the offender, victim, or survivor disputes the amount of
restitution. If the court holds an evidentiary hearing, at the hearing the
victim or survivor has the burden to prove by a preponderance of the evidence
the amount of restitution sought from the offender.
            3.   All restitution payments shall be credited against any
recovery of economic loss in a civil action brought by the victim or any
survivor of the victim against the offender.  No person may introduce evidence
of an award of restitution under this section in a civil action for purposes of
imposing liability against an insurer under R.C. § 3937.18.
            4.   If the court imposes restitution, the court may order that the
offender pay a surcharge, of not more than 5% of the amount of the restitution
otherwise ordered, to the entity responsible for collecting and processing
restitution payments.
            5.   The victim or survivor of the victim may request that the
prosecutor in the case file a motion, or the offender may file a motion, for
modification of the payment terms of any restitution ordered. If the court
grants the motion, it may modify the payment terms as it determines
appropriate.
         (b)   Fines. A fine of the type described in divisions (G)(1)(b)1. and
(G)(1)(b)2. of this section payable to the appropriate entity as required by
law:
            1.   A fine in the following amount:
               a.   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than
$1,000;
               b.   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than $750;
               c.   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than $500;
               d.   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than $250;
               e.   For a minor misdemeanor, not more than $150.
            2.   A state fine or cost as defined in R.C. § 2949.111.
         (c)   Reimbursement.
            1.   Reimbursement by the offender of any or all of the costs of
sanctions incurred by the government including, but not limited to the
following:
               a.   All or part of the costs of implementing any community
control sanction, including a supervision fee under R.C. § 2951.021;
               b.   All or part of the costs of confinement in a jail or other
residential facility, including but not limited to a per diem fee for room and
board, the costs of medical and dental treatment, and the costs of repairing
property damaged by the offender while confined;
               c.   All or part of the cost of purchasing and using an
immobilizing or disabling device, including a certified ignition interlock
device, or a remote alcohol monitoring device that a court orders an offender
to use under R.C. § 4510.13.
            2.   The amount of reimbursement under division (G)(1)(c)1. of this
section shall not exceed the total amount of reimbursement the offender is able
to pay and shall not exceed the actual cost of the sanctions. The court may
collect any amount of reimbursement the offender is required to pay under that
division. If the court does not order reimbursement under that division,
confinement costs may be assessed pursuant to a repayment policy adopted under
R.C. § 2929.37. In addition, the offender may be required to pay the fees
specified in R.C. § 2929.38 in accordance with that section.
      (2)   (a)   If the court determines a hearing is necessary, the court may
hold a hearing to determine whether the offender is able to pay the financial
sanction imposed pursuant to this division (G) or court costs or is likely in
the future to be able to pay the sanction or costs.
         (b)   If the court determines that the offender is indigent and unable
to pay the financial sanction or court costs, the court shall consider imposing
and may impose a term of community service under division (F)(1) of this
section in lieu of imposing a financial sanction or court costs. If the court
does not determine that the offender is indigent, the court may impose a term
of community service under division (F)(1) of this section in lieu of or in
addition to imposing a financial sanction under this division (G) and in
addition to imposing court costs. The court may order community service for a
minor misdemeanor pursuant to division (F)(4) of this section in lieu of or in
addition to imposing a financial sanction under this section and in addition to
imposing court costs. If a person fails to pay a financial sanction or court
costs, the court may order community service in lieu of the financial sanction
or court costs.
      (3)   (a)   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed upon the
offender pursuant to division (G)(1)(c) of this section to pay the costs
incurred by a county pursuant to any sanction imposed under division (E), (F),
or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to confine offenders
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this section to the County
Treasurer. The County Treasurer shall deposit the reimbursements in the
county’s General Fund. The county shall use the amounts deposited in the fund
to pay the costs incurred by the county pursuant to any sanction imposed under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to
confine offenders pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this
section.
         (b)   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed upon the offender
pursuant to division (G)(1)(c) of this section to pay the costs incurred by a
municipal corporation pursuant to any sanction imposed under division (E), (F),
or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to confine offenders
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this section to the Clerk-
Treasurer of the municipal corporation. The Clerk-Treasurer shall deposit the
reimbursements in the municipal corporation’s General Fund. The municipal
corporation shall use the amounts deposited in the Fund to pay the costs
incurred by the municipal corporation pursuant to any sanction imposed under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to
confine offenders pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this
section.
         (c)   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed pursuant to
division (G)(1)(c) of this section for the costs incurred by a private provider
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E), (F), or (G) of this section
to the provider.
      (4)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (G)(4), a
financial sanction imposed under division (G)(1) of this section is a judgment
in favor of the state or the political subdivision that operates the court that
imposed the financial sanction, and the offender subject to the financial
sanction is the judgment debtor. A financial sanction of reimbursement imposed
pursuant to division (G)(1)(c)1.a. of this section upon an offender is a
judgment in favor of the entity administering the community control sanction,
and the offender subject to the financial sanction is the judgment debtor. A
financial sanction of reimbursement imposed pursuant to division (G)(1)(c)1.b.
of this section upon an offender confined in a jail or other residential
facility is a judgment in favor of the entity operating the jail or other
residential facility, and the offender subject to the financial sanction is the
judgment debtor. A financial sanction of restitution imposed pursuant to
division (G)(1)(a) of this section is an order in favor of the victim of the
offender’s criminal act that can be collected through a certificate of judgment
as described in division (G)(4)(b)1. of this section, through execution as
described in division (G)(4)(b)2. of this section or through an order as
described in division (G)(4)(b)3. of this section and the offender shall be
considered for purposes of the collection as a judgment debtor.
         (b)   Once a financial sanction is imposed as a judgment or order
under this division, the victim, private provider, state, or political
subdivision may do any of the following:
            1.   Obtain from the clerk of the court in which the judgment was
entered a certificate of judgment that shall be in the same manner and form as
a certificate of judgment issued in a civil action;
            2.   Obtain execution of the judgment or order through any
available procedure, including any of the procedures identified in R.C. §
2929.18(D)(1) and (D)(2) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
            3.   Obtain an order for the assignment of wages of the judgment
debtor under R.C. § 1321.33 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (5)   The civil remedies authorized under division (G)(4) of this section
for the collection of the financial sanction supplement, but do not preclude,
enforcement of the criminal sentence.
      (6)   Each court imposing a financial sanction upon an offender under
this division (G) may designate the Clerk of the Court or another person to
collect the financial sanction. The Clerk, or another person authorized by law
or the court to collect the financial sanction may do the following:
         (a)   Enter into contracts with one or more public agencies or private
vendors for the collection of amounts due under the sanction. Before entering
into a contract for the collection of amounts due from an offender pursuant to
any financial sanction imposed pursuant to this division (G), a court shall
comply with R.C. §§ 307.86 through 307.92.
         (b)   Permit payment of all or any portion of the sanction in
installments, by financial transaction device if the court is a county court or
a municipal court operated by a county, or by any other reasonable method, in
any time, and on any terms that the court considers just, except that the
maximum time permitted for payment shall not exceed five years. If the court is
a county court or a municipal court operated by a county, the acceptance of
payments by any financial transaction device shall be governed by the policy
adopted by the Board of County Commissioners of the county pursuant to R.C. §
301.28. If the court is a municipal court not operated by a county, the Clerk
may pay any fee associated with processing an electronic transfer out of public
money or may charge the fee to the offender.
         (c)   To defray administrative costs, charge a reasonable fee to an
offender who elects a payment plan rather than a lump sum payment of any
financial sanction.
      (7)   No financial sanction imposed under this division (G) shall
preclude a victim from bringing a civil action against the offender.
(R.C. § 2929.28)
   (H)   Organizational penalties.
      (1)   Regardless of the other penalties provided in this section, an
organization convicted of an offense pursuant to §
130.09 shall be fined by the court as follows:
         (a)   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than $5,000;
         (b)   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than $4,000;
         (c)   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than $3,000;
         (d)   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than $2,000;
         (e)   For a minor misdemeanor, not more than $1,000;
         (f)   For a misdemeanor not specifically classified, not more than
$2,000;
         (g)   For a minor misdemeanor not specifically classified, not more
than $1,000.
      (2)   When an organization is convicted of an offense not specifically
classified, and the section defining the offense or penalty plainly indicates a
purpose to impose the penalty provided for violation upon organizations, then
such penalty shall be imposed in lieu of the penalty provided in this section.
      (3)   When an organization is convicted of an offense not specifically
classified, and the penalty provided includes a higher fine than that provided
in this section, then the penalty imposed shall be pursuant to the penalty
provided for violation of the section defining the offense.
      (4)   This section does not prevent the imposition of available civil
sanctions against an organization convicted of an offense pursuant to §
130.09, either in addition to or in lieu of a fine imposed pursuant to this
section.
(R.C. § 2929.31)
Cross-reference:
   Sentencing for sexually oriented offenses; sexual predators; registration,
see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Citation issuance and limitations on arrest for minor misdemeanors, see R.C.
§ 2935.26
   Crime victim’s reparations fund, see R.C. § 2929.32
   Habitual sex offender and sexual predator registration, see R.C. Chapter
2950
   Reimbursement for costs of confinement, see R.C. §§ 2929.36 et seq.
   Reports to health care licensing boards of criminal offenses, see R.C. §
2929.42
CHAPTER 131:  OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
131.01   Definitions
   
131.02   Arson; determining property value or amount of physical harm
   
131.03   Criminal damaging or endangering; vehicular vandalism
   
131.04   Criminal mischief
   
131.05   Damaging or endangering aircraft or airport operations
   
131.06   Criminal trespass; aggravated trespass
   
131.07   Tampering with coin machines
   
131.08   Theft
   
131.09   Unauthorized use of a vehicle
   
131.10   Unauthorized use of property, including telecommunication property and
computers; possession of municipal property
   
131.11   Passing bad checks
   
131.12   Misuse of credit cards
   
131.13   Making or using slugs
   
131.14   Prima facie evidence of purpose to defraud
   
131.15   Tampering with records
   
131.16   Securing writings by deception
   
131.17   Defrauding creditors
   
131.18   Receiving stolen property
   
131.19   Value of stolen property
   
131.20   Degree of offense when certain property involved
   
131.21   Injuring vines, bushes, trees, or crops
   
131.22   Detention and arrest of shoplifters and those committing motion
picture piracy; protection of institutional property
   
131.23   Insurance fraud; workers’ compensation fraud; medicaid fraud
   
131.24   Injury to property by hunters
   
131.25   Evidence of intent to commit theft of rented property; evidence of
lack of capacity to consent
   
131.26   Forgery of identification cards
   
131.27   Criminal simulation
   
131.28   Personating an officer
   
131.29   Trademark counterfeiting
   
131.30   Negligent burning
   
131.31   Signs or posters on telephone/utility poles
   
131.32   Diminishing or interfering with forfeitable property
   
131.33   Recording credit card, telephone or Social Security numbers
   
131.34   Prosecutions for theft of utilities
   
131.35   Motion picture piracy
Statutory reference:
   Cable television service devices, unauthorized sale or possession, felony,
see R.C.§ 2913.041
   Deceptive acts or practices in connection with consumer transactions, see
O.A.C. Chapter 109:4-3
   Disrupting public services, felony, see R.C. § 2909.04
   E-mail advertisements, civil offenses and felony forgery offense, see R.C. §
2307.64
   E-mail spam, civil offenses and felony offenses, see R.C. § 2913.421
   Food stamps, illegal use, see R.C. § 2913.46
   Medicaid fraud, see R.C. § 2913.40
   Telecommunications: fraud and unlawful use of a device, felony offenses, see
R.C.§§ 2913.05 and 2913.06
   Terrorism involving agricultural products or equipment, see R.C. § 901.511
§ 131.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANHYDROUS AMMONIA. A compound formed by the combination of two gaseous
elements, nitrogen and hydrogen, in the manner described below. Anhydrous
ammonia is one part nitrogen to three parts hydrogen (NH3). Anhydrous ammonia
by weight is 14 parts nitrogen to three parts hydrogen, which is approximately
82% nitrogen to 18% hydrogen.
   ASSISTANCE DOG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 955.011.
   CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE. Any services provided by or through the facilities
of any cable television system or other similar closed circuit coaxial cable
communications system, or any microwave or similar transmission service used in
connection with any cable television system or other similar closed circuit
coaxial cable communications system.
   COIN MACHINE. Any mechanical or electronic device designed to do both of the
following:
      (1)   Receive a coin or bill, or token made for that purpose;
      (2)   In return for the insertion or deposit of a coin, bill, or token,
automatically dispense property, provide a service, or grant a license.
   COMPUTER. An electronic device that performs logical, arithmetic, and memory
functions by the manipulation of electronic or magnetic impulses. COMPUTER
includes but is not limited to all input, output, processing, storage, computer
program, or communication facilities that are connected, or related, in a
computer system or network to an electronic device of that nature.
   COMPUTER CONTAMINANT. Means a computer program that is designed to modify,
damage, destroy, disable, deny or degrade access to, allow unauthorized access
to, functionally impair, record, or transmit information within a computer,
computer system, or computer network without the express or implied consent of
the owner or other person authorized to give consent and that is of a type or
kind described in divisions (1) through (4) of this definition or of a type or
kind similar to a type or kind described in divisions (1) through (4) of this
definition:
      (1)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “viruses” and
“worms” that are self-replicating or self-propagating and that are designed to
contaminate other computer programs, compromise computer security, consume
computer resources, modify, destroy, record, or transmit data, or disrupt the
normal operation of the computer, computer system, or computer network;
      (2)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “Trojans” or “Trojan
horses” that are not self-replicating or self-propagating and that are designed
to compromise computer security, consume computer resources, modify, destroy,
record, or transmit data, or disrupt the normal operation of the computer,
computer system, or computer network;
      (3)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “zombies” that are
designed to use a computer without the knowledge and consent of the owner, or
other person authorized to give consent, and that are designed to send large
quantities of data to a targeted computer network for the purpose of degrading
the targeted computer’s or network’s performance, or denying access through the
network to the targeted computer or network, resulting in what is commonly
known as “denial of service” or “distributed denial of service” attacks;
      (4)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “trap doors,” “back
doors,” or “root kits” that are designed to bypass standard authentication
software and that are designed to allow access or use of a computer without the
knowledge or consent of the owner, or other person authorized to give consent.
   COMPUTER HACKING.
      (1)   COMPUTER HACKING means any of the following:
         (a)   Gaining access or attempting to gain access to all or part of a
computer, computer system, or a computer network without express or implied
authorization with the intent to defraud or with intent to commit a crime;
         (b)   Misusing computer or network services including but not limited
to mail transfer programs, file transfer programs, proxy servers, and web
servers by performing functions not authorized by the owner of the computer,
computer system, or computer network or other person authorized to give
consent. As used in this division, “misuse of computer and network services”
includes but is not limited to the unauthorized use of any of the following:
            1.   Mail transfer programs to send mail to persons other than the
authorized users of that computer or computer network;
            2.   File transfer program services or proxy servers to access
other computers, computer systems, or computer networks;
            3.   Web servers to redirect users to other web pages or web
servers.
         (c)   1.   Subject to division (1)(c)2. of this definition, using a
group of computer programs commonly known as “port scanners” or “probes” to
intentionally access any computer, computer system, or computer network without
the permission of the owner of the computer, computer system, or computer
network or other person authorized to give consent. The group of computer
programs referred to in this division includes but is not limited to those
computer programs that use a computer network to access a computer, computer
system, or another computer network to determine any of the following: the
presence or types of computers or computer systems on a network; the computer
network’s facilities and capabilities; the availability of computer or network
services; the presence or versions of computer software, including but not
limited to operating systems, computer services, or computer contaminants; the
presence of a known computer software deficiency that can be used to gain
unauthorized access to a computer, computer system, or computer network; or any
other information about a computer, computer system, or computer network not
necessary for the normal and lawful operation of the computer initiating the
access.
            2.   The group of computer programs referred to in division (1)
(c)1. of this definition does not include standard computer software used for
the normal operation, administration, management, and test of a computer,
computer system, or computer network, including but not limited to domain name
services, mail transfer services, and other operating system services, computer
programs commonly called “ping”, “tcpdump”, and “traceroute” and other network
monitoring and management computer software, and computer programs commonly
known as “nslookup” and “whois” and other systems administration computer
software.
         (d)   The intentional use of a computer, computer system, or a
computer network in a manner that exceeds any right or permission granted by
the owner of the computer, computer system, or computer network or other person
authorized to give consent.
      (2)   COMPUTER HACKING does not include the introduction of a computer
contaminant, as defined in this section, into a computer, computer system,
computer program, or computer network.
   COMPUTER NETWORK. A set of related and remotely-connected computers and
communication facilities that includes more than one computer system that has
the capability to transmit among the connected computers and communication
facilities through the use of computer facilities.
   COMPUTER PROGRAM. An ordered set of data representing coded instructions or
statements that, when executed by a computer, causes the computer to process
data.
   COMPUTER SERVICES. Includes but is not limited to the use of a computer
system, computer  network, computer program, data that is prepared for computer
use, or data that is contained within a computer system or computer network.
   COMPUTER SOFTWARE. Computer programs, procedures, and other documentation
associated with the operation of a computer system.
   COMPUTER SYSTEM. A computer and related devices, whether connected or
unconnected, including but not limited to data input, output, and storage
devices, data communications links, and computer programs and data that make
the system capable of performing specified special purpose data processing
tasks.
   COUNTERFEIT TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. A telecommunications device that,
alone or with another telecommunications device, has been altered, constructed,
manufactured, or programmed to acquire, intercept, receive, or otherwise
facilitate the use of a telecommunications service or information service
without the authority or consent of the provider of the telecommunications
service or information service. The phrase includes but is not limited to a
clone telephone, clone microchip, tumbler telephone, or tumbler microchip; a
wireless scanning device capable of acquiring, intercepting, receiving, or
otherwise facilitating the use of telecommunications service or information
service without immediate detection; or a device, equipment, hardware, or
software designed for, or capable of, altering or changing the electronic
serial number in a wireless telephone.
   CREATE A SUBSTANTIAL RISK OF SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO ANY PERSON. Includes
the creation of a substantial risk of serious physical harm to any emergency
personnel.
   CREDIT CARD. Includes but is not limited to a card, code, device, or other
means of access to a customer’s account for the purpose of obtaining money,
property, labor, or services on credit, or for initiating an electronic fund
transfer at a point-of-sale terminal, an automated teller machine, or a cash
dispensing machine. It also includes a county procurement card issued under
R.C. § 301.29.
   DANGEROUS DRUG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   DATA. A representation of information, knowledge, facts, concepts, or
instructions that are being or have been prepared in a formalized manner and
that are intended for use in a computer, computer system, or computer network.
   DECEPTION. To knowingly deceive another or cause another to be deceived by
any false or misleading representation, by withholding information, by
preventing another from acquiring information, or by any other conduct, act, or
omission that creates, confirms, or perpetuates a false impression in another,
including a false impression as to law, value, state of mind, or other
objective or subjective fact.
   DEFRAUD. To knowingly obtain, by deception, some benefit for oneself or
another, or to knowingly cause, by deception, some detriment to another.
   DEPRIVE. To do any of the following:
      (1)   To withhold property of another permanently, or for a period that
appropriates a substantial portion of its value or use, or with purpose to
restore it only upon payment of a reward or other consideration;
      (2)   To dispose of property so as to make it unlikely that the owner
will recover it;
      (3)   To accept, use, or appropriate money, property, or services, with
purpose not to give proper consideration in return for the money, property, or
services, and without reasonable justification or excuse for not giving proper
consideration.
   DISABLED ADULT. A person who is 18 years of age or older and has some
impairment of body or mind that makes the person unable to work at any
substantially remunerative employment that the person otherwise would be able
to perform and that will, with reasonable probability, continue for a period of
at least 12 months without any present indication of recovery from the
impairment, or who is 18 years of age or older and has been certified as
permanently and  totally disabled by an agency of this state or the United
States that has the function of so classifying persons.
   DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
   ELDERLY PERSON. A person who is 65 years of age or older.
   ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER. Has the same meaning as in 92 Stat. 3728, 15
U.S.C. § 1693a, as amended.
   EMERGENCY PERSONNEL. Means any of the following persons:
      (1)   A peace officer, as defined in R.C. § 2935.01;
      (2)   A member of a fire department or other firefighting agency of a
municipal corporation, township, township fire district, joint fire district,
other political subdivision, or combination of political subdivisions;
      (3)   A member of a private fire company, as defined in R.C. § 9.60, or a
volunteer firefighter;
      (4)    A member of a joint ambulance district or joint emergency medical
services district;
      (5)   An emergency medical technician-basic, emergency medical
technician-intermediate, emergency medical technician-paramedic, ambulance
operator, or other member of an emergency medical service that is owned or
operated by a political subdivision or a private entity;
      (6)   The State Fire Marshal, the Chief Deputy State Fire Marshal, or an
assistant state fire marshal;
      (7)   A fire prevention officer of a political subdivision or an arson,
fire, or similar investigator of a political subdivision.
   FEDERALLY-LICENSED FIREARMS DEALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5502.63.
   FIREARM and DANGEROUS ORDNANCE. Have the same meaning as in R.C. § 2923.11.
   FORGE. To fabricate or create, in whole or in part and by any means, any
spurious writing, or to make, execute, alter, complete, reproduce, or otherwise
purport to authenticate any writing, when the writing in fact is not
authenticated by that conduct.
   GAIN ACCESS. To approach, instruct, communicate with, store data in,
retrieve data from, or otherwise make use of any resources of a computer,
computer system, or computer network, or any cable service or cable system both
as defined in R.C. § 2913.04.
   INFORMATION SERVICE.
      (1)   Subject to division (2) of this definition, the offering of a
capability for generating, acquiring, storing, transforming, processing,
retrieving, utilizing, or making available information via telecommunications,
including but not limited to electronic publishing.
      (2)   INFORMATION SERVICE does not include any use of a capability of a
type described in division (1) of this definition for the management, control,
or operation of a telecommunications system or the management of a
telecommunications service.
   INTERNET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 341.42.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   OCCUPIED STRUCTURE. Means any house, building, outbuilding, watercraft,
aircraft, railroad car, truck, trailer, tent, or other structure, vehicle, or
shelter, or any portion thereof, to which any of the following applies:
      (1)   It is maintained as a permanent or temporary dwelling, even though
it is temporarily unoccupied and whether nor not any person is actually
present;
      (2)   At the time, it is occupied as the permanent or temporary
habitation of any person, whether or not any person is actually present;
      (3)   At the time, it is specially adapted for the overnight
accommodation of any person, whether or not any person is actually present;
      (4)   At the time, any person is present or likely to be present in it.
   OWNER. Unless the context requires a different meaning, any person, other
than the actor, who is the owner of, who has possession or control of, or who
has any license or interest in property or services, even though the ownership,
possession, control, license, or interest is unlawful.
   POLICE DOG OR HORSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.321.
   POLITICAL SUBDIVISION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2744.01.
   RENTED PROPERTY. Personal property in which the right of possession and use
of the property is for a short and possibly indeterminate term in return for
consideration; the rentee generally controls the duration of possession of the
property within any applicable minimum or maximum term; and the amount of
consideration is generally determined by the duration of possession of the
property.
   SERVICES. Includes labor, personal services, professional services, rental
services, public utility services including wireless service as defined in R.C.
§ 4931.40(F)(1), common carrier services, and food, drink, transportation,
entertainment, and cable television services and, for purposes of R.C. §
2913.04 or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, includes cable
services as defined in that section.
   SLUG. An object that, by virtue of its size, shape, composition, or other
quality, is capable of being inserted or deposited in a coin machine as an
improper substitute for a genuine coin, bill, or token made for that purpose.
   STATE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2744.01.
   TELECOMMUNICATION. The origination, emission, dissemination, transmission,
or reception of data, images, signals, sounds, or other intelligence or
equivalence or intelligence of any nature over any communications system by any
method, including but not limited to a fiber optic, electronic, magnetic,
optical, digital or analog method.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Any instrument, equipment, machine, or other
device that facilitates telecommunication, including but not limited to a
computer, computer network, computer chip, computer circuit, scanner,
telephone, cellular telephone, pager, personal communications device,
transponder, receiver, radio, modem, or device that enables the use of a modem.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. The providing, allowing, facilitating, or
generating of any form of telecommunication through the use of a
telecommunications device over a telecommunications system.
   THEFT OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2911.12, 2911.13,
2911.31, 2911.32, 2913.02, 2913.03, 2913.04, 2913.041, 2913.11, 2913.21,
2913.31, 2913.32, 2913.33, 2913.34, 2913.40, 2913.42, 2913.43, 2913.44,
2913.45, 2913.47, 2913.48, former R.C. § 2913.47 or 2913.48, R.C. § 2913.51,
2915.05, or 2921.41, or R.C. § 4737.04(B)(2);
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States substantially equivalent to any
section listed in division (1) of this definition, or a violation of R.C. §
2913.41, 2913.81 or 2915.06 as it existed prior to July 1, 1996;
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former municipal ordinance or law
of this or any other state or the United States involving robbery, burglary,
breaking and entering, theft, embezzlement, wrongful conversion, forgery,
counterfeiting, deceit, or fraud;
      (4)   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing any offense under division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
   UTTER. To issue, publish, transfer, use, put or send into circulation,
deliver, or display.
   WRITING. Any computer software, document, letter, memorandum, note, paper,
plate, data, film, or other thing having in or upon it any written, type-
written, or printed matter, and any token, stamp, seal, credit card, badge,
trademark, label, or other symbol of value, right, privilege, license, or
identification.
(R.C. §§ 2909.01, 2913.01)
§ 131.02  ARSON; DETERMINING PROPERTY VALUE OR AMOUNT OF PHYSICAL HARM.
   (A)   Arson.
      (1)   No person, by means of fire or explosion, shall knowingly cause or
create a substantial risk of physical harm to any property of another without
the other person’s consent.
      (2)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of arson. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, violation of this section is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the value of the property or the amount of physical
harm involved is $1,000 or more, then the violation is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.03)
   (B)   Determining property value or amount of physical harm.
      (1)   The following criteria shall be used in determining the value of
property or amount of physical harm involved in a violation of division (A):
         (a)   If the property is an heirloom, memento, collector’s item,
antique, museum piece, manuscript, document, record, or other thing that is
either irreplaceable or is replaceable only on the expenditure of substantial
time, effort, or money, the value of the property or the amount of physical
harm involved is the amount that would compensate the owner for its loss;
         (b)   If the property is not covered under division (B)(1)(a) of this
section, and the physical harm is such that the property can be restored
substantially to its former condition, the amount of physical harm involved is
the reasonable cost of restoring the property;
         (c)   If the property is not covered under division (B)(1)(a) of this
section, and the physical harm is such that the property cannot be restored
substantially to its former condition, the value of the property, in the case
of personal property, is the cost of replacing the property with new property
of like kind and quality, and in the case of real property or real property
fixtures, is the difference in the fair market value of the property
immediately before and immediately after the offense.
      (2)   As used in this section, FAIR MARKET VALUE has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 2913.61.
      (3)   Prima facie evidence of the value of property, as provided in R.C.
§ 2913.61(D), may be used to establish the value of property pursuant to this
section.
(R.C. § 2909.11(B) - (D))
Cross-reference:
   Negligent burning, see § 91.38
Statutory reference:
   Aggravated arson, felony provisions, see R.C. § 2909.02
   Arson, felony provisions generally, see R.C. § 2909.03
   Convicted arsonist to make restitution to public agency, see R.C. § 2929.71
§ 131.03  CRIMINAL DAMAGING OR ENDANGERING; VEHICULAR VANDALISM.
   (A)   Criminal damaging or endangering.
      (1)   No person shall cause or create a substantial risk of physical harm
to any property of another without the other person’s consent:
         (a)   Knowingly, by any means; or
         (b)   Recklessly, by means of fire, explosion, flood, poison gas,
poison, radioactive material, caustic or corrosive material, or other
inherently dangerous agency or substance.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (A) is guilty of criminal damaging
or endangering, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If violation of this
division (A) creates a risk of physical harm to any person, criminal damaging
or endangering is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the property involved
in a violation of this division (A) is an aircraft, an aircraft engine,
propeller, appliance, spare part, or any other equipment or implement used or
intended to be used in the operation of an aircraft and if the violation
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, criminal damaging or endangering
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the property
involved in a violation of this division (A) is an aircraft, an aircraft
engine, propeller, appliance, spare part, or any other equipment or implement
used or intended to be used in the operation of an aircraft and if the
violation creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any person or if the
property involved in a violation of this division (A) is an occupied aircraft,
criminal damaging or endangering is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2909.06)
   (B)   Vehicular vandalism.
      (1)   For the purpose of this division (B), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning:
         ALLEY, STREET, and VEHICLE. Have the same meanings as in R.C. §
4511.01.
         HIGHWAY. Means any highway as defined in R.C. § 4511.01 or any lane,
road, street, alley, bridge, or overpass.
         VESSEL and WATERS IN THIS STATE. Have the same meanings as in R.C. §
1547.01.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly, and by any means, drop or throw any
object at, onto, or in the path of any of the following:
         (a)   Any vehicle on a highway;
         (b)   Any boat or vessel on any of the waters in this state.
      (3)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of vehicular
vandalism. Except as otherwise provided in this division (B)(3), vehicular
vandalism is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation of this
division (B) creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any person or the
violation of this division (B) causes serious physical harm to property,
vehicular vandalism is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
If the violation of this division (B) causes physical harm to any person or
serious physical harm to any person, vehicular vandalism is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.09)
Statutory reference:
   Disrupting public services, felony offense, see R.C. § 2909.04
   Railroad grade crossing device vandalism, see R.C. § 2909.101
   Railroad vandalism, see R.C. § 2909.10
   Vandalism, felony offense, see R.C. § 2909.05
§ 131.04  CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   (A)   No person shall:
      (1)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage,
destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper with the property of another;
      (2)   With purpose to interfere with the use or enjoyment of property of
another, employ a tear gas device, stink bomb, smoke generator, or other device
releasing a substance that is harmful or offensive to persons exposed, or that
tends to cause public alarm;
      (3)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage,
destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper with a bench mark, triangulation
station, boundary marker, or other survey station, monument, or marker;
      (4)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage,
destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper with any safety device, the property of
another, or the property of the offender when required or placed for the safety
of others, so as to destroy or diminish its effectiveness or availability for
its intended purpose;
      (5)   With purpose to interfere with the use or enjoyment of the property
of another, set a fire on the land of another or place personal property that
has been set on fire on the land of another, which fire or personal property is
outside and apart from any building, other structure, or personal property that
is on that land;
      (6)   Without privilege to do so, and with intent to impair the
functioning of any computer, computer system, computer network, computer
software, or computer program, knowingly do any of the following:
         (a)   In any manner or by any means, including but not limited to
computer hacking, alter, damage, destroy, or modify a computer, computer
system, computer network, computer software, or computer program or data
contained in a computer, computer system, computer network, computer software,
or computer program;
         (b)   Introduce a computer contaminant into a computer, computer
system, computer network, computer software, or computer program.
   (B)   As used in this section, SAFETY DEVICE means any fire extinguisher,
fire hose, or fire axe, or any fire escape, emergency exit, or emergency escape
equipment, or any life line, life-saving ring, life  preserver, or life boat or
raft, or any alarm, light, flare, signal, sign, or notice intended to warn of
danger or emergency, or intended for other safety purposes, or any guard
railing or safety barricade, or any traffic sign or signal, or any railroad
grade crossing sign, signal, or gate, or any first aid or survival equipment,
or any other device, apparatus, or equipment intended for protecting or
preserving the safety of persons or property.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal mischief, and
shall be punished as provided in division (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this section.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the third degree. Except as otherwise provided
in this division, if the violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
or (A)(5) of this section creates a risk of physical harm to any person,
criminal mischief committed in violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3),
(A)(4), or (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
property involved in the violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
or (A)(5) of this section is an aircraft, an aircraft engine, propeller,
appliance, spare part, fuel, lubricant, hydraulic fluid, any other equipment,
implement, or material used or intended to be used in the operation of an
aircraft, or any cargo carried or intended to be carried in an aircraft and if
the violation creates any risk of physical harm to any person, or if the
aircraft in question is an occupied aircraft, criminal mischief committed in
violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of this section
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (A)(6) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the value of the computer, computer system, computer
network, computer software, computer program, or data involved in the violation
of division (A)(6) of this section or the loss to the victim resulting from the
violation is $1,000 or more, or if the computer, computer system, computer
network, computer software, computer program, or data involved in the violation
of division (A)(6) is used or intended to be used in the operation of an
aircraft and the violation creates any risk of physical harm to any person, or
if the aircraft in question is an occupied aircraft, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (A)(6) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.07)
§ 131.05  DAMAGING OR ENDANGERING AIRCRAFT OR AIRPORT OPERATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AIR GUN. A hand pistol or rifle that propels its projectile by means of
releasing compressed air, carbon dioxide, or other gas.
      AIRPORT OPERATIONAL SURFACE. Any surface of land or water that is
developed, posted, or marked so as to give an observer reasonable notice that
the surface is designed and developed for the purpose of storing, parking,
taxiing, or operating aircraft, or any surface of land or water that is
actually being used for any of those purposes.
      FIREARM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2923.11.
      SPRING-OPERATED GUN. A hand pistol or rifle that propels a projectile not
less than four or more than five millimeters in diameter by means of a spring.
   (B)   No person shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly throw an object at, or drop an object upon, any moving
aircraft;
      (2)   Knowingly shoot with a bow and arrow, or knowingly discharge a
firearm, air gun, or spring- operated gun, at or toward any aircraft.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly or recklessly shoot with a bow and arrow, or
shall knowingly or recklessly discharge a firearm, air gun, or spring- operated
gun, upon or over any airport operational surface. This division does not apply
to the following:
      (1)   An officer, agent, or employee of this or any other state or of the
United States, or a law enforcement officer, authorized to discharge firearms
and acting within the scope of his or her duties;
      (2)   A person who, with the consent of the owner or operator of the
airport operational surface or the authorized agent of either, is lawfully
engaged in any hunting or sporting activity or is otherwise lawfully
discharging a firearm.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of endangering
aircraft, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation creates any risk
of physical harm to any person, or if the aircraft that is the subject of the
violation is occupied, endangering aircraft is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of endangering
airport operations, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the violation
creates a risk of physical harm to any person or substantial risk of serious
harm to any person, endangering airport operations is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law. In addition to any other penalty or sanction
imposed for the violation, the hunting license or permit of a person who
violates division (C) of this section while hunting shall be suspended or
revoked pursuant to R.C. § 1533.68.
(R.C. § 2909.08(A) - (E))
§ 131.06  CRIMINAL TRESPASS; AGGRAVATED TRESPASS.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly enter or remain on the land or premises of another;
      (2)   Knowingly enter or remain on the land or premises of another, the
use of which is lawfully restricted to certain persons, purposes, modes, or
hours, when the offender knows the offender is in violation of any such
restriction or is reckless in that regard;
      (3)   Recklessly enter or remain on the land or premises of another, as
to which notice against unauthorized access or presence is given by actual
communication to the offender, or in a manner prescribed by law, or by posting
in a manner reasonably calculated to come to the attention of potential
intruders, or by fencing or other enclosure manifestly designed to restrict
access;
      (4)   Being on the land or premises of another, negligently fail or
refuse to leave upon being notified by signage posted in a conspicuous place or
otherwise being notified to do so by the owner or occupant, or the agent or
servant of either.
   (B)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that the land or
premises involved was owned, controlled, or in custody of a public agency.
   (C)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that the offender was
authorized to enter or remain on the land or premises involved, when the
authorization was secured by deception.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
criminal trespass, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   Notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.28, if the person, in committing the
violation of this section, used a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-
purpose vehicle, the court shall impose a fine of two times the usual amount
imposed for the violation.
      (3)   If an offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to two or more violations of this section, R.C. § 2911.21 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, and the offender, in committing each violation,
used a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle, the court,
in addition to or independent of all other penalties imposed for the violation,
may impound the certificate of registration of that snowmobile or off-highway
motorcycle or the certificate of registration and license plate of that all-
purpose vehicle for not less than 60 days. In such a case, R.C. § 4519.47
applies.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of the Ohio Revised Code, if the
offender, in committing the violation of this section, used an all-purpose
vehicle, the Clerk of the Court shall pay the fine imposed pursuant to this
section to the State Recreational Vehicle Fund created by R.C. § 4519.11.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      (1)   ALL-PURPOSE VEHICLE, OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLE, and SNOWMOBILE have
the same meanings as in R.C. § 4519.01.
      (2)   LAND or PREMISES includes any land, building, structure, or place
belonging to, controlled by, or in custody of another, and any separate
enclosure or room, or portion thereof.
(R.C. § 2911.21)
   (G)   Aggravated trespass.
      (1)   No person shall enter or remain on the land or premises of another
with purpose to commit on that land or those premises a misdemeanor, the
elements of which involve causing physical harm to another person or causing
another person to believe that the offender will cause physical harm to him or
her.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (G) is guilty of aggravated
trespass, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2911.211)
   (H)   Criminal trespass on a place of public amusement.
      (1)   As used in this division (H), PLACE OF PUBLIC AMUSEMENT means a
stadium, theater, or other facility, whether licensed or not, at which a live
performance, sporting event, or other activity takes place for entertainment of
the public and to which access is made available to the public, regardless of
whether admission is charged.
      (2)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall knowingly enter or
remain on any restricted portion of a place of public amusement and, as a
result of that conduct, interrupt or cause the delay of the live performance,
sporting event, or other activity taking place at the place of public amusement
after a printed written notice has been given as provided in division (H)(4)(a)
of this section that the general public is restricted from access to that
restricted portion of the place of public amusement. A restricted portion of a
place of public amusement may include but is not limited to a playing field, an
athletic surface, or a stage located at the place of public amusement.
      (3)   An owner or lessee of a place of public amusement, an agent of the
owner or lessee, or a performer or participant at a place of public amusement
may use reasonable force to restrain and remove a person from a restricted
portion of the place of public amusement if the person enters or remains on the
restricted portion of the place of public amusement and, as a result of that
conduct, interrupts or causes the delay of the live performance, sporting
event, or other activity taking place at the place of public amusement. This
division does not provide immunity from criminal liability for any use of force
beyond reasonable force by an owner or lessee of a place of public amusement,
an agent of either the owner or lessee, or a performer or participant at a
place of public amusement.
      (4)   (a)   Notice has been given that the general public is restricted
from access to a portion of a place of public amusement if a printed written
notice of the restricted access has been conspicuously posted or exhibited at
the entrance to that portion of the place of public amusement. If a printed
written notice is posted or exhibited as described in this division regarding a
portion of a place of public amusement, in addition to that posting or
exhibition, notice that the general public is restricted from access to that
portion of the place of public amusement also may be given, but is not required
to be given, by either of the following means:
            1.   By notifying the person personally, either orally or in
writing, that access to that portion of the place of public amusement is
restricted;
            2.   By broadcasting over the public address system of the place of
public amusement an oral warning that access to that portion of the place of
public amusement is restricted.
         (b)   If notice that the general public is restricted from access to a
portion of a place of public amusement is provided by the posting or exhibition
of a printed written notice as described in division (H)(4)(a) of this section,
the municipality, in a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (H)(2)
of this section, is not required to prove that the defendant received actual
notice that the general public is restricted from access to a portion of a
place of public amusement.
      (5)   (a)   Whoever violates division (H)(2) of this section is guilty of
criminal trespass on a place of public amusement, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
         (b)   In addition to any jail term, fine, or other sentence, penalty,
or sanction it imposes upon the offender pursuant to division (H)(5)(a) of this
section, a court may require an offender who violates this section to perform
not less than 30 and not more than 120 hours of supervised community service
work.
(R.C. § 2911.23)
Cross-reference:
   Violation of protection orders, see §
135.23
§ 131.07  TAMPERING WITH COIN MACHINES.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to commit theft or to defraud, shall knowingly
enter, force an entrance into, tamper with, or insert any part of an instrument
into any coin machine.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of tampering with coin
machines, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a violation of this section or of any theft offense as
defined in R.C. § 2913.01, tampering with coin machines is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2911.32)
§ 131.08  THEFT.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to deprive the owner of property or services,
shall knowingly obtain or exert control over either the property or services in
any of the following ways:
      (1)   Without the consent of the owner or person authorized to give
consent;
      (2)   Beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of the owner or
person authorized to give consent;
      (3)   By deception;
      (4)   By threat;
      (5)   By intimidation.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of theft. Except as otherwise
provided in this division, a violation of this section is petty theft, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If any of the following criteria are met, then
a violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law:
      (1)   If the value of the property or services is $1,000 or more;
      (2)   If the property stolen is any of the property listed in R.C. §
2913.71;
      (3)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled
adult;
      (4)   If the property stolen is a firearm or dangerous ordnance;
      (5)   If the property stolen is a motor vehicle;
      (6)   If the property stolen is any dangerous drug, or if the offender
previously has been convicted of a felony drug abuse offense;
      (7)   If the property stolen is a police dog or horse or an assistance
dog and the offender knows or should know that the property stolen is a police
dog or horse or an assistance dog; or
      (8)   If the property stolen is anhydrous ammonia.
   (C)   In addition to the penalties described in division (B) of this
section, if the offender committed the violation by causing a motor vehicle to
leave the premises of an establishment at which gasoline is offered for retail
sale without the offender making full payment for gasoline that was dispensed
into the fuel tank of the motor vehicle or into another container, the court
may do one of the following:
      (1)   Unless division (C)(2) of this section applies, suspend for not
more than six months the offenders driver’s license, probationary driver’s
license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or
nonresident operating privilege;
      (2)   If the offender’s driver’s license, probationary driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or nonresident
operating privilege has previously been suspended pursuant to division (C)(1)
of this section, or any other substantially equivalent state or local law,
impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s license, permit, or privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7), provided that the suspension
shall be at least six months;
      (3)   The court, in lieu of suspending the offender’s driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, probationary driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, or nonresident operating privilege pursuant to division (C)
(1) or (C)(2) of this section, instead may require the offender to perform
community service for a number of hours determined by the court.
   (D)   In addition to the penalties described in division (B) of this
section, if the offender committed the violation by stealing rented property or
rental services, the court may order that the offender make restitution
pursuant to R.C. § 2929.18 or R.C. § 2929.28. Restitution may include, but is
not limited to, the cost of repairing or replacing the stolen property, or the
cost of repairing the stolen property and any loss of revenue resulting from
deprivation of the property due to theft of rental services that is less than
or equal to the actual value of the property at the time it was rented.
Evidence of intent to commit theft of rented property or rental services shall
be determined pursuant to the provisions of R.C. § 2913.72.
   (E)   The sentencing court that suspends an offender’s license, permit, or
nonresident operating privilege under division (C) of this section may grant
the offender limited driving privileges during the period of the suspension in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 4510.
(R.C. § 2913.02)
Statutory reference:
   Felony theft provisions, see R.C. § 2913.02(B)
§ 131.09  UNAUTHORIZED USE OF A VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly use or operate an aircraft, motor vehicle,
motorcycle, motorboat, or other motor-propelled vehicle without the consent of
the owner or person authorized to give consent.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly use or operate an aircraft, motor vehicle,
motorboat, or other motor- propelled vehicle without the consent of the owner
or person authorized to give consent, and either remove it from this state, or
keep possession of it for more than 48 hours.
   (C)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under this section:
      (1)   At the time of the alleged offense, the actor, though mistaken,
reasonably believed that he or she was authorized to use or operate the
property;
      (2)   At the time of the alleged offense, the actor reasonably believed
that the owner or person empowered to give consent would authorize the actor to
use or operate the property.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unauthorized use of a
vehicle.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (D)(1), a violation
of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled adult and if the victim
incurs a loss as a result of the violation, a violation of division (A) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.03)
Statutory reference:
   Theft offense involving a motor vehicle, offender to pay towing and storage
fees, see R.C. § 2913.82
§ 131.10  UNAUTHORIZED USE OF PROPERTY, INCLUDING TELECOMMUNICATION PROPERTY
AND COMPUTERS; POSSESSION OF MUNICIPAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly use or operate the property of another
without the consent of the owner or person authorized to give consent.
   (B)   No person, in any manner and by any means, including but not limited
to computer hacking, shall knowingly gain access to, attempt to gain access to,
or cause access to be gained to any computer, computer system, computer
network, cable service, cable system, telecommunications device,
telecommunications service, or information service without the consent of, or
beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of, the owner of the
computer, computer system, computer network, cable service, cable system,
telecommunications device, telecommunications service, or information service
or other person authorized to give consent.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly gain access to, attempt to gain access to,
cause access to be granted to, or disseminate information gained from access to
the law enforcement automated database system created pursuant to R.C. §
5503.10 without the consent of, or beyond the scope of the express or implied
consent of, the chair of the Law Enforcement Automated Data System Steering
Committee.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly gain access to, attempt to gain access to,
cause access to be granted to, or disseminate information gained from access to
the Ohio law enforcement gateway established and operated pursuant to R.C. §
109.57(C)(1) without the consent of, or beyond the scope of the express or
implied consent of, the Superintendent of the Bureau of Criminal Identification
and Investigation.
   (E)   The affirmative defenses contained in R.C. § 2913.03(C) are
affirmative defenses to a charge under this section.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of property. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
unauthorized use of property is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (1)   If unauthorized use of property is committed for the purpose of
devising or executing a scheme to defraud or to obtain property or services,
unauthorized use of property is whichever of the following is applicable:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided below, unauthorized use of property
is a misdemeanor of the first degree;
         (b)   If the value of the property or services or the loss to the
victim is $1,000 or more, it is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (2)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled
adult, unauthorized use of property is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of computer, cable, or telecommunication property, a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (H)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of the law enforcement automated database system, a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (I)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of the Ohio law enforcement gateway, a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
   (J)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
      CABLE OPERATOR.  Any person or group of persons that does either of the
following:
         (a)   Provides cable service over a cable system and directly through
one or more affiliates owns a significant interest in that cable system;
         (b)   Otherwise controls or is responsible for, through any
arrangement, the management and operation of a cable system.
      CABLE SERVICE.  Any of the following:
         (a)   The one-way transmission to subscribers of video programming or
of information that a cable operator makes available to all subscribers
generally;
         (b)   Subscriber interaction, if any, that is required for the
selection or use of video programming or of information that a cable operator
makes available to all subscribers generally, both as described in division (a)
of this definition;
         (c)   Any cable television service.
      CABLE SYSTEM. Any facility, consisting of a set of closed transmission
paths and associated signal generation, reception, and control equipment that
is designed to provide cable service that includes video programming and that
is provided to multiple subscribers within a community. CABLE SYSTEM does not
include any of the following:
         (a)   Any facility that serves only to retransmit the television
signals of one or more television broadcast stations;
         (b)   Any facility that serves subscribers without using any public
right-of-way;
         (c)   Any facility of a common carrier that, under 47 U.S.C. § 522(7)
(c), is excluded from the term “cable system” as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(7);
         (d)   Any open video system that complies with 47 U.S.C. § 573;
         (e)   Any facility of any electric utility used solely for operating
its electric utility system.
(R.C. § 2913.04)
   (K)   Possession of municipal property.
      (1)   No person shall, without being authorized, have in his or her
control or possession any equipment, tools, implements or other property
belonging to the municipality.
(R.C. § 5589.12)
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (K) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 5589.99(B))
Statutory reference:
   Telecommunications: fraud and unlawful use of a device, felony offenses, see
R.C. §§ 2913.05 and 2913.06
§ 131.11  PASSING BAD CHECKS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
      CHECK. Includes any form of debit from a demand deposit account,
including but not limited to any of the following:
         (a)   A check, bill of exchange, draft, order of withdrawal, or
similar negotiable or non- negotiable instrument;
         (b)   An electronic check, electronic transaction, debit card
transaction, check card transaction, substitute check, web check, or any form
of automated clearing house transaction.
      ISSUE A CHECK. Causing any form of debit from a demand deposit account.
   (B)   No person, with purpose to defraud, shall issue or transfer or cause
to be issued or transferred a check or other negotiable instrument, knowing
that it will be dishonored or knowing that a person has ordered or will order
stop payment on the check or other negotiable instrument.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, a person who issues or transfers a check
or other negotiable instrument is presumed to know that it will be dishonored
if either of the following occurs:
      (1)   The drawer has no account with the drawee at the time of issue or
the stated date, whichever is later;
      (2)   The check or other negotiable instrument was properly refused
payment for insufficient funds upon presentment within 30 days after issue or
the stated date, whichever is later, and the liability of the drawer, indorser,
or any party who may be liable thereon is not discharged by payment or
satisfaction within ten days after receiving notice of dishonor.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, a person who issues or transfers a
check, bill of exchange, or other draft is presumed to have the purpose to
defraud if the drawer fails to comply with R.C. § 1349.16 by doing any of the
following when opening a checking account intended for personal, family, or
household purposes at a financial institution:
      (1)   Falsely stating that he or she has not been issued a valid driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or identification card issued under R.C. §
4507.50;
      (2)   Furnishing the license or card, or another identification document
that contains false information;
      (3)   Making a false statement with respect to the drawer’s current
address or any additional relevant information reasonably required by the
financial institution.
   (E)   In determining the value of the payment for purposes of division (F)
of this section, the court may aggregate all checks and other negotiable
instruments that the offender issued or transferred or caused to be issued or
transferred in violation of division (B) of this section within a period of 180
consecutive days.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of passing bad checks. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, passing bad checks is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the check or checks or other negotiable instrument or
instruments are issued or transferred to a single vendor or single other person
for the payment of $1,000 or more, or if the check or checks or other
negotiable instrument or instruments are issued or transferred to multiple
vendors or persons for the payment of $1,500 or more, passing bad checks is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.11)
§ 131.12  MISUSE OF CREDIT CARDS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Practice deception for the purpose of procuring the issuance of a
credit card, when a credit card is issued in actual reliance thereon;
      (2)   Knowingly buy or sell a credit card from or to a person other than
the issuer.
   (B)   No person, with purpose to defraud, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Obtain control over a credit card as security for a debt;
      (2)   Obtain property or services by the use of a credit card, in one or
more transactions, knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that the card
has expired or been revoked, or was obtained, is retained, or is being used in
violation of law;
      (3)   Furnish property or services upon presentation of a credit card,
knowing that the card is being used in violation of law;
      (4)   Represent or cause to be represented to the issuer of a credit card
that property or services have been furnished, knowing that the representation
is false.
   (C)   No person, with purpose to violate this section, shall receive,
possess, control, or dispose of a credit card.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of misuse of credit cards.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) of this section, a
violation of division (A), (B)(1), or (C) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division or division (D)(3) of
this section, a violation of division (B)(2), (B)(3), or (B)(4) of this section
is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the cumulative retail value of the
property and services involved in one or more violations of division (B)(2),
(B)(3), or (B)(4) of this section which violations involve one or more credit
card accounts and occur within a period of 90 consecutive days commencing on
the date of the first violation, is $1,000 or more, misuse of credit cards is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled
adult, and if the offense involves a violation of division (B)(1) or (B)(2) of
this section, misuse of credit cards is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.21)
§ 131.13  MAKING OR USING SLUGS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Insert or deposit a slug in a coin machine, with purpose to
defraud;
      (2)   Make, possess, or dispose of a slug, with purpose of enabling
another to defraud by inserting or depositing it in a coin machine.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making or using slugs, a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2913.33)
§ 131.14  PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE OF PURPOSE TO DEFRAUD.
   In a prosecution of a person for a theft offense that alleges that the
person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she was facilitating a
fraud, hired or rented an aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat,
sailboat, camper, trailer, horse, buggy, or other property or equipment, kept
or operated any of the same that has been hired or rented, or engaged
accommodations at a hotel, motel, inn, campground, or other hostelry, it is
prima facie evidence of purpose to defraud if the person did any of the
following:
   (A)   Used deception to induce the rental agency to furnish the person with
the aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat, sailboat, camper, trailer,
horse, buggy, or other property or equipment, or used deception to induce the
hostelry to furnish the person with accommodations;
   (B)   Hired or rented any aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat,
sailboat, camper, trailer, horse, buggy, or other property or equipment, or
engaged accommodations, knowing that he or she is without sufficient means to
pay the hire or rental;
   (C)   Absconded without paying the hire or rental;
   (D)   Knowingly failed to pay the hire or rental as required by the contract
of hire or rental, without reasonable excuse for the failure;
   (E)   Knowingly failed to return hired or rented property as required by the
contract of hire or rental, without reasonable excuse for the failure.
(R.C. § 2913.41)
§ 131.15  TAMPERING WITH RECORDS.
   (A)   No person, knowing that he or she has no privilege to do so, and with
purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she is facilitating a fraud, shall do
any of the following:
      (1)   Falsify, destroy, remove, conceal, alter, deface, or mutilate any
writing, computer software, data, or record;
      (2)   Utter any writing or record, knowing it to have been tampered with
as provided in division (A)(1) of this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of tampering with records.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(3) of this section, if the
offense does not involve data or computer software, tampering with records is
whichever of the following is applicable:
         (a)   If division (B)(1)(b) of this section does not apply, it is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the writing or record is a will unrevoked at the time of the
offense, it is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (B)(3) of this section, if the
offense involves a violation of division (A) of this section involving data or
computer software, tampering with records is whichever of the following is
applicable:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2)(b) of this
section, it is a misdemeanor of the first degree;
         (b)   If the value of the data or computer software involved in the
offense or the loss to the victim is $1,000 or more or if the offense is
committed for the purpose of devising or executing a scheme to defraud or to
obtain property or services and the value of the property or services or the
loss to the victim is $7,500 or more, it is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the writing, data, computer software, or record is kept by or
belongs to a local, state, or federal governmental entity, it is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.42)
§ 131.16  SECURING WRITINGS BY DECEPTION.
   (A)   No person, by deception, shall cause another to execute any writing
that disposes of or encumbers property, or by which a pecuniary obligation is
incurred.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of securing writings by
deception. Except as otherwise provided in this division, securing writings by
deception is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the property or
the obligation involved is $1,000 or more, securing writings by deception is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate to state law. If the victim of the
offense is an elderly person or disabled adult, securing writings by deception
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.43)
§ 131.17  DEFRAUDING CREDITORS.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud one or more of his or her
creditors, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Remove, conceal, destroy, encumber, convey, or otherwise deal with
any of his or her property;
      (2)   Misrepresent or refuse to disclose to a fiduciary appointed to
administer or manage his or her affairs or estate, the existence, amount, or
location of any of his or her property, or any other information regarding the
property which he or she is legally required to furnish to the fiduciary.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of defrauding creditors.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, defrauding creditors is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the property involved is
$1,000 or more, defrauding creditors is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.45)
§ 131.18  RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall receive, retain, or dispose of property of another
knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that the property has been
obtained through commission of a theft offense.
   (B)   It is not a defense to a charge of receiving stolen property in
violation of this section that the property was obtained by means other than
through the commission of a theft offense if the property was explicitly
represented to the accused person as being obtained through the commission of a
theft offense.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of receiving stolen property.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, receiving stolen property is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If any of the following criteria are met, then
a violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law:
      (1)   The value of the property involved is $1,000 or more;
      (2)   The property involved is any of the property listed in R.C. §
2913.71;
      (3)   The property involved is a firearm or dangerous ordnance, as
defined in R.C. § 2923.11;
      (4)   The property involved is a motor vehicle as defined in R.C. §
4501.01; or
      (5)   The property involved is any dangerous drug, as defined in R.C. §
4729.01.
(R.C. § 2913.51)
§ 131.19  VALUE OF STOLEN PROPERTY.
   (A)   If more than one item of property or services is involved in a theft
offense or in a violation of R.C. § 1716.14(A) involving a victim who is an
elderly person or disabled adult, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, the value of the property or services involved for the purpose of
determining the value as required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value
of all property or services involved in the offense.
   (B)   (1)   When a series of offenses under R.C. § 2913.02, or a series of
violations of, attempts to commit a violation of, conspiracies to violate, or
complicity in violations of R.C. § 1716.14(A), R.C. § 2913.02, 2913.03, or
2913.04, R.C. § 2913.21(B)(1) or (B)(2), or R.C. § 2913.31 or 2913.43 involving
a victim who is an elderly person or disabled adult, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, is committed by the
offender in the offender’s same employment, capacity, or relationship to
another, all of those offenses shall be tried as a single offense. The value of
the property or services involved in the series of offenses for the purpose of
determining the value as required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value
of all property and services involved in all offenses in the series.
      (2)   If an offender commits a series of offenses under R.C. § 2913.02
that involves a common course of conduct to defraud multiple victims, all of
the offenses may be tried as a single offense. If an offender is being tried
for the commission of a series of violations of, attempts to commit a violation
of, conspiracies to violate, or complicity in violations of R.C. § 1716.14(A),
R.C. § 2913.02, 2913.03, or 2913.04, R.C. § 2913.21(B)(1) or (B)(2), or R.C. §
2913.31 or 2913.43, whether committed against one victim or more than one
victim, involving a victim who is an elderly person or disabled adult, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, pursuant
to a scheme or course of conduct, all of those offenses may be tried as a
single offense. If the offenses are tried as a single offense, the value of the
property or services involved for the purpose of determining the value as
required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value of all property and
services involved in all of the offenses in the course of conduct.
      (3)   When a series of two or more offenses under R.C. § 2913.40,
2913.48, or 2921.41 is committed by the offender in the offender’s same
employment, capacity, or relationship to another, all of those offenses may be
tried as a single offense. If the offenses are tried as a single offense, the
value of the property or services involved for the purpose of determining the
value as required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value of all property
and services involved in all of the offenses in the series of two or more
offenses.
      (4)   In prosecuting a single offense under division (B)(1), (B)(2) or
(B)(3) of this section, it is not necessary to separately allege and prove each
offense in the series. Rather, it is sufficient to allege and prove that the
offender, within a given span of time, committed one or more theft offenses or
violations of R.C. § 2913.40, 2913.48, or 2921.41 in the offender’s same
employment, capacity, or relationship to another as described in division (B)
(1) or (B)(3) of this section, or committed one or more theft offenses that
involve a common course of conduct to defraud multiple victims or a scheme or
course of conduct as described in division (B)(2) of this section.  While it is
not necessary to separately allege and prove each offense in the series in
order to prosecute a single offense under division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of
this section, it remains necessary in prosecuting them as a single offense to
prove the aggregate value of the property or services in order to meet the
requisite statutory offense level sought by the prosecution.
   (C)   The following criteria shall be used in determining the value of
property or services involved in a theft offense:
      (1)   The value of an heirloom, memento, collector’s item, antique,
museum piece, manuscript, document, record, or other thing that has intrinsic
worth to its owner and that either is irreplaceable or is replaceable only on
the expenditure of substantial time, effort, or money, is the amount which
would compensate the owner for its loss;
      (2)   The value of personal effects and household goods, and of
materials, supplies, equipment, and fixtures used in the profession, business,
trade, occupation, or avocation of its owner, which property is not covered
under division (C)(1) of this section, and which retains substantial utility
for its purpose regardless of its age or condition, is the cost of replacing
such property with new property of like kind and quality;
      (3)   The value of any real or personal property that is not covered
under division (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this section, and the value of services, is
the fair market value of the property or services. As used in this section,
FAIR MARKET VALUE is the money consideration which a buyer would give and a
seller would accept for property or services, assuming that the buyer is
willing to buy and the seller is willing to sell, that both are fully informed
as to all facts material to the transaction, and that neither is under any
compulsion to act.
   (D)   Without limitation on the evidence which may be used to establish the
value of property or services involved in a theft offense:
      (1)   When the property involved is personal property held for sale at
wholesale or retail, the price at which the property was held for sale is prima
facie evidence of its value;
      (2)   When the property involved is a security or commodity traded on an
exchange, the closing price or, if there is no closing price, the asked price,
given in the latest marked quotation prior to the offense, is prima facie
evidence of the value of the security or commodity;
      (3)   When the property involved is livestock, poultry, or raw
agricultural products for which a local market price is available, the latest
local market price prior to the offense is prima facie evidence of the value of
the livestock, poultry, or products;
      (4)   When the property involved is a negotiable instrument, the face
value is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument;
      (5)   When the property involved is a warehouse receipt, bill of lading,
pawn ticket, claim check, or other instrument entitling the holder or bearer to
receive property, the face value or, if there is no face value, the value of
the property covered by the instrument less any payment necessary to receive
the property, is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument;
      (6)   When the property involved is a ticket of admission, ticket for
transportation, coupon, token, or other instrument entitling the holder or
bearer to receive property or services, the face value or, if there is no face
value, the value of the property or services which may be received by the
instrument is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument;
      (7)   When the services involved are gas, electricity, water, telephone,
transportation, shipping, or other services for which the rate is established
by law, the duly established rate is prima facie evidence of the value of the
services;
      (8)   When the services involved are services for which the rate is not
established by law, and the offender has been notified prior to the offense of
the rate for the services, either in writing, or orally, or by posting in a
manner reasonably calculated to come to the attention of potential offenders,
the rate contained in the notice is prima facie evidence of the value of the
services.
(R.C. § 2913.61(B) - (E))
§ 131.20  DEGREE OF OFFENSE WHEN CERTAIN PROPERTY INVOLVED.
   Regardless of the value of the property involved, and regardless of whether
the offender previously has been convicted of a theft offense, a violation of §
131.08 or §
131.18 is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law if the property
involved is any of the following:
   (A)   A credit card;
   (B)   A printed form for a check or other negotiable instrument, that on its
face identifies the drawer or maker for whose use it is designed or identifies
the account on which it is to be drawn, and that has not been executed by the
drawer or maker or on which the amount is blank;
   (C)   A motor vehicle identification license plate as prescribed by R.C. §
4503.22, a temporary license placard or windshield sticker as prescribed by
R.C. § 4503.182, or any comparable license plate, placard, or sticker as
prescribed by the applicable law of another state or the United States;
   (D)   A blank form for a certificate of title or a manufacturer’s or
importer’s certificate to a motor vehicle, as prescribed by R.C. § 4505.07;
   (E)   A blank form for any license listed in R.C. § 4507.01.
(R.C. § 2913.71)
§ 131.21  INJURING VINES, BUSHES, TREES, OR CROPS.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall recklessly cut down,
destroy, girdle, or otherwise injure a vine, bush, shrub, sapling, tree, or
crop standing or growing on the land of another or upon public land.
   (B)   In addition to the penalty provided in division (C) of this section,
whoever violates this section is liable in treble damages for the injury
caused.
(R.C. § 901.51)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 901.99(A))
§ 131.22  DETENTION AND ARREST OF SHOPLIFTERS AND THOSE COMMITTING MOTION
PICTURE PIRACY; PROTECTION OF INSTITUTIONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ARCHIVAL INSTITUTION. Any public or private building, structure, or
shelter in which are stored historical documents, devices, records,
manuscripts, or items of public interest, which historical materials are stored
to preserve the materials or the information in the materials, to disseminate
the information contained in the materials, or to make the materials available
for public inspection or for inspection by certain persons who have a
particular interest in, use for, or knowledge concerning the materials.
      AUDIOVISUAL RECORDING FUNCTION and FACILITY. Have the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2913.07.
      MUSEUM. Any public or private nonprofit institution that is permanently
organized for primarily educational or aesthetic purposes, owns or borrows
objects or items of public interest, and cares for and exhibits to the public
the objects or items.
      PRETRIAL DIVERSION PROGRAM.  A rehabilitative, educational program
designed to reduce recidivism and promote personal responsibility that is at
least four hours in length and that has been approved by any court in this
state.
   (B)   A merchant, or an employee or agent of a merchant, who has probable
cause to believe that things offered for sale by a mercantile establishment
have been unlawfully taken by a person, may, for the purposes set forth in
division (D) below, detain the person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable
length of time within the mercantile establishment or its immediate vicinity.
   (C)   Any officer, employee, or agent of a library, museum, or archival
institution may, for the purposes set forth in division (D) below or for the
purpose of conducting a reasonable investigation of a belief that the person
has acted in a manner described in divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) below, detain a
person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable length of time within, or in the
immediate vicinity of, the library, museum, or archival institution, if the
officer, employee, or agent has probable cause to believe that the person has:
      (1)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly moved, defaced, damaged,
destroyed, or otherwise improperly tampered with property owned by or in the
custody of the library, museum, or archival institution; or
      (2)   With purpose to deprive the library, museum, or archival
institution of property owned by it or in its custody, knowingly obtained or
exerted control over the property without the consent of the owner or person
authorized to give consent, beyond the scope of the express or implied consent
of the owner or person authorized to give consent, by deception, or by threat.
   (D)   An officer, agent, or employee of a library, museum, or archival
institution pursuant to division (C) above or a merchant or an employee or
agent of a merchant pursuant to division (B) above may detain another person
for any of the following purposes:
      (1)   To recover the property that is the subject of the unlawful taking,
criminal mischief, or theft;
      (2)   To cause an arrest to be made by a peace officer;
      (3)   To obtain a warrant of arrest;
      (4)   To offer the person, if the person is suspected of the unlawful
taking, criminal mischief, or theft and notwithstanding any other provision of
this Code or the Ohio Revised Code, an opportunity to complete a pretrial
diversion program and to inform the person of the other legal remedies
available to the library, museum, archival institution, or merchant.
   (E)   The owner or lessee of a facility in which a motion picture is being
shown, or the owner’s or lessee’s employee or agent, who has probable cause to
believe that a person is or has been operating an audiovisual recording
function of a device in violation of R.C. § 2913.07 may, for the purpose of
causing an arrest to be made by a peace officer or of obtaining an arrest
warrant, detain the person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable length of
time within the facility or its immediate vicinity.
   (F)   The officer, agent, or employee of the library, museum, or archival
institution, the merchant or an employee or agent of a merchant, or the owner,
lessee, employee, or agent of the facility acting under divisions (B), (C) or
(E) above shall not search the person detained, search or seize any property
belonging to the person detained without the person’s consent, or use undue
restraint upon the person detained.
   (G)   Any peace officer may arrest without a warrant any person that the
officer has probable cause to believe has committed any act described in
divisions (C)(1) or (C)(2) above, that the officer has probable cause to
believe has committed an unlawful taking in a mercantile establishment, or that
the officer has reasonable cause to believe has committed an act prohibited by
R.C. § 2913.07. An arrest under this division shall be made within a reasonable
time after the commission of the act or unlawful taking.
(R.C. § 2935.041)
Statutory reference:
   Arrest without a warrant generally, see R.C. § 2935.03
   Probable cause, see R.C. § 2933.22
§ 131.23  INSURANCE FRAUD; WORKERS’ COMPENSATION FRAUD; MEDICAID FRAUD.
   (A)   Insurance fraud.
      (1)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall do either of the following:
         (a)   Present to, or cause to be presented to, an insurer any written
or oral statement that is part of, or in support of, an application for
insurance, a claim for payment pursuant to a policy, or a claim for any other
benefit pursuant to a policy, knowing that the statement, or any part of the
statement, is false or deceptive;
         (b)   Assist, aid, abet, solicit, procure, or conspire with another to
prepare or make any written or oral statement that is intended to be presented
to an insurer as part of, or in support of, an application for insurance, a
claim for payment pursuant to a policy, or a claim for any other benefit
pursuant to a policy, knowing that the statement, or any part of the statement,
is false or deceptive.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (A) is guilty of insurance fraud.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, insurance fraud is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the amount of the claim that is false or deceptive is
$1,000 or more, insurance fraud is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   This division (A) shall not be construed to abrogate, waive, or
modify R.C. § 2317.02(A).
      (4)   For the purpose of this division (A), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         DATA. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01 and additionally
includes any other representation of information, knowledge, facts, concepts,
or instructions that are being or have been prepared in a formalized manner.
         DECEPTIVE. Means that a statement, in whole or in part, would cause
another to be deceived because it contains a misleading representation,
withholds information, prevents the acquisition of information, or by any other
conduct, act, or omission creates, confirms, or perpetuates a false impression,
including but not limited to a false impression as to law, value, state of
mind, or other objective or subjective fact.
         INSURER. Means any person that is authorized to engage in the business
of insurance in this state under R.C. Title 39, the Ohio Fair Plan Underwriting
Association created under R.C. § 3929.43, any health insuring corporation, and
any legal entity that is self-insured and provides benefits to its employees or
members.
         POLICY. Means a policy, certificate, contract, or plan that is issued
by an insurer.
         STATEMENT. Includes but is not limited to any notice, letter, or
memorandum; proof of loss; bill of lading; receipt for payment; invoice,
account, or other financial statement; estimate of property damage; bill for
services; diagnosis or prognosis; prescription; hospital, medical, or dental
chart or other record; x-ray, photograph, videotape, or movie film; test
result; other evidence of loss, injury, or expense; computer-generated
document; and data in any form.
(R.C. § 2913.47)
   (B)   Workers’ compensation fraud.
      (1)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud shall do any of the following:
         (a)   Receive workers’ compensation benefits to which the person is
not entitled;
         (b)   Make or present or cause to be made or presented a false or
misleading statement with the purpose to secure payment for goods or services
rendered under R.C. Chapter 4121, 4123, 4127, or 4131 or to secure workers’
compensation benefits;
         (c)   Alter, falsify, destroy, conceal, or remove any record or
document that is necessary to fully establish the validity of any claim filed
with, or necessary to establish the nature and validity of all goods and
services for which reimbursement or payment was received or is requested from
the Bureau of Workers’ Compensation, or a self-insuring employer under R.C.
Chapter 4121, 4123, 4127, or 4131;
         (d)   Enter into an agreement or conspiracy to defraud the Bureau of
Workers’ Compensation or a self-insuring employer by making or presenting or
causing to be made or presented a false claim for workers’ compensation
benefits;
         (e)   Make or present or cause to be made or presented a false
statement concerning manual codes, classification or employees, payroll, paid
compensation, or number of personnel, when information of that nature is
necessary to determine the actual workers’ compensation premium or assessment
owed to the Bureau by an employer;
         (f)   Alter, forge, or create a workers’ compensation certificate or
falsely show current or correct workers’ compensation coverage;
         (g)   Fail to secure or maintain workers’ compensation coverage as
required by R.C. Chapter 4123 with the intent to defraud the Bureau of Workers’
Compensation.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of workers’
compensation fraud. Except as otherwise provided in this division, workers’
compensation fraud is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of
premiums and assessments unpaid pursuant to actions described in divisions (B)
(1)(e), (B)(1)(f), or (B)(1)(g) of this section, or goods, services, property,
or money stolen is $1,000 or more, workers’ compensation fraud is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Upon application of the governmental body that conducted the
investigation and prosecution of a violation of this division (B), the court
shall order the person who is convicted of the violation to pay the
governmental body its costs of investigating and prosecuting the case. These
costs are in addition to any other costs or penalty provided under federal,
state or local law.
      (4)   The remedies and penalties provided in this division (B) are not
exclusive remedies and penalties and do not preclude the use of any other
criminal or civil remedy or penalty for any act that is in violation of this
division (B).
      (5)   For the purpose of this division (B), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         CLAIM. Means any attempt to cause the Bureau of Workers’ Compensation,
an independent third party with whom the administrator or an employer contracts
under R.C. § 4121.44, or a self-insuring employer to make payment or
reimbursement for workers’ compensation benefits.
         EMPLOYER, EMPLOYEE, and SELF-INSURING EMPLOYER. Have the same meanings
as in R.C. § 4123.01.
         EMPLOYMENT. Means participating in any trade, occupation, business,
service, or profession for substantial gainful remuneration.
         FALSE. Means wholly or partially untrue or deceptive.
         GOODS. Includes but is not limited to medical supplies, appliances,
rehabilitative equipment, and any other apparatus or furnishing provided or
used in the care, treatment, or rehabilitation of a claimant for workers’
compensation benefits.
         RECORDS. Means any medical, professional, financial, or business
record relating to the treatment or care of any person, to goods or services
provided to any person, or to rates paid for goods or services provided to any
person, or any record that the administrator of workers’ compensation requires
pursuant to rule.
         REMUNERATION. Includes but is not limited to wages, commissions,
rebates, and any other reward or consideration.
         SERVICES. Includes but is not limited to any service provided by any
health care provider to a claimant for workers’ compensation benefits and any
and all services provided by the Bureau as part of workers’ compensation
insurance coverage.
         STATEMENT. Includes but is not limited to any oral, written,
electronic, electronic impulse, or magnetic communication notice, letter,
memorandum, receipt for payment, invoice, account, financial statement, or bill
for services; a diagnosis, prognosis, prescription, hospital, medical, or
dental chart or other record; and a computer generated document.
         WORKERS’ COMPENSATION BENEFITS. Means any compensation or benefits
payable under R.C. Chapter 4121, 4123, 4127, or 4131.
(R.C. § 2913.48)
   (C)   Medicaid fraud.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly make or cause to be made a false or
misleading statement or representation for use in obtaining reimbursement from
the medical assistance program.
      (2)   No person, with purpose to commit fraud or knowing that the person
is facilitating a fraud, shall do either of the following:
         (a)   Contrary to the terms of the person’s provider agreement,
charge, solicit, accept or receive for goods or services that the person
provides under the medical assistance program any property, money or other
consideration in addition to the amount of reimbursement under the medical
assistance program and the person’s provider agreement for the goods or
services and any cost-sharing expenses authorized by R.C. § 5111.0112 or rules
adopted pursuant to R.C. § 5111.01, 5111.011, or 5111.02.
         (b)   Solicit, offer or receive any remuneration, other than any cost-
sharing expenses authorized by R.C. § 5111.0112 or rules adopted under R.C. §
5111.01, 5111.011, or 5111.02, in cash or in kind, including but not limited to
a kickback or rebate, in connection with the furnishing of goods or services
for which whole or partial reimbursement is or may be made under the medical
assistance program.
      (3)   No person, having submitted a claim for or provided goods or
services under the medical assistance program, shall do either of the following
for a period of at least six years after a reimbursement pursuant to that
claim, or a reimbursement for those goods or services, is received under the
medical assistance program:
         (a)   Knowingly alter, falsify, destroy, conceal or remove any records
that are necessary to fully disclose the nature of all goods or services for
which the claim was submitted, or for which reimbursement was received, by the
person; or
         (b)   Knowingly alter, falsify, destroy, conceal or remove any records
that are necessary to disclose fully all income and expenditures upon which
rates of reimbursements were based for the person.
      (4)   Whoever violates this division (C) is guilty of medicaid fraud.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, medicaid fraud is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the value of the property, services or funds obtained
in violation of this section is $1,000 or more, medicaid fraud is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   Upon application of the governmental agency, office or other entity
that conducted the investigation and prosecution in a case under this section,
the court shall order any person who is convicted of a violation of this
section for receiving any reimbursement for furnishing goods or services under
the medical assistance program to which the person is not entitled to pay to
the applicant its cost of investigating and prosecuting the case. The costs of
investigation and prosecution that a defendant is ordered to pay pursuant to
this division shall be in addition to any other penalties for the receipt of
that reimbursement that are provided in this section, R.C. § 2913.40 or
5111.03, or any other provision of law.
      (6)   The provisions of this section are not intended to be exclusive
remedies and do not preclude the use of any other criminal or civil remedy for
any act that is in violation of this section.
      (7)   For the purpose of this division (C), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         MEDICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM. The program established by the Ohio
Department of Job and Family Services to provide medical assistance under R.C.
§ 5111.01 and the Medicaid program of Title XIX of the Social Security Act, 49
Stat. 620 (1935), 42 U.S.C. § 301, as amended.
         PROVIDER. Any person who has signed a provider agreement with the Ohio
Department of Job and Family Services to provide goods or services pursuant to
the medical assistance program or any person who has signed an agreement with a
party to such a provider agreement under which the person agrees to provide
goods or services that are reimbursable under the medical assistance program.
         PROVIDER AGREEMENT.  An oral or written agreement between the Ohio
Department of Job and Family Services and a person in which the person agrees
to provide goods or services under the medical assistance program.
         RECIPIENT. Any individual who receives goods or services from a
provider under the medical assistance program.
         RECORDS. Any medical, profes- sional, financial or business records
relating to the treatment or care of any recipient, to goods or services
provided to any recipient, or to rates paid for goods or services provided to
any recipient, and any records that are required by the rules of the Ohio
Director of Job and Family Services to be kept for the medical assistance
program.
         STATEMENT OR REPRESENTATION means any oral, written, electronic,
electronic impulse or magnetic communication that is used to identify an item
of goods or a service for which reimbursement may be made under the medical
assistance program or that states income and expense and is or may be used to
determine a rate of reimbursement under the medical assistance program.
(R.C. § 2913.40)
   (D)   Medicaid eligibility fraud.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following in an application
for medicaid benefits or in a document that requires a disclosure of assets for
the purpose of determining eligibility to receive medicaid benefits:
         (a)   Make or cause to be made a false or misleading statement;
         (b)   Conceal an interest in property;
         (c)   1.   Except as provided in division (D)(1)(c)2. of this section,
fail to disclose a transfer of property that occurred during the period
beginning 36 months before submission of the application or document and ending
on the date the application or document was submitted;
            2.   Fail to disclose a transfer of property that occurred during
the period beginning 60 months before submission of the application or document
and ending on the date the application or document was submitted and that was
made to an irrevocable trust a portion of which is not distributable to the
applicant for medicaid benefits or the recipient of medicaid benefits or to a
revocable trust.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates this division (D) is guilty of medicaid
eligibility fraud. Except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation
of this division (D) is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the
medicaid benefits paid as a result of the violation is $1,000 or more, a
violation of this division (D) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
         (b)   In addition to imposing a sentence under division (D)(2)(a) of
this section, the court shall order that a person who is guilty of medicaid
eligibility fraud make restitution in the full amount of any medicaid benefits
paid on behalf of an applicant for or recipient of medicaid benefits for which
the applicant or recipient was not eligible, plus interest at the rate
applicable to judgments on unreimbursed amounts from the date on which the
benefits were paid to the date on which restitution is made.
         (c)   The remedies and penalties provided in this division (D) are not
exclusive and do not preclude the use of any other criminal or civil remedy for
any act that is in violation of this division (D).
      (3)   This division (D) does not apply to a person who fully disclosed in
an application for medicaid benefits or in a document that requires a
disclosure of assets for the purpose of determining eligibility to receive
medicaid benefits all of the interests in property of the applicant for or
recipient of medicaid benefits, all transfers of property by the applicant for
or recipient of medicaid benefits, and the circumstances of all those
transfers.
      (4)   Any amounts of medicaid benefits recovered as restitution under
this division (D) and any interest on those amounts shall be credited to the
General Revenue fund, and any applicable federal share shall be returned to the
appropriate agency or department of the United States.
      (5)   For the purpose of this division (D), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         MEDICAID BENEFITS. Means benefits under the medical assistance program
established under R.C. Chapter 5111.
         PROPERTY. Means any real or personal property or other asset in which
a person has any legal title or interest.
(R.C. § 2913.401)
§ 131.24  INJURY TO PROPERTY BY HUNTERS.
   (A)   No person in the act of hunting, pursuing, taking, or killing a wild
animal shall act in a negligent, careless, or reckless manner so as to injure
property.
(R.C. § 1533.171(A))
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 1533.99(C))
Statutory reference:
   Violation, license revocation, see R.C. § 1533.171(B) through (E)
§ 131.25  EVIDENCE OF INTENT TO COMMIT THEFT OF RENTED PROPERTY; EVIDENCE OF
LACK OF CAPACITY TO CONSENT.
   (A)   Evidence of intent to commit theft of rented property.
      (1)   For the purpose of this division (A), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         RENTEE. A person who pays consideration to a renter for the use of
rented property.
         RENTER. A person who owns rented property.
      (2)   Each of the following shall be considered evidence of intent to
commit theft of rented property or rental services:
         (a)   At the time of entering into the rental contract, the rentee
presented the renter with identification that was materially false, fictitious,
or not current with respect to name, address, place of employment, or other
relevant information;
         (b)   After receiving a notice demanding the return of the rented
property as provided in division (A)(3) of this section, the rentee neither
returned the rented property nor made arrangements acceptable with the renter
to return the rented property.
      (3)   To establish that a rentee has an intent to commit theft of rented
property or rental services under division (A)(2)(b) above, a renter may issue
a notice to a rentee demanding the return of the rented property. The renter
shall mail the notice by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
rentee at the address the rentee gave when the rental contract was executed, or
to the rentee at the last address the rentee or the rentee’s agent furnished in
writing to the renter.
      (4)   A demand for the return of the rented property is not a
prerequisite for the prosecution of a rentee for theft of rented property or
rental services. The evidence specified in division (A)(2) above does not
constitute the only evidence that may be considered as evidence of intent to
commit theft of rented property or rental services.
(R.C. § 2913.72)
   (B)   Evidence of lack of capacity to consent.
      (1)   In a prosecution for any alleged violation of §
131.08 through
131.20,
131.23,
131.25 through
131.29, or
132.11, if the lack of consent of the victim is an element of the provision
that allegedly was violated, evidence that, at the time of the alleged
violation, the victim lacked the capacity to give consent is admissible to show
that the victim did not give consent.
      (2)   As used in this section, LACKS THE CAPACITY TO CONSENT means being
impaired for any reason to the extent that the person lacks sufficient
understanding or capacity to make and carry out reasonable decisions concerning
the person or the person’s resources.
(R.C. § 2913.73)
§ 131.26  FORGERY OF IDENTIFICATION CARDS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do either of the following:
      (1)   Forge an identification card.
      (2)   Sell or otherwise distribute a card that purports to be an
identification card, knowing it was forged.
   (B)   As used in this section, IDENTIFICATION CARD means a card that
includes personal information or characteristics of an individual, a purpose of
which is to establish the identity of the bearer described on the card, whether
the words “identity,” “identification,” “identification card,” or other similar
words appear on the card.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of forging identification
cards or selling or distributing forged identification cards. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, forging identification cards or selling or
distributing forged identification cards is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of division (A) of
this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
forging identification cards or selling or distributing forged identification
cards is a misdemeanor of the first degree and, in addition, the court shall
impose upon the offender a fine not less than $250.
(R.C. § 2913.31(B), (C)(2))
Statutory reference:
   Forgery, felony provisions, see R.C. § 2913.31(A) and C)(1)
   Forgery of originating address or other routing information in connection
with the transmission of an electronic mail advertisement, felony provisions,
see R.C. § 2307.64
§ 131.27  CRIMINAL SIMULATION.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud, or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Make or alter any object so that it appears to have value because
of antiquity, rarity, curiosity, source, or authorship, which it does not in
fact possess.
      (2)   Practice deception in making, retouching, editing, or reproducing
any photograph, movie film, video tape, phonograph record, or recording tape.
      (3)   Falsely or fraudulently make, simulate, forge, alter, or
counterfeit any wrapper, label, stamp, cork or cap prescribed by the Liquor
Control Commission under R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303, falsely or fraudulently
cause to be made, simulated, forged, altered, or counterfeited any wrapper,
label, stamp, cork or cap prescribed by the Liquor Control Commission under
R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303, or use more than once any wrapper, label, stamp,
cork or cap prescribed by the Liquor Control Commission under R.C. Chapters
4301 and 4303.
      (4)   Offer, or possess with the purpose to offer, any object that the
person knows to have been simulated as provided in divisions (A)(1), (A)(2) or
(A)(3) of this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal simulation. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, criminal simulation is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the loss to the victim is $1,000 or more, criminal
simulation is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.32)
§ 131.28  PERSONATING AN OFFICER.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she is
facilitating a fraud, or with purpose to induce another to purchase property or
services, shall personate a law enforcement officer, or an inspector,
investigator, or agent of any governmental agency.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of personating an officer, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2913.44)
Cross-reference:
   Impersonating an officer (non-fraud offense), see §
132.12
§ 131.29  TRADEMARK COUNTERFEITING.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Attach, affix, or otherwise use a counterfeit mark in connection
with the manufacture of goods or services, whether or not the goods or services
are intended for sale or resale;
      (2)   Possess, sell, or offer for sale tools, machines, instruments,
materials, articles, or other items of personal property with the knowledge
that they are designed for the production or reproduction of counterfeit marks;
      (3)   Purchase or otherwise acquire goods, and keep or otherwise have the
goods in the person’s possession, with the knowledge that a counterfeit mark is
attached to, affixed to, or otherwise used in connection with the goods and
with the intent to sell or otherwise dispose of the goods;
      (4)   Sell, offer for sale, or otherwise dispose of goods with the
knowledge that a counterfeit mark is attached to, affixed to, or otherwise used
in connection with the goods;
      (5)   Sell, offer for sale, or otherwise provide services with the
knowledge that a counterfeit mark is used in connection with that sale, offer
for sale, or other provision of the services.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of trademark counterfeiting.
      (1)   A violation of division (A)(1) of this section is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)    Except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation of
division (A)(2) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
circumstances of the violation indicate that the tools, machines, instruments,
materials, articles, or other items of personal property involved in the
violation were intended for use in the commission of a felony, a violation of
division (A)(2) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation of
division (A)(3), (A)(4) or (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the cumulative sales price of the goods or services to which or in
connection with which the counterfeit mark is attached, affixed or otherwise
used in the offense is $1,000 or more, a violation of division (A)(3), (A)(4)
or (A)(5) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   A defendant may assert as an affirmative defense to a charge of a
violation of this section defenses, affirmative defenses, and limitations on
remedies that would be available in a civil, criminal or administrative action
or proceeding under the Lanham Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 1051 through 1127, as
amended, the Trademark Counterfeiting Act of 1984, being 18 U.S.C. § 2320, as
amended, R.C. Chapter 1329 or another section of the Ohio Revised Code, or
common law.
   (D)   (1)   Law enforcement officers may seize pursuant to Criminal Rule 41,
R.C. Chapter 2933, or R.C. Chapter 2981 either of the following:
         (a)   Goods to which or in connection with which a person attached,
affixed, otherwise used, or intended to attach, affix, or otherwise use a
counterfeit mark in violation of this section.
         (b)   Tools, machines, instruments, materials, articles, vehicles or
other items of personal property that are possessed, sold, offered for sale, or
used in a violation of this section or in an attempt to commit or complicity in
the commission of a violation of this section.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of R.C. Chapter 2981, if a
person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of this section, an
attempt to violate this section, or complicity in a violation of this section,
the court involved shall declare that the goods described in division (D)(1)(a)
of this section and the personal property described in division (D)(1)(b) of
this section are contraband and are forfeited. Prior to the court’s entry of
judgment under Criminal Rule 32, the owner of a registered trademark or service
mark that is the subject to the counterfeit mark may recommend a manner in
which the forfeited goods and forfeited personal property should be disposed
of. If that owner makes a timely recommendation of a manner of disposition, the
court is not bound by the recommendation. If that owner makes a timely
recommendation of a manner of disposition, the court may include in its entry
of judgment an order that requires appropriate persons to dispose of the
forfeited goods and forfeited personal property in the recommended manner. If
the owner fails to make a timely recommendation of a manner of disposition or
if that owner makes a timely recommendation of a manner of disposition but the
court determines to not follow the recommendation, the court shall include in
its entry of judgement an order that requires the law enforcement agency that
employs the law enforcement officer who seized the forfeited goods or the
forfeited personal property to destroy them or cause their destruction.
   (E)   This section does not affect the rights of an owner of a trademark or
service mark, or the enforcement in a civil action or in administrative
proceedings of the rights of an owner or a trademark or service mark under the
Lanham Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 1051 through 1127, as amended, the Trademark
Counterfeiting Act of 1984, being 18 U.S.C. § 2320, as amended, R.C. Chapter
1329, or another section of the Ohio Revised Code, or common law.
   (F)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
      COUNTERFEIT MARK.
         (a)   Except as provided in division (b) of this definition,
COUNTERFEIT MARK means a spurious trademark or a spurious service mark that
satisfies both of the following:
            1.   It is identical with or substantially indistinguishable from a
mark that is registered on the principal register in the United States Patent
and Trademark Office for the same goods or services as the goods or services to
which or in connection with which the spurious trademark or spurious service
mark is attached, affixed, or otherwise used, or from a mark that is registered
with the Secretary of State pursuant to R.C. §§ 1329.54 through 1329.67 for the
same goods or services as the goods or services to which or in connection with
which the spurious trademark or spurious service mark is attached, affixed, or
otherwise used, and the owner of the registration uses that registered
trademark, whether or not the offender knows that the mark is registered in a
manner described in this division (a)1.;
            2.   Its use is likely to cause confusion or mistake or to deceive
other persons.
         (b)   COUNTERFEIT MARK does not include a mark or other designation
that is attached to, affixed to, or otherwise used in connection with goods or
services if the holder of the right to use the mark or other designation
authorizes the manufacturer, producer, or vendor of those goods or services to
attach, affix, or otherwise use the mark or other designation in connection
with those goods or services at the time of their manufacture, production, or
sale.
      CUMULATIVE SALES PRICE. The product of the lowest single unit sales price
charged or sought to be charged by an offender for goods to which or in
connection with which a counterfeit mark is attached, affixed, or otherwise
used or of the lowest single service transaction price charged or sought to be
charged by an offender for services in connection with which a counterfeit mark
is used, multiplied by the total number of those goods or services, whether  or
not units of goods are sold or are in an offender’s possession, custody, or
control.
      REGISTERED TRADEMARK OR SERVICE MARK. A trademark or service mark that is
registered in a manner described in division (a) of the definition of
“counterfeit mark.”
      TRADEMARK and SERVICE MARK. Have the same meanings as in R.C. § 1329.54
(R.C. § 2913.34)
§ 131.30  NEGLIGENT BURNING.
   (A)   No person shall set, kindle, or cause to be set or kindled any fire,
which through his or her negligence, spreads beyond its immediate confines to
any structure, field, or wood lot. 
(R.C. § 3737.62)
   (B)   Whoever violates R.C. §§ 3737.62 or 3737.64 is guilty of a misdemeanor
of the fourth degree. 
(R.C. § 3737.99(D))
§ 131.31  SIGNS OR POSTERS ON TELEPHONE/UTILITY POLES.
   (A)   No signs, posters, and other like devices shall be hung on telephone
utility poles in the village, with the exception that the village may hang
temporary emergency nonmetallic signs on such poles.
   (B)   The penalty for violating the provisions of this section shall be a
fine up to $100 for each separate offense.
(Ord. 6-79, passed 3-6-1979)
§ 131.32  DIMINISHING OR INTERFERING WITH FORFEITABLE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall destroy, damage, remove, or transfer property that is
subject to forfeiture or otherwise take any action in regard to property that
is subject to forfeiture with purpose to do any of the following:
      (1)   Prevent or impair the state’s or political subdivision’s lawful
authority to take the property into its custody or control under R.C. Chapter
2981 or to continue holding the property under its lawful custody or control;
      (2)   Impair or defeat the court’s continuing jurisdiction over the
person and property;
      (3)   Devalue property that the person knows, or has reasonable cause to
believe, is subject to forfeiture proceedings under R.C. Chapter 2981.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interference with or
diminishing forfeitable property. Except as otherwise provided in this division
(B), interference with or diminishing forfeitable property is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the value of the property is $1,000 or more, interference
with or diminishing forfeitable property is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2981.07)
§ 131.33  RECORDING CREDIT CARD, TELEPHONE OR SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBERS.
   (A)   No person shall record or cause to be recorded either of the
following:
      (1)   A credit card account number of the other party to a transaction,
when a check, bill of exchange or other draft is presented for payment; or
      (2)   The telephone number or Social Security account number of the other
party to a transaction, when payment is made by credit card charge agreement,
check, bill of exchange or other draft.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to a transaction, if all
of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The credit card account number, Social Security account number or
telephone number is recorded for a legitimate business purpose, including
collection purposes.
      (2)   The other party to the transaction consents to the recording of the
credit card account number, Social Security account number or telephone number.
      (3)   The credit card account number, Social Security account number or
telephone number that is recorded during the course of the transaction is not
disclosed to any third party for any purposes other than collection purposes
and is not used to market goods or services unrelated to the goods or services
purchased in the transaction.
   (C)   Nothing in this section prohibits the recording of the number of a
credit card account when given in lieu of a deposit to secure payment in the
event of default, loss, damage or other occurrence, or requires a person to
accept a check presented for payment, if the other party to the transaction
refuses to consent to the recording of the number of the party’s Social
Security account or license to operate a motor vehicle.
(R.C. § 1349.17)
   (D)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 1349.99)
§ 131.34  PROSECUTIONS FOR THEFT OF UTILITIES.
   (A)   In a prosecution for a theft offense, as defined in R.C. § 2913.01,
that involves alleged tampering with a gas, electric, steam or water meter,
conduit or attachment of a utility that has been disconnected by the utility,
proof that a meter, conduit or attachment of a utility has been tampered with
is prima facie evidence that the person who is obligated to pay for the service
rendered through the meter, conduit or attachment, and who is in possession or
control of the meter, conduit or attachment at the time the tampering occurred
has caused the tampering with intent to commit a theft offense.
   (B)   In a prosecution for a theft offense, as defined in R.C. § 2913.01,
that involves the alleged reconnection of a gas, electric, steam or water
meter, conduit or attachment of a utility that has been disconnected by the
utility, proof that a meter, conduit or attachment disconnected by a utility
has been reconnected without the consent of the utility is prima facie evidence
that the person in possession or control of the meter, conduit or attachment at
the time of the reconnection has reconnected the meter, conduit or attachment
with intent to commit a theft offense.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
      TAMPER. Means to interfere with, damage or bypass a utility meter,
conduit or attachment with the intent to impede the correct registration of a
meter or the proper functions of a conduit or attachment so as to reduce the
amount of utility service that is registered on the meter.
      UTILITY. Means any electric light company, gas company, natural gas
company, pipeline company, waterworks company or heating or cooling company, as
defined in R.C. § 4905.03(C), (D), (E), (F), (G), or (H), its lessees, trustees
or receivers, or any similar utility owned or operated by a political
subdivision.
(R.C. § 4933.18)
   (D)   Each electric light company, gas company, natural gas company,
pipeline company, waterworks company or heating or cooling company, as defined
by R.C. § 4905.03(C), (D), (E), (F), (G), or (H), or its lessees, trustees or
receivers, and each similar utility owned or operated by a political
subdivision, shall notify its customers, on an annual basis, that tampering
with or bypassing a meter constitutes a theft offense that could result in the
imposition of criminal sanctions.
(R.C. § 4933.19)
§ 131.35  MOTION PICTURE PIRACY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
      AUDIOVISUAL RECORDING FUNCTION. The capability of a device to record or
transmit a motion picture or any part of a motion picture by means of any
technology existing on, or developed after, March 9, 2004.
      FACILITY.  A movie theater.
   (B)   No person, without the written consent of the owner or lessee of the
facility and of the licensor of the motion picture, shall knowingly operate an
audiovisual recording function of a device in a facility in which the motion
picture is being shown.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of motion
picture piracy, a misdemeanor of the first degree on the first offense and a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
   (D)   This section does not prohibit or restrict a lawfully authorized
investigative, law enforcement, protective, or intelligence gathering employee
or agent of the government of this state or a political subdivision of this
state, or of the federal government, when acting in an official capacity, from
operating an audiovisual recording function of a device in any facility in
which a motion picture is being shown.
   (E)   Division (B) of this section does not limit or affect the application
of any other prohibition in this code or the Ohio Revised Code. Any act that is
a violation of both division (B) of this section and another provision of this
code or the Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under this section, under the
other provision of this code or the Ohio Revised Code, or under both this
section and the other provision of this code or the Ohio Revised Code.
(R.C. § 2913.07)
CHAPTER 132:  OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
Section
   
132.01   Riot
   
132.02   Failure to disperse
   
132.03   Justifiable use of force to suppress riot
   
132.04   Disorderly conduct
   
132.05   Disturbing a lawful meeting
   
132.06   Misconduct at an emergency
   
132.07   Telecommunications harassment
   
132.08   Inducing panic
   
132.09   Making false alarms
   
132.10   Inciting to violence
   
132.11   Unlawful display of law enforcement emblem
   
132.12   Impersonating a peace officer
   
132.13   Safety of crowds attending live entertainment performances
   
132.14   Loitering or prowling
   
132.15   Unreasonably loud sound devices
   
132.16   Curfew
   
132.17   Curfew during school hours
   
132.18   Misconduct involving a public transportation system
Cross-reference:
   Pay-out fines, see
Ch. 40, Appendix A
   Personating an officer (fraud offense), see §
131.28
Statutory reference:
   Misconduct involving a public transportation system, see R.C. § 2917.41
   Misuse of “Block Parent” symbol, see R.C. § 2917.46
§ 132.01  RIOT.
   (A)   No person shall participate with four or more others in a course of
disorderly conduct in violation of R.C. § 2917.11 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance:
      (1)   With purpose to commit or facilitate the commission of a
misdemeanor, other than disorderly conduct;
      (2)   With purpose to intimidate a public official or employee into
taking or refraining from official action, or with purpose to hinder, impede,
or obstruct a function of government;
      (3)   With purpose to hinder, impede, or obstruct the orderly process of
administration or instruction at an educational institution, or to interfere
with or disrupt lawful activities carried on at the institution.
   (B)   No person shall participate with four or more others with purpose to
do an act with unlawful force or violence, even though the act might otherwise
be lawful.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of riot, a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 2917.03)
   (D)   For the purposes of prosecuting violations of this section, the
prosecution is not required to allege or prove that the offender expressly
agreed with four or more others to commit any act that constitutes a violation
this section prior to or while committing those acts.
(R.C. § 2917.031)
Statutory reference:
   Aggravated riot, felony provisions, see R.C. § 2917.02
§ 132.02  FAILURE TO DISPERSE.
   (A)   Where five or more persons are participating in a course of disorderly
conduct in violation of R.C. § 2917.11 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, and there are other persons in the vicinity whose presence creates
the likelihood of physical harm to persons or property or of serious public
inconvenience, annoyance, or alarm, a law enforcement officer or other public
official may order the participants and the other persons to disperse. No
person shall knowingly fail to obey the order.
   (B)   Nothing in this section requires persons to disperse who are peaceably
assembled for a lawful purpose.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to disperse.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3) of this section,
failure to disperse is a minor misdemeanor.
      (3)   Failure to disperse is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if the
failure to obey the order described in division (A) of this section creates the
likelihood of physical harm to persons or is committed at the scene of a fire,
accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind.
(R.C. § 2917.04)
§ 132.03  JUSTIFIABLE USE OF FORCE TO SUPPRESS RIOT.
   A law enforcement officer or firefighter engaged in suppressing a riot or in
protecting persons or property during a riot:
   (A)   Is justified in using force, other than deadly force, when and to the
extent he or she has probable cause to believe such force is necessary to
disperse or apprehend rioters;
   (B)   Is justified in using force, including deadly force, when and to the
extent he or she has probable cause to believe such force is necessary to
disperse or apprehend rioters whose conduct is creating a substantial risk of
serious physical harm to persons.
(R.C. § 2917.05)
§ 132.04  DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall recklessly cause inconvenience, annoyance, or alarm to
another, by doing any of the following:
      (1)   Engaging in fighting, in threatening harm to persons or property,
or in violent or turbulent behavior;
      (2)   Making unreasonable noise or an offensively coarse utterance,
gesture, or display, or communicating unwarranted and grossly abusive language
to any person;
      (3)   Insulting, taunting, or challenging another, under circumstances in
which that conduct is likely to provoke a violent response;
      (4)   Hindering or preventing the movement of persons on a public street,
road, highway, or right- of-way, or to, from, within, or upon public or private
property, so as to interfere with the rights of others, and by any act that
serves no lawful and reasonable purpose of the offender;
      (5)   Creating a condition that is physically offensive to persons or
that presents a risk of physical harm to persons or property, by any act that
serves no lawful and reasonable purpose of the offender.
   (B)   No person while voluntarily intoxicated shall do either of the
following:
      (1)   In a public place or in the presence of two or more persons, engage
in conduct likely to be offensive or to cause inconvenience, annoyance, or
alarm to persons of ordinary sensibilities, which conduct the offender, if he
or she were not intoxicated, should know is likely to have such effect on
others;
      (2)   Engage in conduct or create a condition that presents a risk of
physical harm to himself, herself or another, or to the property of another.
   (C)   Violation of any statute or ordinance of which an element is operating
a motor vehicle, locomotive, watercraft, aircraft, or other vehicle while under
the influence of alcohol or any drug of abuse is not a violation of division
(B) of this section.
   (D)   If a person appears to an ordinary observer to be intoxicated, it is
probable cause to believe that the person is voluntarily intoxicated for
purposes of division (B) of this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disorderly conduct.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (E)(2) of this section,
disorderly conduct is a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Disorderly conduct is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if any of
the following applies:
         (a)   The offender persists in disorderly conduct after reasonable
warning or request to desist;
         (b)   The offense is committed in the vicinity of a school or in a
school safety zone;
         (c)   The offense is committed in the presence of any law enforcement
officer, firefighter, rescuer, medical person, emergency medical services
person, or other authorized person who is engaged in the person’s duties at the
scene of a fire, accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind;
         (d)   The offense is committed in the presence of any emergency
facility person who is engaged in the person’s duties in an emergency facility.
   (F)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
      COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A SCHOOL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2925.01.
      EMERGENCY FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency facility
personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency medical
services personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2133.21.
(R.C. § 2917.11)
§ 132.05  DISTURBING A LAWFUL MEETING.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to prevent or disrupt a lawful meeting,
procession, or gathering, shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Do any act which obstructs or interferes with the due conduct of
the meeting, procession, or gathering;
      (2)   Make any utterance, gesture, or display which outrages the
sensibilities of the group.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disturbing a lawful
meeting, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2917.12)
§ 132.06  MISCONDUCT AT AN EMERGENCY.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Hamper the lawful operations of any law enforcement officer,
firefighter, rescuer, medical person, emergency medical services person, or
other authorized person engaged in the person’s duties at the scene of a fire,
accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind;
      (2)   Hamper the lawful activities of any emergency facility person who
is engaged in the person’s duties in an emergency facility;
      (3)   Fail to obey the lawful order of any law enforcement officer
engaged in the law enforcement officer’s duties at the scene of or in
connection with a fire, accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit access or deny
information to any news media representative in the lawful exercise of the news
media representative’s duties.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of misconduct at an emergency.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, misconduct at an emergency is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If violation of this section creates a risk
of physical harm to persons or property, misconduct at an emergency is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
      EMERGENCY FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency facility
personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency medical
services personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2133.21.
(R.C. § 2917.13)
§ 132.07  TELECOMMUNICATIONS HARASSMENT.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make or cause to be made a
telecommunication, or knowingly permit a telecommunication to be made from a
telecom- munications device under the person’s control, to another, if the
caller does any of the following:
      (1)   Fails to identify the caller to the recipient of the
telecommunication and makes the telecommunication with purpose to harass or
abuse any person at the premises to which the telecommunication is made,
whether or not actual communication takes place between the caller and a
recipient;
      (2)   Describes, suggests, requests, or proposes that the caller, the
recipient of the telecommunication, or any other person engage in sexual
activity, and the recipient or another person at the premises to which the
telecommunication is made has requested, in a previous telecommunication or in
the immediate telecommunication, that the caller not make a telecommunication
to the recipient or to the premises to which the telecommunication is made;
      (3)   During the telecommunication, violates R.C. § 2903.21 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (4)   Knowingly states to the recipient of the telecommunication that the
caller intends to cause damage to or destroy public or private property, and
the recipient, any member of the recipient’s family, or any other person who
resides at the premises to which the telecommunication is made owns, leases,
resides, or works in, will at the time of the destruction or damaging be near
or in, has the responsibility of protecting, or insures the property that will
be destroyed or damaged;
      (5)   Knowingly makes the telecom- munication to the recipient of the
telecommunication, to another person at the premises to which the
telecommunication is made, or to those premises, and the recipient or another
person at those premises previously has told the caller not to make a
telecommunication to those premises or to any persons at those premises.
   (B)   No person shall make or cause to be made a telecommunication or permit
a telecommunication to be made from a telecommunications device under the
person’s control, with purpose to abuse, threaten, or harass another person.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates divisions (A) or (B) of this section is guilty
of telecommunications harassment.
      (2)   A violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3) or (A)(5) or (B) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree on a first offense and a
felony on each subsequent offense, which shall be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(3), a violation
of division (A)(4) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree on a
first offense and a felony on each subsequent offense, to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If a violation of division (A)(4) of this section
results in economic harm of $1,000 or more, telecommunications harassment is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (D)   No cause of action may be assessed in any court of this municipality
against any provider of a telecommunications service or information service, or
against any officer, employee, or agent of a telecommunications service or
information service, for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that
allegedly arises out of the provider’s, officer’s, employee’s, or agent’s
provision of information, facilities, or assistance in accordance with the
terms of a court order that is issued in relation to the investigation or
prosecution of an alleged violation of this section. A provider of a
telecommunications service or information service, or an officer, employee, or
agent of a telecommunications service or information service, is immune from
any civil or criminal liability for injury, death, or loss to person or
property that allegedly arises out of the provider’s, officer’s, employee’s, or
agent’s provision of information, facilities, or assistance in accordance with
the terms of a court order that is issued in relation to the investigation or
prosecution of an alleged violation of this section.
   (E)   As used in divisions (A) through (D) of this section:
      CALLER. Means the person described in division (A) of this section who
makes or causes to be made a telecommunication or who permits a
telecommunication to be made from a telecommunications device under that
person’s control.
      ECONOMIC HARM. Means all direct, incidental and consequential pecuniary
harm suffered by a victim as a result of the criminal conduct. The term
includes but is not limited to all of the following:
         (a)   All wages, salaries or other compensation lost as a result of
the criminal conduct;
         (b)   The cost of all wages, salaries or other compensation paid to
employees for time those employees are prevented from working as a result of
the criminal conduct;
         (c)   The overhead costs incurred from the time that a business is
shut down as a result of the criminal conduct;
         (d)   The loss of value to tangible or intangible property that was
damaged as a result of the criminal conduct.
      SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
      TELECOMMUNICATION and TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Have the same meanings
as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   (F)   Nothing in this section prohibits a person from making a
telecommunication to a debtor that is in compliance with the “Fair Debt
Collection Practices Act,” 15 U.S.C. § 1692, as amended, or the “Telephone
Consumer Protection Act,” 47 U.S.C. § 227, as amended.
(R.C. § 2917.21)
§ 132.08  INDUCING PANIC.
   (A)   No person shall cause the evacuation of any public place, or otherwise
cause serious public inconvenience or alarm, by doing any of the following:
      (1)   Initiating or circulating a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime, or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false;
      (2)   Threatening to commit any offense of violence;
      (3)   Committing any offense, with reckless disregard of the likelihood
that its commission will cause serious public inconvenience or alarm.
   (B)   Division (A)(1) of this section does not apply to any person
conducting an authorized fire or emergency drill.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of inducing panic.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3), inducing panic is
a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   If a violation of this section results in physical harm to any
person, inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law. If a violation of this section results in economic harm of $1,000 or more,
inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the
public place involved in a violation of division (A)(1) is a school or an
institution of higher education, inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law. If a violation of this section pertains to a
purported, threatened or actual use of a weapon of mass destruction, inducing
panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (D)   (1)   It is not a defense to a charge under this section that pertains
to a purported or threatened use of a weapon of mass destruction that the
offender did not possess or have the ability to use a weapon of mass
destruction or that what was represented to be a weapon of mass destruction was
not a weapon of mass destruction.
      (2)   Any act that is a violation of this section and any other section
of the Ohio Revised Code or this code of ordinances may be prosecuted under
this section, the other section, or both sections.
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
      BIOLOGICAL AGENT.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2917.33.
      ECONOMIC HARM. Means any of the following:
         (a)   All direct, incidental and consequential pecuniary harm suffered
by a victim as a result of the criminal conduct. ECONOMIC HARM as described in
this division includes but is not limited to all of the following:
            1.   All wages, salaries or other compensation lost as a result of
the criminal conduct;
            2.   The cost of all wages, salaries or other compensation paid to
employees for time those employees are prevented from working as a result of
the criminal conduct;
            3.   The overhead costs incurred from the time that a business is
shut down as a result of the criminal conduct;
            4.   The loss of value to tangible or intangible property that was
damaged as a result of the criminal conduct.
         (b)   All costs incurred by the state or any political subdivision as
a result of, or in making any response to, the criminal conduct that
constituted the violation of this section or R.C. § 2917.32, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, including but not limited to all
costs so incurred by any law enforcement officers, firefighters, rescue
personnel, or emergency medical services personnel of the state or the
political subdivision.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSONNEL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2133.21.
      INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION.  Means any of the following:
         (a)   A state university or college as defined in R.C. § 3345.12(A)
(1), community college, state community college, university branch, or
technical college;
         (b)   A private, nonprofit college, university or other post-secondary
institution located in this state that possesses a certificate of authorization
issued by the Ohio Board of Regents pursuant to R.C. Chapter 1713;
         (c)   A post-secondary institution with a certificate of registration
issued by the State Board of Career Colleges and Schools pursuant to R.C.
Chapter 3332.
      SCHOOL.  Means any school operated by a board of education or any school
for which the State Board of Education prescribes minimum standards under R.C.
§ 3301.07, whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or
training provided by the school is being conducted at the time a violation of
this section is committed.
      WEAPON OF MASS DESTRUCTION. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any weapon that is designed or intended to cause death or
serious physical harm through the release, dissemination, or impact of toxic or
poisonous chemicals, or other precursors;
         (b)   Any weapon involving a disease organism or biological agent;
         (c)   Any weapon that is designed to release radiation or
radioactivity at a level dangerous to human life;
         (d)   Any of the following, except to the extent that the item or
device in question is expressly excepted from the definition of “destructive
device” pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 921(a)(4) and regulations issued under that
section:
            1.   Any explosive, incendiary, or poison gas bomb, grenade, rocket
having a propellant charge of more than four ounces, missile having an
explosive or incendiary charge of more than one- quarter ounce, mine, or
similar device;
            2.   Any combination of parts either designed or intended for use
in converting any item or device into any item or device described in division
(d)1. of this definition and from which an item or device described in that
division may be readily assembled.
(R.C. § 2917.31)
§ 132.09  MAKING FALSE ALARMS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Initiate or circulate a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime, or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false and likely to cause public inconvenience or alarm;
      (2)   Knowingly cause a false alarm of fire or other emergency to be
transmitted to or within any organization, public or private, for dealing with
emergencies involving a risk of physical harm to persons or property;
      (3)   Report to any law enforcement agency an alleged offense or other
incident within its concern, knowing that the offense did not occur.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any person conducting an authorized
fire or emergency drill.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making false alarms. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, making false alarms is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If a violation of this section results in economic harm of
$1,000 or more, making false alarms is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If a violation of this section pertains to a purported,
threatened, or actual use of a weapon of mass destruction, making false alarms
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (D)   (1)   It is not a defense to a charge under this section that pertains
to a purported or threatened use of a weapon of mass destruction that the
offender did not possess or have the ability to use a weapon of mass
destruction or that what was represented to be a weapon of mass destruction was
not a weapon of mass destruction.
      (2)   Any act that is a violation of this section and any other section
of the Ohio Revised Code or this code of ordinances may be prosecuted under
this section, the other section, or both sections.
   (E)   As used in this section, ECONOMIC HARM and WEAPON OF MASS DESTRUCTION
have the same meaning as in R.C. § 2917.31.
(R.C. § 2917.32)
§ 132.10  INCITING TO VIOLENCE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly engage in conduct designed to urge or incite
another to commit any offense of violence when either of the following apply:
      (1)   The conduct takes place under circumstances that create a clear and
present danger that any offense of violence will be committed;
      (2)   The conduct proximately results in the commission of any offense of
violence.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of inciting to violence. If
the offense of violence that the other person is being urged or incited to
commit is a misdemeanor, inciting to violence is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the offense of violence that the other person is being urged or
incited to commit is a felony, inciting to violence is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2917.01)
§ 132.11  UNLAWFUL DISPLAY OF LAW ENFORCEMENT EMBLEM.
   (A)   No person who is not entitled to do so shall knowingly display on a
motor vehicle the emblem of a law enforcement agency or an organization of law
enforcement officers.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of the unlawful display of the
emblem of a law enforcement agency or an organization of law enforcement
officers, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2913.441)
§ 132.12  IMPERSONATING A PEACE OFFICER.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. An employee of the United States who
serves in a position the duties of which are primarily the investigation,
apprehension, or detention of individuals suspected or convicted of offenses
under the criminal laws of the United States.
      IMPERSONATE. To act the part of, assume the identity of, wear the uniform
or any part of the uniform of, or display the identification of a particular
person or of a member of a class of persons with purpose to make another person
believe that the actor  is that particular person or is a member of that class
of persons.
      INVESTIGATOR OF THE BUREAU OF CRIMINAL IDENTIFICATION AND INVESTIGATION.
Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2903.11.
      PEACE OFFICER. A Sheriff, deputy sheriff, Marshal, deputy marshal, member
of the organized police department of a municipal corporation, or township
constable, who is employed by a political subdivision of this state; a member
of a police force employed by a metropolitan housing authority under R.C. §
3735.31(D); a member of a police force employed by a regional transit authority
under R.C. § 306.35(Y); a state university law enforcement officer appointed
under R.C. § 3345.04; a veterans’ home police officer appointed under R.C. §
5907.02; a special police officer employed by a port authority under R.C. §
4582.04 or 4582.28; an officer, agent, or employee of the state or any of its
agencies, instrumentalities, or political subdivisions, upon whom, by statute,
a duty to conserve the peace or to enforce all or certain laws is imposed and
the authority to arrest violators is conferred, within limits of that statutory
duty and authority; or a state highway patrol trooper whose primary duties are
to preserve the peace, to protect life and property, and to enforce the laws,
ordinances, or rules of the state or any of its political subdivisions.
      PRIVATE POLICE OFFICER. Any security guard, special police officer,
private detective, or other person who is privately employed in a police
capacity.
   (B)   No person shall impersonate a peace officer, private police officer,
investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation, or
federal law enforcement officer.
   (C)   No person, by impersonating a peace officer, private police officer,
investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation, or
federal law enforcement officer, shall arrest or detain any person, search any
person, or search the property of any person.
   (D)   No person, with purpose to commit or facilitate the commission of an
offense, shall impersonate a peace officer, private police officer, federal law
enforcement officer, an officer, agent or employee of the municipality or the
state, or investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and
Investigation.
   (E)   No person shall commit a felony while impersonating a peace officer,
private police officer, federal law enforcement officer, an officer, agent or
employee of the municipality or of the state, or investigator of the Bureau of
Criminal Identification and Investigation.
   (F)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B) of this
section that the impersonation of the peace officer, private police officer,
federal law enforcement officer, an officer, agent or employee of the
municipality or of the state, or investigator of the Bureau of Criminal
Identification and Investigation was for a lawful purpose.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the purpose of a
violation of division (D) of this section is to commit or facilitate the
commission of a felony, a violation of division (D) is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law. Whoever violates division (E) of this
section is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.51)
Cross-reference:
   Personating an officer (fraud offense), see §
131.28
§ 132.13  SAFETY OF CROWDS ATTENDING LIVE ENTERTAINMENT PERFORMANCES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CONCERT. A musical performance of which the primary component is a
presentation by  persons singing or playing musical instruments, that is
intended by its sponsors mainly, but not necessarily exclusively, for the
listening enjoyment of the audience, and that is held in a facility. A CONCERT
does not include any performance in which music is a part of the presentation
and the primary component of which is acting, dancing, a motion picture, a
demonstration of skills or talent other than singing or playing an instrument,
an athletic event, an exhibition or a speech.
      FACILITY. Any structure that has a roof or partial roof and that has
walls that wholly surround the area on all sides, including but not limited to
a stadium, hall, arena, armory, auditorium, ballroom, exhibition hall,
convention center or music hall.
      LIVE ENTERTAINMENT PERFORMANCE. Any live speech; any live musical
performance, including a concert; any live dramatic performance; any live
variety show; and any other live performance with respect to which the primary
intent of the audience can be construed to be viewing the performers. A LIVE
ENTERTAINMENT PERFORMANCE does not include any form of entertainment with
respect to which the person purchasing a ticket routinely participates in
amusements as well as views performers.
      PERSON. Includes, in addition to an individual or entity specified in
R.C. § 1.59(C), any governmental entity.
      RESTRICTED ENTERTAINMENT AREA. Any wholly or partially enclosed area,
whether indoors or outdoors, that has limited access through established
entrances or established turnstiles or similar devices.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall sell, offer to sell, or offer in return for a
donation, any ticket that is not numbered and that does not correspond to a
specific seat for admission to either of the following:
         (a)   A live entertainment performance that is not exempted under
division (D) of this section, that is held in a restricted entertainment area,
and for which more than 8,000 tickets are offered to the public;
         (b)   A concert that is not exempted under division (D) of this
section and for which more than 3,000 tickets are offered to the public.
      (2)   No person shall advertise any live entertainment performance as
described in division (B)(1)(a) of this section or any concert as described in
division (B)(1)(b) of this section, unless the advertisement contains the words
“Reserved Seats Only.”
   (C)   Unless exempted by division (D)(1) of this section, no person who owns
or operates any restricted entertainment area shall fail to open, maintain and
properly staff at least the number of entrances designated under division (E)
of this section for a minimum of 90 minutes prior to the scheduled start of any
live entertainment performance that is held in the restricted entertainment
area and for which more than 3,000 tickets are sold, offered for sale or
offered in return for a donation.
   (D)   (1)   A live entertainment performance, other than a concert, is
exempted from the provisions of divisions (B) and (C) of this section if both
of the following apply:
         (a)   The restricted entertainment area in which the performance is
held has at least eight entrances or, if both entrances and separate admission
turnstiles or similar devices are used, has at least eight turnstiles or
similar devices;
         (b)   The eight entrances or, if applicable, the eight turnstiles or
similar devices, are opened, maintained and properly staffed at least one hour
prior to the scheduled start of the performance.
      (2)   (a)   The officer responsible for public safety in the municipality
may, upon application of the sponsor of a concert covered by division (B) of
this section, exempt the concert from the provisions of that division if such
officer finds that the health, safety, and welfare of the participants and
spectators would not be substantially affected by failure to comply with the
provisions of that division. In determining whether to grant an exemption, the
officer shall consider the following factors:
            1.   The size and design of the facility in which the concert is
scheduled;
            2.   The size, age and anticipated conduct of the crowd expected to
attend the concert;
            3.   The ability of the sponsor to manage and control the expected
crowd.
         If the sponsor of any concert desires to obtain an exemption under
this division, the sponsor shall apply to the appropriate official on a form
prescribed by that official. The official shall issue an order that grants or
denies the exemption within five days after receipt of the application. The
sponsor may appeal any order that denies an exemption to the Court of Common
Pleas of the county in which the facility is located.
         (b)   If an official grants an exemption under division (D)(2)(a) of
this section, the official shall designate an on-duty law enforcement officer
to be present at the concert. The designated officer has authority to issue
orders to all security personnel at the concert to protect the health, safety
and welfare of the participants and spectators.
      (3)   Notwithstanding division (D)(2) of this section, in the case of a
concert held in a facility located on the campus of an educational institution
covered by R.C. § 3345.04, a state university law enforcement officer appointed
pursuant to R.C. §§ 3345.04 and 3345.21 shall do both of the following:
         (a)   Exercise the authority to grant exemptions provided by division
(D)(2)(a) of this section in lieu of an official designated in that division;
         (b)   If the officer grants an exemption under division (D)(3)(a) of
this section, designate an on-duty state university law enforcement officer to
be present at the concert. The designated officer has authority to issue orders
to all security personnel at the concert to protect the health, safety and
welfare of the participants and spectators.
   (E)   (1)   Unless a live entertainment performance is exempted by division
(D)(1) of this section, the officer responsible for public safety within the
municipality shall designate, for purposes of division (C) of this section, the
minimum number of entrances required to be opened, maintained and staffed at
each live entertainment performance so as to permit crowd control and reduce
congestion at the entrances. The designation shall be based on such factors as
the size and nature of the crowd expected to attend the live entertainment
performance, the length of time prior to the live entertainment performance
that crowds are expected to congregate at the entrances and the amount of
security provided at the restricted entertainment area.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (E)(1) of this section, a state university
law enforcement officer appointed pursuant to R.C. §§ 3345.04 and 3345.21 shall
designate the number of entrances required to be opened, maintained and staffed
in the case of a live entertainment performance that is held at a restricted
entertainment area located on the campus of an educational institution covered
by R.C. § 3345.04.
   (F)   No person shall enter into any contract for a live entertainment
performance that does not permit or require compliance with this section.
   (G)   (1)   This section does not apply to a live entertainment performance
held in a restricted entertainment area if one admission ticket entitles the
holder to view or participate in three or more different games, rides,
activities or live entertainment performances occurring simultaneously at
different sites within the restricted entertainment area and if the initial
admittance entrance to the restricted entertainment area, for which the ticket
is required, is separate from the entrance to any specific live entertainment
performance and an additional ticket is not required for admission to the
particular live entertainment performance.
      (2)   This section does not apply to a symphony orchestra performance, a
ballet performance, horse races, dances or fairs.
   (H)   This section does not prohibit the Legislative Authority from imposing
additional requirements, not in conflict with the section, for the promotion or
holding of live entertainment performances.
   (I)   Whoever violates division (B), (C) or (F) of this section is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If any individual suffers physical harm to
his or her person as a result of a violation of this section, the sentencing
court shall consider this factor in favor of imposing a term of imprisonment
upon the offender.
(R.C. § 2917.40)
§ 132.14  LOITERING OR PROWLING.
   (A)   No person shall loiter or prowl in any public or private place at a
time, in a manner, or under circumstances which warrant alarm for the safety of
persons or security of property in the surrounding area.
   (B)   Without limitation, the following circumstances may be considered in
determining whether such alarm is warranted:
      (1)   The flight of a person upon the appearance of a police officer;
      (2)   Attempted concealment by a person upon the appearance of a police
officer;
      (3)   The systematic checking by a person of doors, windows, or other
means of access to buildings, houses, or vehicles.
   (C)   Unless flight by the actor or other circumstances make it
impracticable, a police officer shall, prior to any arrest for an offense under
this section, afford the actor an opportunity to dispel any alarm which would
otherwise be warranted, by requesting him to identify himself and explain his
presence and conduct.  No person shall be convicted of an offense under this
section if the police officer did not comply with the preceding sentence, or if
it appears at trial that the explanation given by the actor was true and, if
believed by the police officer at the time, would have dispelled the alarm.
   (D)   For the purposes of this section, the following words and phrases
shall have the following meanings ascribed to them respectively:
      LOITERING.  Lingering, hanging around, delaying, sauntering, and moving
slowly about, where such conduct is not due to physical defects or conditions.
      PRIVATE PLACE. Places privately owned but open to the public generally,
such as shopping centers, retail stores, transportation terminals, movie
theaters, office buildings, restaurants, and all distinctly private places such
as homes or private residences and apartment houses.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Public streets and alleyways, public restrooms, public
sidewalks, public parks, public buildings, and municipal airports.
      SURROUNDING AREAS.  That area easily and immediately accessible to the
persons under observation.
   (E)   Whoever violates any provision of this section shall be fined not more
than $50 or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
(Ord. 26-71, passed 11-17-1971)
§ 132.15  UNREASONABLY LOUD SOUND DEVICES.
   No person shall knowingly play any radio, television, CD player, cassette
player, music player, audio system, musical instrument, or any other kind of
sound-generating device in a motor vehicle, house, building, yard, or upon the
streets of the village in such a manner or at such a volume as to annoy or
disturb the quiet or comfort of anyone with normal hearing 50 feet and beyond
in such a manner that the sound is plainly audible to persons other than those
in the motor vehicle, house, building, yard, or upon the streets of the
village, on or in which such device is being played, used or generating noise.
(Ord. 9-94, passed 4-5-1994; Am. Ord. 13-06, passed 7-11-2006)
§ 132.16  CURFEW.
   (A)   Title.  This section shall be known and may be cited as the curfew
ordinance.
   (B)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      MINOR.  Any person under the age of 18, or, in equivalent phrasing, any
person who has not yet reached his or her eighteenth birthday.
      PARENT.  Any person having legal custody of a minor as a natural or
adoptive parent, as a legal guardian, or as a person to whom legal custody has
been given by order of court.
      PUBLIC STREET.  A way or place, of whatsoever nature, open to the use of
the public as a matter of right for purposes of vehicular travel or in the case
of a sidewalk thereof for pedestrian travel.  The term STREET includes the
legal right-of-way, including but not limited to the traffic lanes, parking
lanes, the curb, the sidewalks whether paved or unpaved, and grass plots or
other ground found within the legal right-of-way of a street.
      PUBLIC PLACE.  Any parks, playgrounds, parking lots, vacant lots, land or
buildings open to the public, or any property owned by the village, county,
state or federal government, any privately or publicly owned property where a
minor is present without consent.
      SHALL. Is always mandatory and not merely directory.
      TIME. Referred to herein, is based upon prevailing standard of time,
whether Eastern Standard Time or Eastern Daylight Saving Time, generally
observed at that hour by the public in the village.
   (C)   Hours of curfew.  It shall be unlawful for any minor to be in or upon
any public street or public places, during the period beginning at 11:00 p.m.
and ending at 6:00 a.m. It shall be unlawful for any minor who has not yet
reached his or her sixteenth birthday to be in or upon any public street or
public places during the period beginning at 10:00 p.m. and ending at 6:00 a.m.
   (D)   Exceptions.  In the following exceptional cases, a minor, who would be
found in violation of division (C) above of this section, shall not be
considered in violation of this section when any of the following apply:
      (1)   When accompanied by a parent of the minor;
      (2)   When accompanied by an adult authorized by a parent of the minor to
take the parent’s place in accompanying the minor for a designated period of
time and purpose within a specified area;
      (3)   When exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United
States Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech
and the right of assembly;
      (4)   In case of reasonable necessity but only after such minor’s parent
has communicated to the Police Department personnel the facts establishing such
reasonable necessity and designating the minor’s proposed route, purpose, and
the period of time the minor will be in or upon the public streets or public
place;
      (5)   When the minor is on the sidewalk of the place where such minor
resides, or on the sidewalk of either next-door neighbor not communicating an
objection to the police officer;
      (6)   When going to or returning home, by a direct route from and within
30 minutes of the commencement of termination of a school activity, or an
activity of a religious or other voluntary association, of which prior notice,
indicating the place and probable time of commencement or termination, has been
given in writing to, and duly filed for immediate reference by, the Chief of
Police or the officer assigned by him or her on duty at the police station;
      (7)   When any minor is traveling to or from a place of legitimate
employment;
      (8)   When the minor is, with parental consent, in a motor vehicle.  This
contemplates normal travel.  From excess of caution, this clearly exempts bona
fide interstate movement through the village.  This also exempts interstate
travel beginning or ending in the village.
   (E)   Parental responsibility.  No parent having legal custody shall
knowingly permit or, by inefficient control, allow such minor to be in or on
public street or public place under circumstances not constituting an exception
to, or otherwise beyond the scope of, this chapter.  The term “knowingly”
includes knowledge which a parent should reasonably be expected to have
concerning the whereabouts of a minor in that parent’s custody.  It is intended
to continue to keep neglectful or careless parents up to a reasonable community
standard of parental responsibility through an objective test.  It shall be no
defense that a parent was completely indifferent to the activities or conduct
or whereabouts of such minor.
   (F)   Police procedures.
      (1)   A police officer upon finding or having attention called to any
minor on the streets in prima facie violation of this chapter, normally shall
take the minor to the Police Station, where a parent shall immediately be
notified to come for such minor, and whereupon an inquiry shall be made.  This
inquiry is intended to permit the officer to ascertain, under constitutional
safeguards, relevant facts and information to perform his duties. In the
absence of convincing evidence such as a birth certificate, a police officer on
the street shall in the first instance use his or her best judgment in
determining age.
      (2)   A police officer may, under appropriate circumstances, order such
minor to return home or may deliver the minor to the custody of such parent,
where, for example, such minor is of a tender age, or where the identity and
address of such minor may readily be ascertained or be known.
      (3)   When a parent, immediately called, has come to take charge of the
minor, and the appropriate information has been recorded, the minor shall be
released to the custody of such parent. If the parent cannot be located or
fails to take charge of the minor, then the minor shall be released to the
juvenile authorities, except to the extent that in accordance with police
regulation, approved in advance by juvenile authorities, the minor may
temporarily be entrusted to a relative, neighbor or other person who will on
behalf of a parent assume the responsibility of caring for the minor pending
the availability or arrival of a parent.
      (4)   In the case of a first violation by a minor, the Chief of Police
shall send to a parent written notice of the violation with a warning that any
subsequent violation will result in full enforcement of this section, including
enforcement of parental responsibility and of applicable penalties.
   (G)   Penalty.
      (1)   If, after a parent has been warned and given notice of a first
violation by a minor, and the minor is found in violation again, this shall be
treated as a first offense by the parent.  The parent shall be guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.  For any subsequent offense, a parent shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   Any minor who shall violate any of the provisions of this section
more than two times shall be reported to the Juvenile Authorities for the
treatment, supervision and rehabilitation of such minor.
(Ord. 7-94, passed 2-1-1994; Am. Ord. 18-94, passed 11-1-1994)
§ 132.17  CURFEW DURING SCHOOL HOURS.
   (A)   No child between the ages of six and 18 years who is actually a
resident in the State of Ohio shall be upon or about public streets, public
places, commercial establishments or places of amusement and entertainment
within the village during the hours when the child is required to be in
attendance at either a public or private school, unless the child is
accompanied by a parent, guardian, or other adult person having the care and
custody of him or her, or is upon an emergency errand or other legitimate
business directed by a parent, guardian, or other adult person having the care
and custody of him or her.
   (B)   Any child convicted of a violation of this section shall be
adjudicated an unruly child, pursuant to this section and the laws of the State
of Ohio.
   (C)   Any law enforcement officer or police officer may arrest any child
found violating this section and charge such child with a violation of this
section, or in the alternative, may immediately take such child to the child’s
school and may request that the school notify the school attendance officer of
or assistant officer of such violation, or release such child to his or her
parent, guardian, custodian, school attendance officer, or assistant attendance
officer.
   (D)   Any minor who violates this section shall be guilty of a minor
misdemeanor, a second violation will be a fourth degree misdemeanor. 
Proceedings against minors shall be pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2151.
(Ord. 12-94, passed 8-2-1994)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.18  MISCONDUCT INVOLVING A PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM.
   (A)   As used in this section, PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM means a county
transit system operated in accordance with R.C. §§ 306.01 through 306.13, a
regional transit authority operated in accordance with R.C. §§ 306.30 through
306.71, or a regional transit commission operated in accordance with R.C. §§
306.80 through 306.90.
   (B)   No person shall evade the payment of the known fares of a public
transportation system.
   (C)   No person shall alter any transfer, pass, ticket or token of a public
transportation system with the purpose of evading the payment of fares or of
defrauding the system.
   (D)   No person shall do any of the following while in any facility or on
any vehicle of a public transportation system:
      (1)   Play sound equipment without the proper use of a private earphone;
      (2)   Smoke, eat or drink in any area where the activity is clearly
marked as being prohibited; or
      (3)   Expectorate upon a person, facility, or vehicle.
   (E)   No person shall write, deface, draw, or otherwise mark on any facility
or vehicle of a public transportation system.
   (F)   No person shall fail to comply with a lawful order of a public
transportation system police officer, and no person shall resist, obstruct, or
abuse a public transportation police officer in the performance of the
officer’s duties.
   (G)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of
misconduct involving a public transportation system.
      (1)   A violation of division (B), (C), or (F) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   A violation of division (D) of this section is a minor misdemeanor
on a first offense. If a person previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of any division of this section or of a municipal
ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any division of this section, a
violation of division (D) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
      (3)   A violation of division (E) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
   (H)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 75% of each fine paid to
satisfy a sentence imposed for a violation of any of the provisions of this
section shall be deposited into the treasury of the county and 25% shall be
deposited with the county transit board, regional transit authority or regional
transit commission that operates the public transportation system involved in
the violation, unless the Board of County Commissioners operates the public
transportation system, in which case 100% of each fine shall be deposited into
the treasury of the county.
(R.C. § 2917.41)
CHAPTER 133:  SEX OFFENSES
Section
   
133.01   Definitions
   
133.02   Unlawful sexual conduct with a minor
   
133.03   Sexual imposition
   
133.04   Public indecency
   
133.05   Voyeurism
   
133.06   Polygraph examinations for victims: restrictions on use
   
133.07   Procuring
   
133.08   Soliciting; loitering to engage in
   
133.09   Prostitution
   
133.10   Disseminating matter harmful to juveniles
   
133.11   Displaying matter harmful to juveniles
   
133.12   Deception to obtain matter harmful to juveniles
   
133.13   Rules of evidence
   
133.14   Declaratory judgment
   
133.15   Injunction; abatement of nuisance
   
133.16   Unlawful operation of viewing booths depicting sexual conduct
   
133.17   Juveniles on the premises of adult entertainment establishments
prohibited
   
133.18   Sexually oriented businesses; illegal operation and activity
   
133.99   Sentencing for sexually oriented offenses; sexual predators;
registration
Statutory reference:
   Assistance to victims of sexual assault, see R.C. §§ 2907.28 - 2907.30
   Child victim, disposition of, see R.C.§ 2945.481
   Suppression of information at trial, see R.C.§ 2907.11
   Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see R.C. § 2907.27
§ 133.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   HARMFUL TO JUVENILES. That quality of any material or performance describing
or representing nudity, sexual conduct, sexual excitement, or sado-masochistic
abuse in any form to which all of the following apply:
      (1)   The material or performance, when considered as a whole, appeals to
the prurient interest of juveniles in sex;
      (2)   The material or performance is patently offensive to prevailing
standards in the adult community as a whole with respect to what is suitable
for juveniles;
      (3)   The material or performance, when considered as a whole, lacks
serious literary, artistic, political, and scientific value for juveniles.
   JUVENILE. Any unmarried person under 18 years of age.
   MATERIAL. Any book, magazine, newspaper, pamphlet, poster, print, picture,
figure, image, description, motion picture film, video cassette, laser disc,
phonograph record, cassette tape, compact disc, or other tangible thing capable
of arousing interest through sight, sound, or touch and includes an image or
text appearing on a computer monitor, television screen, liquid crystal
display, or similar display device or an image or text recorded on a computer
hard disk, computer floppy disk, compact disk, magnetic tape, or similar data
storage device.
   MENTAL HEALTH CLIENT OR PATIENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.51.
   MENTAL HEALTH PROFESSIONAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.115.
   MINOR. A person under the age of 18.
   NUDITY. The showing, representation, or depiction of human male or female
genitals, pubic area, or buttocks with less than a full, opaque covering, or of
a female breast with less than a full, opaque covering of any portion thereof
below the top of the nipple, or of covered male genitals in a discernibly
turgid state.
   OBSCENE. When considered as a whole, and judged with reference to ordinary
adults or, if it is designed for sexual deviates or other specially susceptible
group, judged with reference to that group, any material or performance is
OBSCENE if any of the following apply:
      (1)   Its dominant appeal is to prurient interest;
      (2)   Its dominant tendency is to arouse lust by displaying or depicting
sexual activity, masturbation, sexual excitement, or nudity in a way that tends
to represent human beings as mere objects of sexual appetite;
      (3)   Its dominant tendency is to arouse lust by displaying or depicting
bestiality or extreme or bizarre violence, cruelty, or brutality;
      (4)   Its dominant tendency is to appeal to scatological interest by
displaying or depicting human bodily functions of elimination in a way that
inspires disgust or revulsion in persons with ordinary sensibilities, without
serving any genuine scientific, educational, sociological, moral, or artistic
purpose;
      (5)   It contains a series of displays or descriptions of sexual
activity, masturbation, sexual excitement, nudity, bestiality, extreme or
bizarre violence, cruelty, or brutality, or human bodily functions of
elimination, the cumulative effect of which is a dominant tendency to appeal to
prurient or scatological interest, when the appeal to such an interest is
primarily for its own sake or for commercial exploitation, rather than
primarily for a genuine scientific, educational, sociological, moral, or
artistic purpose.
   PERFORMANCE. Any motion picture, preview, trailer, play, show, skit, dance,
or other exhibition performed before an audience.
   PROSTITUTE. A male or female who promiscuously engages in sexual activity
for hire, regardless of whether the hire is paid to the prostitute or to
another.
   SADO-MASOCHISTIC ABUSE. Flagellation or torture by or upon a person or the
condition of being fettered, bound, or otherwise physically restrained.
   SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Sexual conduct or sexual contact, or both.
   SEXUAL CONDUCT. Vaginal intercourse between a male and female; anal
intercourse, fellatio, and cunnilingus between persons regardless of sex; and,
without privilege to do so, the insertion, however slight, of any part of the
body or any instrument, apparatus, or other object into the vaginal or anal
opening of another. Penetration, however slight, is sufficient to complete
vaginal or anal intercourse.
   SEXUAL CONTACT. Any touching of an erogenous zone of another, including
without limitation the thigh, genitals, buttock, pubic region, or, if the
person is a female, a breast, for the purpose of sexually arousing or
gratifying either person.
   SEXUAL EXCITEMENT. The condition of human male or female genitals when in a
state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
   SPOUSE. A person married to an offender at the time of an alleged offense,
except that such person shall not be considered the spouse when any of the
following apply:
      (1)   When the parties have entered into a written separation agreement
pursuant to R.C. § 3103.06;
      (2)   When an action is pending between the parties for annulment,
divorce, dissolution of marriage, or legal separation;
      (3)   In the case of an action for legal separation, after the effective
date of the judgment for legal separation.
(R.C. § 2907.01)
§ 133.02  UNLAWFUL SEXUAL CONDUCT WITH A MINOR.
   (A)   No person who is 18 years of age or older shall engage in sexual
conduct with another who is not the spouse of the offender, when the offender
knows the other person is 13 years of age or older but less than 16 years of
age, or the offender is reckless in that regard.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful sexual conduct
with a minor.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2), unlawful sexual
conduct with a minor is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(3) of this section, if
the offender is less than four years older than the other person, unlawful
sexual conduct with a minor is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of R.C. § 2907.02, 2907.03, or 2907.04, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, or a violation of former R.C. § 2907.12, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, unlawful sexual conduct with a
minor is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.04)
Statutory reference:
   DNA testing of delinquent children or prisoners for violating this section,
see R.C. §§ 2152.74 and 2901.07
§ 133.03  SEXUAL IMPOSITION.
   (A)   No person shall have sexual contact with another, not the spouse of
the offender; cause another, not the spouse of the offender, to have sexual
contact with the offender; or cause two or more other persons to have sexual
contact when any of the following applies:
      (1)   The offender knows that the sexual contact is offensive to the
other person, or one of the other persons, or is reckless in that regard;
      (2)   The offender knows that the other person’s, or one of the other
person’s ability to appraise the nature of or control the offender’s or
touching person’s conduct is substantially impaired;
      (3)   The offender knows that the other person, or one of the other
persons, submits because of being unaware of the sexual contact;
      (4)   The other person, or one of the other persons, is 13 years of age
or older but less than 16 years of age, whether or not the offender knows the
age of the person, and the offender is at least 18 years of age and four or
more years older than the other person;
      (5)   The offender is a mental health professional, the other person or
one of the other persons is a mental health client or patient of the offender,
and the offender induces the other person who is the client or patient to
submit by falsely representing to the other person who is the client or patient
that the sexual contact is necessary for mental health treatment purposes.
   (B)   No person shall be convicted of a violation of this section solely
upon the victim’s testimony unsupported by other evidence.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of sexual imposition, a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender has been convicted previously
of a violation of this section, R.C. § 2907.02, 2907.03, 2907.04, 2907.05,
2907.06, former R.C. § 2907.12, or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a violation of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 2907.06) 
Statutory reference:
   Gross sexual imposition, felony, see R.C. § 2907.05
   Notice to licensing board or agency upon indictment, conviction or guilty
plea of mental health professional, see R.C. §§ 2907.17 and 2907.18
§ 133.04  PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   (A)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following, under
circumstances in which the person’s conduct is likely to be viewed by and
affront others who are in the person’s physical proximity and who are not
members of the person’s household:
      (1)   Expose the persons’s private parts.
      (2)   Engage in sexual conduct or masturbation.
      (3)   Engage in conduct that to an ordinary observer would appear to be
sexual conduct or masturbation.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following, under circumstances
in which the person’s conduct is likely to be viewed by and affront another
person who is a minor, who is not the spouse of the offender, and who resides
in the person’s household:
      (1)   Engage in masturbation.
      (2)   Engage in sexual conduct.
      (3)   Engage in conduct that to an ordinary observer would appear to be
sexual conduct or masturbation.
      (4)   Expose the person’s private parts with the purpose of personal
sexual arousal or gratification or to lure the minor into sexual activity.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of public indecency and
shall be punished as provided in divisions (C)(2), (C)(3), (C)(4), and (C)(5)
of this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(2), a violation
of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, a violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the third degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by
the offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations
of this section or a substantially equivalent state law municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by the
offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more
violations of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, a violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by
the offender’s conduct was a minor, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(3), a violation
of division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the third
degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to
one violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this section
is a misdemeanor of the second degree or, if any person who was likely to view
and be affronted by the offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section or a substantially equivalent
state law municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if any person who was likely
to view and be affronted by the offender’s conduct was a minor, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(4), a violation
of division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
second degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law
or municipal ordinance, a violation of division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this
section or a substantially equivalent state law municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(5), a violation
of division (B)(4) of this section  is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any
violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law municipal
ordinance, a violation of division (B)(4) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.09)
   (D)   A mother is entitled to breast-feed her baby in any location of a
place of public accommodation, as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, wherein the mother
otherwise is permitted.
(R.C. § 3781.55)
Statutory reference:
    Bail considerations for persons charged, see R.C. § 2907.41
§ 133.05  VOYEURISM.
   (A)   No person, for the purpose of sexually arousing or gratifying himself
or herself, shall commit trespass or otherwise surreptitiously invade the
privacy of another, to spy or eavesdrop upon another.
   (B)   No person, for the purpose of sexually arousing or gratifying himself
or herself, shall commit trespass or otherwise surreptitiously invade the
privacy of another to videotape, film, photograph, or otherwise record the
other person in a state of nudity.
   (C)   No person, for the purpose of sexually arousing or gratifying himself
or herself, shall commit trespass or otherwise surreptitiously invade the
privacy of another to videotape, film, photograph, otherwise record, or spy or
eavesdrop upon the other person in a state of nudity if the other person is a
minor.
   (D)   No person shall secretly or surreptitiously videotape, film,
photograph, or otherwise record another person under or through the clothing
being worn by that person for the purpose of viewing the body of, or the
undergarments worn by, that other person.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of voyeurism.
      (1)   A violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
      (2)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
second degree.
      (3)   A violation of division (D) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (4)   A violation of division (C) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.08)
§ 133.06  POLYGRAPH EXAMINATIONS FOR VICTIMS: RESTRICTIONS ON USE.
   (A)   (1)   A peace officer, prosecutor, or other public official shall not
ask or require a victim of an alleged sex offense to submit to a polygraph
examination as a condition for proceeding with the investigation of the alleged
sex offense.
      (2)   The refusal of the victim of an alleged sex offense to submit to a
polygraph examination shall not prevent the investigation of the alleged sex
offense, the filing of criminal charges with respect to the alleged sex
offense, or the prosecution of the alleged perpetrator of the alleged sex
offense.
   (B)   As used in this section:
      PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.51.
      POLYGRAPH EXAMINATION. Means any mechanical or electrical instrument or
device of any type used or allegedly used to examine, test, or question an
individual for the purpose of determining the individual’s truthfulness.
      PROSECUTION. Means the prosecution of criminal charges in a criminal
prosecution or the prosecution of a delinquent child complaint in a delinquency
proceeding.
      PROSECUTOR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
      PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 117.01.
      SEX OFFENSE. Means a violation of any provision of §§
133.02 to
133.05 or R.C. §§ 2907.02 to 2907.09.
(R.C. § 2907.10)
§ 133.07  PROCURING.
   (A)   No person, knowingly and for gain, shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Entice or solicit another to patronize a prostitute or brothel;
      (2)   Procure a prostitute for another to patronize, or take or direct
another at the other's request to any place for the purpose of patronizing a
prostitute.
   (B)   No person, having authority or responsibility over the use of
premises, shall knowingly permit the premises to be used for the purpose of
engaging in sexual activity for hire.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of procuring. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, procuring is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the prostitute who is procured, patronized, or otherwise involved in
a violation of division (A)(2) of this section is under 18 years of age at the
time of the violation, regardless of whether the offender who violates division
(A)(2) of this section knows the prostitute’s age, or if a prostitute who
engages in sexual activity for hire in premises used in violation of division
(B) of this section is under 18 years of age at the time of the violation,
regardless of whether the offender who violates division (B) of this section
knows the prostitute’s age, procuring is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.23)
§ 133.08  SOLICITING; LOITERING TO ENGAGE IN.
   (A)   No person shall solicit another to engage with the other person in
sexual activity for hire.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
soliciting, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (A) of this section or an attempt to commit a violation of division
(A) of this section and if the person, in committing or attempting to commit
the violation, was in, was on, or used a motor vehicle, the court, in addition
to or independent of all other penalties imposed for the violation, may impose
upon the offender a class six suspension of the person’s driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary
license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. §
4510.02(A)(6).  In lieu of imposing upon the offender the class six suspension,
the court instead may require the offender to perform community service for a
number of hours determined by the court.
(R.C. § 2907.24)
   (C)   No person, with purpose to solicit another to engage in sexual
activity for hire and while in or near a public place, shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Beckon to, stop or attempt to stop another;
      (2)   Engage or attempt to engage another in conversation;
      (3)   Stop or attempt to stop the operator of a vehicle or approach a
stationary vehicle;
      (4)   If the offender is the operator of or a passenger in a vehicle,
stop, attempt to stop, beckon to, attempt to beckon to, or entice another to
approach or enter the vehicle of which the offender is the operator or in which
the offender is the passenger;
      (5)   Interfere with the free passage of another.
   (D)   As used in division (C) of this section:
      PUBLIC PLACE. Means any of the following:
         (a)   A street, road, highway, thoroughfare, bikeway, walkway,
sidewalk, bridge, alley, alleyway, plaza, park, driveway, parking lot or
transportation facility;
         (b)   A doorway or entrance way to a building that fronts on a place
described in division (a) of this definition;
         (c)   A place not described in division (a) or (b) of this definition
that is open to the public.
      VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of loitering
to engage in solicitation, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 2907.241)
Statutory reference:
   Offenders with knowledge that they test HIV positive, felony, see R.C. §§
2907.24(B) and 2907.241(B)
   Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see R.C. § 2907.27
§ 133.09  PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   No person shall engage in sexual activity for hire.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of prostitution, a misdemeanor
of the third degree.
(R.C. § 2907.25)
Statutory reference:
   Offenders with knowledge that they test HIV positive, felony, see R.C. §
2907.25(B)
   Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see R.C. § 2907.27
§ 133.10  DISSEMINATING MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (A)   No person, with knowledge of its character or content, shall
recklessly do any of following:
      (1)   Directly sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit,
rent, or present to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles any material or performance that is obscene or harmful to juveniles;
      (2)   Directly offer or agree to sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate,
provide, exhibit, rent, or present to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law
enforcement officer posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement
officers posing as juveniles any material or performance that is obscene or
harmful to juveniles;
      (3)   While in the physical proximity of the juvenile or law enforcement
officer posing as a juvenile, allow any juvenile or law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile to review or peruse any material or view any live
performance that is harmful to juveniles.
   (B)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under this section
that involves material or a performance that is harmful to juveniles but not
obscene:
      (1)   The defendant is the parent, guardian, or spouse of the juvenile
involved;
      (2)   The juvenile involved, at the time of the conduct in question, was
accompanied by his or her parent or guardian who, with knowledge of its
character, consented to the material or performance being furnished or
presented to the juvenile;
      (3)   The juvenile exhibited to the defendant or his or her agent or
employee a draft card, driver’s license, birth record, marriage license, or
other official or apparently official document purporting to show that the
juvenile was 18 years of age or over or married, and the person to whom the
document was exhibited did not otherwise have reasonable cause to believe that
the juvenile was under the age of 18 and unmarried.
   (C)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section,
involving material or a performance that is obscene or harmful to juveniles,
that the material or performance was furnished or presented for a bona fide
medical, scientific, educational, governmental, judicial, or other proper
purpose, by a physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist, teacher,
librarian, clergy, prosecutor, judge, or other proper person.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (B)(3) of this section, mistake of
age is not a defense to a charge under this section.
   (D)   (1)   A person directly sells, delivers, furnishes, disseminates,
provides, exhibits, rents, or presents or directly offers or agrees to sell,
deliver, furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit, rent, or present material or a
performance to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles in violation of this section by means of an electronic method of
remotely transmitting information if the person knows or has reason to believe
that the person receiving the information is a juvenile or the group of persons
receiving the information are juveniles.
      (2)   A person remotely transmitting information by means of a method of
mass distribution does not directly sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate,
provide, exhibit, rent, or present or directly offer or agree to sell, deliver,
furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit, rent, or present the material or
performance in question to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement
officer posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles in violation of this section if either of the following applies:
         (a)   The person has inadequate information to know or have reason to
believe that a particular recipient of the information or offer is a juvenile;
         (b)   The method of mass distribution does not provide the person the
ability to prevent a particular recipient from receiving the information.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disseminating matter
harmful to juveniles. If the material or performance involved is harmful to
juveniles except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the material or performance
involved is obscene, violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.31)
   (F)   Presumptions, notice and defense.
      (1)   An owner or manager, or agent or employee of an owner or manager,
of a bookstore, newsstand, theater, or other commercial establishment engaged
in selling material or exhibiting performances, who, in the course of business
does any of the acts prohibited by this section is presumed to have knowledge
of the character of the material or performance involved if the owner, manager,
or agent or employee of the owner or manager has actual notice of the nature of
such material or performance, whether or not the owner, manager, or agent or
employee of the owner or manager has precise knowledge of its contents.
      (2)   Without limitation on the manner in which such notice may be given,
actual notice of the character of material or a performance may be given in
writing by the chief legal officer of the municipality. Such notice, regardless
of the manner in which it is given, shall identify the sender, identify the
material or performance involved, state whether it is obscene or harmful to
juveniles, and bear the date of such notice.
      (3)   This section does not apply to a motion picture operator or
projectionist acting within the scope of employment as an employee of the owner
or manager of the theater or other place for the showing of motion pictures to
the general public, and having no managerial responsibility or financial
interest in the operator’s or projectionist’s place of employment, other than
wages.
      (4)   (a)   The provisions of §§
133.10,
133.11 and
133.12(A) do not apply to a person solely because the person provided access or
connection to or from an electronic method of remotely transferring information
not under that person’s control, including having provided capabilities that
are incidental to providing access or connection to or from the electronic
method of remotely transferring the information, and that do not include the
creation of the content of the material that is the subject of the access or
connection.
         (b)   Division (E)(4)(a) of this section does not apply to a person
who conspires with an entity actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of §
133.10,
133.11, or
133.12 or who knowingly advertises the availability of material of that nature.
         (c)   Division (E)(4)(a) of this section does not apply to a person
who provides access or connection to an electronic method of remotely
transferring information that is engaged in the violation of §
133.10,
133.11, or
133.12 and that contain content that person has selected and introduced into
the electronic method of remotely transferring information or content over
which that person exercises editorial control.
      (5)   An employer is not guilty of a violation of §
133.10,
133.11, or
133.12 based on the actions of an employee or agent of the employer unless the
employee’s or agent’s conduct is within the scope of the employee’s or agent’s
employment or agency, and the employer does either of the following:
         (a)   With knowledge of the employee’s or agent’s conduct, the
employer authorizes or ratifies the conduct;
         (b)   The employer recklessly disregards the employee’s or agent’s
conduct.
      (6)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under §
133.10 or
133.11 as the section applies to an image transmitted through the internet or
other electronic method of remotely transmitting information that the person
charged with violating the section has taken, in good faith, reasonable,
effective, and appropriate actions under the circumstances to restrict or
prevent access by juveniles to material that is harmful to juveniles, including
any method that is feasible under available technology.
(R.C. § 2907.35)
§ 133.11  DISPLAYING MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (A)   No person who has custody, control, or supervision of a commercial
establishment, with knowledge of the character or content of the material
involved, shall display at the establishment any material that is harmful to
juveniles and that is open to view by juveniles as part of the invited general
public.
   (B)   It is not a violation of division (A) of this section if the material
in question is displayed by placing it behind “blinder racks” or similar
devices that cover at least the lower two-thirds of the material, if the
material in question is wrapped or placed behind the counter, or if the
material in question otherwise is covered or located so that the portion that
is harmful to juveniles is not open to the view of juveniles.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of displaying matter harmful
to juveniles, a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each day during which the
offender is in violation of this section constitutes a separate offense.
(R.C. § 2907.311)
Cross-reference:
   Presumptions, notice and defense, see §
133.10(F)
§ 133.12  DECEPTION TO OBTAIN MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (A)   No person, for the purpose of enabling a juvenile to obtain any
material or gain admission to any performance which is harmful to juveniles,
shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Falsely represent that he or she is the parent, guardian, or spouse
of the juvenile;
      (2)   Furnish the juvenile with any identification or document purporting
to show that the juvenile is 18 years of age or over or married.
   (B)   No juvenile, for the purpose of obtaining any material or gaining
admission to any performance which is harmful to juveniles, shall do either of
the following:
      (1)   Falsely represent that he or she is 18 years of age or over or
married;
      (2)   Exhibit any identification or document purporting to show that he
or she is 18 years of age or over or married.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of deception to obtain matter
harmful to juveniles, a misdemeanor of the second degree. A juvenile who
violates division (B) of this section shall be adjudged an unruly child, with
the disposition of the case as may be appropriate under R.C. Chapter 2151.
(R.C. § 2907.33)
Cross-reference:
   Presumptions, notice and defense, see §
133.10(F)
Statutory reference:
   Juvenile Court, see R.C. Chapter 2151
§ 133.13  RULES OF EVIDENCE.
   (A)   In any case in which it is necessary to prove that a place is a
brothel, evidence as to the reputation of such place and as to the reputation
of the persons who inhabit or frequent it is admissible on the question of
whether such place is or is not a brothel.
   (B)   In any case in which it is necessary to prove that a person is a
prostitute, evidence as to the reputation of such person is admissible on the
question of whether such person is or is not a prostitute.
   (C)   In any prosecution for a violation of §§
133.07 through
133.09, proof of a prior conviction of the accused of any such offense or
substantially equivalent offense is admissible in support of the charge.
   (D)   The prohibition contained in R.C. § 2317.02(D) against testimony by a
husband or wife concerning communications between them does not apply, and the
accused’s spouse may testify concerning any such communication in any of the
following cases:
      (1)   When the husband or wife is charged with a violation of §
133.07 and the spouse testifying was the prostitute involved in the offense or
the person who used the offender’s premises to engage in sexual activity for
hire;
      (2)   When the husband or wife is charged with a violation of §
133.08(A) or §
133.09.
(R.C. § 2907.26)
§ 133.14  DECLARATORY JUDGMENT.
   (A)   Without limitation on the persons otherwise entitled to bring an
action for a declaratory judgment pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2721, involving the
same issue, the following persons have standing to bring a declaratory judgment
action to determine whether particular materials or performances are obscene or
harmful to juveniles:
      (1)   The chief legal officer of the municipality if and when there is
reasonable cause to believe that R.C. § 2907.31 or R.C. § 2907.32, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, is being or is about to be
violated;
      (2)   Any person who, pursuant to R.C. § 2907.35(B) or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, has received notice in writing from the chief
legal officer stating that particular materials or performances are obscene or
harmful to juveniles.
   (B)   Any party to an action for a declaratory judgment pursuant to division
(A) of this section is entitled, upon the party’s request, to trial on the
merits within five days after joinder of the issues, and the court shall render
judgment within five days after trial is concluded.
   (C)   An action for a declaratory judgement pursuant to division (A) of this
section shall not be brought during the pendency of any civil action or
criminal prosecution when the character of the particular materials or
performances involved is at issue in the pending case, and either of the
following applies:
      (1)   Either of the parties to the action for a declaratory judgment is a
party to the pending case;
      (2)   A judgment in the pending case will necessarily constitute res
judicata as to the character of the materials or performances involved.
   (D)   A civil action or criminal prosecution in which the character of
particular materials or performances is at issue, brought during the pendency
of an action for a declaratory judgment involving the same issue, shall be
stayed during the pendency of the action for a declaratory judgment.
   (E)   The fact that a violation of R.C. § 2907.31 or R.C. § 2907.32, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, occurs prior to a judicial
determination of the character of the material or performance involved in the
violation does not relieve the offender of criminal liability for the
violation, even though prosecution may be stayed pending the judicial
determination.
(R.C. § 2907.36)
§ 133.15  INJUNCTION; ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   Where it appears that R.C. § 2907.31 or R.C. § 2907.32, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, is being or is about to be
violated, the chief legal officer of the municipality may bring an action to
enjoin the violation. The defendant, upon his or her request, is entitled to
trial on the merits within five days after the joinder of the issues, and the
court shall render judgment within five days after the trial is concluded.
   (B)   Premises used or occupied for repeated violations of R.C. § 2907.31 or
R.C. § 2907.32, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, constitute a
nuisance subject to abatement pursuant to R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2907.37)
Statutory reference:
   Disseminating matter harmful to juveniles, felony, see R.C. § 2907.31
   Pandering obscenity, felony, see R.C. § 2907.32
§ 133.16  UNLAWFUL OPERATION OF VIEWING BOOTHS DEPICTING SEXUAL CONDUCT.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
      COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT. Means an entity that is open to the public and
to which either of the following applies:
         (a)   It has a substantial or significant portion of its stock in
trade of the sale, rental, or viewing of visual materials or performances
depicting sexual conduct;
         (b)   It has as a principal business purpose the sale, rental, or
viewing of visual materials or performances depicting sexual conduct.
      VISUAL MATERIALS OR PERFORMANCES. Means films, videos, CD-ROM discs,
streaming video, or other motion pictures.
   (B)   No person who has custody, control, or supervision of a commercial
establishment, with knowledge of the character of the visual material or
performance involved, shall knowingly permit the use of, or offer the use of,
viewing booths, stalls, or partitioned portions of a room located in the
commercial establishment for the purpose of viewing visual materials or
performances depicting sexual conduct unless both of the following apply:
      (1)   The inside of each booth, stall, or partitioned room is visible
from, and at least one side of each booth, stall, or partitioned room is open
to, a continuous and contiguous main aisle or hallway that is open to the
public areas of the commercial establishment and is not obscured by any
curtain, door, or other covering or enclosure;
      (2)   No booth, stall, or partitioned room is designed, constructed,
pandered, or allowed to be used for the purpose of encouraging or facilitating
nudity or sexual activity on the part of or between patrons or members of the
public, and no booth, stall, or partitioned room has any aperture, hole, or
opening for the purpose of encouraging or facilitating nudity or sexual
activity.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that
either of the following applies to the involved visual materials or
performances:
      (1)   The visual materials or performances depicting sexual conduct are
disseminated or presented for a bona fide medical, scientific, educational,
religious, governmental, judicial, or other proper purpose and by or to a
physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist, teacher, person pursuing bona
fide studies or research, librarian, member of the clergy, prosecutor, judge,
or other person having a proper interest in the visual materials or
performances;
      (2)   The visual materials or performances depicting sexual conduct,
taken as a whole, would be found by a reasonable person to have serious
literary, artistic, political, or scientific value or are presented or
disseminated in good faith for a serious literary, artistic, political, or
scientific purpose and are not pandered for their prurient appeal.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of permitting unlawful
operation of viewing booths depicting sexual conduct, a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 2907.38)
§ 133.17  JUVENILES ON THE PREMISES OF ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
      ADULT ARCADE. Means any place to which the public is permitted or invited
in which coin-operated, slug-operated, or electronically, electrically, or
mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, or other
image-producing devices are regularly maintained to show images to five or
fewer persons per machine at any one time, and in which the images so displayed
are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis upon matter exhibiting or
describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE, or ADULT VIDEO STORE.
         (a)   Means a commercial establishment that, for any form of
consideration, has as a significant or substantial portion of its stock-in-
trade in, derives a significant or substantial portion of its revenues from,
devotes a significant or substantial portion of its interior business or
advertising to, or maintains a substantial section of its sales or display
space for the sale or rental of any of the following:
            1.   Books, magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, compact discs, slides, or
other visual representations, that are characterized by their emphasis upon the
exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas;
            2.   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia that are designed for
use or marketed primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of self or others.
         (b)   Includes a commercial establishment as defined in R.C. §
2907.38. An establishment may have other principal business purposes that do
not involve the offering for sale, rental, or viewing of materials exhibiting
or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas and
still be categorized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty store, or adult video
store. The existence of other principal business purposes does not exempt an
establishment from being categorized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty
store, or adult video store so long as one of its principal business purposes
is offering for sale or rental, for some form of consideration, such materials
that exhibit or describe specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
      ADULT CABARET. Means a nightclub, bar, juice bar, restaurant, bottle
club, or similar commercial establishment, whether or not alcoholic beverages
are served, that regularly features any of the following:
         (a)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or seminudity;
         (b)   Live performances that are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities;
         (c)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other
photographic reproductions that are distinguished or characterized by their
emphasis upon the exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT ENTERTAINMENT. Means the sale, rental, or exhibition, for any form
of consideration, of books, films, video cassettes, magazines, periodicals, or
live performances that are characterized by an emphasis on the exposure or
display of specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activity.
      ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT.  Means an adult arcade, adult
bookstore, adult novelty store, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motion
picture theater, adult theater, nude or seminude model studio, or sexual
encounter establishment. An establishment in which a medical practitioner,
psychologist, psychiatrist, or similar professional person licensed by the
state engages in medically approved and recognized therapy, including but not
limited to massage therapy, as regulated pursuant to R.C. § 4731.15, is not an
“adult entertainment establishment.”
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. Means a commercial establishment where
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or similar photographic
reproductions that are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis upon
the exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas are regularly shown for any form of consideration.
      ADULT THEATER. Means a theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar
commercial establishment that, for any form of consideration, regularly
features persons who appear in a state of  nudity or seminudity or live
performances that are characterized by their emphasis upon the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities.
      DISTINGUISHED OR CHARACTERIZED BY THEIR EMPHASIS UPON. Means the dominant
or principal character and theme of the object described by this phrase. For
instance, when the phrase refers to films “that are distinguished or
characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas,” the films so described are
those whose dominant or principal character and theme are the exhibition or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      NUDE OR SEMINUDE MODEL STUDIO. Means any place where a person, who
regularly appears in a state of nudity or seminudity, is provided for money or
any other form of consideration to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted,
sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by other persons. A modeling
class or studio is not a NUDE OR SEMINUDE MODEL STUDIO and is not subject to
this chapter if it is operated in any of the following ways:
         (a)   By a college or university supported entirely or partly by
taxation;
         (b)   By a private college or university that maintains and operates
educational programs, the credits for which are transferable to a college or
university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
         (c)   In a structure that has no sign visible from the exterior of the
structure and no other advertising indicating that a person appearing in a
state of nudity or seminudity is available for viewing, if in order to
participate in a class in the structure, a student must enroll at least three
days in advance of the class and if not more than one nude or seminude model is
on the premises at any one time.
      NUDITY, NUDE, or STATE OF NUDITY. Means the showing of the human male or
female genitals, pubic area, vulva, anus, anal cleft, or cleavage with less
than a fully opaque covering; or the
showing of the female breasts with less than a fully opaque covering of any
part of the nipple.
      REGULARLY FEATURES or REGULARLY SHOWN. Means a consistent or substantial
course of conduct, such that the films or performances exhibited constitute a
substantial portion of the films or performances offered as a part of the
ongoing business of the adult entertainment establishment.
      SEMINUDE or STATE OF SEMINUDITY. Means a state of dress in which opaque
clothing covers not more than the genitals, pubic region, and nipple of the
female breast, as well as portions of the body covered by supporting straps or
devices.
      SEXUAL ENCOUNTER ESTABLISH- MENT.
         (a)   Means a business or commercial establishment that, as one of its
principal business purposes, offers for any form of consideration a place where
either of the following occur:
            1.   Two or more persons may congregate, associate, or consort for
the purpose of engaging in specified sexual activities.
            2.   Two or more persons appear nude or seminude for the purpose of
displaying their nude or seminude bodies for their receipt of consideration or
compensation in any type or form.
         (b)   An establishment where a medical practitioner, psychologist,
psychiatrist, or similar professional person licensed by the state engages in
medically approved and recognized therapy, including but not limited to massage
therapy, as regulated pursuant to R.C. § 4731.15, is not a “sexual encounter
establishment.”
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Means the cleft of the buttocks, anus, male
or female genitals, or the female breast.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, or actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, masturbation, or sodomy;
         (b)   Excretory functions as a part of or in connection with any of
the activities described in division (a) of this definition.
   (B)   No person knowingly shall allow an individual, including but not
limited to a patron, customer, or employee, who is under 18 years of age on the
premises of an adult entertainment establishment.
   (C)   No individual who is under 18 years of age knowingly shall show or
give false information concerning the individual’s name or age, or other false
identification, for the purpose of gaining entrance to an adult entertainment
establishment.
   (D)   A person shall not be found guilty of a violation of division (B) of
this section if the person raises as an affirmative defense and if the jury or,
in a nonjury trial, the court finds the person has established, by a
preponderance of the evidence, all of the following:
      (1)   The individual gaining entrance to the adult entertainment
establishment exhibited to an operator, employee, agent, or independent
contractor of the adult entertainment establishment a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card issued under R.C. §§ 4507.50 and
4507.52 showing that the individual was then at least 18 years of age;
      (2)   The operator, employee, agent, or independent contractor made a
bona fide effort to ascertain the true age of the individual gaining entrance
to the adult entertainment establishment by checking the identification
presented, at the time of entrance, to ascertain that the description on the
identification compared with the appearance of the individual and that the
identification had not been altered in any way;
      (3)   The operator, employee, agent, or independent contractor had reason
to believe that the individual gaining entrance to the adult entertainment
establishment was at least 18 years of age.
   (E)   In any criminal action in which the affirmative defense described in
division (D) of this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or the
Deputy Registrar who issued a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an
identification card under R.C. §§ 4507.50 and 4507.52 shall be permitted to
submit certified copies of the records, in the Registrar’s or Deputy
Registrar’s possession, of the issuance of the license or identification card
in question, in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of the Bureau of Motor
Vehicles in the action.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
permitting a juvenile on the premises of an adult entertainment establishment,
a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each day a person violates this division
constitutes a separate offense.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of use by a
juvenile of false information to enter an adult entertainment establishment, a
delinquent act that would be a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if committed by
an adult.
(R.C. § 2907.39)
§ 133.18  SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; ILLEGAL OPERATION AND ACTIVITY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
      ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. A commercial establishment that has
as a significant or substantial portion of its stock-in-trade or inventory in,
derives a significant or substantial portion of its revenues from, devotes a
significant or substantial portion of its interior business or advertising to,
or maintains a substantial section of its sales or display space for the sale
or rental, for any form of consideration, of books, magazines, periodicals, or
other printed matter, or photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes,
compact discs, slides, or other visual representations, that are characterized
by their emphasis upon the exhibition or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT CABARET.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where films,
motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, or similar photographic reproductions
that are characterized by their emphasis upon the display of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas are regularly shown to more than five
individuals for any form of consideration.
      CHARACTERIZED BY. Describing the essential character or quality of an
item.
      EMPLOYEE. Any individual who performs any service on the premises of a
sexually oriented business on a full-time, part-time, or contract basis,
regardless of whether the individual is denominated an employee, independent
contractor, agent, or otherwise, but does not include an individual exclusively
on the premises for repair or maintenance of the premises or for the delivery
of goods to the premises.
      NUDITY, NUDE, or STATE OF NUDITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2907.39.
      OPERATOR. Any individual on the premises of a sexually oriented business
who causes the business to function or who puts or keeps in operation the
business or who is authorized to manage the business or exercise overall
operational control of the business premises.
      PATRON. Any individual on the premises of a sexually oriented business
except for any of the following:
         (a)   An operator or an employee of the sexually oriented business;
         (b)   An individual who is on the premises exclusively for repair or
maintenance of the premises or for the delivery of goods to the premises;
         (c)   A public employee or a volunteer firefighter emergency medical
services worker acting within the scope of the public employee’
      PREMISES. The real property on which the sexually oriented business is
located and all appurtenances to the real property, including but not limited
to the sexually oriented business, the grounds, private walkways, and parking
lots or parking garages adjacent to the real property under the ownership,
control, or supervision of the owner or operator of the sexually oriented
business.
      REGULARLY. Consistently or repeatedly.
      SEMINUDE or STATE OF SEMINUDITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2907.39.
      SEXUAL DEVICE. Any three-dimensional object designed and marketed for
stimulation of the male or female human genitals or anus or female breasts or
for sadomasochistic use or abuse of oneself or others, including but not
limited to dildos, vibrators, penis pumps, and physical representations of the
human genital organs, but not including devices primarily intended for
protection against sexually transmitted diseases or for preventing pregnancy.
      SEXUAL DEVICE SHOP. A commercial establishment that regularly features
sexual devices, but not including any pharmacy, drug store, medical clinic, or
establishment primarily dedicated to providing medical or healthcare products
or services, and not including any commercial establishment that does not
restrict access to its premises by reason of age.
      SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. A business or commercial enterprise that, as one
of its principal business purposes, purports to offer for any form of
consideration physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
individuals of the opposite sex when one or more of the individuals is nude or
seminude.
      SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult bookstore, adult video store, adult
cabaret, adult motion picture theater, sexual device shop, or sexual encounter
center, but does not include a business solely by reason of its showing,
selling, or renting materials that may depict sex.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Includes human genitals, pubic region, and
buttocks and the human female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Sexual intercourse, oral copulation,
masturbation, or sodomy, or excretory functions as a part of or in connection
with any of these activities.
   (B)   No sexually oriented business shall be or remain open for business
between 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. on any day, except that a sexually
oriented business that holds a liquor permit pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4303 may
remain open until the hour specified in that permit if it does not conduct,
offer, or allow sexually oriented entertainment activity in which the
performers appear nude.
   (C)   (1)   No patron who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family
shall knowingly touch any employee while that employee is nude or seminude or
touch the clothing of any employee while that employee is nude or seminude.
      (2)   No employee who regularly appears nude or seminude on the premises
of a sexually oriented business, while on the premises of that sexually
oriented business and while nude or seminude, shall knowingly touch a patron
who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or another employee who
is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or the clothing of a patron
who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or another employee who
is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or allow a patron who is not
a member of the employee’s immediate family or another employee who is not a
member of the employee’s immediate family to touch the employee or the clothing
of the employee.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of illegally
operating a sexually oriented business, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of illegal
sexually oriented activity in a sexually oriented business. If the offender
touches a specified anatomical area of the patron or employee, or the clothing
covering a specified anatomical area, a violation of division (C) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender does not touch a
specified anatomical area of the patron or employee, or the clothing covering a
specified anatomical area, a violation of division (C) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2907.40)
Statutory reference:
   State indemnification for certain municipal liability stemming from local
adult business regulations, see R.C. § 715.55
§ 133.99  SENTENCING FOR SEXUALLY ORIENTED OFFENSES; SEXUAL PREDATORS;
REGISTRATION.
   (A)   If an offender is being sentenced for a sexually oriented offense or
child-victim oriented offense that is a misdemeanor committed on or after
January 1, 1997, and the offender is a tier III sex offender/child-victim
offender relative to the offense or the offense is any offense listed in R.C. §
2901.07(D)(1) to (D)(3), the judge shall include in the offender’s sentence a
statement that the offender is a tier III sex offender/child-victim offender,
shall comply with the requirements of R.C. § 2950.03, and shall require the
offender to submit to a DNA specimen collection procedure pursuant to R.C. §
2901.07.
   (B)   If an offender is being sentenced for a sexually oriented offense or a
child-victim oriented offense that is a misdemeanor committed on or after
January 1, 1997, the judge shall include in the sentence a summary of the
offender’s duties imposed under R.C. §§ 2950.04, 2950.041, 2950.05, and
2950.06, and the duration of the duties. The judge shall inform the offender,
at the time of sentencing, of those duties and of their duration. If required
under R.C. § 2950.03(A)(2), the judge shall perform the duties specified in
that section or, if required under R.C. § 2950.03(A)(6), the judge shall
perform the duties specified in that division.
(R.C. § 2929.23)
Cross-reference:
   Sentencing generally, see
Chapter 130
CHAPTER 134:  GAMBLING OFFENSES
Section
   
134.01   Definitions
   
134.02   Prohibitions against gambling; exception
   
134.03   Operating a gambling house
   
134.04   Public gaming
   
134.05   Cheating
   
134.06   Regulations concerning operation of licensed bingo game
   
134.07   Bingo records to be kept
   
134.08   Requirements for bingo game operators
   
134.09   Bingo games for amusement only
   
134.10   Prohibitions where instant bingo game is conducted
   
134.11   Raffle drawings
   
134.12   Instant bingo other than at bingo sessions
   
134.13   Restrictions on owner or lessor of location at instant bingo
   
134.14   Skill-based amusement machines; prohibited conduct
Statutory reference:
   Charitable bingo license applications, see O.A.C. Chapter 109:1-3
   Conducting an illegal bingo game, felony, see R.C. § 2915.07
   Licensing bingo games by Attorney General, see R.C. § 2915.08
   Licensing distributors of bingo supplies by Attorney General, see R.C. §
2915.081
   Licensing manufacturers of bingo supplies by Attorney General, see R.C. §
2915.082
§ 134.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BET. The hazarding of anything of value upon the result of an event,
undertaking, or contingency, but does not include a bona fide business risk.
   BINGO. Means either of the following:
      (1)   A game with all of the following characteristics:
         (a)   The participants use bingo cards or sheets, including paper
formats and electronic representation or image formats, that are divided into
25 spaces arranged in 5 horizontal and 5 vertical rows of spaces, with each
space, except the central space, being designated by a combination of a letter
and a number and with the central space being designated as a free space;
         (b)   The participants cover the spaces on the bingo cards or sheets
that correspond to combinations of letters and numbers that are announced by a
bingo game operator;
         (c)   A bingo game operator announces combinations of letters and
numbers that appear on objects that a bingo game operator selects by chance,
either manually or mechanically, from a receptacle that contains 75 objects at
the beginning of each game, each object marked by a different combination of a
letter and a number that corresponds to one of the 75 possible combinations of
a letter and a number that can appear on the bingo cards or sheets;
         (d)   The winner of the bingo game includes any participant who
properly announces during the interval between the announcements of letters and
numbers, as described in division (1)(c) of this definition, that a
predetermined and preannounced pattern of spaces has been covered on a bingo
card or sheet being used by the participant.
      (2)   Instant bingo, punch boards, and raffles.
   BINGO GAME OPERATOR. Any person, except security personnel, who performs
work or labor at the site of bingo, including but not limited to collecting
money from participants, handing out bingo cards or sheets or objects to cover
spaces on bingo cards or sheets, selecting from a receptacle the objects that
contain the combination of letters and numbers that appear on bingo cards or
sheets, calling out the combinations of letters and numbers, distributing
prizes, selling or redeeming instant bingo tickets or cards, supervising the
operation of a punch board, selling raffle tickets, selecting raffle tickets
from a receptacle and announcing the winning numbers in a raffle, and
preparing, selling, and serving food or beverages.
   BINGO SESSION. A period that includes both of the following:
      (1)   Not to exceed five continuous hours for the conduct of one or more
games described in division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in this section,
instant bingo, and seal cards;
      (2)   A period for the conduct of instant bingo and seal cards for not
more than two hours before and not more than two hours after the period
described in division (1) of this definition.
   BINGO SUPPLIES. Bingo cards or sheets; instant bingo tickets or cards;
electronic bingo aids; raffle tickets; punch boards; seal cards; instant bingo
ticket dispensers; and devices for selecting or displaying the combination of
bingo letters and numbers or raffle tickets. Items that are BINGO SUPPLIES are
not gambling devices if sold or otherwise provided, and used, in accordance
with this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915. For purposes of this chapter, BINGO
SUPPLIES are not to be considered equipment used to conduct a bingo game.
   BOOKMAKING. The business of receiving or paying off bets.
   CHAMBER OF COMMERCE. Any organization of individuals, professionals, and
businesses that has the purpose to advance the commercial, financial,
industrial, and civic interests of the community and that is, and has received
from the Internal Revenue Service a determination letter that currently is in
effect stating that the organization is, exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(6).
   CHARITABLE BINGO GAME. Any bingo game described in divisions (1) or (2) of
the definition of “bingo” in this section that is conducted by a charitable
organization that has obtained a license pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08 and the
proceeds of which are used for a charitable purpose.
   CHARITABLE INSTANT BINGO ORGANIZATION. An organization that is exempt from
federal income taxation under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3) and is
a charitable organization as defined in this section. A CHARITABLE INSTANT
BINGO ORGANIZATION does not include a charitable organization that is exempt
from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3)
and that is created by a veteran’s organization, a fraternal organization, or a
sporting organization in regards to bingo conducted or assisted by a veteran’s
organization, a fraternal organization, or a sporting organization pursuant to
R.C. § 2915.13, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, “charitable
organization” means either of the following:
         (a)   An organization that is and has received from the Internal
Revenue Service a determination letter that is currently in effect, stating
that the organization is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a)
and described in IRC § 501(c)(3);
         (b)   A volunteer rescue service organization, volunteer firefighter’s
organization, veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC §§ 501(c)
(4), 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10) or 501(c)(19).
      (2)   To qualify as a charitable organization, an organization shall have
been in continuous existence as such in this state for a period of two years
immediately preceding either the making of an application for a bingo license
under R.C. § 2915.08 or the conducting of any game of chance as provided in
R.C. § 2915.02(D), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   CHARITABLE PURPOSE. Means that the net profit of bingo, other than instant
bingo, is used by, or is given, donated, or otherwise transferred to, any of
the following:
      (1)   Any organization that is described in IRC 509(a)(1), 509(a)(2), or
509(a)(3) and is either a governmental unit or an organization that is tax
exempt under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3);
      (2)   A veteran’s organization that is a post, chapter, or organization
of veterans, or an auxiliary unit or society of, or a trust or foundation for,
any such post, chapter, or organization organized in the United States or any
of its possessions, at least 75% of the members of which are veterans and
substantially all of the other members of which are individuals who are
spouses, widows, or widowers of veterans, or such individuals, provided that no
part of the net earnings of such post, chapter, or organization inures to the
benefit of any private shareholder or individual, and further provided that the
net profit is used by the post, chapter, or organization for the charitable
purposes set forth in R.C. § 5739.02(B)(12), is used for awarding scholarships
to or for attendance at an institution mentioned in that division of the
Revised Code, is donated to a governmental agency, or is used for nonprofit
youth activities, the purchase of United States or Ohio flags that are donated
to schools, youth groups, or other bona fide nonprofit organizations, promotion
of patriotism, or disaster relief;
      (3)   A fraternal organization that has been in continuous existence in
this state for 15 years and that uses the net profit exclusively for religious,
charitable, scientific, literary, or educational purposes, or for the
prevention of cruelty to children or animals, if contributions for such use
would qualify as a deductible charitable contribution under IRC 170;
      (4)   A volunteer firefighter’s organization that uses the net profit for
the purposes set forth in the definition of “volunteer firefighter’s
organization” in this section.
   COMMUNITY ACTION AGENCY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 122.66.
   CONDUCT. To back, promote, organize, manage, carry on, sponsor, or prepare
for the operation of bingo or a game of chance.
   DEAL OF INSTANT BINGO TICKETS. A single game of instant bingo tickets all
with the same serial number.
   DISTRIBUTOR. Any person who purchases or obtains bingo supplies and who does
either of the following:
      (1)   Sells, offers for sale, or otherwise provides or offers to provide
the bingo supplies to another person for use in this state;
      (2)   Modifies, converts, adds to, or removes parts from the bingo
supplies to further their promotion or sale for use in this state.
   ELECTRONIC BINGO AID.
      (1)   ELECTRONIC BINGO AID means an electronic device used by a
participant to monitor bingo cards or sheets purchased at the time and place of
a bingo session and that does all of the following:
         (a)   It provides a means for a participant to input numbers and
letters announced by a bingo caller;
         (b)   It compares the numbers and letters entered by the participant
to the bingo faces previously stored in the memory of the device;
         (c)   It identifies a winning bingo pattern.
      (2)   ELECTRONIC BINGO AID does not include any device into which a coin,
currency, token, or an equivalent is inserted to activate play.
   EXPENSES. The reasonable amount of gross profit actually expended for all of
the following:
      (1)   The purchase or lease of bingo supplies;
      (2)   The annual license fee required under R.C. § 2915.08;
      (3)   Bank fees and service charges for a bingo session or game account
described in R.C. § 2915.10;
      (4)   Audits and accounting services;
      (5)   Safes;
      (6)   Cash registers;
      (7)   Hiring security personnel;
      (8)   Advertising bingo;
      (9)   Renting premises in which to conduct a bingo session;
      (10)   Tables and chairs;
      (11)   Expenses for maintaining and operating a charitable organization’s
facilities, including but not limited to a post home, club house, lounge,
tavern, or canteen and any grounds attached to the post home, club house,
lounge, tavern, or canteen;
      (12)   Payment of real property taxes and assessments that are levied on
a premises on which bingo is conducted;
      (13)   Any other product or service directly related to the conduct of
bingo that is authorized in rules adopted by the Attorney General under R.C. §
2915.08(B)(1).
   FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION. Any society, order, state headquarters, or
association within this state, except a college or high school fraternity, that
is not organized for profit, that is a branch, lodge, or chapter of a national
or state organization, that exists exclusively for the common business or
sodality of its members.
   GAMBLING DEVICE. Means any of the following:
      (1)   A book, totalizer, or other equipment used for recording bets;
      (2)   A ticket, token, or other device representing a chance, share, or
interest in a scheme of chance or evidencing a bet;
      (3)   A deck of cards, dice, gaming table, roulette wheel, slot machine,
or other apparatus designed for use in connection with a game of chance;
      (4)   Any equipment, device, apparatus, or paraphernalia specially
designed for gambling purposes;
      (5)   Bingo supplies sold or otherwise provided, or used, in violation of
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
   GAMBLING OFFENSE. Means any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2915.02, 2915.03, 2915.04, 2915.05, 2915.06,
2915.07, 2915.08, 2915.081, 2915.082, 2915.09, 2915.091, 2915.092, 2915.10, or
2915.11;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States substantially equivalent to any
section listed in division (1) of this definition or a violation of R.C. §
2915.06 as it existed prior to July 1, 1996;
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former municipal ordinance or law
of this or any other state or of the United States, of which gambling is an
element;
      (4)   A conspiracy or attempt to commit, or complicity in committing, any
offense under division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
   GAME FLARE. The board or placard that accompanies each deal of instant bingo
tickets and that has printed on or affixed to it the following information for
the game:
      (1)   The name of the game;
      (2)   The manufacturer’s name or distinctive logo;
      (3)   The form number;
      (4)   The ticket count;
      (5)   The prize structure, including the number of winning instant bingo
tickets by denomination and the respective winning symbol or number
combinations for the winning instant bingo tickets;
      (6)   The cost per play;
      (7)   The serial number of the game.
   GAME OF CHANCE. Poker, craps, roulette, or other game in which a player
gives anything of value in the hope of gain, the outcome of which is determined
largely by chance, but does not include bingo.
   GAME OF CHANCE CONDUCTED FOR PROFIT. Any game of chance designed to produce
income for the person who conducts or operates the game of chance, but does not
include bingo.
   GROSS ANNUAL REVENUES. The annual gross receipts derived from the conduct of
bingo described in division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in this section
plus the annual net profit derived from the conduct of bingo described in
division (2) of the definition of “bingo” in this section.
   GROSS PROFIT. Means gross receipts minus the amount actually expended for
the payment of prize awards.
   GROSS RECEIPTS. All money or assets, including admission fees, that a person
receives from bingo without the deduction of any amounts for prizes paid out or
for the expenses of conducting bingo. GROSS RECEIPTS does not include any money
directly taken in from the sale of food or beverages by a charitable
organization conducting bingo, or by a bona fide auxiliary unit or society of a
charitable organization conducting bingo, provided all of the following apply:
      (1)   The auxiliary unit or society has been in existence as a bona fide
auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization for at least two years
prior to conducting bingo;
      (2)   The person who purchases the food or beverage receives nothing of
value except the food or beverage and items customarily received with the
purchase of that food or beverage;
      (3)   The food and beverages are sold at customary and reasonable prices.
   HISTORIC RAILROAD. All or a portion of the tracks and right-of-way of a
railroad that was owned and operated by a for profit common carrier in this
state at any time prior to January 1, 1950.
   INSTANT BINGO.  A form of bingo that shall use folded or banded tickets or
paper cards with perforated break-open tabs, a face of which is covered or
otherwise hidden from view to conceal a number, letter, or symbol, or set of
numbers, letters, or symbols, some of which have been designated in  advance as
prize winners, and may also include games in which some winners are determined
by the random selection of one or more bingo numbers by the use of a seal card
or bingo blower. In all “instant bingo” the prize amount and structure shall be
predetermined. The term does not include any device that is activated by the
insertion of a coin, currency, token, or an equivalent, and that contains as
one of its components a video display monitor that is capable of displaying
numbers, letters, symbols, or characters in winning or losing combinations.
   INSTANT BINGO TICKET DISPENSER. A mechanical device that dispenses an
instant bingo ticket or card as the sole item of value dispensed and that has
the following characteristics:
      (1)   It is activated upon the insertion of United States currency;
      (2)   It performs no gaming functions;
      (3)   It does not contain a video display monitor or generate noise;
      (4)   It is not capable of displaying any numbers, letters, symbols, or
characters in winning or losing combinations;
      (5)   It does not simulate or display rolling or spinning reels;
      (6)   It is incapable of determining whether a dispensed bingo ticket or
card is a winning or non- winning ticket or card and requires a winning ticket
or card to be paid by a bingo game operator;
      (7)   It may provide accounting and security features to aid in
accounting for the instant bingo tickets or cards it dispenses;
      (8)   It is not part of an electronic network and is not interactive.
   IRC or INTERNAL REVENUE CODE. The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, 100 Stat.
2085, 26 U.S.C. §§ 1 et seq., as now or hereafter amended.
   MANUFACTURER. Any person who assembles completed bingo supplies from raw
materials, other items, or subparts or who modifies, converts, adds to, or
removes parts from bingo supplies to further their promotion or sale.
   MERCHANDISE PRIZE. Any item of value, but shall not include any of the
following:
      (1)   Cash, gift cards, or any equivalent thereof;
      (2)   Plays on games of chance, state lottery tickets, bingo, or instant
bingo;
      (3)   Firearms, tobacco, or alcoholic beverages; or
      (4)   A redeemable voucher that is redeemable for any of the items listed
in division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
   NET PROFIT. Means gross profit minus expenses.
   NET PROFIT FROM THE PROCEEDS OF THE SALE OF INSTANT BINGO. Means gross
profit minus the ordinary, necessary, and reasonable expense expended for the
purchase of instant bingo supplies, and, in the case of instant bingo conducted
by a veteran’s, fraternal, or sporting organization, minus the payment by that
organization of real property taxes and assessments levied on a premises on
which instant bingo is conducted.
   PARTICIPANT. Any person who plays bingo.
   PERSON. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1.59 and includes any firm or any
other legal entity, however organized.
   POOL NOT CONDUCTED FOR PROFIT. A scheme in which a participant gives a
valuable consideration for a chance to win a prize and the total amount of
consideration wagered is distributed to a participant or participants.
   PUNCH BOARD. A board containing a number of holes or receptacles of uniform
size in which are placed, mechanically and randomly, serially numbered slips of
paper that may be punched or drawn from the hole or receptacle when used in
conjunction with instant bingo. A player may punch or draw the numbered slips
of paper from the holes or receptacles and obtain the prize established for the
game if the number drawn corresponds to a winning number or, if the punch board
includes the use of a seal card, a potential winning number.
   RAFFLE. A form of bingo in which the one or more prizes are won by one or
more persons who have purchased a raffle ticket. The one or more winners of the
raffle are determined by drawing a ticket stub or other detachable section from
a receptacle containing ticket stubs or detachable sections corresponding to
all tickets sold for the raffle.  The term does not include the drawing of a
ticket stub or other detachable section of a ticket purchased to attend a
professional sporting event if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The ticket stub or other detachable section is used to select the
winner of a free prize given away at the professional sporting event; and
      (2)   The cost of the ticket is the same as the cost of a ticket to the
professional sporting event on days when no free prize is given away.
   REDEEMABLE VOUCHER. Any ticket, token, coupon, receipt, or other noncash
representation of value.
   RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION. Any church, body of communicants, or group that is
not organized or operated for profit and that gathers in common membership for
regular worship and religious observances.
   REVOKE. To void permanently all rights and privileges of the holder of a
license issued under R.C. § 2915.08, 2915.081, or 2915.082 or a charitable
gaming license issued by another jurisdiction.
   SCHEME OF CHANCE. A slot machine, lottery, numbers game, pool conducted for
profit, or other scheme in which a participant gives a valuable consideration
for a chance to win a prize, but does not include bingo, a skill-based
amusement machine, or a pool not conducted for profit.
   SEAL CARD. A form of instant bingo that uses instant bingo tickets in
conjunction with a board or placard that contains one or more seals that, when
removed or opened, reveal predesignated winning numbers, letters, or symbols.
   SECURITY PERSONNEL. Includes any person who either is a sheriff, deputy
sheriff, marshal, deputy marshal, township constable, or member of an organized
police department of a municipal corporation or has successfully completed a
peace officer’s training course pursuant to R.C. §§ 109.71 through 109.79 and
who is hired to provide security for the premises on which bingo is conducted.
   SKILL-BASED AMUSEMENT MACHINE.
      (1)   (a)   A mechanical, video, digital, or electronic device that
rewards the player or players, if at all, only with merchandise prizes or with
redeemable vouchers redeemable only for merchandise prizes, provided that with
respect to rewards for playing the game all of the following apply:
            1.   The wholesale value of a merchandise prize awarded as a result
of the single play of a machine does not exceed $10;
            2.   Redeemable vouchers awarded for any single play of a machine
are not redeemable for a merchandise prize with a wholesale value of more than
$10;
            3.   Redeemable vouchers are not redeemable for a merchandise prize
that has a wholesale value of more than $10 times the fewest number of single
plays necessary to accrue the redeemable vouchers required to obtain that
prize; and
            4.   Any redeemable vouchers or merchandise prizes are distributed
at the site of the skill-based amusement machine at the time of play.
         (b)   A card for the purchase of gasoline is a redeemable voucher for
purposes of division (1) of this definition even if the skill-based amusement
machine for the play of which the card is awarded is located at a place where
gasoline may not be legally distributed to the public or the card is not
redeemable at the location of, or at the time of playing, the skill- based
amusement machine.
      (2)   A device shall not be considered a skill- based amusement machine
and shall be considered a slot machine if it pays cash, or one or more of the
following apply:
         (a)   The ability of a player to succeed at the game is impacted by
the number or ratio of prior wins to prior losses of players playing the game;
         (b)   Any reward of redeemable vouchers is not based solely on the
player achieving the object of the game or the players score;
         (c)   The outcome of the game, or the value of the redeemable voucher
or merchandise prize awarded for winning the game, can be controlled by a
source other than any player playing the game;
         (d)   The success of any player is or may be determined by a chance
event that cannot be altered by player actions;
         (e)   The ability of any player to succeed at the game is determined
by game features not visible or known to the player;
         (f)   The ability of the player to succeed at the game is impacted by
the exercise of a skill that no reasonable player could exercise.
      (3)   All of the following apply to any machine that is operated as
described in division (1) of this definition:
         (a)   As used in this definition of SKILL-BASED AMUSEMENT MACHINE,
GAME and PLAY mean one event from the initial activation of the machine until
the results of play are determined without payment of additional consideration.
An individual utilizing a machine that involves a single game, play, contest,
competition, or tournament may be awarded redeemable vouchers or merchandise
prizes based on the results of play;
         (b)   Advance play for a single game, play, contest, competition, or
tournament participation may be purchased. The cost of the contest,
competition, or tournament participation may be greater than a single non-
contest, competition, or tournament play;
         (c)   To the extent that the machine is used in a contest,
competition, or tournament, that contest, competition, or tournament has a
defined starting and ending date and is open to participants in competition for
scoring and ranking results toward the awarding of redeemable vouchers or
merchandise prizes that are stated prior to the start of the contest,
competition, or tournament.
      (4)   For purposes of division (1) of this definition, the mere presence
of a device, such as a pin-setting, ball-releasing, or scoring mechanism, that
does not contribute to or affect the outcome of the play of the game does not
make the device a skill-based amusement machine.
   SLOT MACHINE.
      (1)   Means either of the following:
         (a)   Any mechanical, electronic, video, or digital device that is
capable of accepting anything of value, directly or indirectly, from or on
behalf of a player who gives the thing of value in the hope of gain;
         (b)   Any mechanical, electronic, video, or digital device that is
capable of accepting anything of value, directly or indirectly, from or on
behalf of a
player to conduct bingo or a scheme or game of chance.
      (2)   SLOT MACHINE does not include a skill-based amusement machine or an
instant bingo ticket dispenser.
   SPORTING ORGANIZATION. A hunting, fishing, or trapping organization, other
than a college or high school fraternity or sorority, that is not organized for
profit, that is affiliated with a state or national sporting organization,
including but not limited to the League of Ohio Sportsmen, and that has been in
continuous existence in this state for a period of three years.
   SUSPEND. To interrupt temporarily all rights and privileges of the holder of
a license issued under R.C. § 2915.08, 2915.081, or 2915.082 or a charitable
gaming license issued by another jurisdiction.
   VETERAN’S ORGANIZATION. Any individual post or state headquarters of a
national veteran’s association or an auxiliary unit of any individual post of a
national veteran’s association, which post, state headquarters, or auxiliary
unit is incorporated as a nonprofit corporation and either has received a
letter from the state headquarters of the national veteran’s association
indicating that the individual post or auxiliary unit is in good standing with
the national veteran’s association or has received a letter from the national
veteran’s association indicating that the state headquarters is in good
standing with the national veteran’s association. As used in this definition,
NATIONAL VETERAN’S ASSOCIATION means any veteran’s association that has been in
continuous existence as such for a period of at least five years and either is
incorporated by an act of the United States Congress or has a national dues-
paying membership of at least 5,000 persons.
   VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTER’S ORGANIZATION. Any organization of volunteer
firefighters, as defined in R.C. § 146.01, that is organized and operated
exclusively to provide financial support for a volunteer fire department or a
volunteer fire company and that is recognized or  ratified by a county,
municipal corporation, or township.
   VOLUNTEER RESCUE SERVICE ORGANIZATION. Any organization of volunteers
organized to function as an emergency medical service organization, as defined
in R.C. § 4765.01.
   YOUTH ATHLETIC ORGANIZATION. Any organization, not organized for profit,
that is organized and operated exclusively to provide financial support to, or
to operate, athletic activities for persons who are 21 years of age or younger
by means of sponsoring, organizing, operating, or contributing to the support
of an athletic team, club, league, or association.
   YOUTH ATHLETIC PARK ORGANIZATION. Any organization, not organized for
profit, that satisfies both of the following:
      (1)   It owns, operates, and maintains playing fields that satisfy both
of the following:
         (a)   The playing fields are used at least 100 days per year for
athletic activities by one or more organizations, not organized for profit,
each of which is organized and operated exclusively to provide financial
support to, or to operate, athletic activities for persons who are 18 years of
age or younger by means of sponsoring, organizing, operating, or contributing
to the support of an athletic team, club, league, or association;
         (b)   The playing fields are not used for any profit-making activity
at any time during the year.
      (2)   It uses the proceeds of bingo it conducts exclusively for the
operation, maintenance, and improvement of its playing fields of the type
described in division (1) of this definition.
(R.C. § 2915.01)
§ 134.02  PROHIBITIONS AGAINST GAMBLING; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Engage in bookmaking, or knowingly engage in conduct that
facilitates bookmaking;
      (2)   Establish, promote, or operate or knowingly engage in conduct that
facilitates any game of chance conducted for profit or any scheme of chance;
      (3)   Knowingly procure, transmit, exchange, or engage in conduct that
facilitates the procurement, transmission, or exchange of information for use
in establishing odds or determining winners in connection with bookmaking or
with any game of chance conducted for profit or any scheme of chance;
      (4)   Engage in betting or in playing any scheme or game of chance as a
substantial source of income or livelihood;
      (5)   With purpose to violate division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), or (A)(4)
of this section, acquire, possess, control, or operate any gambling device.
   (B)   For purposes of division (A)(1) of this section, a person facilitates
bookmaking if the person in any way knowingly aids an illegal bookmaking
operation, including, without limitation, placing a bet with a person engaged
in or facilitating illegal bookmaking. For purposes of division (A)(2) of this
section, a person facilitates a game of chance conducted for profit or a scheme
of chance if the person in any way knowingly aids in the conduct or operation
of any such game or scheme, including, without limitation, playing any such
game or scheme.
   (C)   This section does not prohibit conduct in connection with gambling
expressly permitted by law.
   (D)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   Games of chance, if all of the following apply:
         (a)   The games of chance are not craps for money or roulette for
money;
         (b)   The games of chance are conducted by a charitable organization
that is and has received from the Internal Revenue Service a determination
letter that is currently in effect, stating that the organization is exempt
from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3);
         (c)   The games of chance are conducted at festivals of the charitable
organization that are conducted not more than a total of five days a calendar
year, and are conducted on premises owned by the charitable organization for a
period of no less than one year immediately preceding the conducting of the
games of chance, on premises leased from a governmental unit, or on premises
that are leased from a veteran’s or fraternal organization and that have been
owned by the lessor veteran’s or fraternal organization for a period of no less
than one year immediately preceding the conducting of the games of chance. A
charitable organization shall not lease premises from a veteran’s or fraternal
organization to conduct a festival described in this division, if the veteran’s
or fraternal organization already has leased the premises twelve times during
the preceding year to charitable organizations for that purpose. If a
charitable organization leases premises from a veteran’s or fraternal
organization to conduct a festival described in this division, the charitable
organization shall not pay a rental rate for the premises per day of the
festival that exceeds the rental rate per bingo session that a charitable
organization may pay under R.C. § 2915.09(B)(1) or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance when it leases premises from another charitable
organization to conduct bingo games;
         (d)   All of the money or assets received from the games of chance
after deduction only of prizes paid out during the conduct of the games of
chance are used by, given, donated or otherwise transferred to any organization
that is described in IRC 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a
governmental unit or an organization that is tax exempt under IRC 501(a) and
described in IRC 501(c)(3);
         (e)   The games of chance are not conducted during or within ten hours
of a bingo game conducted for amusement purposes only pursuant to R.C. §
2915.12 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance. No person shall
receive any commission, wage, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity, or other
form of compensation, directly or indirectly, for operating or assisting in the
operation of any game of chance.
      (2)   Any tag fishing tournament, as defined in R.C. § 1531.01, operated
under a permit issued under R.C. § 1533.92;
      (3)   Bingo conducted by a charitable organization that holds a license
issued under R.C. § 2915.08.
   (E)   Division (D) of this section shall not be construed to authorize the
sale, lease, or other temporary or permanent transfer of the right to conduct
games of chance, as granted by that division, by any charitable organization
that is granted that right.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of gambling, a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling
offense, gambling is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.02)
§ 134.03  OPERATING A GAMBLING HOUSE.
   (A)   No person, being the owner or lessee, or having custody, control, or
supervision of premises, shall:
      (1)   Use or occupy the premises for gambling in violation of R.C. §
2915.02 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (2)   Recklessly permit the premises to be used or occupied for gambling
in violation of R.C. § 2915.02 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of operating a
gambling house, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously
has been convicted of a gambling offense, operating a gambling house is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   Premises used or occupied in violation of this section constitute a
nuisance subject to abatement under R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2915.03)
§ 134.04  PUBLIC GAMING.
   (A)   No person, while at a hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall,
or other place of public accommodation, business, amusement, or resort shall
make a bet or play any game of chance or scheme of chance.
   (B)   No person, being the owner or lessee, or having custody, control, or
supervision of a hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall, or other place
of public accommodation, business, amusement, or resort shall recklessly permit
those premises to be used or occupied in violation of division (A) of this
section.
   (C)   Divisions (A) and (B) of this section do not prohibit conduct in
connection with gambling expressly permitted by law.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of public gaming. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, public gaming is a minor misdemeanor. If
the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling offense, public
gaming is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (E)   Premises used or occupied in violation of division (B) of this section
constitute a nuisance subject to abatement under R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2915.04)
Cross-reference:
   Pay-out fines, see
Chapter 40, Appendix A
§ 134.05  CHEATING.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall engage in conduct designed to corrupt the outcome
of any of the following:
      (1)   The subject of a bet;
      (2)   A contest of knowledge, skill, or endurance that is not an athletic
or sporting event;
      (3)   A scheme or game of chance;
      (4)   Bingo.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Offer, give, solicit, or accept anything of value to corrupt the
outcome of an athletic or sporting event;
      (2)   Engage in conduct designed to corrupt the outcome of an athletic or
sporting event.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
cheating. Except as otherwise provided in this division, cheating is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the potential gain from the cheating is
$1,000 or more or if the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling
offense or of any theft offense as defined in R.C. § 2913.01, cheating is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
corrupting sports. Corrupting sports is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.05)
§ 134.06  REGULATIONS CONCERNING OPERATION OF LICENSED BINGO GAME.
   (A)   No charitable organization that conducts bingo shall fail to do any of
the following:
      (1)   Own all of the equipment used to conduct bingo or lease that
equipment from a charitable organization that is licensed to conduct bingo, or
from the landlord of a premises where bingo is conducted, for a rental rate
that is not more than is customary and reasonable for that equipment;
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (A)(3) of this section,
use all of the gross receipts from bingo for paying prizes, for reimbursement
of expenses for or for renting premises in which to conduct bingo, for
reimbursement of expenses for or for purchasing or leasing bingo supplies used
in conducting bingo, for reimbursement of expenses for or for hiring security
personnel, for reimbursement of expenses for or for advertising bingo, or for
reimbursement of other expenses or for other expenses listed in the definition
for “expenses” in R.C. § 2915.01, provided that the amount of the receipts so
spent is not more than is customary and reasonable for a similar purchase,
lease, hiring, advertising, or expense. If the building in which bingo is
conducted is owned by the charitable organization conducting bingo and the
bingo conducted includes a form of bingo described in division (1) of the
definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01, the charitable organization may deduct
from the total amount of the gross receipts from each session a sum equal to
the lesser of $600 or 45% of the gross receipts from the bingo described in
that division as consideration for the use of the premises;
      (3)   Use, or give, donate, or otherwise transfer, all of the net profit
derived from bingo, other than instant bingo, for a charitable purpose listed
in its license application and described in the definition for “charitable
purpose” in R.C. § 2915.01, or distribute all of the net profit from the
proceeds of the sale of instant bingo as stated in its license application and
in accordance with R.C. § 2915.101.
   (B)   No charitable organization that conducts a bingo game described in
division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01 shall fail to do
any of the following:
      (1)   Conduct the bingo game on premises that are owned by the charitable
organization, on premises that are owned by another charitable organization and
leased from that charitable organization for a rental rate not in excess of the
lesser of $650 per bingo session or 45% of the gross receipts of the bingo
session, on premises that are leased from a person other than a charitable
organization for a rental rate that is not more than is customary and
reasonable for premises that are similar in location, size, and quality but not
in excess of $450 per bingo session, or on premises that are owned by a person
other than a charitable organization, that are leased from that person by
another charitable organization, and that are subleased from that other
charitable organization by the charitable organization for a rental rate not in
excess of $450 per bingo session. No charitable organization is required to pay
property taxes or assessments on premises that the charitable organization
leases from another person to conduct bingo sessions.  If the charitable
organization leases from a person other than a charitable organization the
premises on which it conducts bingo sessions, the lessor of the premises shall
provide only the premises to the organization and shall not provide the
organization with bingo game operators, security personnel, concessions or
concession operators, bingo supplies, or any other type of service. A
charitable organization shall not lease or sublease premises that it owns or
leases to more than three other charitable organizations per calendar week for
conducting bingo sessions on the premises. A person that is not a charitable
organization shall not lease premises that it owns, leases, or otherwise is
empowered to lease to more than three charitable organizations per calendar
week for conducting bingo sessions on the premises. In no case shall more than
nine bingo sessions be conducted on any premises in any calendar week;
      (2)   Display its license conspicuously at the premises where the bingo
session is conducted;
      (3)   Conduct the bingo session in accordance with division (1) of the
definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01.
   (C)   No charitable organization that conducts a bingo game described in
division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01 shall not do any of
the following:
      (1)   Pay any compensation to a bingo game operator for operating a bingo
session that is conducted by the charitable organization or for preparing,
selling, or serving food or beverages at the site of the bingo session, permit
any auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization to pay
compensation to any bingo game operator who prepares, sells, or serves food or
beverages at a bingo session conducted by the charitable organization, or
permit any auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization to prepare,
sell, or serve food or beverages at a bingo session conducted by the charitable
organization, if the auxiliary unit or society pays any compensation to the
bingo game operators who prepare, sell, or serve the food or beverages;
      (2)   Pay consulting fees to any person for any services performed in
relation to the bingo session;
      (3)   Pay concession fees to any person who provides refreshments to the
participants in the bingo session;
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(4) of this section,
conduct more than three bingo sessions in any seven-day period. A volunteer
firefighter’s organization or a volunteer rescue service organization that
conducts not more than five bingo sessions in a calendar year may conduct more
than three bingo sessions in a seven-day period after notifying the Attorney
General when it will conduct the sessions;
      (5)   Pay out more than $6,000 in prizes for bingo games described in
R.C. § 2915.01(S)(1) during any bingo session that is conducted by the
charitable organization. “Prizes” does not include awards from the conduct of
instant bingo;
      (6)   Conduct a bingo session at any time during the eight-hour period
between 2:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m., at any time during, or within ten hours of, a
bingo game conducted for amusement only pursuant to R.C. § 2915.12 or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, at any premises not specified on
its license, or on any day of the week or during any time period not specified
on its license. This division does not prohibit the sale of instant bingo
tickets beginning at 9:00 a.m. for a bingo session that begins at 10:00 a.m. If
circumstances make it impractical for the charitable organization to conduct a
bingo session at the premises, or on the day of the week or at the time
specified on its license or if a charitable organization wants to conduct bingo
sessions on a day of the week or at a time other than the day or time specified
on its license, the charitable organization may apply in writing to the
Attorney General for an amended license pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08(F). A
charitable organization may apply twice in each calendar year for an amended
license to conduct bingo sessions on a day of the week or at a time other than
the day or time specified on its license. If the amended license is granted,
the organization may conduct bingo sessions at the premises, on the day of the
week, and at the time specified on its amended license;
      (7)   Permit any person whom the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, is under the age of 18 to work as a bingo game operator;
      (8)   Permit any person whom the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any
jurisdiction to be a bingo game operator;
      (9)   Permit the lessor of the premises on which the bingo session is
conducted, if the lessor is not a charitable organization, to provide the
charitable organization with bingo game operators, security personnel,
concessions, bingo supplies, or any other type of service;
      (10)   Purchase or lease bingo supplies from any person except a
distributor issued a license under R.C. § 2915.081;
      (11)   (a)   Use or permit the use of electronic bingo aids except under
the following circumstances:
            1.   For any single participant, not more than 90 bingo faces can
be played using an electronic bingo aid or aids;
            2.   The charitable organization shall provide a participant using
an electronic bingo aid with corresponding paper bingo cards or sheets;
            3.   The total price of bingo faces played with an electronic bingo
aid shall be equal to the total price of the same number of bingo faces played
with a paper bingo card or sheet sold at the same bingo session but without an
electronic bingo aid;
            4.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be part of an electronic
network other than a network that includes only bingo aids and devices that are
located on the premises at which the bingo is being conducted or be interactive
with any device not located on the premises at which the bingo is being
conducted;
            5.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be used to participate in bingo
that is conducted at a location other than the location at which the bingo
session is conducted and at which the electronic bingo aid is used;
            6.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be used to provide for the
input of numbers and letters announced by a bingo caller other than the bingo
caller who physically calls the numbers and letters at the location at which
the bingo session is conducted and at which the electronic bingo aid is used.
         (b)   The Attorney General may adopt rules in accordance with R.C.
Chapter 119 that govern the use of electronic bingo aids. The rules may include
a requirement that an electronic bingo aid be capable of being audited by the
Attorney General to verify the number of bingo cards or sheets played during
each bingo session.
      (12)   Permit any person the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, to be under 18 years of age to play bingo described in division (1)
of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01.
   (D)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) of this section,
no charitable organization shall provide to a bingo game operator, and no bingo
game operator shall receive or accept, any commission, wage, salary, reward,
tip, donation, gratuity, or other form of compensation, directly or indirectly,
regardless of the source, for conducting bingo or providing other work or labor
at the site of bingo during a bingo session.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) of this section, no
charitable organization shall provide to a bingo game operator any commission,
wage, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity, or other form of compensation,
directly or indirectly regardless of the source, for conducting instant bingo
other than at a bingo session at the site of instant bingo other than at a
bingo session.
      (3)   Nothing in this division (D) of this section prohibits an employee
of a fraternal organization, veteran’s organization, or sporting organization
from selling instant bingo tickets or cards to the organization’s members or
invited guests, as long as no portion of the employee’s compensation is paid
from any receipts of bingo.
   (E)   Notwithstanding division (B)(1) of this section, a charitable
organization that, prior to December 6, 1977, has entered into written
agreements for the lease of premises it owns to another charitable organization
or other charitable organizations for the conducting of bingo sessions so that
more than two bingo sessions are conducted per calendar week on the premises,
and a person that is not a charitable organization and that, prior to December
6, 1977, has entered into written agreements for the lease of premises it owns
to charitable organizations for the conducting of more than two bingo sessions
per calendar week on the premises, may continue to lease the premises to those
charitable organizations, provided that no more than four sessions are
conducted per calendar week, that the lessor organization or person has
notified the Attorney General in writing of the organizations that will conduct
the sessions and the days of the week and the times of the day on which the
sessions will be conducted, that the initial lease entered into with each
organization that will conduct the sessions was filed with the Attorney General
prior to December 6, 1977, and that each organization that will conduct the
sessions was issued a license to conduct bingo games by the Attorney General
prior to December 6, 1977.
   (F)   This section does not prohibit a bingo licensed charitable
organization or a game operator from giving any person an instant bingo ticket
as a prize.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of
illegally conducting a bingo game, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law. Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A)(1), (A)(3), (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3), (C)(1) through (C)(11), or (D)
of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously
has been convicted of a violation of division (A)(1), (A)(3), (B)(1), (B)(2),
(B)(3), (C)(1) through (C)(11), or (D) of this section, a violation of division
(A)(1), (A)(3), (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3), (C)(1) through (C)(11), or (D) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Whoever violates division (C)(12)
of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of a violation of division (C)(12) of this
section, a violation of division (C)(12) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.09)
Statutory reference:
   Felony violations, see R.C. § 2915.09(A)(2) and (E)
§ 134.07  BINGO RECORDS TO BE KEPT.
   (A)   No charitable organization that conducts bingo or a game of chance
pursuant to R.C. § 2915.02(D), or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, shall fail to maintain the following records for at least three
years from the date on which the bingo or game of chance is conducted:
      (1)   An itemized list of the gross receipts of each bingo session, each
game of instant bingo by serial number, each raffle, each punch board game, and
each game of chance, and an itemized list of the gross profits of each game of
instant bingo by serial number;
      (2)   An itemized list of all expenses, other than prizes, that are
incurred in conducting bingo or instant bingo, the name of each person to whom
the expenses are paid, and a receipt for all of the expenses;
      (3)   A list of all prizes awarded during each bingo session, each
raffle, each punch board game, and each game of chance conducted by the
charitable organization, the total prizes awarded from each game of instant
bingo by serial number, and the name, address, and social security number of
all persons who are winners of prizes of $600 or more in value;
      (4)   An itemized list of the recipients of the net profit of bingo or
game of chance, including the name and address of each recipient to whom the
money is distributed, and if the organization uses the net profit of bingo, or
the money or assets received from a game of chance, for any charitable or other
purpose set forth in R.C. § 2915.01(Z), R.C. § 2915.02(D), or R.C. § 2915.101,
a list of each purpose and an itemized list of each expenditure for each
purpose;
      (5)   The number of persons who participate in any bingo session or game
of chance that is conducted by the charitable organization;
      (6)   A list of receipts from the sale of food and beverages by the
charitable organization or one of its auxiliary units or societies, if the
receipts were excluded from “gross receipts” under R.C. § 2915.01(T);
      (7)   An itemized list of all expenses incurred at each bingo session,
each raffle, each punch board game, or each game of instant bingo conducted by
the charitable organization in the sale of food and beverages by the charitable
organization or by an auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization,
the name of each person to whom the expenses are paid, and a receipt for all of
the expenses.
   (B)   A charitable organization shall keep the records that it is required
to maintain pursuant to division (A) of this section at its principal place of
business in this state or at its headquarters in this state and shall notify
the Attorney General of the location at which those records are kept.
   (C)   The gross profit from each bingo session or game described in division
(1) or (2) of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01 shall be deposited
into a checking account devoted exclusively to the bingo session or game.
Payments for allowable expenses incurred in conducting the bingo session or
game and payments to recipients of some or all of the net profit of the bingo
session or game shall be made only by checks or electronic fund transfers drawn
on the bingo session or game account.
   (D)   Each charitable organization shall conduct and record an inventory of
all of its bingo supplies as of November 1 of each year.
   (E)   The Attorney General may adopt rules in accordance with R.C. Chapter
119 that establish standards of accounting, record keeping, and reporting to
ensure that gross receipts from bingo or games of chance are properly accounted
for.
   (F)   A distributor shall maintain, for a period of three years after the
date of its sale or other provision, a record of each instance of its selling
or otherwise providing to another person bingo supplies for use in this state.
The record shall include all of the following for each instance:
      (1)   The name of the manufacturer from which the distributor purchased
the bingo supplies and the date of the purchase;
      (2)   The name and address of the charitable organization or other
distributor to which the bingo supplies were sold or otherwise provided;
      (3)   A description that clearly identifies the bingo supplies;
      (4)   Invoices that include the nonrepeating serial numbers of all paper
bingo cards and sheets and all instant bingo deals sold or otherwise provided
to each charitable organization.
   (G)   A manufacturer shall maintain, for a period of three years after the
date of its sale or other provision, a record of each instance of its selling
or otherwise providing bingo supplies for use in this state. The record shall
include all of the following for each instance:
      (1)   The name and address of the distributor to whom the bingo supplies
were sold or otherwise provided;
      (2)   A description that clearly identifies the bingo supplies, including
serial numbers;
      (3)   Invoices that include the nonrepeating serial numbers of all paper
bingo cards and sheets and all instant bingo deals sold or otherwise provided
to each distributor.
   (H)   (1)   The Attorney General or any law enforcement agency may do all of
the following:
         (a)   Investigate any charitable organization or any officer, agent,
trustee, member, or employee of the organization;
         (b)   Examine the accounts and records of the organization;
         (c)   Conduct inspections, audits, and observations of bingo or games
of chance;
         (d)   Conduct inspections of the premises where bingo or games of
chance are conducted;
         (e)   Take any other necessary and reasonable action to determine if a
violation of any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915 has occurred
and to determine whether R.C. § 2915.11, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, has been complied with.
      (2)   If any law enforcement agency has reasonable grounds to believe
that a charitable organization or an officer, agent, trustee, member, or
employee of the organization has violated any provision of this chapter or R.C.
Chapter 2915, the law enforcement agency may proceed by action in the proper
court to enforce this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915, provided that the law
enforcement agency shall give written notice to the Attorney General when
commencing an action as described in this division.
   (I)   No person shall destroy, alter, conceal, withhold, or deny access to
any accounts or records of a charitable organization that have been requested
for examination, or obstruct, impede, or interfere with any inspection, audit,
or observation of bingo or a game of chance or premises where bingo or a game
of chance is conducted, or refuse to comply with any reasonable request of, or
obstruct, impede, or interfere with any other reasonable action undertaken by,
the Attorney General or a law enforcement agency pursuant to division (H) of
this section.
   (J)   Whoever violates division (A) or (I) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2915.10)
§ 134.08  REQUIREMENTS FOR BINGO GAME OPERATORS.
   (A)   No person shall be a bingo game operator unless the person is 18 years
of age or older.
   (B)   No person who has been convicted of a felony or a gambling offense in
any jurisdiction shall be a bingo game operator.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. Whoever violates division (B) of this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2915.11)
§ 134.09  BINGO GAMES FOR AMUSEMENT ONLY.
   (A)   Sections
134.06 through
134.13 do not apply to bingo games that are conducted for the purpose of
amusement only. A bingo game is conducted for the purpose of amusement only if
it complies with all of the requirements specified in either division (A)(1) or
(A)(2) of this section.
      (1)   (a)   The participants do not pay any money or any other thing of
value, including an admission fee or any fee, for bingo cards or sheets,
objects to cover the spaces, or other devices used in playing bingo, for the
privilege of participating in the bingo game, or to defray any costs of the
game, or pay tips or make donations during or immediately before or after the
bingo game.
         (b)   All prizes awarded during the course of the game are non-
monetary, and in the form of merchandise, goods, or entitlement to goods or
services only, and the total value of all prizes awarded during the game is
less than $100.
         (c)   No commission, wages, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity,
or other form of compensation, either directly or indirectly, and regardless of
the source, is paid to any bingo game operator for work or labor performed at
the site of the bingo game.
         (d)   The bingo game is not conducted either during or within ten
hours of any of the following:
            1.   A bingo session during which a charitable bingo game is
conducted pursuant to R.C. §§ 2915.07 through 2915.11 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance;
            2.   A scheme or game of chance, or bingo described in R.C. §
2915.01(O)(2).
         (e)   The number of players participating in the bingo game does not
exceed 50.
      (2)   (a)   The participants do not pay money or any other thing of value
as an admission fee, and no participant is charged more than $0.25 to purchase
a bingo card or sheet, objects to cover the spaces, or other devices used in
playing bingo.
         (b)   The total amount of money paid by all of the participants for
bingo cards or sheets, objects to cover the spaces, or other devices used in
playing bingo does not exceed $100.
         (c)   All of the money paid for bingo cards or sheets, objects to
cover spaces, or other devices used in playing bingo is used only to pay
winners monetary and nonmonetary prizes and to provide refreshments.
         (d)   The total value of all prizes awarded during the game does not
exceed $100.
         (e)   No commission, wages, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity,
or other form of compensation, either directly or indirectly, and regardless of
the source, is paid to any bingo game operator for work or labor performed at
the site of the bingo game.
         (f)   The bingo game is not conducted during or within ten hours of
either of the following:
            1.   A bingo session during which a charitable bingo game is
conducted pursuant to R.C. §§ 2915.07 through 2915.11 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance;
            2.   A scheme of chance or a game of chance, or bingo described in
R.C. § 2915.01(O)(2).
         (g)   All of the participants reside at the premises where the bingo
game is conducted.
         (h)   The bingo games are conducted on different days of the week and
not more than twice in a calendar week.
   (B)   The Attorney General or any local law enforcement agency may
investigate the conduct of a bingo game that purportedly is conducted for
purposes of amusement only if there is reason to believe that the purported
amusement bingo game does not comply with the requirements of either division
(A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section. A local law enforcement agency may proceed by
action in the proper court to enforce this section if the local law enforcement
agency gives written notice to the Attorney General when commencing the action.
(R.C. § 2915.12)
§ 134.10  PROHIBITIONS WHERE INSTANT BINGO GAME IS CONDUCTED.
   (A)   No charitable organization that conducts instant bingo shall do any of
the following:
      (1)   Fail to comply with the requirements of R.C. § 2915.09(A)(1), (A)
(2), and (A)(3), or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (2)   Conduct instant bingo unless either of the following applies:
         (a)   That organization is, and has received from the Internal Revenue
Service a determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the
organization is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a), is
described in IRC 501(c)(3), is a charitable organization as defined in R.C. §
2915.01, is in good standing in the state pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08, and is in
compliance with R.C. Chapter 1716;
         (b)   That organization is, and has received from the Internal Revenue
Service a determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the
organization is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a), is
described in IRC 501(c)(7), (c)(8), (c)(10), or (c)(19) or is a veteran’s
organization described in IRC 501(c)(4), and conducts instant bingo under R.C.
§ 2915.13.
      (3)   Conduct instant bingo on any day, at any time, or at any premises
not specified on the organization’s license issued pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08;
      (4)   Permit any person whom the organization knows or should have known
has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any jurisdiction to be a
bingo game operator in the conduct of instant bingo;
      (5)   Purchase or lease supplies used to conduct instant bingo or punch
board games from any person except a distributor licensed under R.C. §
2915.081;
      (6)   Sell or provide any instant bingo ticket or card for a price
different from the price printed on it by the manufacturer on either the
instant bingo ticket or card or on the game flare;
      (7)   Sell an instant bingo ticket or card to a person under 18 years of
age;
      (8)   Fail to keep unsold instant bingo tickets or cards for less than
three years;
      (9)   Pay any compensation to a bingo game operator for conducting
instant bingo that is conducted by the organization or for preparing, selling,
or serving food or beverages at the site of the instant bingo game, permit any
auxiliary unit or society of the organization to pay compensation to any bingo
game operator who prepares, sells, or serves food or beverages at an instant
bingo game conducted by the organization, or permit any auxiliary unit or
society of the organization to prepare, sell, or serve food or beverages at an
instant bingo game conducted by the organization, if the auxiliary unit or
society pays any compensation to the bingo game operators who prepare, sell, or
serve the food or beverages;
      (10)   Pay fees to any person for any services performed in relation to
an instant bingo game, except as provided in R.C. § 2915.093(D);
      (11)   Pay fees to any person who provides refreshments to the
participants in an instant bingo game;
      (12)   (a)   Allow instant bingo tickets or cards to be sold to bingo
game operators at a premises at which the organization sells instant bingo
tickets or cards or to be sold to employees of a D permit holder who are
working at a premises at which instant bingo tickets or cards are sold;
         (b)   Division (A)(12)(a) of this section does not prohibit a licensed
charitable organization or a bingo game operator from giving any person an
instant bingo ticket as a prize in place of a cash prize won by a participant
in an instant bingo game. In no case shall an instant bingo ticket or card be
sold or provided for a price different from the price printed on it by the
manufacturer on either the instant bingo ticket or card or on the game flare.
      (13)   Fail to display its bingo license, and the serial numbers of the
deal of instant bingo tickets or cards to be sold, conspicuously at each
premises at which it sells instant bingo tickets or cards;
      (14)   Possess a deal of instant bingo tickets or cards that was not
purchased from a distributor licensed under R.C. § 2915.081 as reflected on an
invoice issued by the distributor that contains all of the information required
by R.C. § 2915.10(E);
      (15)   Fail, once it opens a deal of instant bingo tickets or cards, to
continue to sell the tickets or cards in that deal until the tickets or cards
with the top two highest tiers of prizes in that deal are sold;
      (16)   Possess bingo supplies that were not obtained in accordance with
R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (B)   A charitable organization may purchase, lease, or use instant bingo
ticket dispensers to sell instant bingo tickets or cards.
   (C)   Pursuant to R.C. § 2915.091(C), the Attorney General may adopt rules
in accordance with R.C. Chapter 119 that govern the conduct of instant bingo by
charitable organizations.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section or a rule adopted under
division (C) of this section is guilty of illegal instant bingo conduct. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, illegal instant bingo conduct is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of a violation of division (A) of this section or of such a rule adopted under
division (C) of this section, illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.091)
§ 134.11  RAFFLE DRAWINGS.
   (A)   (1)   Subject to division (A)(2) of this section, a charitable
organization, a public school, a chartered nonpublic school, a community
school, or a veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a) and
is described in IRC 501(c)(3), 501(c)(4), 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10), or
501(c)(19) may conduct a raffle to raise money for the organization or school
and does not need a license to conduct bingo in order to conduct a raffle
drawing that is not for profit.
      (2)   If a charitable organization that is described in division (A)(1)
of this section, but that is not also described in IRC 501(c)(3), conducts a
raffle, the charitable organization shall distribute at least 50% of the net
profit from the raffle to a charitable purpose described in R.C. § 2915.01(V)
or to a department or agency of the federal government, the state, or any
political subdivision.
   (B)   A chamber of commerce may conduct not more than one raffle per year to
raise money for the chamber of commerce.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (A) or (B) of this section, no person
shall conduct a raffle drawing that is for profit or a raffle drawing that is
not for profit.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of illegal
conduct of a raffle. Except as otherwise provided in this division, illegal
conduct of a raffle is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of a violation of division (C) of this section,
illegal conduct of a raffle is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2915.092)
§ 134.12  INSTANT BINGO OTHER THAN AT BINGO SESSIONS.
   (A)   As used in this section, RETAIL INCOME FROM ALL COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY
means the income that a person receives from the provision of goods, services,
or activities that are provided at the location where instant bingo other than
at a bingo session is conducted, including the sale of instant bingo tickets. A
religious organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC
501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3), at not more than one location at which
it conducts its charitable programs, may include donations from its members and
guests as retail income.
   (B)   (1)   If a charitable instant bingo organization conducts instant
bingo other than at a bingo session, the charitable instant bingo organization
shall enter into a written contract with the owner or lessor of the location at
which the instant bingo is conducted to allow the owner or lessor to assist in
the conduct of instant bingo other than at a bingo session, identify each
location where the instant bingo other than at a bingo session is being
conducted, and identify the owner or lessor of each location.
      (2)   A charitable instant bingo organization that conducts instant bingo
other than at a bingo session is not required to enter into a written contract
with the owner or lessor of the location at which the instant bingo is
conducted provided that the owner or lessor is not assisting in the conduct of
the instant bingo other than at a bingo session and provided that the conduct
of the instant bingo other than at a bingo session at that location is not more
than five days per calendar year and not more than ten hours per day.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (F) of this section, no charitable
instant bingo organization shall conduct instant bingo other than at a bingo
session at a location where the primary source of retail income from all
commercial activity at that location is the sale of instant bingo tickets.
   (D)   (1)   The owner or lessor of a location that enters into a contract
pursuant to division (B) of this section shall pay the full gross profit to the
charitable instant bingo organization, in return for the deal of instant bingo
tickets. The owner or lessor may retain the money that the owner or lessor
receives for selling the instant bingo tickets, provided, however, that after
the deal has been sold, the owner or lessor shall pay to the charitable instant
bingo organization the value of any unredeemed instant bingo prizes remaining
in the deal of instant bingo tickets.
      (2)   The charitable instant bingo organization shall pay 6% of the total
gross receipts of any deal of instant bingo tickets for the purpose of
reimbursing the owner or lessor for expenses described in this division.
      (3)   As used in this division, EXPENSES means those items provided for
in R.C. § 2915.01(GG)(4), (GG)(5), (GG)(6), (GG)(7), (GG)(8), (GG)(12), and
(GG)(13) and that percentage  of the owner’s or lessor’s rent for the location
where instant bingo is conducted. Expenses, in the aggregate, shall not exceed
6% of the total gross receipts of any deal of instant bingo tickets.
      (4)   As used in this division, FULL GROSS PROFIT means the amount by
which the total receipts of all instant bingo tickets, if the deal has been
sold in full, exceeds the amount that would be paid out if all prizes were
redeemed.
   (E)   A charitable instant bingo organization shall provide the Attorney
General with all of the following information:
      (1)   That the charitable instant bingo organization has terminated a
contract entered into pursuant to division (B) of this section with an owner or
lessor of a location;
      (2)   That the charitable instant bingo organization has entered into a
written contract pursuant to division (B) of this section with a new owner or
lessor of a location;
      (3)   That the charitable instant bingo organization is aware of conduct
by the owner or lessor of a location at which instant bingo is conducted that
is in violation of R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (F)   Division (C) of this section does not apply to a volunteer
firefighter’s organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under
IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3), that conducts instant bingo other
than at a bingo session on the premises where the organization conducts
firefighter training, that has conducted instant bingo continuously for at
least five years prior to July 1, 2003, and that, during each of those five
years, had gross receipts of at least $1,500,000.
(R.C. § 2915.093)
   (G)   (1)   A veteran’s organization, a fraternal organization, or a
sporting organization authorized to conduct a bingo session pursuant to R.C.
Chapter 2915 may conduct instant bingo other than at a bingo session if all of
the following apply:
         (a)   The veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization limits the sale of instant bingo to 12 hours during any day,
provided that the sale does not begin earlier than 10:00 a.m. and ends not
later than 2:00 a.m.;
         (b)   The veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization limits the sale of instant bingo to its own premises and to its
own members and invited guests;
         (c)   The veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization is raising money for an organization that is described in IRC 509
(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a governmental unit or an organization
that maintains its principal place of business in this state, that is exempt
from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3),
and that is in good standing in this state and executes a written contract with
that organization as required in division (G)(2) of this section.
      (2)   If a veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization authorized to conduct instant bingo pursuant to division (G)(1) of
this section is raising money for another organization that is described in IRC
509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a governmental unit or an
organization that maintains its principal place of business in this state, that
is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC
501(c), and that is in good standing in this state, the veteran’s organization,
fraternal organization, or sporting organization shall execute a written
contract with the organization that is described in IRC 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or
(a)(3) and is either a governmental unit or an organization that maintains its
principal place of business in this state, that is exempt from federal income
taxation under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c), and that is in good
standing in this state in order to conduct instant bingo. That contract shall
include a statement of the percentage of the net proceeds that the veteran’s,
fraternal, or sporting organization will be distributing to the organization
that is described in IRC 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a
governmental unit or an organization that maintains its principal place of
business in this state, that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC
501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3), and that is in good standing in this
state.
      (3)   (a)   If a veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or
sporting organization authorized to conduct instant bingo pursuant to division
(G)(1) of this section has been issued a liquor permit under R.C. Chapter 4303,
that permit may be subject to suspension, revocation, or cancellation if the
veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting organization
violates a provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
         (b)   No veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization that enters into a written contract pursuant to division (G)(2) of
this section shall violate any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915,
or permit, aid, or abet any other person in violating any provision of this
chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
      (4)   A veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization shall give all required proceeds earned from the conduct of
instant bingo to the organization with which the veteran’s organization,
fraternal organization, or sporting organization has entered into a written
contract.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (G) of this section is guilty of illegal
instant bingo conduct. Except as otherwise provided in this division, illegal
instant bingo conduct is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of a violation of division (G) of this section,
illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2915.13)
§ 134.13  RESTRICTIONS ON OWNER OR LESSOR OF LOCATION AT INSTANT BINGO.
   (A)   No owner or lessor of a location shall assist a charitable instant
bingo organization in the conduct of instant bingo other than at a bingo
session at that location unless the owner or lessor has entered into a written
contract, as described in R.C. § 2915.093, with the charitable instant bingo
organization to assist in the conduct of instant bingo other than at a bingo
session.
   (B)   The location of the lessor or owner shall be designated as a location
where the charitable instant bingo organization conducts instant bingo other
than at a bingo session.
   (C)   No owner or lessor of a location that enters into a written contract
as prescribed in division (A) of this section shall violate any provision of
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915, or permit, aid, or abet any other person in
violating any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (D)   No owner or lessor of a location that enters into a written contract
as prescribed in division (A) of this section shall violate the terms of the
contract.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty
of illegal instant bingo conduct. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, illegal instant bingo conduct is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of division (C) or
(D) of this section, illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If an owner or lessor of a location knowingly, intentionally, or
recklessly violates division (C) or (D) of this section, any license that the
owner or lessor holds for the retail sale of any goods on the owner’s or
lessor’s premises that is issued by the state or a political subdivision is
subject to suspension, revocation, or payment of a monetary penalty at the
request of the Attorney General.
(R.C. § 2915.094)
§ 134.14  SKILL-BASED AMUSEMENT MACHINES; PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall give to another person any item described in division
(1), (2), (3), or (4) of the definition for “merchandise prize” in §
134.01 in exchange for a noncash prize, toy, or novelty received as a reward
for playing or operating a skill-based amusement machine or for a free or
reduced-price game won on a skill-based amusement machine.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of skill-based
amusement machine prohibited conduct. A violation of division (A) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree for each redemption of a prize
that is involved in the violation. If the offender previously has been
convicted of a violation of division (A) of this section, a violation of that
division is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.06)
CHAPTER 135:  OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
Section
   
135.01   Definitions
   
135.02   Negligent homicide
   
135.03   Vehicular homicide; vehicular manslaughter
   
135.04   Assault; negligent assault
   
135.05   Injury to persons by hunters
   
135.06   Menacing; aggravated menacing; menacing by stalking
   
135.07   Unlawful restraint
   
135.08   Criminal child enticement
   
135.09   Coercion
   
135.10   Bigamy
   
135.11   Unlawful abortion; failure to perform viability testing
   
135.12   Abortion trafficking
   
135.13   Nonsupport of dependents
   
135.14   Endangering children
   
135.15   Interference with custody; interference with support orders
   
135.16   Domestic violence
   
135.17   Hazing prohibited
   
135.18   Contributing to unruliness or delinquency of a child
   
135.19   Failure to provide for functionally impaired person
   
135.20   Patient abuse or neglect; patient endangerment; exceptions; false
statements; retaliation
   
135.21   Interference with right of person to engage in housing transactions
because of race, religion, or the like
   
135.22   Ethnic intimidation
   
135.23   Violating a protection order, consent agreement, anti-stalking
protection order or order issued by a court of another state
   
135.24   Adulteration of food
   
135.25   Illegal distribution of cigarettes or other tobacco products;
transaction scans
   
135.26   Illegal use of tobacco products
   
135.27   Nonsmoking areas in places of public assembly
   
135.28   Spreading contagion
   
135.29   Abuse of a corpse
   
135.30   Unlawful collection of bodily substances
Statutory reference:
   Child care, misrepresentations by providers and failure to disclose death or
serious injuries, misdemeanors, see R.C. §§ 2919.223 et seq.
   Extortionate extension of credit, see R.C. §§ 2905.21 through 2905.24
   Failure to send child to school, see R.C. § 3321.38
   Permitting child abuse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.15
   Reckless homicide, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.041
   Rights of victims of crimes, see R.C. Chapter 2930
§ 135.01  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of §§
135.01 through
135.06, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ANOTHER’S UNBORN or OTHER PERSON’S UNBORN. A member of the species Homo
sapiens who is or was carried in the womb of another during a period that
begins with fertilization and that continues unless and until live birth
occurs.
      UNLAWFUL TERMINATION OF ANOTHER’S PREGNANCY.  Causing the death of an
unborn member of the species Homo sapiens who is or was carried in the womb of
another, as a result of injuries inflicted during the period that begins with
fertilization and that continues unless and until live birth occurs.
   (B)   Notwithstanding division (A) of this section, in no case shall the
definitions of the terms ANOTHER’S UNBORN, OTHER PERSON’S UNBORN and UNLAWFUL
TERMINATION OF ANOTHER’S PREGNANCY that are set forth in division (A) of this
section be applied or construed in any of the following manners:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(1) of this section, in
a manner so that the offense prohibits or is construed as prohibiting any
pregnant woman or her physician from performing an abortion with the consent of
the pregnant woman, with the consent of the pregnant woman implied by law in a
medical emergency, or with the approval of one otherwise authorized by law to
consent to medical treatment on behalf of the pregnant woman. An abortion that
violates the conditions described in the immediately preceding sentence may be
punished as any violation of R.C. § 2903.01, 2903.02, 2903.03, 2903.04,
2903.05, 2903.06, 2903.08, 2903.11, 2903.12, 2903.13, 2903.14, 2903.21, or
2903.22, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, as applicable. An
abortion that does not violate the conditions described in the second
immediately preceding sentence but that does violate R.C. § 2919.12, 2919.13
(B), 2919.151, 2919.17, or 2919.18, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, may be punished as a violation of such section, as applicable.
      (2)   In a manner so that the offense is applied or is construed as
applying to a woman based on an act or omission of the woman that occurs while
she is or was pregnant and that results in any of the following:
         (a)   Her delivery of a stillborn baby;
         (b)   Her causing, in any other manner, the death in utero of a
viable, unborn human that she is carrying;
         (c)   Her causing the death of her child who is born alive but who
dies from one or more injuries that are sustained while the child is a viable,
unborn human;
         (d)   Her causing her child who is born alive to sustain one or more
injuries while the child is a viable, unborn human;
         (e)   Her causing, threatening to cause, or attempting to cause, in
any other manner, an injury, illness, or other psychological illness or
condition, regardless of its duration or gravity, to a viable, unborn human
that she is carrying.
(R.C. § 2903.09)
§ 135.02  NEGLIGENT HOMICIDE.
   (A)   No person shall negligently cause the death of another or the unlawful
termination of another’s pregnancy by means of a deadly weapon or dangerous
ordnance, as defined in R.C. § 2923.11.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of negligent homicide, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2903.05)
Statutory reference:
   Reckless homicide, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.041
§ 135.03  VEHICULAR HOMICIDE; VEHICULAR MANSLAUGHTER.
   (A)   No person, while operating or participating in the operation of a
motor vehicle, motorcycle, snowmobile, locomotive, watercraft, or aircraft,
shall cause the death of another or the unlawful termination of another’s
pregnancy in any of the following ways:
      (1)   (a)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of R.C. §
4511.19(A) or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
         (b)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of R.C. §
1547.11(A), or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
         (c)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of R.C. §
4561.15(A)(3), or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   In one of the following ways:
         (a)   Recklessly;
         (b)   As the proximate result of committing, while operating or
participating in the operation of a motor vehicle or motorcycle in a
construction zone, a reckless operation offense; provided that this division
applies only if the person whose death is caused or whose pregnancy is
unlawfully terminated is in the construction zone at the time of the offender’s
commission of the reckless operation offense in the construction zone and does
not apply as described in division (D) of this section.
      (3)   In one of the following ways:
         (a)   Negligently;
         (b)   As the proximate result of committing, while operating or
participating in the operation of a motor vehicle or motorcycle in a
construction zone, a speeding offense; provided that this division applies only
if the person whose death is caused or whose pregnancy is unlawfully terminated
is in the construction zone at the time of the offender’s commission of the
speeding offense in the construction zone and does not apply as described in
division (D) of this section.
      (4)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of any provision
of any section contained in R.C. Title 45 that is a minor misdemeanor or of a
municipal ordinance that, regardless of the penalty set by ordinance for the
violation, is substantially equivalent to any provision of any section
contained in R.C. Title 45 that is a minor misdemeanor.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is
guilty of aggravated vehicular homicide, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(3) of this section is guilty of
vehicular homicide. Except as otherwise provided in this division, vehicular
homicide is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Vehicular homicide committed in
violation of division (A)(3) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if, at the time of the offense, the offender was driving
under a suspension or cancellation imposed under R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other
provision of the Ohio Revised Code or was operating a motor vehicle or
motorcycle, did not have a valid driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privilege, and was not eligible for renewal of the offender’s driver’s license
or commercial driver’s license without examination under R.C. § 4507.10 or if
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation
of this section or any traffic-related homicide, manslaughter, or assault
offense. The court shall impose a mandatory jail term on the offender when
required by division (C) of this section.
         (b)   In addition to any other sanctions imposed pursuant to this
division, the court shall impose upon the offender a class four suspension of
the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4) or, if the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section or any
traffic- related homicide, manslaughter, or assault offense, a class three
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(3), or, if the offender
previously had been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a traffic-related murder,
felonious assault, or attempted murder offense, a class two suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege as specified
in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(2).
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) of this section is guilty of
vehicular manslaughter. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
vehicular manslaughter is a misdemeanor of the second degree. Vehicular
manslaughter is a misdemeanor of the first degree if, at the time of the
offense, the offender was driving under a suspension or cancellation imposed
under R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other provision of the Revised Code or was
operating a motor vehicle or motorcycle, did not have a valid driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary
license, or nonresident operating privilege, and was not eligible for renewal
of the offender’s driver’s license or commercial driver’s license without
examination under R.C. § 4507.10 or if the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section or any traffic-
related homicide, manslaughter, or assault offense.
         (b)   In addition to any other sanctions imposed pursuant to this
division, the court shall impose upon the offender a class six suspension of
the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(6) or, if the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section, any
traffic-related homicide, manslaughter, or assault offense, or a traffic-
related murder, felonious assault, or attempted murder offense, a class four
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
   (C)   The court shall impose a mandatory prison term on an offender who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a felony violation of this section, as
provided in R.C. § 2903.06(E). The court shall impose a mandatory jail term of
at least 15 days on an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
misdemeanor violation of division (A)(3)(b) of this section and may impose upon
the offender a longer jail term as authorized pursuant to R.C. § 2929.24.
   (D)   Divisions (A)(2)(b) and (A)(3)(b) of this section do not apply in a
particular construction zone unless signs of the type described in R.C. §
2903.081 are erected in that construction zone in accordance with the
guidelines and design specifications established by the Director of
Transportation under R.C. § 5501.27. The failure to erect signs of the type
described in R.C. § 2903.081 in a particular construction zone in accordance
with those guidelines and design specifications does not limit or affect the
application of division (A)(1), (A)(2)(a), (A)(3)(a), or (A)(4) of this section
in that construction zone or the prosecution of any person who violates any of
those divisions in that construction zone.
   (E)   (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
         CONSTRUCTION ZONE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5501.27.
         MANDATORY PRISON TERM and MANDATORY JAIL TERM. Have the same meanings
as in R.C. § 2929.01.
         MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
         RECKLESS OPERATION OFFENSE. Means a violation of R.C. § 4511.20 or a
municipal ordinance substantially equivalent to R.C. § 4511.20.
         SPEEDING OFFENSE. Means a violation of R.C. § 4511.21 or a municipal
ordinance pertaining to speed.
         TRAFFIC-RELATED HOMICIDE, MANSLAUGHTER, OR ASSAULT OFFENSE. Means a
violation of R.C. § 2903.04 in circumstances in which division (D) of that
section applies, a violation of R.C. § 2903.06 or 2903.08, or a violation of
R.C. § 2903.06, 2903.07, or 2903.08 as they existed prior to March 23, 2000.
         TRAFFIC-RELATED MURDER, FELONIOUS ASSAULT, OR ATTEMPTED MURDER
OFFENSE. Means a violation of R.C. § 2903.01 or R.C. § 2903.02 in circumstances
in which the offender used a motor vehicle as the means to commit the
violation, a violation of R.C.  § 2903.11(A)(2) in circumstances in which the
deadly weapon used in the commission of the violation is a motor vehicle, or an
attempt to commit aggravated murder or murder in violation of R.C. § 2923.02 in
circumstances in which the offender used a motor vehicle as the means to
attempt to commit the aggravated murder or murder.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, when a penalty or suspension is
enhanced because of a prior or current violation of a specified law or a prior
or current specified offense, the reference to the violation of the specified
law or the specified offense includes any violation of any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, former law of this state, or current or former
law of this or another state or the United States.
(R.C. § 2903.06)
Statutory reference:
   Aggravated vehicular assault, felony, see R.C. § 2903.08
   Aggravated vehicular homicide, felony, see R.C. § 2903.06
   Trial court to suspend driver’s license, see R.C. § 4510.05
§ 135.04  ASSAULT; NEGLIGENT ASSAULT.
   (A)   Assault.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly cause or attempt to cause physical harm
to another or to another’s unborn.
      (2)   No person shall recklessly cause serious physical harm to another
or to another’s unborn.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is
guilty of assault. Except as provided in R.C. § 2903.13(C), assault is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (4)   If an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to assault when
it is a misdemeanor also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a specification as
described in R.C. § 2941.1423 (victim of the offense was a woman whom the
defendant knew was pregnant at the time of the offense) that was included in
the indictment, count in the indictment, or information charging the offense,
the court shall sentence the offender to a mandatory jail term as provided in
R.C. § 2929.24(G).
(R.C. § 2903.13)
   (B)   Negligent assault.
      (1)   No person shall negligently, by means of a deadly weapon or
dangerous ordnance as defined in R.C. § 2923.11, cause physical harm to another
or to another’s unborn.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section is guilty of
negligent assault, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 2903.14)
Statutory reference:
   Aggravated and felonious assault, see R.C. §§ 2903.11 and 2903.12
   Aggravated vehicular assault, felony, see R.C. § 2903.08
   Anti-stalking protection order as pretrial condition of release, see R.C. §
2903.213
   Felony offenses: assaulting functionally impaired person, peace officer,
investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation,
firefighter, person performing emergency medical service, officer or employee
of a public children services agency or private child placing agency; assault
at a correctional institution; assault on school officials and school bus
drivers, see R.C. § 2903.13(C)
   Permitting child abuse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.15
   Persons who may seek relief under anti-stalking protection order; ex parte
orders, see R.C. § 2903.214
   Protection order as pretrial condition of release, see R.C. § 2903.213
§ 135.05  INJURY TO PERSONS BY HUNTERS.
   (A)   No person in the act of hunting, pursuing, taking, or killing a wild
animal shall act in a negligent, careless, or reckless manner so as to injure
persons.
(R.C. § 1533.171(A))
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 1533.99(C))
Statutory reference:
   Violation, license revocation, see R.C. § 1533.171(B) through (E)
§ 135.06  MENACING; AGGRAVATED MENACING; MENACING BY STALKING.
   (A)   Menacing.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly cause another to believe that the
offender will cause physical harm to the person or property of the other
person, the other person’s unborn, or a member of the other person’s immediate
family.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) of this section is guilty of
menacing. Except as otherwise provided in this division (A)(2), menacing is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If the victim of the offense is an officer or
employee of a public children services agency or a private child placing agency
and the offense relates to the officer’s or employee’s performance or
anticipated performance of official responsibilities or duties, menacing is a
misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to an offense of violence, the victim of that
prior offense was an officer or employee of a public children services agency
or private child placing agency, and that prior offense related to the
officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated performance of official
responsibilities or duties, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
(R.C. § 2903.22)
   (B)   Aggravated menacing.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly cause another to believe that the
offender will cause serious physical harm to the person or property of the
other person, such other person’s unborn, or a member of such other person’s
immediate family.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section is guilty of
aggravated menacing. Except as otherwise provided in this division (B)(2),
aggravated menacing is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the victim of the
offense is an officer or employee of a public children services agency or a
private child placing agency and the offense relates to the officer’s or
employee’s performance or anticipated performance of official responsibilities
or duties, aggravated menacing is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law or, if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to an offense of violence, the victim of that prior offense was an
officer or employee of a public children services agency or private child
placing agency, and that prior offense related to the officer’s or employee’s
performance or anticipated performance of official responsibilities or duties,
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.21)
   (C)   Menacing by stalking.
      (1)   (a)   No person by engaging in a pattern of conduct shall knowingly
cause another person to believe that the offender will cause physical harm to
the other person or cause mental distress to the other person.
         (b)   No person, through the use of any electronic method of remotely
transferring information, including but not limited to any computer, computer
network, computer program, or computer system, shall post a message with
purpose to urge or incite another to commit a violation of division (C)(1)(a)
of this section.
         (c)   No person, with a sexual motivation, shall violate division (C)
(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) of this section.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C)(1) of this section is guilty of
menacing by stalking.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2)(b) of this
section, menacing by stalking is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   Menacing by stalking is a felony, to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law, if any of the following applies:
            1.   The offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of R.C. § 2903.211 or a violation of R.C. § 2911.211, or
a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to either of these offenses;
            2.   In committing the offense under division (C)(1)(a), (C)(1)(b)
or (C)(1)(c) of this section, the offender made a threat of physical harm to or
against the victim, or as a result of an offense committed under division (C)
(1)(b) or (C)(1)(c) of this section, a third person induced by the offender’s
posted message made a threat of physical harm to or against the victim;
            3.   In committing the offense under division (C)(1)(a), (C)(1)(b)
or (C)(1)(c) of this section, the offender trespassed on the land or premises
where the victim lives, is employed, or attends school, or as a result of an
offense committed under division (C)(1)(b) or (C)(1)(c) of this section, a
third person induced by the offender’s posted message trespassed on the land or
premises where the victim lives, is employed, or attends school;
            4.   The victim of the offense is a minor;
            5.   The offender has a history of violence towards the victim or
any other person or a history of other violent acts towards the victim or any
other person;
            6.   While committing the offense under division (C)(1)(a) of this
section or a violation of division (C)(1)(c) of this section based on conduct
in violation of division (C)(1)(a) of this section, the offender had a deadly
weapon on or about the offender’s person or under the offender’s control.
Division (C)(2)(b)6. of this section does not apply in determining the penalty
for a violation of division (C)(1)(b) of this section or a violation of
division (C)(1)(c) of this section based on conduct in violation of division
(C)(1)(b) of this section;
            7.   At the time of the commission of the offense, the offender was
the subject of a protection order issued under R.C. § 2903.213 or R.C. §
2903.214, regardless of whether or not the person to be protected under the
order is the victim of the offense or another person;
            8.   In committing the offense under division (C)(1)(a), (C)(1)(b)
or (C)(1)(c) of this section, the offender caused serious physical harm to the
premises at which the victim resides, to the real property on which that
premises is located, or to any personal property located on that premises, or
as a result of an offense committed under division (C)(1)(b) of this section or
an offense committed under division (C)(1)(c) of this section based on a
violation of division (C)(1)(b) of this section, a third person induced by the
offender’s posted message caused serious physical harm to that premises, that
real property, or any personal property on that premises;
            9.   Prior to committing the offense, the offender had been
determined to represent a substantial risk of physical harm to others as
manifested by evidence of then-recent homicidal or other violent behavior,
evidence of then-recent threats that placed another in reasonable fear of
violent behavior and serious harm, or other evidence of then-present
dangerousness;
            10.   The victim of the offense is an officer or employee of a
public children services agency or a private child placing agency and the
offense relates to the officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated
performance of official responsibilities or duties;
            11.   The offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to an offense of violence, the victim of that prior offense was an
officer or employee of a public children services agency or private child
placing agency, and that prior offense related to the officer’s or employee’s
performance or anticipated performance of official responsibilities or duties.
      (3)   R.C. § 2919.271 applies in relation to a defendant charged with a
violation of this section.
      (4)   As used in division (C) of this section:
         COMPUTER, COMPUTER NETWORK, COMPUTER PROGRAM, COMPUTER SYSTEM, and
TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
         EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency facility
personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2909.04.
         EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency
medical services personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2133.21.
         MENTAL DISTRESS. Means any of the following:
            1.   Any mental illness or condition that involves some temporary
substantial incapacity;
            2.   Any mental illness or condition that would normally require
psychiatric treatment, psychological treatment, or other mental health
services, whether or not any person requested or received psychiatric
treatment, psychological treatment, or other mental health services.
         PATTERN OF CONDUCT. Two or more actions or incidents closely related
in time, whether or not there has been a prior conviction based on any of those
actions or incidents. Actions or incidents that prevent, obstruct, or delay the
performance by a public official, firefighter, rescuer, emergency medical
services person, or emergency facility person of any authorized act within the
public official’s, firefighter’s, rescuer’s, emergency medical services
person’s, or emergency facility person’s official capacity, or the posting of
messages or receipt of information or data through the use of an electronic
method of remotely transferring information, including but not limited to a
computer, computer network, computer program, computer system, or
telecommunications device, may constitute a “pattern of conduct.”
         POST A MESSAGE. Transferring, sending, posting, publishing,
disseminating, or otherwise communicating, or attempting to transfer, send,
post, publish, disseminate, or otherwise communicate, any message or
information, whether truthful or untruthful, about an individual, and whether
done under one’s own name, under the name of another, or while impersonating
another.
         PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.01.
         SEXUAL MOTIVATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2971.01.
         THIRD PERSON. In relation to conduct as described in division (C)(1)
(b) of this section, an individual who is neither the offender nor the victim
of the conduct.
      (5)   The prosecution does not need to prove in a prosecution under
division (C) of this section that a person requested or received psychiatric
treatment, psychological treatment, or other mental health services in order to
show that the person was caused mental distress as described in division (2) of
the definition for “mental distress” in this section.
      (6)   (a)   Division (C) of this section does not apply to a person
solely because the person provided access or connection to or from an
electronic method of remotely transferring information not under that person’s
control, including having provided capabilities that are incidental to
providing access or connection to or from the electronic method of remotely
transferring the information, and that do not include the creation of the
content of the material that is the subject of the access or connection. In
addition, any person providing access or connection to or from an electronic
method of remotely transferring information not under that person’s control
shall not be liable for any action voluntarily taken in good faith to block the
receipt or transmission through its service of any information that it believes
is or will be sent in violation of division (C) of this section.
         (b)   Division (C)(6)(a) of this section does not create an
affirmative duty for any person providing access or connection to or from an
electronic method of remotely transferring information not under that person’s
control to block the receipt or transmission through its service of any
information that it believes is or will be sent in violation of division (C) of
this section except as otherwise provided by law.
         (c)   Division (C)(6)(a) of this section does not apply to a person
who conspires with a person actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of division (C) of this section or who
knowingly advertises the availability of material of that nature.
(R.C. § 2903.211)
Cross-reference:
   Violation of protection orders, see §
135.23
Statutory reference:
   Anti-stalking protection order as pretrial condition of release, see R.C. §
2903.213
   Conditions of bail for violators, see R.C. § 2903.212
   Persons who may seek relief under anti-stalking protection order; ex parte
orders, see R.C. § 2903.214
§ 135.07  UNLAWFUL RESTRAINT.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall knowingly restrain
another of the other person’s liberty.
   (B)   No person, without privilege to do so and with a sexual motivation,
shall knowingly restrain another of the other person’s liberty.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful restraint, a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   As used in this section, SEXUAL MOTIVATION has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2971.01
(R.C. § 2905.03)
§ 135.08  CRIMINAL CHILD ENTICEMENT.
   (A)   No person, by any means and without privilege to do so, shall
knowingly solicit, coax, entice, or lure any child under 14 years of age to
accompany the person in any manner, including entering into any vehicle or onto
any vessel, whether or not the offender knows the age of the child, if both of
the following apply:
      (1)   The actor does not have the express or implied permission of the
parent, guardian, or other legal custodian of the child in undertaking the
activity;
      (2)   The actor is not a law enforcement officer, medic, firefighter, or
other person who regularly provides emergency services, and is not an employee
or agent of, or a volunteer acting under the direction of, any board of
education, or the actor is any such person, but at the time the actor
undertakes the activity, the actor is not acting within the scope of the
actor’s lawful duties in that capacity.
   (B)   No person, with a sexual motivation, shall violate division (A) of
this section.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A) of this
section that the actor undertook the activity in response to a bona fide
emergency situation or that the actor undertook the activity in a reasonable
belief that it was necessary to preserve the health, safety, or welfare of the
child.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal child enticement,
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been
convicted of a violation of this section, a substantially equivalent state law
or municipal ordinance, R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03 or former R.C. § 2907.12, or
R.C. § 2905.01 or 2907.05 when the victim of that prior offense was under 17
years of age at the time of the offense, criminal child enticement is a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
      SEXUAL MOTIVATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2971.01.
      VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      VESSEL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1547.01.
(R.C. § 2905.05)
§ 135.09  COERCION.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to coerce another into taking or refraining
from action concerning which he or she has a legal freedom of choice, shall do
any of the following:
      (1)   Threaten to commit any offense;
      (2)   Utter or threaten any slander against any person;
      (3)   Expose or threaten to expose any matter tending to subject any
person to hatred, contempt, or ridicule, or to damage his or her personal or
business repute, or to impair his or her credit;
      (4)   Institute or threaten criminal proceedings against any person;
      (5)   Take or withhold, or threaten to take or withhold official action,
or cause or threaten to cause official action to be taken or withheld.
   (B)   Divisions (A)(4) and (A)(5) of this section shall not be construed to
prohibit a prosecutor or court from doing any of the following in good faith
and in the interests of justice:
      (1)   Offering or agreeing to grant, or granting immunity from
prosecution pursuant to R.C. § 2945.44;
      (2)   In return for a plea of guilty to one or more offenses charged or
to one or more other or lesser offenses, or in return for the testimony of the
accused in a case to which he or she is not a party, offering or agreeing to
dismiss, or dismissing one or more charges pending against an accused, or
offering or agreeing to impose, or imposing a certain sentence or modification
of sentence;
      (3)   Imposing probation on certain conditions, including without
limitation requiring the offender to make restitution or redress to the victim
of his or her offense.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(3), (A)
(4), or (A)(5) of this section that the actor’s conduct was a reasonable
response to the circumstances which occasioned it, and that his or her purpose
was limited to:
      (1)   Compelling another to refrain from misconduct or to desist from
further misconduct;
      (2)   Preventing or redressing a wrong or injustice;
      (3)   Preventing another from taking action for which the actor
reasonably believed the other person to be disqualified;
      (4)   Compelling another to take action which the actor reasonably
believed the other person to be under a duty to take.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of coercion, a misdemeanor of
the second degree.
   (E)   As used in this section, THREAT includes a direct threat and a threat
by innuendo.
(R.C. § 2905.12)
§ 135.10  BIGAMY.
   (A)   No married person shall marry another or continue to cohabit with such
other person in this municipality.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that the
actor’s spouse was continuously absent for five years immediately preceding the
purported subsequent marriage, and was not known by the actor to be alive
within that time.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of bigamy, a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
(R.C. § 2919.01)
§ 135.11  UNLAWFUL ABORTION; FAILURE TO PERFORM VIABILITY TESTING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABORTION. The purposeful termination of a human pregnancy by any person,
including the pregnant woman herself, with an intention other than  to produce
a live birth or to remove a dead fetus or embryo.
(R.C. § 2919.11)
      EMANCIPATED. A minor shall be considered emancipated if the minor has
married, entered the armed services of the United States, become employed and
self-subsisting, or has otherwise become independent from the care and control
of her parent, guardian or custodian.
      UNEMANCIPATED. A woman who is unmarried and under 18 years of age who has
not entered the armed services of the United States, has not become employed
and self-subsisting, or has not otherwise become independent from the care and
control of her parent, guardian, or custodian.
   (B)   No person shall perform or induce an abortion without the informed
consent of the pregnant woman.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly perform or induce an abortion upon a
pregnant minor unless one of the following is the case:
      (1)   The attending physician has secured the informed written consent of
the minor and one parent, guardian or custodian;
      (2)   The minor is emancipated and the attending physician has received
her informed written consent;
      (3)   The minor has been authorized to consent to the abortion by a court
order issued pursuant to R.C. § 2919.121(C) and the attending physician has
received her informed written consent; or
      (4)    The court has given its consent in accordance with R.C. § 2919.121
(C) and the minor is having the abortion willingly.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly perform or induce an abortion upon a woman
who is pregnant, unmarried, under 18 years of age, and unemancipated unless at
least one of the circumstances enumerated in R.C. § 2919.12(B) applies.
   (E)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (D) of
this section that the pregnant woman provided the person who performed or
induced the abortion with false, misleading, or incorrect information about her
age, marital status, or emancipation, about the age of the brother or sister to
whom she requested notice to be given as a specified relative instead of one of
her parents, her guardian, or her custodian, or about the last known address of
either of her parents, her guardian, her custodian, or a specified brother,
sister, stepparent, or grandparent to whom she requested notice be given and
the person who performed or induced the abortion did not otherwise have
reasonable cause to believe the pregnant woman was under 18 years of age,
unmarried, or unemancipated, to believe that the age of the brother or sister
to whom she requested notice be given as a specified relative instead of one of
her parents, her guardian, or her custodian was not 21 years of age, or to
believe that the last known address of either of her parents, her guardian, her
custodian, or a specified brother, sister, stepparent, or grandparent to whom
she requested notice be given was incorrect.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that
compliance with the requirements of this section was not possible because an
immediate threat of serious risk to the life or physical health of the pregnant
woman or pregnant minor from the continuation of her pregnancy created an
emergency necessitating the immediate performance or inducement of an abortion.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful abortion. A
violation of division (B), (C) or (D) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree on the first offense and a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
   (G)   Whoever violates this section is liable to the pregnant woman or
pregnant minor, and her parents, guardian, or custodian for civil, compensatory
and exemplary damages.
(R.C. §§ 2919.12, 2919.121)
   (H)   (1)   Division (C) of this section applies in lieu of division (D) of
this section whenever its operation is not enjoined. If division (C) of this
section is enjoined, division (D) of this section applies.
      (2)   If a person complies with the requirements of division (D) of this
section under the good faith belief that the application or enforcement of
division (C) of this section is subject to a restraining order or injunction,
good faith compliance shall constitute a complete defense to any civil,
criminal or professional disciplinary action brought under division (C) of this
section or R.C. § 2919.121.
      (3)   If a person complies with the requirements of division (C) of this
section under the good faith belief that it is not subject to a restraining
order or injunction, good faith compliance shall constitute a complete defense
to any civil, criminal or professional disciplinary action for failure to
comply with the requirements of division (D) of this section.
(R.C. § 2919.122)
   (I)   Failure to perform viability testing.
      (1)   Except in a medical emergency that prevents compliance with this
division, no physician shall perform or induce or attempt to perform or induce
an abortion on a pregnant woman after the beginning of the twentieth week of
gestation unless, prior to the performance or inducement of the abortion or the
attempt to perform or induce the abortion, the physician determines, in the
physician’s good faith medical judgment, that the unborn child is not viable,
and the physician makes that determination after performing a medical
examination of the pregnant woman and after performing or causing to be
performed those tests for assessing gestational age, weight, lung maturity, or
other tests that the physician, in that physician’s good faith medical
judgment, believes are necessary to determine whether an unborn child is
viable.
      (2)   Except in a medical emergency that prevents compliance with this
division, no physician shall perform or induce or attempt to perform or induce
an abortion on a pregnant woman after the beginning of the twentieth week of
gestation without first entering the determination made in division (I)(1) of
this section and the associated findings of the medical examination and tests
in the medical record of the pregnant woman.
      (3)   Whoever violates this division (I) is guilty of failure to perform
viability testing, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (4)   The State Medical Board shall suspend a physician’s license to
practice medicine in this state for a period of not less than six months if the
physician violates this section.
(R.C. § 2919.18)
Statutory reference:
   Judicial bypass, see R.C. § 2151.85
   Judicial consent and the right of a minor to consent, see R.C. § 2919.121(C)
   Notice or consent requirements for unmarried minors, see R.C. § 2919.12(B)
§ 135.12  ABORTION TRAFFICKING.
   (A)   No person shall experiment upon or sell the product of human
conception which is aborted. “Experiment” does not include autopsies pursuant
to R.C. §§ 313.13 and 2108.50.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of abortion trafficking, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2919.14)
§ 135.13  NONSUPPORT OF DEPENDENTS.
   (A)   No person shall abandon, or fail to provide adequate support to:
      (1)   His or her spouse, as required by law;
      (2)   His or her legitimate or illegitimate child who is under age 18, or
mentally or physically disabled child who is under age 21;
      (3)   His or her aged or infirm parent or adoptive parent, who from lack
of ability and means is unable to provide adequately for his or her own
support.
   (B)   No person shall abandon or fail to provide support as established by
court order to another person whom, by court order or decree, the person is
legally obligated to support.
   (C)   No person shall aid, abet, induce, cause, encourage, or contribute to
a child or a ward of the juvenile court becoming a dependent child, as defined
in R.C. § 2151.04, or a neglected child, as defined in R.C. § 2151.03.
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of failure to provide
adequate support under division (A) of this section or a charge of failure to
provide support established by a court order under division (B) of this section
that the accused was unable to provide adequate support or the established
support, but did provide the support that was within his or her ability and
means.
   (E)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(3) of this
section that the parent abandoned the accused, or failed to support the accused
as required by law, while the accused was under age 18, or was mentally or
physically disabled and under age 21.
   (F)   It is not a defense to a charge under division (B) of this section
that the person whom a court has ordered the accused to support is being
adequately supported by someone other than the accused.
   (G)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) or (B) of this section is guilty of nonsupport of dependents, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (A)(2) or (B) of this section
or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or if the
offender has failed to provide support under division (A)(2) or (B) of this
section for a total accumulated period of 26 weeks out of 104 consecutive
weeks, whether or not the 26 weeks were consecutive, then a violation of
division (A)(2) or (B) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to a felony violation of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(2) or
(B) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the offender is guilty of nonsupport of dependents by reason of
failing to provide support to his or her child as required by a child support
order issued on or after April 15, 1985, pursuant to R.C. § 2151.23, 2151.231,
2151.232, 2151.33, 3105.21, 3109.05, 3111.13, 3113.04, 3113.31, or 3115.31, the
court, in addition to any other sentence imposed, shall assess all court costs
arising out of the charge against the person and require the person to pay any
reasonable attorney’s fees of any adverse party other than the state, as
determined by the court, that arose in relation to the charge.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of
contributing to the nonsupport of dependents, a misdemeanor of the first
degree. Each day of a violation of division (C) of this section is a separate
offense.
(R.C. § 2919.21)
§ 135.14  ENDANGERING CHILDREN.
   (A)   No person, who is the parent, guardian, custodian, person having
custody or control, or person in loco parentis of a child under 18 years of age
or a mentally or physically disabled child under 21 years of age, shall create
a substantial risk to the health or safety of the child by violating a duty of
care, protection, or support. It is not a violation of a duty of care,
protection, or support under this division when the parent, guardian,
custodian, or person having custody or control of a child treats the physical
or mental illness or disability of the child by spiritual means through prayer
alone, in accordance with the tenets of a recognized religious body.
   (B)   No person shall do any of the following to a child under 18 years of
age or a mentally or physically disabled child under 21 years of age:
      (1)   Abuse the child;
      (2)   Torture or cruelly abuse the child;
      (3)   Administer corporal punishment or other physical disciplinary
measure, or physically restrain the child in a cruel manner or for a prolonged
period, which punishment, discipline or restraint is excessive under the
circumstances and creates a substantial risk of serious physical harm to the
child;
      (4)   Repeatedly administer unwarranted disciplinary measures to a child
when there is a substantial risk that such conduct, if continued, will
seriously impair or retard the child’s mental health or development;
      (5)   Entice, coerce, permit, encourage, compel, hire, employ, use, or
allow the child to act, model, or in any other way participate in, or be
photographed for, the production, presentation, dissemination, or advertisement
of any material or performance that the offender knows or reasonably should
know is obscene, is sexually oriented matter, or is nudity-oriented matter;
      (6)   Allow the child to be on the same parcel of real property and
within 100 feet of, or, in the case of more than one housing unit on the same
parcel of real property, in the same housing unit and within 100 feet of, any
act in violation of R.C. § 2925.04 or 2925.041 when the person knows that the
act is occurring, whether or not any person is prosecuted for or convicted of
the violation of R.C. § 2925.04 or 2925.041 that is the basis of the violation
of this division.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle, as defined by R.C. § 4511.01,
within the municipality and in violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, when one or more children under
18 years of age are in the vehicle. Notwithstanding any other provision of law,
a person may be convicted at the same trial or proceeding of a violation of
this division and a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, that constitutes the basis of the charge of the
violation of this division. For purposes of R.C. §§ 4511.191 through 4511.197
and all related provisions of law, a person arrested for a violation of this
division shall be considered to be under arrest for operating a vehicle while
under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them or
for operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a
controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine.
      (2)   As used in division (C)(1) of this section:
         CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
         VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   (D)   (1)   Division (B)(5) of this section does not apply to any material
or performance that is produced, presented, or disseminated for a bona fide
medical, scientific, educational, religious, governmental, judicial, or other
proper purpose, by or to a physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist,
teacher, person pursing bona fide studies for research, librarian, member of
the clergy, prosecutor, judge, or other person having a proper interest in the
material or performance.
      (2)   Mistake of age is not a defense to a charge under division (B)(5)
of this section.
      (3)   In a prosecution under division (B)(5) of this section, the trier
of fact may infer that an actor, model, or participant in the material or
performance involved is a juvenile if the material or performance, through its
title, text, visual representation, or otherwise, represents or depicts the
actor, model, or participant as a juvenile.
      (4)   As used in this division and division (B)(5) of this section:
         MATERIAL, PERFORMANCE, OBSCENE, and SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Have the same
meanings as in R.C. § 2907.01.
         NUDITY-ORIENTED MATTER. Means any material or performance that shows a
minor in a state of nudity and that, taken as a whole  by the average person
applying contemporary community standards, appeals to the prurient interest.
         SEXUALLY ORIENTED MATTER. Means any material or performance that shows
a minor participating or engaging in sexual activity, masturbation, or
bestiality.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of endangering children.
      (1)   If the offender violates division (A) or (B)(1) of this section,
endangering children is one of the following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (E)(1)(b), (E)(1)(c) or
(E)(1)(d), a misdemeanor of the first degree;
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of an offense
under this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, or of any offense involving neglect, abandonment, or contributing to
the delinquency of or physical abuse of a child, except as otherwise provided
in division (E)(1)(c) or (E)(1)(d) of this section, endangering children is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law;
         (c)   If the violation is a violation of division (A) of this section
and results in serious physical harm to the child involved, endangering
children is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law;
         (d)   If the violation is a violation of division (B)(1) of this
section and results in serious physical harm to the child involved, endangering
children is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the offender violates division (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(5),
or (B)(6) of this section, endangering children is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the offender violates division (C) of this section, the offender
shall be punished as follows:
         (a)   Except as provided in (E)(3)(b) or (E)(3)(c), endangering
children in violation of division (C) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
         (b)   If the violation results in serious physical harm to the child
or if the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this section
or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or of any
offense involving neglect, abandonment, or contributing to the delinquency of
or physical abuse of a child, except as otherwise provided in division (E)(3)
(c) of this section, endangering children in violation of division (C) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (c)   If the violation results in serious physical harm to the child
and if the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this
section, R.C. § 2903.06, 2903.08, 2919.22(C) or former R.C. § 2903.07 as it
existed prior to March 23, 2000, or R.C. § 2903.04, in a case in which the
offender was subject to the sanctions described in division (D) of that
section, endangering children in violation of division (C) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (d)   In addition to any term of imprisonment, fine, or other
sentence, penalty or sanction it imposes upon the offender pursuant to
divisions (E)(3)(a), (E)(3)(b), or (E)(3)(c) of this section or pursuant to any
other provision of law, and in addition to any suspension of the offender’s
driver’s license or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privilege under R.C. Chapter 4506, 4509, 4510, or 4511, or any other
provision of law, the court also may impose upon the offender a class seven
suspension of the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit
or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02
(A)(7).
         (e)   In addition to any term of imprisonment, fine, or other
sentence, penalty or sanction imposed upon the offender pursuant to division
(E)(3)(a), (E)(3)(b), (E)(3)(c), or (E)(3)(d) of this section or pursuant to
any other provision of law for the violation of division (C) of this section,
if as a part of the same trial or proceeding the offender also is convicted of
or pleads guilty to a separate charge charging the violation of R.C. § 4511.19
(A), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that was the basis of
the charge of the violation of division (C) of this section, the offender also
shall be sentenced in accordance with R.C. § 4511.19, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, for that violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (F)   (1)   If a person violates division (C) of this section and if, at the
time of the violation, there were two or more children under 18 years of age in
the motor vehicle involved in the violation, the offender may be convicted of a
violation of division (C) of this section for each of the children, but the
court may sentence the offender for only one of the violations.
      (2)   (a)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation
of division (C) of this section but the person is not also convicted of and
does not also plead guilty to a separate charge of violating R.C. § 4511.19(A),
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that was the basis of the
charge of the violation of division (C) of this section, both the following
apply:
            1.   For purposes of the provisions of R.C. § 4511.19, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that set forth the penalties and
sanctions for a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, the conviction of or plea of guilty to the violation of
division (C) of this section shall not constitute a violation of R.C. § 4511.19
(A), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
            2.   For purposes of the provisions of law that refers to a
conviction of or plea of guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and that is not described in
division (F)(2)(a)1. of this section, the conviction of or plea of guilty to
the violation of division (C) of this section shall constitute a conviction or
plea of guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
         (b)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (C) of this section and the person also is convicted of or pleads
guilty to a separate charge of violating R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, that was the basis of the charge of the
violation of division (C) of this section, the conviction of or plea of guilty
to the violation of division (C) of this section shall not constitute, for the
purposes of any provision of law that refers to a conviction of or a plea of
guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, a conviction of or a plea of guilty to a violation of R.C.
§ 4511.19(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 2919.22(A) - (E), (H))
Statutory reference:
   Community service, requirements, see R.C. § 2919.22(F)
   License suspension, requirements, see R.C. § 2919.22(G)
   Permitting child abuse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.15
§ 135.15  INTERFERENCE WITH CUSTODY; INTERFERENCE WITH SUPPORT ORDERS.
   (A)   Interference with custody.
      (1)   No person, knowing that he or she is without privilege to do so or
being reckless in that regard, shall entice, take, keep, or harbor a person
identified in division (A)(1)(a), (A)(1)(b), or (A)(1)(c) of this section from
the parent, guardian, or custodian of the person identified in division (A)(1)
(a), (A)(1)(b), or (A)(1)(c) of this section:
         (a)   A child under the age of 18, or a mentally or physically
disabled child under the age of 21;
         (b)   A person committed by law to an institution for delinquent,
unruly, neglected, abused, or dependent children;
         (c)   A person committed by law to an institution for the mentally ill
or mentally disabled.
      (2)   No person shall aid, abet, induce, cause, or encourage a child or a
ward of the juvenile court who has been committed to the custody of any person,
department, or public or private institution to leave the custody of that
person, department, or institution without legal consent.
      (3)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of enticing or taking
under division (A)(1)(a) of this section that the actor reasonably believed
that his or her conduct was necessary to preserve the child’s health or safety.
It is an affirmative defense to a charge of keeping or harboring under division
(A)(1) of this section that the actor in good faith gave notice to law
enforcement or judicial authorities within a reasonable time after the child or
committed person came under his or her shelter, protection, or influence.
      (4)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interference with
custody.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this subdivision, a violation of
division (A)(1)(a) above is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the child who
is the subject of a violation of division (A)(1)(a) is removed from the state
or if the offender previously has been convicted of an offense under this
section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (A)(1)(a) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law. If the child who is the subject of a violation of
division (A)(1)(a) suffers physical harm as a result of the violation, a
violation of division (A)(1)(a) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
         (b)   A violation of division (A)(1)(b) or (A)(1)(c) of this section
is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
         (c)   A violation of division (A)(2) of this section is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. Each day of a violation of division (A)(2) is a separate
offense.
(R.C. § 2919.23)
   (B)   Interference with support orders.
      (1)   No person, by using physical harassment or threats of violence
against another person, shall interfere with the other person’s initiation or
continuance of, or attempt to prevent the other person from initiating or
continuing, an action to issue or modify a support order under R.C. Chapter
3115, or under R.C. § 2151.23, 2151.231, 2151.232, 2151.33, 2151.36, 2151.361,
2151.49, 3105.18, 3105.21, 3109.05, 3109.19, 3111.13, 3113.04, 3113.07, or
3113.31.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of interfering with an
action to issue or modify a support order, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a
violation of this division (B) or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, or R.C. § 3111.19, interfering with an action to issue or
modify a support order is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
(R.C. § 2919.231)
§ 135.16  DOMESTIC VIOLENCE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cause or attempt to cause physical harm to a
family or household member.
   (B)   No person shall recklessly cause serious physical harm to a family or
household member.
   (C)   No person, by threat of force, shall knowingly cause a family or
household member to believe that the offender will cause imminent physical harm
to the family or household member.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of domestic violence,
and the court shall sentence the offender as provided in divisions (D)(2) to
(D)(5) of this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3), (D)(4), or (D)(5)
of this section, a violation of division (C) of this section is a misdemeanor
of the fourth degree and a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section is
a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(4) of this section, if
the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted of domestic
violence, a violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or the United States that is substantially equivalent
to domestic violence, a violation of R.C. § 2903.14, 2909.06, 2909.07, 2911.12,
2911.211, or 2919.22 if the victim of the violation was a family or household
member at the time of the violation, a violation of an existing or former
municipal ordinance or law of this or any other state or the United States that
is substantially equivalent to any of those sections if the victim of the
violation was a family or household member at the time of the commission of the
violation, or any offense of violence if the victim of the offense was a family
or household member at the time of the commission of the offense, a violation
of division (A) or (B) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law, and a violation of division (C) is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (4)   If the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted
of two or more offenses of domestic violence or two or more violations or
offenses of the type described in division (D)(3) of this section involving a
person who was a family or household member at the time of the violations or
offenses, a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law, and a violation of division (C) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) or (D)(4) of this
section, if the offender knew that the victim of the violation was pregnant at
the time of the violation, a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law, and a violation of
division (C) of this section is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no court or unit
of state or local government shall charge any fee, cost, deposit, or money in
connection with the filing of charges against a person alleging that the person
violated this section or a municipal ordinance substantially equivalent to this
section or in connection with the prosecution of any charges so filed.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
offender:
            1.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse as defined below, or a
former spouse of the offender;
            2.   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the offender, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the offender;
            3.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse, or
former spouse of the offender, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
offender.
         (b)   The natural parent of any child of whom the offender is the
other natural parent or is the putative other natural parent.
      PERSON LIVING AS A SPOUSE. Means a person who is living or has lived with
the offender in a common law marital relationship, who otherwise is cohabiting
with the offender, or who otherwise has cohabited with the offender within five
years prior to the date of the alleged commission of the act in question.
(R.C. § 2919.25) 
Cross-reference:
   Violation of protection orders, see §
135.23
Statutory reference:
   Temporary protection orders, see R.C. § 2919.26
   Violation of protection order or consent agreement, factors to consider,
bail, see R.C. § 2919.251
§ 135.17  HAZING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section, HAZING means doing any act or coercing
another, including the victim, to do any act of initiation into any student or
other organization that causes or creates a substantial risk of causing mental
or physical harm to any person.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall recklessly participate in the hazing of another.
      (2)   No administrator, employee, or faculty member of any primary,
secondary, or post-secondary school or of any other educational institution,
public or private, shall recklessly permit the hazing of any person.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of hazing, a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2903.31)
Statutory reference:
   Civil liability for hazing, see R.C. § 2307.44
§ 135.18  CONTRIBUTING TO UNRULINESS OR DELINQUENCY OF A CHILD.
   (A)   No person, including a parent, guardian, or other custodian of a
child, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Aid, abet, induce, cause, encourage, or contribute to a child or a
ward of the juvenile court becoming an unruly child, as defined in R.C. §
2151.022, or a delinquent child, as defined in R.C. § 2152.02;
      (2)   Act in a way tending to cause a child or a ward of the juvenile
court to become an unruly child, as defined in R.C. § 2151.022, or a delinquent
child, as defined in R.C. § 2152.02.
      (3)   If the person is the parent, guardian, or custodian of a child who
has the duties under R.C. Chapters 2152 and 2950 to register, register a new
residence address, and periodically verify a residence address, and, if
applicable, to send a notice of intent to reside, and if the child is not
emancipated, as defined in R.C. § 2919.121, fail to ensure that the child
complies with those duties under R.C. Chapters 2152 and 2950.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of contributing to the
unruliness or delinquency of a child, a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each
day of a violation of this section is a separate offense.
(R.C. § 2919.24)
Statutory reference:
   DNA testing of delinquent children, see R.C. § 2152.74
   Failure to send child to school, see R.C. § 3321.38
§ 135.19  FAILURE TO PROVIDE FOR FUNCTIONALLY IMPAIRED PERSON.
   (A)   No caretaker shall knowingly fail to provide a functionally impaired
person under his or her care with any treatment, care, goods, or service that
is necessary to maintain the health of safety of the functionally impaired
person when this failure results in physical harm or serious physical harm to
the functionally impaired person.
   (B)   No caretaker shall recklessly fail to provide a functionally impaired
person under his or her care with any treatment, care, goods, or service that
is necessary to maintain the health of safety of the functionally impaired
person when this failure results in serious physical harm to the functionally
impaired person.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
knowingly failing to provide for a functionally impaired person, a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the functionally impaired person under the offender’s
care suffers serious physical harm as a result of the violation of this
section, a violation of division (A) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
recklessly failing to provide for a functionally impaired person, a misdemeanor
of the second degree. If the functionally impaired person under the offender’s
care suffers serious physical harm as a result of the violation of this
section, a violation of division (B) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.16)
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
      CARETAKER. Means a person who assumes the duty to provide for the care
and protection of a functionally impaired person on a voluntary basis, by
contract, through receipt of payment for care and protection, as a result of a
family relationship, or by order of a court of competent jurisdiction.
CARETAKER does not include a person who owns, operates, or administers, or who
is an agent or employee of, a care facility, as defined in R.C. § 2903.33.
      FUNCTIONALLY IMPAIRED PERSON. Means any person who has a physical or
mental impairment that prevents the person from providing for his or her own
care or protection or whose infirmities caused by aging prevent the person from
providing for his or her own care or protection.
(R.C. § 2903.10)
§ 135.20  PATIENT ABUSE OR NEGLECT; PATIENT ENDANGERMENT; EXCEPTIONS; FALSE
STATEMENTS; RETALIATION.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABUSE. Knowingly causing physical harm or recklessly causing serious
physical harm to a person by physical contact with the person or by the
inappropriate use of a physical or chemical restraint, medication or isolation
on the person.
      CARE FACILITY. Any of the following:
         (a)   Any “home” as defined in R.C. § 3721.10 or 5111.20;
         (b)   Any “residential facility” as defined in R.C. § 5119.22 or
5123.19;
         (c)   Any institution or facility operated or provided by the
Department of Mental Health or by the Department of Developmental Disabilities
pursuant to R.C. §§ 5119.02 and 5123.03;
         (d)   Any unit of any hospital, as defined in R.C. § 3701.01, that
provided the same services as a nursing home, as defined in R.C. § 3721.01;
         (e)   Any institution, residence or facility that provides, for a
period of more than 24 hours, whether for consideration or not, accommodations
to one individual or two unrelated individuals who are dependent upon the
services of others;
      GROSS NEGLECT. Knowingly failing to provide a person with any treatment,
care, goods or service that is necessary to maintain the health or safety of
the person when the failure results in serious physical harm to the person.
      INAPPROPRIATE USE OF A PHYSICAL OR CHEMICAL RESTRAINT, MEDICATION OR
ISOLATION. The use of physical or chemical restraint, medication or isolation
as punishment, for staff convenience, excessively, as a substitute for
treatment, or in quantities that preclude habilitation and treatment.
      NEGLECT. Recklessly failing to provide a person with any treatment, care,
goods or service that is necessary to maintain the health or safety of the
person when the failure results in serious physical harm to the person.
(R.C. § 2903.33)
   (B)   Patient abuse or neglect; spiritual treatment; defense.
      (1)   No person who owns, operates, or administers, or who is an agent or
employee of a care facility shall do any of the following:
         (a)   Commit abuse against a resident or patient of the facility;
         (b)   Commit gross neglect against a resident or patient of the
facility;
         (c)   Commit neglect against a resident or patient of the facility.
      (2)   (a)   A person who relies upon treatment by spiritual means through
prayer alone, in accordance with the tenets of a recognized religious
denomination, shall not be considered neglectful under division (B)(1)(c) of
this section for that reason alone.
         (b)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of gross neglect or
neglect under this section that the actor’s conduct was committed in good faith
solely because the actor was ordered to commit the conduct by a person with
supervisory authority over the actor.
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(a) is guilty of patient
abuse, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (b)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(b) is guilty of gross patient
neglect, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been
convicted of, or pleaded guilty to, any violation of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, gross patient
neglect is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (c)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(c) is guilty of patient
neglect, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of, or pleaded guilty to, any violation of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, gross patient
neglect is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.34)
   (C)   Patient endangerment; spiritual treatment; defense.
      (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         MENTALLY RETARDED PERSON and DEVELOPMENTALLY DISABLED PERSON. Have the
same meanings as in R.C. § 5123.01.
         MR/DD CARETAKER. Means any MR/DD employee or any person who assumes
the duty to provide for the care and protection of a mentally retarded person
or a developmentally disabled person on a voluntary basis, by contract, through
receipt of payment for care and protection, as a result of a family
relationship, or by order of a court of competent jurisdiction. MR/DD CARETAKER
includes a person who is an employee of a care facility and a person who is an
employee of an entity under contract with a provider. MR/DD CARETAKER does not
include a person who owns, operates, or administers a care facility or who is
an agent of a care facility unless that person also personally provides care to
persons with mental retardation or a developmental disability.
         MR/DD EMPLOYEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5123.50.
      (2)   No MR/DD caretaker shall create a substantial risk to the health or
safety of a mentally retarded person or a developmentally disabled person. An
MR/DD caretaker does not create a substantial risk to the health or safety of a
mentally retarded person or a developmentally disabled person under this
division when the MR/DD caretaker treats a physical or mental illness or defect
of the mentally retarded person or developmentally disabled person by spiritual
means through prayer alone, in accordance with the tenets of a recognized
religious body.
      (3)   No person who owns, operates, or administers a care facility or who
is an agent of a care facility shall condone, or knowingly permit, any conduct
by an MR/DD caretaker who is employed by or under the control of the owner,
operator, administrator, or agent that is in violation of division (C)(2) of
this section and that involves a mentally retarded person or a developmentally
disabled person who is under the care of the owner, operator, administrator, or
agent. A person who relies upon treatment by spiritual means through prayer
alone, in accordance with the tenets of a recognized religious denomination,
shall not be considered endangered under this division for that reason alone.
      (4)   (a)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of a violation of
division (C)(2) or (C)(3) of this section that the actor’s conduct was
committed in good faith solely because the actor was ordered to commit the
conduct by a person to whom one of the following applies:
            1.   The person has supervisory authority over the actor;
            2.   The person has authority over the actor’s conduct pursuant to
a contract for the provision of services.
         (b)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of a violation of
division (C)(3) of this section that the person who owns, operates, or
administers a care facility or who is an agent of a care facility and who is
charged with the violation is following the individual service plan for the
involved mentally retarded person or a developmentally disabled person or that
the admission, discharge, and transfer rule set forth in the Ohio
Administrative Code is being followed.
         (c)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of a violation of
division (C)(3) of this section that the actor did not have readily available a
means to prevent either the harm to the person with mental retardation or a
developmental disability or the death of such a person and the actor took
reasonable steps to summon aid.
      (5)   (a)   Except as provided in division (C)(5)(b) or (C)(5)(c) of this
section, whoever violates division (C)(2) or (C)(3) of this section is guilty
of patient endangerment, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of, or pleaded
guilty to, a violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law
or municipal ordinance, patient endangerment is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
         (c)   If the violation results in serious physical harm to the person
with mental retardation or a developmental disability, patient endangerment is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.341)
   (D)   False statements.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly make a false statement, or knowingly
swear or affirm the truth of a false statement previously made, alleging a
violation of division (B) of this section when the statement is made with
purpose to incriminate another.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (D) is guilty of filing a false
patient abuse or neglect complaint, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2903.35)
   (E)   Retaliation against person reporting patient abuse or neglect. No care
facility shall discharge or in any manner discriminate or retaliate against any
person solely because such person, in good faith, filed a complaint, affidavit,
or other document alleging a violation of division (B) of this section or a
violation of R.C. § 2903.34.
(R.C. § 2903.36)
Statutory reference:
   License revocation for felony violations, see R.C. § 2903.37
§ 135.21  INTERFERENCE WITH RIGHT OF PERSON TO ENGAGE IN HOUSING TRANSACTIONS
BECAUSE OF RACE, RELIGION, OR THE LIKE.
   (A)   No person, whether or not acting under color of law, shall by force or
threat of force willfully injure, intimidate, or interfere with, or attempt to
injure, intimidate, or interfere with any of the following:
      (1)   Any person because of race, color, religion, sex, familial status,
as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, national origin, military status as defined in
that section, disability as defined in that section, or ancestry and because
that person is or has been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying,
contracting, or negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing, or
occupation of any housing accommodations, or applying for or participating in
any service, organization, or facility relating to the business of selling or
renting housing accommodations;
      (2)   Any person because that person is or has been doing, or in order to
intimidate that person or any other person or any class of persons from doing
either of the following:
         (a)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, familial status, as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, national origin,
military status as defined in that section, disability as defined in that
section, or ancestry, in any of the activities, services, organizations, or
facilities described in division (A)(1) of this section;
         (b)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
      (3)   Any person because that person is or has been, or in order to
discourage that person or any other person from, lawfully aiding or encouraging
other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, familial status as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, national origin,
military status as defined in that section, disability as defined in that
section, or ancestry, in any of the activities, services, organizations, or
facilities described in division (A)(1) of this section, or participating
lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of the opportunity
to so participate.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2927.03)
§ 135.22  ETHNIC INTIMIDATION.
   (A)   No person shall violate R.C. § 2903.21, 2903.22, 2909.06, or 2909.07,
or R.C. § 2917.21(A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5), by reason of the race, color,
religion, or national origin of another person or group of persons.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of ethnic intimidation. Ethnic
intimidation is an offense of the next higher degree than the offense the
commission of which is a necessary element of ethnic intimidation. In the case
of an offense that is a misdemeanor of the first degree, ethnic intimidation is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.12)
§ 135.23  VIOLATING A PROTECTION ORDER, CONSENT AGREEMENT, ANTI-STALKING
PROTECTION ORDER OR ORDER ISSUED BY A COURT OF ANOTHER STATE.
   (A)   No person shall recklessly violate the terms of any of the following:
      (1)   A protection order issued or consent agreement approved pursuant to
R.C. § 2919.26 or R.C. § 3113.31;
      (2)   A protection order issued pursuant to R.C. § 2151.34, 2903.213 or
2903.214;
      (3)   A protection order issued by a court of another state.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of violating a
protection order.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(3) or (B)(4) of this
section, violating a protection order is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   If the offender previously has been convicted of, pleaded guilty
to, or been adjudicated a delinquent child for a violation of a protection
order issued pursuant to R.C. § 2151.34, 2903.213 or 2903.214, two or more
violations of R.C. § 2903.21, 2903.211, 2903.22, or 2911.211, or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, that involved the
same person who is the subject of the protection order or consent agreement, or
one or more violations of this section or a substantially equivalent state law
or municipal ordinance, violating a protection order is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)   If the offender violates a protection order or consent agreement
while committing a felony offense, violating a protection order is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   If the protection order violated by the offender was an order
issued pursuant to R.C. § 2151.34 or 2903.214 that required electronic
monitoring of the offender pursuant to that section, the court may require in
addition to any other sentence imposed upon the offender that the offender be
electronically monitored for a period not exceeding five years by a law
enforcement agency designated by the court. If the court requires under this
division that the offender be electronically monitored, unless the court
determines that the offender is indigent, the court shall order that the
offender pay the costs of the installation of the electronic monitoring device
and the cost of monitoring the electronic monitoring device. If the court
determines that the offender is indigent and subject to the maximum amount
allowable and the rules promulgated by the Attorney General under R.C. §
2903.214, the costs of the installation of the electronic monitoring device and
the cost of monitoring the electronic monitoring device may be paid out of
funds from the reparations fund created pursuant to R.C. § 2743.191.  The total
amount paid from the Reparations Fund created pursuant to R.C. § 2743.191 for
electronic monitoring under R.C. §§ 2151.34, 2903.214 and 2919.27 shall not
exceed $300,000 per year.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(3) of this
section that the protection order issued by a court of another state does not
comply with the requirements specified in 18 U.S.C. § 2265(b) for a protection
order that must be accorded full faith and credit by a court of this state or
that it is not entitled to full faith and credit under 18 U.S.C. § 2265(c).
   (D)   As used in this section, PROTECTION ORDER ISSUED BY A COURT OF ANOTHER
STATE means an injunction or another order issued by a criminal court of
another state for the purpose of preventing violent or threatening acts or
harassment against, contact or communication with, or physical proximity to
another person including a temporary order, and means an injunction or order of
that nature issued by a civil court of another state, including a temporary
order and a final order issued in an independent action or as a pendente lite
order in a proceeding for other relief, if the court issued it in response to a
complaint, petition or motion filed by or on behalf of a person seeking
protection. The term does not include an order for support or for custody of a
child issued pursuant to the divorce and child custody laws of another state,
except to the extent that the order for support or for custody of a child is
entitled to full faith and credit under the laws of the United States.
(R.C. § 2919.27) 
§ 135.24  ADULTERATION OF FOOD.
   (A)   No person shall do either of the following, knowing or having
reasonable cause to believe that any person may suffer physical harm or be
seriously inconvenienced or annoyed thereby:
      (1)   Place a pin, razor blade, glass, laxative, drug of abuse, or other
harmful or hazardous object or substance in any food or confection;
      (2)   Furnish to any person any food or confection which has been
adulterated in violation of division (A)(1) of this section.
(R.C. § 3716.11)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 3716.99(C))
Statutory reference:
   Adulteration of food generally, see R.C. § 3715.59
§ 135.25  ILLEGAL DISTRIBUTION OF CIGARETTES OR OTHER TOBACCO PRODUCTS;
TRANSACTION SCANS.
   (A)   Illegal distribution of cigarettes or other tobacco products.
      (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
         CHILD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2151.011.
         CIGARETTE. Includes clove cigarettes and hand-rolled cigarettes.
         DISTRIBUTE. Means to furnish, give, or provide cigarettes, other
tobacco products, or papers used to roll cigarettes to the ultimate consumer of
the cigarettes, other tobacco products, or papers used to roll cigarettes.
         PROOF OF AGE. Means a driver’s license, a commercial driver’s license,
a military identification card, a passport, or an identification card issued
under R.C. §§ 4507.50 through 4507.52 that shows that a person is 18 years of
age or older.
         VENDING MACHINE. Has the same meaning as “coin machine” in R.C. §
2913.01.
      (2)   No manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or retailer of
cigarettes, other tobacco products, or any papers used to roll cigarettes, no
agent, employee, or representative of a manufacturer, producer, distributor,
wholesaler, or retailer of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or papers used
to roll cigarettes, and no other person shall do any of the following:
         (a)   Give, sell, or otherwise distribute cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or papers used to roll cigarettes to any child;
         (b)   Give away, sell, or distribute cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or papers used to roll cigarettes in any place that does not have
posted in a conspicuous place a sign stating that giving, selling, or otherwise
distributing cigarettes, other tobacco products, or papers used to roll
cigarettes to a person under 18 years of age is prohibited by law;
         (c)   Knowingly furnish any false information regarding the name, age,
or other identification of any child with purpose to obtain cigarettes, other
tobacco products, or papers used to roll cigarettes for that child;
         (d)   Manufacture, sell, or distribute in this state any pack or other
container of cigarettes containing fewer than 20 cigarettes or any package of
roll-your-own tobacco containing less that 0.6 ounce of tobacco;
         (e)   Sell cigarettes in a smaller quantity than that placed in the
pack or other container by the manufacturer.
      (3)   No person shall sell or offer to sell cigarettes or other tobacco
products by or from a vending machine except in the following locations:
         (a)   An area within a factory, business, office, or other place not
open to the general public;
         (b)   An area to which children are not generally permitted access;
         (c)   Any other place not identified in division (A)(3)(a) or (A)(3)
(b) of this section, upon all of the following conditions:
            1.   The vending machine is located within the immediate vicinity,
plain view, and control of the person who owns or operates the place, or an
employee of that person, so that all cigarettes and other tobacco product
purchases from the vending machine will be readily observed by the person who
owns or operates the place, or an employee of that person. For the purpose of
this section, a vending machine located in any unmonitored area, including an
unmonitored coatroom, restroom, hallway, or outer waiting area shall not be
considered located within the immediate vicinity, plain view, and control of
the person who owns or operates the place, or an employee of that person;
            2.   The vending machine is inaccessible to the public when the
place is closed.
      (4)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under division
(A)(2)(a) of this section:
         (a)   The child was accompanied by a parent, spouse who is 18 years of
age or older, or legal guardian of the child;
         (b)   The person who gave, sold, or distributed cigarettes, other
tobacco products, or papers used to roll cigarettes to a child under division
(A)(2)(a) of this section is a parent, spouse who is 18 years of age or older,
or legal guardian of the child.
      (5)   It is not a violation of division (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)(b) of this
section for a person to give or otherwise distribute to a child cigarettes,
other tobacco products, or papers used to roll cigarettes while the child is
participating in a research protocol if all of the following apply:
         (a)   The parent, guardian, or legal custodian of the child has
consented in writing to the child participating in the research protocol;
         (b)   An institutional human subjects protection review board, or an
equivalent entity, has approved of the research protocol;
         (c)   The child is participating in the research protocol at the
facility or location specified in the research protocol.
      (6)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(2)(a), (A)(2)(b), (A)(2)(d),
(A)(2)(e), or (A)(3) of this section is guilty of illegal distribution of
cigarettes or other tobacco products, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If
the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of division (A)(2)
(a), (A)(2)(b), (A)(2)(d), (A)(2)(e), or (A)(3) of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, illegal distribution
of cigarettes or other tobacco products is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
         (b)   Whoever violates division (A)(2)(c) of this section is guilty of
permitting children to use cigarettes or other tobacco products, a misdemeanor
of the fourth degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a
violation of division (A)(2)(c) or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, permitting children to use cigarettes or other tobacco
products is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (7)   Any cigarettes, other tobacco products, or papers used to roll
cigarettes that are given, sold, or otherwise distributed to a child in
violation of this division (A) and that are used, possessed, purchased, or
received by a child in violation of R.C. § 2151.87 are subject to seizure and
forfeiture as contraband under R.C. Chapter 2981.
(R.C. § 2927.02)
   (B)   Tobacco product transaction scan.
      (1)   As used in this division and division (C) of this section:
         CARD HOLDER. Means any person who presents a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card to a seller, or an agent or employee
of a seller, to purchase or receive cigarettes or other tobacco products from a
seller, agent, or employee.
         IDENTIFICATION CARD. means an identification card issued under R.C. §§
4507.50 through 4507.52.
         SELLER. Means a seller of cigarettes or other tobacco products and
includes any person whose gift of or other distribution of cigarettes or other
tobacco products is subject to the prohibitions of division (A) of this
section.
         TRANSACTION SCAN. Means the process by which a seller or an agent or
employee of a seller checks, by means of a transaction scan device, the
validity of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification card
that is presented as a condition for purchasing or receiving cigarettes or
other tobacco products.
         TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE. Means any commercial device or combination of
devices used at a point of sale that is capable of deciphering in an
electronically readable format the information encoded on the magnetic strip or
bar code of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification
card.
      (2)   (a)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may perform a
transaction scan by means of a transaction scan device to check the validity of
a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a
card holder as a condition for selling, giving away, or otherwise distributing
to the card holder cigarettes or other tobacco products.
         (b)   If the information deciphered by the transaction scan performed
under division (B)(2)(a) of this section fails to match the information printed
on the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented
by the card holder, or if the transaction scan indicates that the information
so printed is false or fraudulent, neither the seller nor any agent or employee
of the seller shall sell, give away, or otherwise distribute any cigarettes or
other tobacco products to the card holder.
         (c)   Division (B)(2)(a) of this section does not preclude a seller or
an agent or employee of a seller from using a transaction scan device to check
the validity of a document other than a driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or identification card, if the document includes a bar code or magnetic strip
that may be scanned by the device, as a condition for selling, giving away, or
otherwise distributing cigarettes or other tobacco products to the person
presenting the document.
      (3)   Rules adopted by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles under R.C. §
4301.61(C) apply to the use of transaction scan devices for purposes of this
division (B) and division (C) of this section.
      (4)   (a)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall
electronically or mechanically record or maintain any information derived from
a transaction scan, except for the following:
            1.   The name and date of birth of the person listed on the
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the
card holder;
            2.   The expiration date and identification number of the driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the card
holder.
         (b)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use the
information that is derived from a transaction scan or that is permitted to be
recorded and maintained under division (B)(4)(a) of this section, except for
purposes of division (C) of this section.
         (c)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use a
transaction scan device for a purpose other than the purpose specified in
division (C)(2)(a) of this section.
         (d)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall sell or
otherwise disseminate the information derived from a transaction scan to any
third party, including but not limited to selling or otherwise disseminating
that information for any marketing, advertising, or promotional activities, but
a seller or agent or employee of a seller may release that information pursuant
to a court order or as specifically authorized by division (C) of this section
or another section of this code or the Ohio Revised Code.
      (5)   Nothing in this division (B) or division (C) of this section
relieves a seller or an agent or employee of a seller of any responsibility to
comply with any other applicable local, state or federal laws or rules
governing the sale, giving away, or other distribution of cigarettes or other
tobacco products.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (B)(2)(b) or (B)(4) of this section is
guilty of engaging in an illegal tobacco product transaction scan, and the
court may impose upon the offender a civil penalty of up to $1,000 for each
violation. The Clerk of the Court shall pay each collected civil penalty to the
County Treasurer for deposit into the County Treasury.
(R.C. § 2927.021)
   (C)   Affirmative defenses.
      (1)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may not be found
guilty of a charge of a violation of division (A) of this section in which the
age of the purchaser or other recipient of cigarettes or other tobacco products
is an element of the alleged violation, if the seller, agent, or employee
raises and proves as an affirmative defense that all of the following occurred:
         (a)   A card holder attempting to purchase or receive cigarettes or
other tobacco products presented a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
an identification card;
         (b)   A transaction scan of the driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or identification card that the card holder presented indicated that
the license or card was valid;
         (c)   The cigarettes or other tobacco products were sold, given away,
or otherwise distributed to the card holder in reasonable reliance upon the
identification presented and the completed transaction scan.
      (2)   In determining whether a seller or an agent or employee of a seller
has proven the affirmative defense provided by division (C)(1) of this section,
the trier of fact in the action for the alleged violation of division (A) of
this section shall consider any written policy that the seller has adopted and
implemented and that is intended to prevent violations of division (A) of this
section. For purposes of division (C)(1)(c) of this section, the trier of fact
shall consider that reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and
the completed transaction scan may require a seller or an agent or employee of
a seller to exercise reasonable diligence to determine, and that the use of a
transaction scan device does not excuse a seller or an agent or employee of a
seller from exercising reasonable diligence to determine, the following:
         (a)   Whether a person to whom the seller or agent or employee of a
seller sells, gives away, or otherwise distributes cigarettes or other tobacco
products is 18 years of age or older;
         (b)   Whether the description and picture appearing on the driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a card holder
is that of the card holder.
      (3)   In any criminal action in which the affirmative defense provided by
division (C)(1) of this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a
deputy registrar who issued an identification card under R.C. §§ 4507.50
through 4507.52 shall be permitted to submit certified copies of the records of
that issuance in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of or contractors with
the Bureau of Motor Vehicles in the action.
(R.C. § 2927.022)
   (D)   Shipment of tobacco products.
      (1)   As used in this division (D):
         AUTHORIZED RECIPIENT OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS means a person who is:
            1.   Licensed as a cigarette wholesale dealer under R.C. § 5743.15;
            2.   Licensed as a retail dealer as long as the person purchases
cigarettes with the appropriate tax stamp affixed;
            3.   An export warehouse proprietor as defined in Section 5702 of
the Internal Revenue Code;
            4.   An operator of a customs bonded warehouse under 19 U.S.C. §
1311 or 19 U.S.C. § 1555;
            5.   An officer, employee, or agent of the federal government or of
this state acting in the person’s official capacity;
            6.   A department, agency, instrumentality, or political
subdivision of the federal government or of this state;
            7.   A person having a consent for consumer shipment issued by the
Tax Commissioner under R.C. § 5743.71.
         MOTOR CARRIER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4923.01.
      (2)   The purpose of this division (D) is to prevent the sale of
cigarettes to minors and to ensure compliance with the Master Settlement
Agreement, as defined in R.C. § 1346.01.
      (3)   (a)   No person shall cause to be shipped any cigarettes to any
person in this municipality other than an authorized recipient of tobacco
products.
         (b)   No motor carrier or other person shall knowingly transport
cigarettes to any person in this municipality that the carrier or other person
reasonably believes is not an authorized recipient of tobacco products. If
cigarettes are transported to a home or residence, it shall be presumed that
the motor carrier or other person knew that the person to whom the cigarettes
were delivered was not an authorized recipient of tobacco products.
      (4)   No person engaged in the business of selling cigarettes who ships
or causes to be shipped cigarettes to any person in this municipality in any
container or wrapping other than the original container or wrapping of the
cigarettes shall fail to plainly and visibly mark the exterior of the container
or wrapping in which the cigarettes are shipped with the words “cigarettes.”
      (5)   A court shall impose a fine of up to $1,000 for each violation of
division (D)(3)(a), (D)(3)(b) or (D)(4) of this section.
(R.C. § 2927.023)
§ 135.26  ILLEGAL USE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS.
   (A)   No person under the age of 18 years shall purchase, possess, smoke, or
use any tobacco product.
   (B)   No person under the age of 18 years shall order, pay for, share the
cost of, or attempt to purchase or otherwise secure any tobacco product.
   (C)   No person under the age of 18 years shall show or give false
information concerning his or her name, age, or other identification for the
purpose of purchasing or otherwise obtaining any tobacco product.
   (D)   No person shall furnish any false information or identification as to
the name, age, or other characteristics of any person under the age of 18 years
for the purpose of obtaining or with the intent to obtain in any manner any
tobacco product for a person under the age of 18 years.
   (E)   No person shall solicit any person under the age of 18 years to
purchase or procure in any manner any tobacco product.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal use of tobacco
products, a minor misdemeanor.  If the offender has been previously convicted
of a violation of this section, then illegal use of tobacco products is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(Ord. 7-97, passed 4-1-1997)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 135.27  NONSMOKING AREAS IN PLACES OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY.
   (A)   As used in this section, PLACE OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY means:
      (1)   Enclosed theaters, except the lobby; opera houses; auditoriums;
classrooms; elevators; rooms in which persons are confined as a matter of
health care, including but not limited to a hospital room and a room in a
residential care facility serving as the residence of a person living in such
residential care facility.
      (2)   All buildings and other enclosed structures owned by the state, its
agencies, or political subdivisions, including but not limited to hospitals and
state institutions for the mentally disabled and the mentally ill; university
and college buildings, except rooms within those buildings used primarily as
the residences of students or other persons affiliated with the university or
college; office buildings; libraries; museums; and vehicles used in public
transportation. That portion of a building or other enclosed structure that is
owned by the state, a state agency, or a political subdivision, and that is
used primarily as a food service establishment, is not a place of public
assembly.
      (3)   Each portion of a building or enclosed structure that is not
included in division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is a place of public
assembly if it has a seating capacity of 50 or more persons and is available to
the public. Restaurants, food service establishments, dining rooms, cafes,
cafeterias, or other rooms used primarily for the service of food, as well as
bowling alleys and places licensed by the Ohio Division of Liquor Control to
sell intoxicating beverages for consumption on the premises, are not places of
public assembly.
   (B)   For the purpose of separating persons who smoke from persons who do
not smoke for the comfort and health of persons not smoking, in every place of
public assembly there shall be an area where smoking is not permitted, which
shall be designated a no smoking area, provided that not more than one-half of
the rooms in any health care facility in which persons are confined as a matter
of health care may be designated as smoking areas in their entirety. The
designation shall be made before the place of public assembly is made available
to the public. In places included in division (A)(1) of this section, the local
fire authority having jurisdiction shall designate the no smoking area. In
places included in division (A)(2) of this section that are owned by the state
or its agencies, the Ohio Director of Administrative Services shall designate
the area, and if the place is owned by a political subdivision, its legislative
authority shall designate an officer who shall designate the area. In places
included in division (A)(3) of this section, the person having control of the
operations of the place of public assembly shall designate the no smoking area.
In places included in division (A)(2) of this section which are also included
in division (A)(1) of this section, the officer who has authority to designate
the area in places in division (A)(2) of this section shall designate the no
smoking area. A no smoking area may include the entire place of public
assembly. Designations shall be made by the placement of signs that are clearly
visible and that state “no smoking.” No person shall remove signs from areas
designated as no smoking areas.
   (C)   This section does not affect or modify the prohibition contained in
R.C. § 3313.751(B).
   (D)   No person shall smoke in any area designated as a no smoking area in
accordance with division (B) of this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 3791.031)
§ 135.28  SPREADING CONTAGION.
   (A)   No person, knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that he or
she is suffering from a dangerous, contagious disease, shall knowingly fail to
take reasonable measures to prevent exposing himself or herself to other
persons, except when seeking medical aid.
   (B)   No person, having charge or care of a person whom he or she knows or
has reasonable cause to believe is suffering from a dangerous, contagious
disease, shall recklessly fail to take reasonable measures to protect others
from exposure to the contagion, and to inform health authorities of the
existence of the contagion.
   (C)   No person, having charge of a public conveyance or place of public
accommodation, amusement, resort, or trade, and knowing or having reasonable
cause to believe that persons using such conveyance or place have been or are
being exposed to a dangerous, contagious disease, shall negligently fail to
take reasonable measures to protect the public from exposure to the contagion,
and to inform health authorities of the existence of the contagion.
(R.C. § 3701.81)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second
degree.
(R.C. § 3701.99(C))
Statutory reference:
   Contagion and quarantine, see R.C. §§ 3707.04 et seq.
   Power to prevent contagious diseases, see R.C. § 715.37
§ 135.29  ABUSE OF A CORPSE.
   (A)   No person, except as authorized by law, shall treat a human corpse in
a way that he or she knows would outrage reasonable family sensibilities.
   (B)   No person, except as authorized by law, shall treat a human corpse in
a way that would outrage reasonable community sensibilities.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of abuse of a
corpse, a misdemeanor of the second degree. Whoever violates division (B) of
this section is guilty of gross abuse of a corpse, a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.01)
§ 135.30  UNLAWFUL COLLECTION OF BODILY SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly collect any blood, urine, tissue, or other
bodily substance of another person without privilege or consent to do so.
   (B)   (1)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any of the
following:
         (a)   The collection of any bodily substance of a person by a law
enforcement officer, or by another person pursuant to the direction or advice
of a law enforcement officer, for purposes of a chemical test or tests of the
substance under R.C. § 1547.111(A)(1) or R.C. § 4511.191(A)(2) to determine the
alcohol, drug, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance, or
combination content of the bodily substance;
         (b)   The collection of any bodily substance of a person by a peace
officer, or by another person pursuant to the direction or advice of a peace
officer, for purposes of a test or tests of the substance as provided in R.C. §
4506.17(A) to determine the person’s alcohol concentration or the presence of
any controlled substance or metabolite of a controlled substance.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section shall not be construed as implying
that the persons identified in divisions (B)(1)(a) and (b) of this section do
not have privilege to collect the bodily substance of another person as
described in those divisions or as limiting the definition of “privilege” set
forth in R.C. § 2901.01.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of unlawful
collection of a bodily substance. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, unlawful collection of a bodily substance is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (A) of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, unlawful collection of a bodily
substance is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.15)
CHAPTER 136:  OFFENSES AGAINST JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
136.01   Definitions
   
136.02   Falsification
   
136.03   Compounding a crime
   
136.04   Failure to report a crime
   
136.05   Failure to aid a law enforcement officer
   
136.06   Obstructing official business
   
136.07   Obstructing justice
   
136.08   Resisting arrest
   
136.09   Having an unlawful interest in a public contract
   
136.10   Soliciting or receiving improper compensation
   
136.11   Dereliction of duty
   
136.12   Interfering with civil rights
   
136.13   Illegal conveyance of prohibited items onto grounds of a detention
facility or other specified governmental facility
   
136.14   False report of child abuse or neglect
   
136.15   Assaulting police dog or horse, or assistance dog
   
136.16   Disclosure of confidential peace officer information
   
136.17   Intimidation of crime victim or witness
   
136.18   Using sham legal process
   
136.19   Making false allegation of peace officer misconduct
   
136.20   Misuse of 9-1-1 system
   
136.21   Failure to disclose personal information
Cross-reference:
   Failure to comply with order or signal of a police officer, see §
70.02
Statutory reference:
   Escape from detention, see R.C. § 2921.34
   Harassment by inmates by causing or attempting to cause contact with blood,
semen, urine, feces or other bodily substance; knowledge of AIDS, hepatitis or
tuberculosis infection; felony offenses, see R.C. § 2921.38
§ 136.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE, CONTRIBUTION, LEGISLATIVE CAMPAIGN FUND, POLITICAL
ACTION COMMITTEE, POLITICAL CONTRIBUTING ENTITY, and POLITICAL PARTY. Have the
same meanings as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   DETENTION. Arrest; confinement in any vehicle subsequent to an arrest;
confinement in any public or private facility for custody of persons charged
with or convicted of crime in this state or another state or under the laws of
the United States or alleged or found to be a delinquent child or unruly child
in this state or another state or under the laws of the United States;
hospitalization, institutionalization, or confinement in any public or private
facility that is ordered pursuant to or under the authority of R.C. § 2945.37,
2945.371, 2945.38, 2945.39, 2945.40,  2945.401 or 2945.402; confinement in any
vehicle for transportation to or from any facility of any of those natures;
detention for extradition or deportation; except as provided in this division,
supervision by any employee of any facility of any of those natures that is
incidental to hospitalization, institutionalization, or confinement in the
facility but that occurs outside the facility; supervision by an employee of
the Department of Rehabilitation and Correction of a person on any type of
release from a state correctional institution; or confinement in any vehicle,
airplane, or place while being returned from outside of this state into this
state by a private person or entity pursuant to a contract entered into under
R.C. § 311.29(E) or R.C. § 5149.03(B). For a person confined in a county jail
who participates in a county jail industry program pursuant to R.C. § 5147.30,
DETENTION includes time spent at an assigned work site and going to and from
the work site.
   DETENTION FACILITY. Any public or private place used for the confinement of
a person charged with or convicted of any crime in this state or another state
or under the laws of the United States or alleged or found to be a delinquent
child or an unruly child in this state or another state or under the laws of
the United States.
   OFFICIAL PROCEEDING. Any proceeding before a legislative, judicial,
administrative, or other governmental agency or official authorized to take
evidence under oath, and includes any proceeding before a referee, hearing
examiner, commissioner, notary, or other person taking testimony or a
deposition in connection with an official proceeding.
   PARTY OFFICIAL. Any person who holds an elective or appointive post in a
political party in the United States or this state, by virtue of which he or
she directs, conducts, or participates in directing or conducting party affairs
at any level of responsibility.
   PROVIDER AGREEMENT and MEDICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM. Have the same meanings as
in R.C. § 2913.40.
   PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Any elected or appointed officer, employee, or agent of the
state or any political subdivision thereof, whether in a temporary or
permanent capacity, and includes but is not limited to legislators, judges, and
law enforcement officers.  The term does not include an employee, officer, or
governor-appointed member of the board of directors of the nonprofit
corporation formed under R.C. § 187.01.
   PUBLIC SERVANT.
      (1)   Any of the following:
         A.   Any public official;
         B.   Any person performing ad hoc a governmental function, including
but not limited to a juror, member of a temporary commission, master,
arbitrator, advisor, or consultant;
         C.   A person who is a candidate for public office, whether or not he
or she is elected or appointed to the office for which he or she is a
candidate. A person is a candidate for purposes of this division if he or she
has been nominated according to law for election or appointment to public
office, or if he or she has filed a petition or petitions as required by law to
have his or her name placed on the ballot in a primary, general, or special
election, or if he or she campaigns as a write-in candidate in any primary,
general, or special election.
      (2)   The term does not include an employee, officer, or governor-
appointed member of the board of directors of the nonprofit corporation formed
under R.C. § 187.01.
   VALUABLE THING or VALUABLE BENEFIT. Includes but is not limited to a
contribution. This inclusion does not indicate or imply that a contribution was
not included in those terms before September 17, 1986.
(R.C. § 2921.01)
§ 136.02  FALSIFICATION.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make a false statement, or knowingly swear
or affirm the truth of a false statement previously made, when any of the
following applies:
      (1)   The statement is made in any official proceeding;
      (2)   The statement is made with purpose to incriminate another;
      (3)   The statement is made with purpose to mislead a public official in
performing his or her official function;
      (4)   The statement is made with purpose to secure the payment of
unemployment compensation; Ohio Works First; prevention, retention and
contingency benefits and services; disability financial assistance; retirement
benefits or health care coverage from a state retirement system; economic
development assistance as defined in R.C. § 9.66; or other benefits
administered by a governmental agency or paid out of a public treasury;
      (5)   The statement is made with purpose to secure the issuance by a
governmental agency of a license, permit, authorization, certificate,
registration, release, or provider agreement;
      (6)   The statement is sworn or affirmed before a notary public or
another person empowered to administer oaths;
      (7)   The statement is in writing on or in connection with a report or
return that is required or authorized by law;
      (8)   The statement is in writing, and is made with purpose to induce
another to extend credit to or employ the offender, or to confer any degree,
diploma, certificate of attainment, award of excellence, or honor on the
offender, or to extend to or bestow upon the offender any other valuable
benefit or distinction, when the person to whom the statement is directed
relies upon it to his or her detriment;
      (9)   The statement is made with purpose to commit or facilitate the
commission of a theft offense;
      (10)   The statement is knowingly made to a probate court in connection
with any action, proceeding, or other matter within its jurisdiction, either
orally or in a written document, including but not limited to an application,
petition, complaint, or other pleading, or an inventory, account, or report;
      (11)   The statement is made on an account, form, record, stamp, label or
other writing that is required by law;
      (12)   The statement is made in connection with the purchase of a
firearm, as defined in R.C. § 2923.11, and in conjunction with the furnishing
to the seller of the firearm of a fictitious or altered driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit, a fictitious or altered identification card, or any
other document that contains false information about the purchaser’s identity;
      (13)   The statement is made in a document or instrument of writing that
purports to be a judgment, lien, or claim of indebtedness and is filed or
recorded with the Secretary of State, a county recorder, or the Clerk of a
court of record;
      (14)   The statement is made in an application filed with a county
sheriff pursuant to R.C. § 2923.125 in order to obtain or renew a license to
carry a concealed handgun or is made in an affidavit submitted to a county
sheriff to obtain a temporary emergency license to carry a concealed handgun
under R.C. § 2923.1213;
      (15)   The statement is required under R.C. § 5743.71 in connection with
the person’s purchase of cigarettes or tobacco products in a delivery sale.
   (B)   No person, in connection with the purchase of a firearm as defined in
R.C. § 2923.11, shall knowingly furnish to the seller of the firearm a
fictitious or altered driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit, a
fictitious or altered identification card, or any other document that contains
false information about the purchaser’s identity.
   (C)   No person, in an attempt to obtain a license to carry a concealed
handgun under R.C. § 2923.125, shall knowingly present to a sheriff a
fictitious or altered document that purports to be certification of the
person’s competence in handling a handgun as described in R.C. § 2923.125(B)
(3).
   (D)   It is no defense to a charge under division (A)(6) of this section
that the oath or affirmation was administered or taken in an irregular manner.
   (E)   If contradictory statements relating to the same fact are made by the
offender within the period of the statute of limitations for falsification, it
is not necessary for the prosecution to prove which statement was false, but
only that one or the other was false.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), (A)
(5), (A)(6), (A)(7), (A)(8), (A)(10), (A)(11), (A)(13) or (A)(15) of this
section is guilty of falsification, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(9) of this section is guilty of
falsification in a theft offense. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, falsification in a theft offense is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the value of the property or services stolen is $1,000 or more,
falsification in a theft offense is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A)(12) or (B) of this section is guilty
of falsification to purchase a firearm, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (A)(14) or (C) of this section is guilty
of falsification to obtain a concealed handgun license, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.13)
   (G)   (1)   No person who has knowingly failed to maintain proof of
financial responsibility in accordance with R.C. § 4509.101 shall produce any
document with the purpose to mislead a peace officer upon the request of a
peace officer for proof of financial responsibility made in accordance with
R.C. § 4509.101(D)(2).
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (G) is guilty of falsification, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4509.102)
§ 136.03  COMPOUNDING A CRIME.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly demand, accept, or agree to accept anything
of value in consideration of abandoning or agreeing to abandon a pending
criminal prosecution.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section when both
of the following apply:
      (1)   The pending prosecution involved is for a violation of R.C. §
2913.02, 2913.11, 2913.21(B)(2), or 2913.47, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, of which the actor under this section was the victim;
      (2)   The thing of value demanded, accepted, or agreed to be accepted, in
consideration of abandoning or agreeing to abandon the prosecution, did not
exceed an amount that the actor reasonably believed due him or her as
restitution for the loss caused him or her by the offense.
   (C)   When a prosecuting witness abandons or agrees to abandon a prosecution
under division (B) of this section, the abandonment or agreement in no way
binds the state to abandoning the prosecution.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of compounding a crime, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2921.21)
§ 136.04  FAILURE TO REPORT A CRIME.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2) of this section, no
person, knowing that a felony has been or is being committed, shall knowingly
fail to report the information to law enforcement authorities.
      (2)   No person, knowing that a violation of R.C. § 2913.04(B) has been
or is being committed or that the person has received information derived from
such a violation, shall knowingly fail to report the violation to law
enforcement authorities.
   (B)   Except for conditions that are within the scope of division (E) of
this section, no person who is a physician, limited practitioner, nurse, or
other person giving aid to a sick or injured person shall negligently fail to
report to law enforcement authorities any gunshot or stab wound that the person
treated or observed, or any serious physical harm to other persons that the
person knows or has reasonable cause to believe resulted from an offense of
violence.
   (C)   No person who discovers a body or acquires the first knowledge of the
death of a person shall fail to report the death immediately to a physician
whom the person knows to be treating the deceased for a condition from which
death at that time would not be unexpected, or to a law enforcement officer,
ambulance service, emergency squad, or the coroner in a political subdivision
in which the body is discovered, the death is believed to have occurred, or
knowledge concerning the death is obtained.
   (D)   No person shall fail to provide upon request of the person to whom a
report required by division (C) of this section was made, or to any law
enforcement officer who has reasonable cause to assert the authority to
investigate the circumstances surrounding the death, any facts within his or
her knowledge that may have a bearing on the investigation of the death.
   (E)   (1)   As used in this section, BURN INJURY means any of the following:
         (a)   Second or third degree burns;
         (b)   Any burns to the upper respiratory tract or laryngeal edema due
to the inhalation of super-heated air;
         (c)   Any burn injury or wound that may result in death.
      (2)   No physician, nurse, or limited practitioner who, outside a
hospital, sanitarium, or other medical facility, attends or treats a person who
has sustained a burn injury inflicted by an explosion or other incendiary
device, or that shows evidence of having been inflicted in a violent,
malicious, or criminal manner, shall fail to report the burn injury immediately
to the local arson bureau, if there is such a bureau in the jurisdiction in
which the person is attended or treated, or otherwise to local law enforcement
authorities.
      (3)   No manager, superintendent, or other person in charge of a
hospital, sanitarium, or other medical facility in which a person is attended
or treated for any burn injury inflicted by an explosion or other incendiary
device, or that shows evidence of having been inflicted in a violent,
malicious, or criminal manner, shall fail to report the burn injury immediately
to the local arson bureau, if there is such a bureau in the jurisdiction in
which the person is attended or treated, or otherwise to local law enforcement
authorities.
      (4)   No person who is required to report any burn injury under division
(E)(2) or (E)(3) of this section shall fail to file, within three working days
after attending or treating the victim, a written report of the burn injury
with the office of the State Fire Marshal. The report shall be made on a form
provided by the State Fire Marshal.
      (5)   Anyone participating in the making of reports under division (E) of
this section or anyone participating in a judicial proceeding resulting from
the reports is immune from any civil or criminal liability that otherwise might
be incurred or imposed as a result of such actions. Notwithstanding R.C. §
4731.22, the physician-patient relationship is not a ground for excluding
evidence regarding a person’s burn injury or the cause of the burn injury in
any judicial proceeding resulting from a report submitted pursuant to division
(E) of this section.
   (F)   (1)   Any doctor of medicine or osteopathic medicine, hospital intern
or resident, registered or licensed practical nurse, psychologist, social
worker, independent social worker, social work assistant, professional clinical
counselor, or professional counselor who knows or has reasonable cause to
believe that a patient or client has been the victim of domestic violence as
defined in R.C. § 3113.31 shall note that knowledge or belief and the basis for
it in the patient’s or client’s records.
      (2)   Notwithstanding R.C. § 4731.22, the physician-patient privilege
shall not be a ground for excluding any information regarding the report
containing the knowledge or belief noted pursuant to division (F)(1), and the
information may be admitted as evidence in accordance with the Rules of
Evidence.
   (G)   Division (A) or (D) of this section does not require disclosure of
information, when any of the following applies:
      (1)   The information is privileged by reason of the relationship between
attorney and client, doctor and patient, licensed psychologist or licensed
school psychologist and client, member of the clergy or rabbi or minister or
priest and any person communicating information confidentially to the member of
the clergy, rabbi, minister, or priest for a religious counseling purpose in
the professional character of the member of the clergy, rabbi, minister, or
priest, husband and wife, or a communications assistant and those who are a
party to a telecommunications relay service call;
      (2)   The information would tend to incriminate a member of the actor’s
immediate family;
      (3)   Disclosure of the information would amount to revealing a news
source, privileged under R.C. § 2739.04 or 2739.12;
      (4)   Disclosure of the information would amount to disclosure by a
member of the ordained clergy of an organized religious body of a confidential
communication made to him or her in his or her capacity as such by a person
seeking his or her aid or counsel;
      (5)   Disclosure would amount to revealing information acquired by the
actor in the course of his or her duties in connection with a bona fide program
of treatment or services for drug dependent persons or persons in danger of
drug dependence, which program is maintained or conducted by a hospital,
clinic, person, agency, or organization certified pursuant to R.C. § 3793.06;
      (6)   Disclosure would amount to revealing information acquired by the
actor in the course of his or her duties in connection with a bona fide program
for providing counseling services to victims of crimes that are violations of
R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.05, or to victims of felonious sexual penetration in
violation of former R.C. § 2907.12. As used in this division, COUNSELING
SERVICES include services provided in an informal setting by a person who, by
education or experience, is competent to provide such services.
   (H)   No disclosure of information pursuant to this section gives rise to
any liability or recrimination for a breach of privilege or confidence.
   (I)   Whoever violates division (A) or (B) of this section is guilty of
failure to report a crime. Violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Violation of division (A)(2) or (B) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (J)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty of
failure to report knowledge of a death, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (K)   (1)   Whoever negligently violates division (E) of this section is
guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Whoever knowingly violates division (E) of this section is guilty
of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2921.22)
§ 136.05  FAILURE TO AID A LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall negligently fail or refuse to aid a law enforcement
officer, when called upon for assistance in preventing or halting the
commission of an offense, or in apprehending or detaining an offender, when the
aid can be given without a substantial risk of physical harm to the person
giving it.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to aid a law
enforcement officer, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2921.23)
§ 136.06  OBSTRUCTING OFFICIAL BUSINESS.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so and with purpose to prevent,
obstruct, or delay the performance by a public official of any authorized act
within the public official’s official capacity, shall do any act that hampers
or impedes a public official in the performance of the public official’s lawful
duties.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of obstructing official
business. Except as otherwise provided in this division, obstructing official
business is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If a violation of this section
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, obstructing official business is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.31)
§ 136.07  OBSTRUCTING JUSTICE.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to hinder the discovery, apprehension,
prosecution, conviction, or punishment of another for crime, or to assist
another to benefit from the commission of a crime, and no person, with purpose
to hinder the discovery, apprehension, prosecution, adjudication as a
delinquent child, or disposition of a child for an act that if committed by an
adult would be a crime or to assist a child to benefit from the commission of
an act that if committed by an adult would be a crime, shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Harbor or conceal the other person or child;
      (2)   Provide the other person or child with money, transportation, a
weapon, a disguise, or other means of avoiding discovery or apprehension;
      (3)   Warn the other person or child of impending discovery or
apprehension;
      (4)   Destroy or conceal physical evidence of the crime or act, or induce
any person to withhold testimony or information or to elude legal process
summoning him or her to testify or supply evidence;
      (5)   Communicate false information to any person;
      (6)   Prevent or obstruct any person, by means of force, intimidation, or
deception, from performing any act to aid in the discovery, apprehension, or
prosecution of the other person or child.
   (B)   A person may be prosecuted for, and may be convicted of or adjudicated
a delinquent child for committing, a violation of division (A) of this section
regardless of whether the person or child aided ultimately is apprehended for,
is charged with, is convicted of, pleads guilty to, or is adjudicated a
delinquent child for committing the crime or act the person or child aided
committed. The crime or act the person or child aided committed shall be used
under division (C) of this section in determining the penalty for violation of
division (A) of this section, regardless of whether the person or child aided
ultimately is apprehended for, is charge with, is convicted of, pleads guilty
to, or is adjudicated a delinquent child for committing the crime or act the
person or child aided committed.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of obstructing justice.
      (1)   If the crime committed by the person aided is a misdemeanor or if
the act committed by the child aided would be a misdemeanor if committed by an
adult, obstructing justice is a misdemeanor of the same degree as the crime
committed by the person aided or a misdemeanor of the same degree that the act
committed by the child aided would be if committed by an adult.
      (2)   If the crime committed by the person aided is a felony or if the
act committed by the child aided would be a felony if committed by an adult, or
if the crime or act committed by the person or child aided is an act of
terrorism, obstructing justice is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
      ACT OF TERRORISM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.21.
      ADULT and CHILD. Have the same meaning as in R.C. § 2151.011.
      DELINQUENT CHILD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2152.02.
(R.C. § 2921.32)
§ 136.08  RESISTING ARREST.
   (A)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of himself, herself or another.
   (B)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of the person or another person and, during the course of or as a
result of the resistance or interference, cause physical harm to a law
enforcement officer.
   (C)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of the person or another person if either of the following
applies:
      (1)   The offender, during the course of or as a result of the resistance
or interference, recklessly causes physical harm to a law enforcement officer
by means of a deadly weapon; or
      (2)   The offender, during the course of the resistance or interference,
brandishes a deadly weapon.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of resisting arrest. A
violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. A violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. A violation of division (C) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (E)   As used in this section, DEADLY WEAPON has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 2923.11.
(R.C. § 2921.33)
Statutory reference:
   Unlawful taking of deadly weapon from a law enforcement officer, felony
offense, see R.C. § 2911.01
§ 136.09  HAVING AN UNLAWFUL INTEREST IN A PUBLIC CONTRACT.
   (A)   No public official shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Authorize or employ the authority of the public official’s office
to secure authorization of any public contract in which the public official, a
member of the public official’s family, or any of the public official’s
business associates has an interest;
      (2)   Authorize or employ the authority or influence of the public
official’s office to secure the investment of public funds in any share, bond,
mortgage, or other security with respect to which the public official, a member
of the public official’s family, or any of the public official’s business
associates either has an interest, is an underwriter, or receives any
brokerage, origination, or servicing fees;
      (3)   During the public official’s term of office or within one year
thereafter, occupy any position of profit in the prosecution of a public
contract authorized by the public official or by a legislative body,
commission, or board of which the public official was a member at the time of
authorization, unless the contract was let by competitive bidding to the lowest
and best bidder;
      (4)   Have an interest in the profits or benefits of a public contract
entered into by or for the use of the political subdivision or governmental
agency or instrumentality with which the public official is connected;
      (5)   Have an interest in the profits or benefits of a public contract
that is not let by competitive bidding when required by law, and that involves
more than $150.
   (B)   In the absence of bribery or a purpose to defraud, a public official,
member of a public official’s family, or any of a public official’s business
associates shall not be considered as having an interest in a public contract
or the investment of public funds, if all of the following apply:
      (1)   The interest of that person is limited to owning or controlling
shares of the corporation, or being a creditor of the corporation or other
organization, that is the contractor on the public contract involved, or that
is the issuer of the security in which public funds are invested;
      (2)   The shares owned or controlled by that person do not exceed 5% of
the outstanding shares of the corporation, and the amount due that person as
creditor does not exceed 5% of the total indebtedness of the corporation or
other organization;
      (3)   That person, prior to the time the public contract is entered into,
files with the political subdivision or governmental agency or instrumentality
involved, an affidavit giving that person’s exact status in connection with the
corporation or other organization.
   (C)   This section does not apply to a public contract in which a public
official, member of a public official’s family, or one of a public official’s
business associates has an interest, when all of the following apply:
      (1)   The subject of the public contract is necessary supplies or
services for the political subdivision or governmental agency or
instrumentality involved;
      (2)   The supplies or services are unobtainable elsewhere for the same or
lower cost, or are being furnished to the political subdivision or governmental
agency or instrumentality as part of a continuing course of dealing established
prior to the public official’s becoming associated with the political
subdivision or governmental agency or instrumentality involved;
      (3)   The treatment accorded the political subdivision or governmental
agency or instrumentality is either preferential to or the same as that
accorded other customers or clients in similar transactions;
      (4)   The entire transaction is conducted at arm’s length, with full
knowledge by the political subdivision or governmental agency or
instrumentality involved, of the interest of the public official, member of the
public official’s family, or business associate, and the public official takes
no part in the deliberations or decision of the political subdivision or
governmental agency or instrumentality with respect to the public contract.
   (D)   Division (A)(4) of this section does not prohibit participation by a
public employee in any housing program funded by public monies if the public
employee otherwise qualifies for the program and does not use the authority or
influence of the public employee’s office or employment to secure benefits from
the program and if the monies are to be used on the primary residence of the
public employee. Such participation does not constitute an unlawful interest in
a public contract in violation of this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of having an unlawful interest
in a public contract. Violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. Violation of division
(A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (F)   It is not a violation of this section for a prosecuting attorney to
appoint assistants and employees in accordance with R.C. §§ 309.06 and
2921.421, or for a chief legal officer of a municipality or an official
designated as prosecutor in a municipality to appoint assistants and employees
in accordance with R.C. §§ 733.621 and 2921.421, or for a township law director
appointed under R.C. § 504.15 to appoint assistants and employees in accordance
with R.C. §§ 504.151 and 2921.421.
   (G)   Any public contract in which a public official, a member of the public
official’s family, or any of the public official’s business associates has an
interest in violation of this section is void and unenforceable. Any contract
securing the investment of public funds in which a public official, a member of
the public official’s family, or any of the public official’s business
associates has an interest, is an underwriter, or receives any brokerage,
origination or servicing fees and that was entered into in violation of this
section is void and unenforceable.
   (H)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CHIEF LEGAL OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 733.621.
      PUBLIC CONTRACT. Any of the following:
         (a)   The purchase or acquisition, or a contract for the purchase or
acquisition, of property or services by or for the use of the state or any of
its political subdivisions, or any agency or instrumentality of either,
including the employment of an individual by the state, any of its political
subdivisions, or any agency or instrumentality of either;
         (b)   A contract for the design, construction, alteration, repair, or
maintenance of any public property.
(R.C. § 2921.42)
Statutory reference:
   Assistants and employees of Prosecutors, Law Directors, and Solicitors, see
R.C. § 2921.421
§ 136.10  SOLICITING OR RECEIVING IMPROPER COMPENSATION.
   (A)   No public servant shall knowingly solicit or accept and no person
shall knowingly promise or give to a public servant either of the following:
      (1)   Any compensation, other than as allowed by R.C. § 102.03(G), (H),
(I), or other provisions of law, to perform the public servant’s official
duties, to perform any other act or service in the public servant’s public
capacity, for the general performance of the duties of the public servant’s
public office or public employment, or as a supplement to the public servant’s
public compensation;
      (2)   Additional or greater fees or costs than are allowed by law to
perform the public servant’s official duties.
   (B)   No public servant for the public servant’s own personal or business
use and no person for the person’s own personal or business use or for the
personal or business use of a public servant or party official, shall solicit
or accept anything of value in consideration of either of the following:
      (1)   Appointing or securing, maintaining, or renewing the appointment of
any person to any public office, employment, or agency;
      (2)   Preferring, or maintaining the status of, any public employee with
respect to compensation, duties, placement, location, promotion, or other
material aspects of employment.
   (C)   No person for the benefit of a political party, campaign committee,
legislative campaign fund, political action committee or political contributing
entity shall coerce any contribution in consideration of either of the
following:
      (1)   Appointing or securing, maintaining, or renewing the appointment of
any person to any public office, employment, or agency;
      (2)   Preferring, or maintaining the status of, any public employee with
respect to compensation, duties, placement, location, promotion, or other
material aspects of employment.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of soliciting improper
compensation, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (E)   A public servant who is convicted of a violation of this section is
disqualified from holding any public office, employment, or position of trust
in this state for a period of seven years from the date of conviction.
   (F)   Divisions (A), (B), and (C) of this section do not prohibit any person
from making voluntary contributions to a political party, campaign committee,
legislative campaign fund, political action committee or political contributing
entity or prohibit a political party, campaign committee, legislative campaign
fund, political action committee or political contributing entity from
accepting voluntary contributions.
(R.C. § 2921.43)
§ 136.11  DERELICTION OF DUTY.
   (A)   No law enforcement officer shall negligently do any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to serve a lawful warrant without delay;
      (2)   Fail to prevent or halt the commission of an offense or to
apprehend an offender, when it is in the law enforcement officer’s power to do
so alone or with available assistance.
   (B)   No law enforcement, ministerial, or judicial officer shall negligently
fail to perform a lawful duty in a criminal case or proceeding.
   (C)   No officer, having charge of a detention facility, shall negligently
do any of the following:
      (1)   Allow the detention facility to become littered or unsanitary;
      (2)   Fail to provide persons confined in the detention facility with
adequate food, clothing, bedding, shelter, and medical attention;
      (3)   Fail to control an unruly prisoner, or to prevent intimidation of
or physical harm to a prisoner by another;
      (4)   Allow a prisoner to escape;
      (5)   Fail to observe any lawful and reasonable regulation for the
management of the detention facility.
   (D)   No public official shall recklessly create a deficiency, incur a
liability, or expend a greater sum than is appropriated by the Legislative
Authority for the use in any one year of the department, agency, or institution
with which the public official is connected.
   (E)   No public servant shall recklessly fail to perform a duty expressly
imposed by law with respect to the public servant’s office, or recklessly do
any act expressly forbidden by law with respect to the public servant’s office.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of dereliction of duty, a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (G)   As used in this section, PUBLIC SERVANT includes an officer or
employee of a contractor as defined in R.C. § 9.08.
(R.C. § 2921.44)
§ 136.12  INTERFERING WITH CIVIL RIGHTS.
   (A)   No public servant, under color of his or her office, employment, or
authority, shall knowingly deprive, conspire or attempt to deprive any person
of a constitutional or statutory right.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interfering with civil
rights, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2921.45)
§ 136.13  ILLEGAL CONVEYANCE OF PROHIBITED ITEMS ONTO GROUNDS OF A DETENTION
FACILITY OR OTHER SPECIFIED GOVERNMENTAL FACILITY.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly convey, or attempt to convey, onto the
grounds of a detention facility or of an institution, office building, or other
place that is under the control of the Department of Mental Health, the
Department of Developmental Disabilities, the Department of Youth Services, or
the Department of Rehabilitation and Correction, any of the following items:
      (1)   Any deadly weapon or dangerous ordnance, as defined in R.C. §
2923.11, or any part of or ammunition for use in such deadly weapon or
dangerous ordnance.
      (2)   Any drug of abuse, as defined in R.C. § 3719.011.
      (3)   Any intoxicating liquor, as defined in R.C. § 4301.01.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any person who conveys
or attempts to convey an item onto the grounds of a detention facility or of an
institution, office building, or other place under the control of the
Department of Mental Health, the Department of Developmental Disabilities, the
Department of Youth Services, or the Department of Rehabilitation and
Correction, with written authorization of the person in charge of the detention
facility or the institution, office building, or other place and in accordance
with the written rules of the detention facility or the institution, office
building, or other place.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly deliver, or attempt to deliver, to any
person who is confined in a detention facility, to a child confined in a youth
services facility, to a prisoner who is temporarily released from confinement
for a work assignment, or to any patient in an institution under the control of
the Department of Mental Health or the Department of Developmental
Disabilities, any item listed in division (A).
   (D)   No person shall knowingly deliver or attempt to deliver cash to any
person who is confined in a detention facility, to a child confined in a youth
services facility, or to a prisoner who is temporarily released from
confinement for a work assignment.
   (E)   No person shall knowingly deliver, or attempt to deliver, to any
person who is confined in a detention facility, to a child confined in a youth
services facility, or to a prisoner who is temporarily released from
confinement for a work assignment a cellular telephone, two-way radio, or other
electronic communications device.
   (F)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(1)
of this section that the weapon or dangerous ordnance in question was being
transported in a motor vehicle for any lawful purpose, that it was not on the
actor’s person, and if the weapon or dangerous ordnance was a firearm, that it
was unloaded and was being carried in a closed package, box or case or in a
compartment that can be reached only by leaving the vehicle.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (C) of this
section that the actor was not otherwise prohibited by law from delivering the
item to the confined person, the child, the prisoner, or the patient and that
either of the following applies:
         (a)   The actor was permitted by the written rules of the detention
facility or the institution, office building, or other place to deliver the
item to the confined person or the patient.
         (b)   The actor was given written authorization by the person in
charge of the detention facility or the institution, office building, or other
place to deliver the item to the confined person or the patient.
   (G)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) of this section or commits a
violation of division (C) of this section involving any item listed in division
(A)(1) of this section is guilty of illegal conveyance of weapons onto the
grounds of a specified governmental facility, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section or commits a
violation of division (C) of this section involving any drug of abuse is guilty
of illegal conveyance of drugs of abuse onto the grounds of a specified
governmental facility, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A)(3) of this section or commits a
violation of division (C) of this section involving any intoxicating liquor is
guilty of illegal conveyance of intoxicating liquor onto the grounds of a
specified governmental facility, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of illegal
conveyance of cash onto the grounds of a detention facility, a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (D) of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, illegal conveyance of cash onto
the grounds of a detention facility is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section is guilty of illegal
conveyance of a communications device onto the grounds of a specified
governmental facility, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (E)
of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
illegal conveyance of a communications device onto the grounds of a detention
facility is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.36)
   (H)   The person in charge of a detention facility shall, on the grounds of
the detention facility, have the same power as a peace officer, as defined in
R.C. § 2935.01, to arrest a person who violates this section.
(R.C. § 2921.37)
Cross-reference:
   Possession of an object indistinguishable from a firearm in a school safety
zone, see §
137.11
   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, see §
137.12
Statutory reference:
   Conveyance or possession of deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance on school
premises, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.122
   Conveyance, possession, or control of deadly weapon or dangerous ordinance
in a courthouse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.123
   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, felony offense, see R.C.
§ 2923.131
§ 136.14  FALSE REPORT OF CHILD ABUSE OR NEGLECT.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make or cause another person to make a false
report under R.C. § 2151.421(B) alleging that any person has committed an act
or omission that resulted in a child being an abused child as defined in R.C. §
2151.031 or a neglected child as defined in R.C. § 2151.03.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making or causing a false
report of child abuse or child neglect, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2921.14)
§ 136.15  ASSAULTING POLICE DOG OR HORSE, OR ASSISTANCE DOG.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cause, or attempt to cause, physical harm to
a police dog or horse in either of the following circumstances:
      (1)   The police dog or horse is assisting a law enforcement officer in
the performance of the officer’s official duties at the time the physical harm
is caused or attempted;
      (2)   The police dog or horse is not assisting a law enforcement officer
in the performance of the officer’s official duties at the time the physical
harm is caused or attempted, but the offender has actual knowledge that the dog
or horse is a police dog or horse.
   (B)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following:
      (1)   Taunt, torment, or strike a police dog or horse;
      (2)   Throw an object or substance at a police dog or horse;
      (3)   Interfere with or obstruct a police dog or horse, or interfere with
or obstruct a law enforcement officer who is being assisted by a police dog or
horse, in a manner that does any of the following:
         (a)   Inhibits or restricts the law enforcement officer’s control of
the police dog or horse;
         (b)   Deprives the law enforcement officer of control of the police
dog or horse;
         (c)   Releases the police dog or horse from its area of control;
         (d)   Enters the area of control of the police dog or horse without
the consent of the law enforcement officer, including placing food or any other
object or substance into that area;
         (e)   Inhibits or restricts the ability of the police dog or horse to
assist a law enforcement officer.
      (4)   Engage in any conduct that is likely to cause serious physical
injury or death to a police dog or horse;
      (5)   If the person is the owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog, fail to
reasonably restrain the dog from taunting, tormenting, chasing, approaching in
a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack, or attempting to bite or
otherwise endanger a police dog or horse that at the time of the conduct is
assisting a law enforcement officer in the performance of the officer’s duties
or that the person knows is a police dog or horse.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly cause, or attempt to cause, physical harm to
an assistance dog in either of the following circumstances:
      (1)   The dog is assisting or serving a blind, deaf or hearing impaired,
or mobility impaired person at the time the physical harm is caused or
attempted;
      (2)   The dog is not assisting or serving a blind, deaf or hearing
impaired, or mobility impaired person at the time the physical harm is caused
or attempted, but the offender has actual knowledge that the dog is an
assistance dog.
   (D)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following:
      (1)   Taunt, torment, or strike an assistance dog;
      (2)   Throw an object or substance at an assistance dog;
      (3)   Interfere with or obstruct an assistance dog, or interfere with or
obstruct a blind, deaf or hearing impaired, or mobility impaired person who is
being assisted or served by an assistance dog, in a manner that does any of the
following:
         (a)   Inhibits or restricts the assisted or served person’s control of
the dog;
         (b)   Deprives the assisted or served person of control of the dog;
         (c)   Releases the dog from its area of control;
         (d)   Enters the area of control of the dog without the consent of the
assisted or served person, including placing food or any other object or
substance into that area;
         (e)   Inhibits or restricts the ability of the dog to assist the
assisted or served person.
      (4)   Engage in any conduct that is likely to cause serious physical
injury or death to an assistance dog;
      (5)   If the person is the owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog, fail to
reasonably restrain the dog from taunting, tormenting, chasing, approaching in
a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack, or attempting to bite or
otherwise endanger an assistance dog that at the time of the conduct is
assisting or serving a blind, deaf or hearing impaired, or mobility impaired
person or that the person knows is an assistance dog.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
assaulting a police dog or horse. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, assaulting a police dog or horse is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. If the violation results in physical harm to the police dog or horse
other than death or serious physical harm, assaulting a police dog or horse is
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation results in serious physical
harm to the police dog or horse or results in its death, assaulting a police
dog or horse is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
harassing a police dog or horse. Except as otherwise provided this division,
harassing a police dog or horse is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
violation results in physical harm to the police dog or horse but does not
result in its death or in serious physical harm to it, harassing a police dog
or horse is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation results in
serous physical harm to the police dog or horse or results in its death,
harassing a police dog or horse is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of
assaulting an assistance dog. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
assaulting an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
violation results in physical harm to the assistance dog other than death or
serious physical harm, assaulting an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the violation results in serious physical harm to the
assistance dog or results in its death, assaulting an assistance dog is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of
harassing an assistance dog. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
harassing an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
violation results in physical harm to the assistance dog but does not result in
the death or in serious physical harm to it, harassing an assistance dog is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation results in serious physical
harm to the assistance dog or results in its death, harassing an assistance dog
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   In addition to any other sanctions or penalty imposed for the
offense under this section, R.C. Chapter 2929 or any other provision of the
Revised Code or this code, whoever violates division (A), (B), (C), or (D) of
this section is responsible for the payment of all of the following:
         (a)   Any veterinary bill or bill for medication incurred as a result
of the violation by the Police Department regarding a violation of division (A)
or (B) of this section or by the blind, deaf or hearing impaired, or mobility
impaired person assisted or served by the assistance dog regarding a violation
of division (C) or (D) of this section;
         (b)   The cost of any damaged equipment that results from the
violation;
         (c)   If the violation did not result in the death of the police dog
or horse or the assistance dog that was the subject of the violation and if, as
a result of that dog or horse being the subject of the violation, the dog or
horse needs further training or retraining to be able to continue in the
capacity of a police dog or horse or an assistance dog, the cost of any further
training or retraining of that dog or horse by a law enforcement officer or by
the blind, deaf or hearing impaired, or mobility impaired person assisted or
served by the assistance dog;
         (d)   If the violation resulted in the death of the police dog or
horse or the assistance dog that was the subject of the violation or resulted
in serious physical harm to that dog or horse to the extent that the dog or
horse needs to be replaced on either a temporary or a permanent basis, the cost
of replacing that dog or horse and of any further training of a new police dog
or horse or a new assistance dog by a law enforcement officer or by the blind,
deaf or hearing impaired, or mobility impaired person assisted or served by the
assistance dog, which replacement or training is required because of the death
of or the serious physical harm to the dog or horse that was the subject of the
violation.
   (F)   This section does not apply to a licensed veterinarian whose conduct
is in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4741.
   (G)   This section only applies to an offender who knows or should know at
the time of the violation that the police dog or horse or assistance dog that
is the subject of a violation under this section is a police dog or horse or an
assistance dog.
   (H)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ASSISTANCE DOG, BLIND and MOBILITY IMPAIRED PERSON. Have the same meaning
as in R.C. § 955.011.
      PHYSICAL HARM. Any injury, illness, or other psychological impairment,
regardless of its gravity or duration.
      POLICE DOG OR HORSE. A dog or horse that has been trained and may be used
to assist law enforcement officers in the performance of their official duties.
      SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM. Any of the following:
         (a)   Any physical harm that carries a substantial risk of death;
         (b)   Any physical harm that causes permanent maiming or that involves
some temporary, substantial maiming;
         (c)   Any physical harm that causes acute pain of a duration that
results in substantial suffering.
(R.C. § 2921.321)
§ 136.16  DISCLOSURE OF CONFIDENTIAL PEACE OFFICER INFORMATION.
   (A)   No officer or employee of a law enforcement agency or court, or of the
Clerk’s office of any court, shall disclose during the pendency of any criminal
case the home address of any peace officer, parole officer, prosecuting
attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee, or youth
services employee who is a witness or arresting officer in the case.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not prohibit a peace officer, parole
officer, prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional
employee, or youth services employee from disclosing the peace officer’s,
parole officer’s, prosecuting attorney’s, assistant prosecuting attorney’s,
correctional employee’s, or youth services employee’s own home address, and
does not apply to any person who discloses the home address of a peace officer,
parole officer, prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney,
correctional employee, or youth services employee pursuant to a court-ordered
disclosure under division (C) of this section.
   (C)   The court in which any criminal case is pending may order the
disclosure of the home address of any peace officer, parole officer,
prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee, or
youth services employee who is a witness or arresting officer in the case, if
the court determines after a written request for the disclosure that good cause
exists for disclosing the home address of the peace officer, parole officer,
prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee, or
youth services employee.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of disclosure
of confidential information, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2921.24)
   (E)   No judge of a court of record, or Mayor presiding over a Mayor’s
Court, shall order a peace officer, parole officer, prosecuting attorney,
assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee, or youth services
employee who is a witness in a criminal case, to disclose the peace officer’s,
parole officer’s, prosecuting attorney’s, assistant prosecuting attorney’s,
correctional employee’s, or youth services employee’s home address during the
peace officer’s, parole officer’s, prosecuting attorney’s, assistant
prosecuting attorney’s, correctional employee’s, or youth services employee’s
examination in the case unless the judge or Mayor determines that the defendant
has a right to the disclosure.
   (F)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
      CORRECTIONAL EMPLOYEE and YOUTH SERVICES EMPLOYEE. Have the same meanings
as in R.C. § 149.43.
      PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
(R.C. § 2921.25)
§ 136.17  INTIMIDATION OF CRIME VICTIM OR WITNESS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly attempt to intimidate or hinder the victim
of a crime or delinquent act in the filing or prosecution of criminal charges
or a delinquent child action or proceeding, and no person shall knowingly
attempt to intimidate a witness to a criminal or delinquent act by reason of
the person being a witness to that act.
   (B)   No person, knowingly and by force or by unlawful threat of harm to any
person or property or by unlawful threat to commit any offense or calumny
against any person, shall attempt to influence, intimidate, or hinder any of
the following persons:
      (1)   The victim of a crime or delinquent act in the filing or
prosecution of criminal charges or a delinquent child action or proceeding;
      (2)   A witness to a criminal or delinquent act by reason of the person
being a witness to that act;
      (3)   An attorney by reason of the attorney’s involvement in any criminal
or delinquent child action or proceeding.
   (C)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any person who is
attempting to resolve a dispute pertaining to the alleged commission of a
criminal offense, either prior to or subsequent to the filing of a complaint,
indictment, or information by participating in the arbitration, mediation,
compromise, settlement or conciliation of that dispute pursuant to an
authorization for arbitration, mediation, compromise, settlement, or
conciliation of a dispute of that nature that is conferred by any of the
following:
      (1)   A section of the Revised Code;
      (2)   The Rules of Criminal Procedure, the Rules of Superintendence for
Municipal Courts and County Courts, the Rules of Superintendence for Courts of
Common Pleas, or another rule adopted by the Ohio Supreme Court in accordance
with Ohio Constitution, Article IV, Section 5;
      (3)   A local rule of court, including but not limited to a local rule of
court that relates to alternative dispute resolution or other case management
programs and that authorizes the referral of disputes pertaining to the alleged
commission of certain types of criminal offenses to appropriate and available
arbitration, mediation, compromise, settlement or other conciliation programs;
      (4)   The order of a judge of a municipal court, county court, or court
of common pleas.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of intimidation of an
attorney, victim or witness in a criminal case. A violation of division (A) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. A violation of division (B)
of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (E)   As used in this section, WITNESS means any person who has or claims to
have knowledge concerning a fact or facts concerning a criminal or delinquent
act, whether or not criminal or delinquent child charges are actually filed.
(R.C. § 2921.04)
Statutory reference:
   Retaliation, felony offense, see R.C. § 2921.05
§ 136.18  USING SHAM LEGAL PROCESS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply:
      LAWFULLY ISSUED. Adopted, issued, or rendered in accordance with the
United States Constitution, the Constitution of a state, and the applicable
statutes, rules, regulations and ordinances of the United States, a state, and
the political subdivisions of a state.
      POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS. Municipal corporations, townships, counties,
school districts, and all other bodies corporate and politic that are organized
under state law and are responsible for governmental activities only in
geographical areas smaller than that of a state.
      SHAM LEGAL PROCESS. An instrument that meets all of the following
conditions:
         (a)   It is not lawfully issued;
         (b)   It purports to do any of the following:
            1.   To be a summons, subpoena, judgment, or order of a court, a
law enforcement officer, or a legislative, executive or administrative body;
            2.   To assert jurisdiction over or determine the legal or
equitable status, rights, duties, powers, or privileges of any person or
property;
            3.   To require or authorize the search, seizure, indictment,
arrest, trial, or sentencing of any person or property.
         (c)   It is designed to make another person believe that it is
lawfully issued.
      STATE. A state of the United States, including without limitation the
state legislature, the highest court of the state that has statewide
jurisdiction, the offices of all elected state officers, and all departments,
boards, offices, commissions, agencies, institutions, and other
instrumentalities of the state. STATE does not include the political
subdivisions of the state.
   (B)   No person shall, knowing the sham legal process to be a sham legal
process, do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly issue, display, deliver, distribute, or otherwise use
sham legal process;
      (2)   Knowingly use sham legal process to arrest, detain, search or seize
any person or the property of another person;
      (3)   Knowingly commit or facilitate the commission of an offense using
sham legal process;
      (4)   Knowingly commit a felony by using sham legal process.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B)(1) or (B)
(2) of this section that the use of sham legal process was for a lawful
purpose.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of using sham legal process. A
violation of division (B)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. A violation of division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree, except that if the purpose of a violation of
division (B)(3) of this section is to commit or facilitate the commission of a
felony, a violation of division (B)(3) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation of division (B)(4) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.52(A) - (D))
Statutory reference:
   Civil liability, see R.C. § 2921.52(E)
§ 136.19  MAKING FALSE ALLEGATION OF PEACE OFFICER MISCONDUCT.
   (A)   As used in this section, PEACE OFFICER has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 2935.01.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly file a complaint against a peace officer
that alleges that the peace officer engaged in misconduct in the performance of
the officer’s duties if the person knows that the allegation is false.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of making a
false allegation of peace officer misconduct, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 2921.15)
§ 136.20  MISUSE OF 9-1-1 SYSTEM.
   (A)   As used in this section, 9-1-1 SYSTEM means a system through which
individuals can request emergency service using the telephone number 9-1-1.
(R.C. § 4931.40(A))
   (B)   No person shall knowingly use the telephone number of a 9-1-1 system
established under R.C. §§ 4931.40 through 4931.70 to report an emergency if the
person knows that no emergency exists.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly use a 9-1-1 system for a purpose other than
obtaining emergency service.
   (D)   No person shall disclose or use any information concerning telephone
numbers, addresses, or names obtained from the database that serves the public
safety answering point of a 9-1-1 system established under R.C. §§ 4931.40
through 4931.70, except for any of the following purposes or under any of the
following circumstances:
      (1)   For the purpose of the 9-1-1 system;
      (2)   For the purpose of responding to an emergency call to an emergency
service provider;
      (3)   In the circumstance of the inadvertent disclosure of such
information due solely to technology of the wireless telephone network portion
of the 9-1-1 system not allowing access to the database to be restricted to 9-
1-1 specific answering lines at a public safety answering point;
      (4)   In the circumstance of access to a database being given by a
telephone company that is a wireless service provider to a public utility or
municipal utility in handling customer calls in times of public emergency or
service outages. The charge, terms, and conditions for the disclosure or use of
such information for the purpose of such access to a database shall be subject
to the jurisdiction of the Public Utilities Commission;
      (5)   In the circumstance of access to a database given by a telephone
company that is a wireline service provider to a state and local government in
warning of a public emergency, as determined by the Public Utilities
Commission. The charge, terms and conditions for the disclosure or use of that
information for the purpose of access to a database is subject to the
jurisdiction of the Public Utilities Commission.
(R.C. § 4931.49(D) - (F))
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4931.99(A), (C))
§ 136.21  FAILURE TO DISCLOSE PERSONAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   No person who is in a public place shall refuse to disclose the
person’s name, address, or date of birth, when requested by a law enforcement
officer who reasonably suspects either of the following:
      (1)   The person is committing, has committed, or is about to commit a
criminal offense;
      (2)   The person witnessed any of the following:
         (a)   An offense of violence that would constitute a felony under the
laws of this state;
         (b)   A felony offense that causes or results in, or creates a
substantial risk of, serious physical harm to another person or property;
         (c)   Any attempt or conspiracy to commit, or complicity in
committing, any offenses identified in division (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)(b) of this
section;
         (d)   Any conduct reasonably indicating that any offense identified in
division (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)(b) of this section or any attempt, conspiracy, or
complicity described in division (A)(2)(c) of this section has been, is being,
or is about to be committed.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of failure to
disclose one’s personal information, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (C)   Nothing in division (A) of this section requires a person to answer
any questions beyond that person’s name, address, or date of birth. Nothing in
division (A) of this section authorizes a law enforcement officer to arrest a
person for not providing any information beyond the person’s name, address, or
date of birth or for refusing to describe the offense observed.
   (D)   It is not a violation of division (A) of this section to refuse to
answer a question that would reveal a person’s age or date of birth if age is
an element of the crime that the person is suspected of committing.
(R.C. § 2921.29)
   (E)   No person entering an airport, train station, port, or other similar
critical transportation infrastructure site shall refuse to show identification
when requested by a law enforcement officer when there is a threat to security
and the law enforcement officer is requiring identification of all persons
entering the site.
   (F)   A law enforcement officer may prevent any person who refuses to show
identification when asked under the circumstances described in division (E) of
this section from entering the critical transportation infrastructure site.
(R.C. § 2909.31)
CHAPTER 137:  WEAPONS CONTROL
Section
   
137.01   Definitions
   
137.02   Carrying concealed weapons
   
137.03   Using weapons while intoxicated
   
137.04   Improperly handling firearms in a motor vehicle
   
137.05   Possessing criminal tools
   
137.06   Failure to secure dangerous ordnance
   
137.07   Unlawful transactions in weapons
   
137.08   Underage purchase of firearm or handgun
   
137.09   Pointing and discharging firearms and other weapons
   
137.10   License or permit to possess dangerous ordnance
   
137.11   Possession of an object indistinguishable from a firearm in a school
safety zone
   
137.12   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention
   
137.13   Concealed handgun licenses: possession of a revoked or suspended
license; additional restrictions; posting of signs prohibiting possession
   
137.14   Defaced firearms
Cross-reference:
   Conveyance into certain facilities, see §
136.13
   Injury to persons by hunters, see §
135.05
   Injury to property by hunters, see §
131.24
   Using weapons to endanger or damage aircraft or airport operations, see §
131.05
§ 137.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMATIC FIREARM. Any firearm designed or specially adapted to fire a
succession of cartridges with a single function of the trigger. AUTOMATIC
FIREARM also means any semi-automatic firearm designed or specially adapted to
fire more than 31 cartridges without reloading, other than a firearm chambering
only .22 caliber short, long, or long-rifle cartridges.
   BALLISTIC KNIFE. A knife with a detachable blade that is propelled by a
spring-operated mechanism.
   DANGEROUS ORDNANCE.
      (1)   Any of the following, except as provided in division (2) of this
definition:
         (a)   Any automatic or sawed-off firearm, zip-gun, or ballistic knife;
         (b)   Any explosive device or incendiary device;
         (c)   Nitroglycerin, nitrocellulose, nitro- starch, PETN, cyclonite,
TNT, picric acid, and other high explosives; amatol, tritonal, tetrytol,
pentolite, pecretol, cyclotol, and other high explosive compositions; plastic
explosives; dynamite, blasting gelatin, gelatin dynamite, sensitized ammonium
nitrate, liquid-oxygen blasting explosives, blasting powder, and other blasting
agents; and any other explosive substance having sufficient brisance or power
to be particularly suitable for use as a military explosive, or for use in
mining, quarrying, excavating, or demolitions;
         (d)   Any firearm, rocket launcher, mortar, artillery piece, grenade,
mine, bomb, torpedo, or similar weapon, designed and manufactured for military
purposes, and the ammunition for that weapon;
         (e)   Any firearm muffler or silencer;
         (f)   Any combination of parts that is intended by the owner for use
in converting any firearm or other device into a dangerous ordnance.
      (2)   DANGEROUS ORDNANCE does not include any of the following:
         (a)   Any firearm, including a military weapon and the ammunition for
that weapon, and regardless of its actual age, that employs a percussion cap or
other obsolete ignition system, or that is designed and safe for use only with
black powder;
         (b)   Any pistol, rifle, or shotgun, designed or suitable for sporting
purposes, including a military weapon as issued or as modified, and the
ammunition for that weapon, unless the firearm is an automatic or sawed-off
firearm;
         (c)   Any cannon or other artillery piece that, regardless of its
actual age, is of a type in accepted use prior to 1887, has no mechanical,
hydraulic, pneumatic, or other system for absorbing recoil and returning the
tube into battery without displacing the carriage, and is designed and safe for
use only with black powder;
         (d)   Black powder, priming quills, and percussion caps possessed and
lawfully used to fire a cannon of a type defined in division (2)(c) of this
definition during displays, celebrations, organized matches or shoots, and
target practice, and smokeless and black powder, primers, and percussion caps
possessed and lawfully used as a propellant or ignition device in small-arms or
small-arms ammunition;
         (e)   Dangerous ordnance that is inoperable or inert and cannot
readily be rendered operable or activated, and that is kept as a trophy,
souvenir, curio, or museum piece;
         (f)   Any device that is expressly excepted from the definition of a
destructive device pursuant to the Gun Control Act of 1968, 18 U.S.C. § 921(a)
(4), as amended, and regulations issued under that act.
   DEADLY WEAPON. Any instrument, device, or thing capable of inflicting death,
and designed or specially adapted for use as a weapon, or possessed, carried,
or used as a weapon.
   EXPLOSIVE. Any chemical compound, mixture, or device, the primary or common
purpose of which is to function by explosion. The term includes all materials
that have been classified as division 1.1, division 1.2, division 1.3, or
division 1.4 explosives by the United States Department of Transportation in
its regulations and includes but is not limited to dynamite, black powder,
pellet powders, initiating explosives, blasting caps, electric blasting caps,
safety fuses, fuse igniters, squibs, cordeau detonant fuses, instantaneous
fuses, and igniter cords and igniters. The term does not include “fireworks,”
as defined in R.C. § 3743.01, or any substance or material otherwise meeting
the definition of explosive set forth in this section that is manufactured,
sold, possessed, transported, stored, or used in any activity described in R.C.
§ 3743.80, provided the activity is conducted in accordance with all applicable
laws, rules, and regulations, including but not limited to the provisions of
R.C. § 3743.80 and the rules of the Fire Marshal adopted pursuant to R.C. §
3737.82.
   EXPLOSIVE DEVICE. Any device designed or specially adapted to cause physical
harm to persons or property by means of an explosion, and consisting of an
explosive substance or agency and a means to detonate it. EXPLOSIVE DEVICE
includes without limitation any bomb, any explosive demolition device, any
blasting cap or detonator containing an explosive  charge, and any pressure
vessel that has been knowingly tampered with or arranged so as to explode.
   FIREARM.
      (1)   Any deadly weapon capable of expelling or propelling one or more
projectiles by the action of an explosive or combustible propellant. FIREARM
includes an unloaded firearm, and any firearm that is inoperable but that can
readily be rendered operable.
      (2)   When determining whether a firearm is capable of expelling or
propelling one or more projectiles by the action of an explosive or combustible
propellant, the trier of fact may rely upon circumstantial evidence, including
but not limited to the representations and actions of the individual exercising
control over the firearm.
   HANDGUN. Means any of the following:
      (1)   Any firearm that has a short stock and is designed to be held and
fired by the use of a single hand;
      (2)   Any combination of parts from which a firearm of a type described
in division (1) of this definition can be assembled.
   INCENDIARY DEVICE. Any firebomb, and any device designed or specially
adapted to cause physical harm to persons or property by means of fire, and
consisting of an incendiary substance or agent and a means to ignite it.
   SAWED-OFF FIREARM. A shotgun with a barrel less than 18 inches long, or a
rifle with a barrel less than 16 inches long, or a shotgun or rifle less than
26 inches long overall.
   SEMI-AUTOMATIC FIREARM. Any firearm designed or specially adapted to fire a
single cartridge and automatically chamber a succeeding cartridge ready to
fire, with a single function of the trigger.
   ZIP-GUN. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any firearm of crude and extemporized manufacture.
      (2)   Any device, including without limitation a starter’s pistol, not
designed as a firearm, but that is specially adapted for use as a firearm.
      (3)   Any industrial tool, signalling device, or safety device, not
designed as a firearm, but that as designed is capable of use as such, when
possessed, carried, or used as a firearm.
(R.C. § 2923.11)
§ 137.02  CARRYING CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly carry or have, concealed on the person’s
person or concealed ready at hand, any of the following:
      (1)   A deadly weapon other than a handgun;
      (2)   A handgun other than a dangerous ordnance;
      (3)   A dangerous ordnance.
   (B)   No person who has been issued a license or temporary emergency license
to carry a concealed handgun under R.C. § 2923.125 or 2923.1213 or a license to
carry a concealed handgun that was issued by another state with which the
Attorney General has entered into a reciprocity agreement under R.C. § 109.69
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose, and is
carrying a concealed handgun, fail to promptly inform any law enforcement
officer who approaches the person after the person has been stopped that the
person has been issued a license or temporary emergency license to carry a
concealed handgun and that the person then is carrying a concealed handgun;
      (2)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose and if the
person is carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly fail to keep the person’s
hands in plain sight at any time after any law enforcement officer begins
approaching the person while stopped and before the law enforcement officer
leaves, unless the failure is pursuant to and in accordance with directions
given by a law enforcement officer;
      (3)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose, if the
person is carrying a concealed handgun, and if the person is approached by any
law enforcement officer while stopped, knowingly remove or attempt to remove
the loaded handgun from the holster, pocket, or other place in which the person
is carrying it, knowingly grasp or hold the loaded handgun, or knowingly have
contact with the loaded handgun by touching it with the person’s hands or
fingers at any time after the law enforcement officer begins approaching and
before the law enforcement officer leaves, unless the person removes, attempts
to remove, grasps, holds, or has contact with the loaded handgun pursuant to
and in accordance with directions given by the law enforcement officer;
      (4)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose and if the
person is carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly disregard or fail to comply
with any lawful order of any law enforcement officer given while the person is
stopped, including but not limited to a specific order to the person to keep
the person’s hands in plain sight.
   (C)   (1)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   An officer, agent, or employee of this or any other state or the
United States, or to a law enforcement officer, who is authorized to carry
concealed weapons or dangerous ordnance or is authorized to carry handguns and
is acting within the scope of the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s duties;
         (b)   Any person who is employed in this state, who is authorized to
carry concealed weapons or dangerous ordnance or is authorized to carry
handguns, and who is subject to and in compliance with the requirements of R.C.
§ 109.801, unless the appointing authority of the person has expressly
specified that the exemption provided in this division (C)(1)(b) does not apply
to the person;
         (c)   A person’s transportation or storage of a firearm, other than a
firearm described in R.C. § 2923.11(G) to (M), in a motor vehicle for any
lawful purpose if the firearm is not on the actor’s person;
         (d)   A person’s storage or possession of a firearm, other than a
firearm described in R.C. § 2923.11(G) to (M), in the actor’s own home for any
lawful purpose.
      (2)   Division (A)(2) of this section does not apply to any person who,
at the time of the alleged carrying or possession of a handgun, is carrying a
valid license or temporary emergency license to carry a concealed handgun
issued to the person under R.C. § 2923.125 or 2923.1213 or a license to carry a
concealed handgun that was issued by another state with which the Attorney
General has entered into a reciprocity agreement under R.C. § 109.69, unless
the person knowingly is in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(1) of this
section of carrying or having control of a weapon other than a handgun and
other than a dangerous ordnance, that the actor was not otherwise prohibited by
law from having the weapon, and that any of the following applies:
      (1)   The weapon was carried or kept ready at hand by the actor for
defensive purposes, while the actor was engaged in or was going to or from the
actor’s lawful business or occupation, which business or occupation was of a
character or was necessarily carried on in a manner or at a time or place as to
render the actor particularly susceptible to criminal attack, such as would
justify a prudent person in going armed;
      (2)   The weapon was carried or kept ready at hand by the actor for
defensive purposes, while the actor was engaged in a lawful activity and had
reasonable cause to fear a criminal attack upon the actor, a member of the
actor’s family, or the actor’s home, such as would justify a prudent person in
going armed;
      (3)   The weapon was carried or kept ready at hand by the actor for any
lawful purpose and while in the actor’s own home;
   (E)   No person who is charged with a violation of this section shall be
required to obtain a license or temporary emergency license to carry a
concealed handgun under R.C. § 2923.125 or 2923.1213 as a condition for the
dismissal of the charge.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of carrying concealed
weapons. Except as otherwise provided in this division or division (F)(2) of
this section, carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (A) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Except as otherwise provided in
this division or division (F)(2) of this section, if the offender previously
has been convicted of a violation of this section or any substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance or of any offense of violence, if
the weapon involved is a firearm that is either loaded or for which the
offender has ammunition ready at hand, or if the weapon involved is dangerous
ordnance, carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (A) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. Except as
otherwise provided in division (F)(2) of this section, if the offense is
committed aboard an aircraft, or with purpose to carry a concealed weapon
aboard an aircraft, regardless of the weapon involved, carrying concealed
weapons in violation of division (A) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If a person being arrested for a violation of division (A)(2) of
this section promptly produces a valid license or temporary emergency license
to carry a concealed handgun issued under R.C. § 2923.125 or 2923.1213 or a
license to carry a concealed handgun that was issued by another state with
which the Attorney General has entered into a reciprocity agreement under R.C.
§ 109.69, and if at the time of the violation the person was not knowingly in a
place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B), the officer shall not arrest the person
for a violation of that division. If the person is not able to promptly produce
any of those types of license and if the person is not in a place described in
that section, the officer may arrest the person for a violation of that
division, and the offender shall be punished as follows:
         (a)   The offender shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor if both of
the following apply:
            1.   Within 10 days after the arrest, the offender presents a
license or temporary emergency license to carry a concealed handgun issued
under R.C. § 2923.125 or 2923.1213 or a license to carry a concealed handgun
that was issued by another state with which the Attorney General has entered
into a reciprocity agreement under R.C. § 109.69, which license was valid at
the time of the arrest to the law enforcement agency that employs the arresting
officer;
            2.   At the time of the arrest, the offender was not knowingly in a
place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
         (b)   The offender shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined
$500 if all of the following apply:
            1.   The offender previously had been issued a license to carry a
concealed handgun under R.C. § 2923.125 or a license to carry a concealed
handgun that was issued by another state with which the Attorney General has
entered into a reciprocity agreement under R.C. § 109.69 and that was similar
in nature to a license issued under R.C. § 2923.125, and that license expired
within the two years immediately preceding the arrest;
            2.   Within 45 days after the arrest, the offender presents any
type of license identified in division (F)(2)(a)1. of this section to the law
enforcement agency that employed the arresting officer, and the offender waives
in writing the offender’s right to a speedy trial on the charge of the
violation that is provided in R.C. § 2945.71;
            3.   At the time of the commission of the offense, the offender was
not knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
         (c)   If neither division (F)(2)(a) nor (F)(2)(b) of this section
applies, the offender shall be punished under division (F)(1) of this section.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, carrying concealed
weapons in violation of division (B)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree, and, in addition to any other penalty or sanction imposed for a
violation of division (B)(1) of this section, the offender’s license or
temporary emergency license to carry a concealed handgun shall be suspended
pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2).  If, at the time of the stop of the offender
for a law enforcement purpose that was the basis of the violation, any law
enforcement officer involved with the stop had actual knowledge that the
offender has been issued a license or temporary emergency license to carry a
concealed handgun, carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (B)(1)
of this section is a minor misdemeanor, and the offender’s license or temporary
emergency license to carry a concealed handgun shall not be suspended pursuant
to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2).
      (4)   Carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (B)(2) or (B)
(4) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division
(B)(2) or (B)(4) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. In
addition to any other penalty or sanction imposed for a misdemeanor violation
of division (B)(2) or (B)(4) of this section, the offender’s license or
temporary emergency license to carry a concealed handgun shall be suspended
pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2).
      (5)   Carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (B)(3) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (G)   If a law enforcement officer stops a person to question the person
regarding a possible violation of this section, for a traffic stop, or for any
other law enforcement purpose, if the person surrenders a firearm to the
officer, either voluntarily or pursuant to a request or demand of the officer,
and if the officer does not charge the person with a violation of this section
or arrest the person for any offense, the person is not otherwise prohibited by
law from possessing the firearm, and the firearm is not contraband, the officer
shall return the firearm to the person at the termination of the stop.  If a
court orders a law enforcement officer to return a firearm to a person pursuant
to the requirement set forth in this division, R.C. § 2923.163(B) applies.
(R.C. § 2923.12)
Statutory reference:
   Carrying concealed handguns, licensing through county sheriff, see R.C. §§
2923.124 et seq.
   Conveyance or possession of deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance on school
premises or in a courthouse, felony offenses, see R.C. §§ 2923.122 and 2923.123
   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, felony offense, see R.C.
§ 2923.131
   Possession of firearm in liquor permit premises, felony offense, see R.C. §
2923.121
§ 137.03  USING WEAPONS WHILE INTOXICATED.
   (A)   No person, while under the influence of alcohol or any drug of abuse,
shall carry or use any firearm or dangerous ordnance.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of using weapons while
intoxicated, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2923.15)
§ 137.04  IMPROPERLY HANDLING FIREARMS IN A MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly discharge a firearm while in or on a motor
vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a loaded firearm in a
motor vehicle in such a manner that the firearm is accessible to the operator
or any passenger without leaving the vehicle.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a firearm in a motor
vehicle, unless the person may lawfully possess that firearm under applicable
law of this state or the United States, the firearm is unloaded, and the
firearm is carried in one of the following ways:
      (1)   In a closed package, box, or case;
      (2)   In a compartment that can be reached only by leaving the vehicle;
      (3)   In plain sight and secured in a rack or holder made for the
purpose;
      (4)   If the firearm is at least 24 inches in overall length as measured
from the muzzle to the part of the stock furthest from the muzzle and if the
barrel is at least 18 inches in length, either in plain sight with the action
open or the weapon stripped, or, if the firearm is of a type on which the
action will not stay open or which cannot easily be stripped, in plain sight.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a loaded handgun in a
motor vehicle if, at the time of that transportation or possession, any of the
following applies:
      (1)   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a
combination of them;
      (2)   The person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine
contains a concentration of alcohol, a listed controlled substance, or a listed
metabolite of a controlled substance prohibited for persons operating a
vehicle, as specified in R.C. § 4511.19(A), regardless of whether the person at
the time of the transportation or possession as described in this division is
the operator of or a passenger in the motor vehicle.
   (E)   No person who has been issued a license or temporary emergency license
to carry a concealed handgun under R.C. § 2923.125 or 2923.1213 or a license to
carry a concealed handgun that was issued to the person by another state with
which the Attorney General has entered into a reciprocity agreement under R.C.
§ 109.69, who is the driver or an occupant of a motor vehicle that is stopped
as a result of a traffic stop or a stop for another law enforcement purpose or
is the driver or an occupant of a commercial motor vehicle that is stopped by
an employee of the motor carrier enforcement unit for the purposes defined in
R.C. § 5503.34, and who is transporting or has a loaded handgun in the motor
vehicle or commercial motor vehicle in any manner, shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Fail to promptly inform any law enforcement officer who approaches
the vehicle while stopped that the person has been issued a license or
temporary emergency license to carry a concealed handgun and that the person
then possesses or has a loaded handgun in the motor vehicle;
      (2)   Fail to promptly inform the employee of the unit who approaches the
vehicle while stopped that the person has been issued a license or temporary
emergency license to carry a concealed handgun and that the person then
possesses or has a loaded handgun in the commercial motor vehicle;
      (3)   Knowingly fail to remain in the motor vehicle while stopped, or
knowingly fail to keep the person’s hands in plain sight at any time after any
law enforcement officer begins approaching the person while stopped and before
the law enforcement officer leaves, unless the failure is pursuant to and in
accordance with directions given by a law enforcement officer;
      (4)   Knowingly have contact with the loaded handgun by touching it with
the person’s hands or fingers in the motor vehicle at any time after the law
enforcement officer begins approaching and before the law enforcement officer
leaves, unless the person removes, attempts to remove, grasps, holds, or has
contact with the loaded handgun pursuant to and in accordance with directions
given by the law enforcement officer.
      (5)   Knowingly disregard or fail to comply with any lawful order of any
law enforcement officer given while the motor vehicle is stopped, including but
not limited to a specific order to the person to keep the person’s hands in
plain sight.
   (F)   (1)   Divisions (A), (B), (C), and (E) of this section do not apply to
any of the following:
         (a)   An officer, agent, or employee of this or any other state or the
United States, or a law enforcement officer, when authorized to carry or have
loaded or accessible firearms in motor vehicles and acting within the scope of
the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s duties;
         (b)   Any person who is employed in this state, who is authorized to
carry or have loaded or accessible firearms in motor vehicles, and who is
subject to and in compliance with the requirements of R.C. § 109.801, unless
the appointing authority of the person has expressly specified that the
exemption provided in this division (F)(1)(b) does not apply to the person.
      (2)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to a person if all of
the following circumstances apply:
         (a)   The person discharges a firearm from a motor vehicle at a coyote
or groundhog, the discharge is not during the deer gun hunting season as set by
the Chief of the Division of Wildlife of the Department of Natural Resources,
and the discharge at the coyote or groundhog, but for the operation of this
section, is lawful;
         (b)   The motor vehicle from which the person discharges the firearm
is on real property that is located in an unincorporated area of a township and
that is either zoned for agriculture or is used for agriculture’
         (c)   The person owns the real property described in division (F)(2)
(b) of this section, is the spouse or a child of another person who owns that
real property, is a tenant of another person who owns that real property, or is
the spouse or a child of a tenant of another person who owns that real
property;
         (d)   The person does not discharge the firearm in any of the
following manners:
            1.   While under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or
alcohol and a drug of abuse;
            2.   In the direction of a street, highway or other public or
private property used by the public for vehicular traffic or parking;
            3.   At or into an occupied structure that is a permanent or
temporary habitation;
            4.   In the commission of any violation of law, including but not
limited to a felony that includes, as an essential element, purposely or
knowingly causing or attempting to cause the death of or physical harm to
another and that was committed by discharging a firearm from a motor vehicle.
      (3)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to a person if all of
the following apply:
         (a)   The person possesses a valid electric-powered all-purpose
vehicle permit issued under R.C. § 1533.103 by the Chief of the Division of
Wildlife.
         (b)   The person discharges a firearm at a wild quadruped or game bird
as defined in R.C. § 1531.01 during the open hunting season for the applicable
wild quadruped or game bird.
         (c)   The person discharges a firearm from a stationary electric-
powered all-purpose vehicle as defined in R.C. § 1531.01 or a motor vehicle
that is parked on a road that is owned or administered by the Division of
Wildlife, provided that the road is identified by an electric-powered all-
purpose vehicle sign.
         (d)   The person does not discharge the firearm in any of the
following manners:
            1.   While under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or
alcohol and a drug of abuse;
            2.   In the direction of a street, a highway, or other public or
private property that is used by the public for vehicular traffic or parking;
            3.   At or into an occupied structure that is a permanent or
temporary habitation;
            4.   In the commission of any violation of law, including, but not
limited to, a felony that includes, as an essential element, purposely or
knowingly causing or attempting to cause the death of or physical harm to
another and that was committed by discharging a firearm from a motor vehicle.
      (4)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to a person if
all of the following circumstances apply:
         (a)   At the time of the alleged violation of either of those
divisions, the person is the operator of or a passenger in a motor vehicle.
         (b)   The motor vehicle is on real property that is located in an
unincorporated area of a township and that is either zoned for agriculture or
is used for agriculture.
         (c)   The person owns the real property described in division (F)(4)
(b) (of this section, is the spouse or a child of another person who owns that
real property, is a tenant of another person who owns that real property, or is
the spouse or a child of a tenant of another person who owns that real
property.
         (d)   The person, prior to arriving at the real property described in
division (F)(4)(b) of this section, did not transport or possess a firearm in
the motor vehicle in a manner prohibited by division (B) or (C) of this section
while the motor vehicle was being operated on a street, highway or other public
or private property used by the public for vehicular traffic or parking.
      (5)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to a person who
transports or possesses a handgun in a motor vehicle if, at the time of that
transportation or possession, both of the following apply:
         (a)   The person transporting or possessing the handgun is carrying a
valid license or temporary emergency license to carry a concealed handgun
issued to the person under R.C. § 2923.125 or 2923.1213 or a license to carry a
concealed handgun that was issued by another state with which the Attorney
General has entered into a reciprocity agreement under R.C. § 109.69.
         (b)   The person transporting or possessing the handgun is not
knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
      (6)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to a person if
all of the following apply:
         (a)   The person possesses a valid electric-powered all-purpose
vehicle permit issued under R.C. § 1533.103 by the Chief of the Division of
Wildlife.
         (b)   The person is on or in an electric- powered all-purpose vehicle
as defined in R.C. § 1531.01 or a motor vehicle during the open hunting season
for a wild quadruped or game bird.
         (c)   The person is on or in an electric- powered all-purpose vehicle
as defined in R.C. § 1531.01 or a motor vehicle that is parked on a road that
is owned or administered by the Division of Wildlife, provided that the road is
identified by an electric-powered all-purpose vehicle sign.
   (G)   (1)   The affirmative defenses authorized in R.C. § 2923.12(D)(1) and
(D)(2) are affirmative defenses to a charge under division (B) or (C) of this
section that involves a firearm other than a handgun.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B) or (C)
of this section of improperly handling firearms in a motor vehicle that the
actor transported or had the firearm in the motor vehicle for any lawful
purpose and while the motor vehicle was on the actor’s own property, provided
that this affirmative defense is not available unless the person, immediately
prior to arriving at the actor’s own property, did not transport or possess the
firearm in a motor vehicle in a manner prohibited by division (B) or (C) of
this section while the motor vehicle was being operated on a street, highway,
or other public or private property used by the public for vehicular traffic.
   (H)   (1)   No person who is charged with a violation of division (B), (C),
or (D) of this section shall be required to obtain a license or temporary
emergency license to carry a concealed handgun under R.C. § 2923.125 or
2923.1213 as a condition for the dismissal of the charge.
      (2)   (a)   If a person is convicted of, was convicted of, pleads guilty
to, or has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (E) of this section as it
existed prior to September 30, 2011 and if the conduct that was the basis of
the violation no longer would be a violation of division (E) of this section on
or after September 30, 2011, the person may file an application under R.C. §
2953.37 requesting the expungement of the record of conviction.
         (b)   If a person is convicted of, was convicted of, pleads guilty to,
or has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (B) or (C) of this section as
the division existed prior to September 30, 2011 and if the conduct that was
the basis of the violation no longer would be a violation of division (B) or
(C) of this section on or after September 30, 2011 due to the application of
division (F)(5) of this section as it exists on and after September 30, 2011,
the person may file an application under R.C. § 2953.37 requesting the
expungement of the record of conviction.
   (I)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of improperly handling
firearms in a motor vehicle. Violation of division (A) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. Violation of division (C)
of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. A violation of division
(D) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law
and, if the loaded handgun is concealed on the person’s person, it is also a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.  Except as otherwise
provided in this division, a violation of division (E)(1) or (E)(2) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree, and, in addition to any other
penalty or sanction imposed for the violation, the offender’s license or
temporary emergency license to carry a concealed handgun shall be suspended
pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2).  If at the time of the stop of the offender
for a traffic stop, for another law enforcement purpose, or for a purpose
defined in R.C. § 5503.34 that was the basis of the violation any law
enforcement officer involved with the stop or the employee of the motor carrier
enforcement unit who made the stop had actual knowledge of the offender’s
status as a licensee, a violation of division (E)(1) or (E)(2) of this section
is a minor misdemeanor, and the offender’s license or temporary emergency
license to carry a concealed handgun shall not be suspended pursuant to R.C. §
2923.128(A)(2). A violation of division (E)(4) of this section is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation of division (E)(3) or
(E)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division
(E)(3) or (E)(5) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. In
addition to any other penalty or sanction imposed for a misdemeanor violation
of division (E)(3) or (E)(5) of this section, the offender’s license or
temporary emergency license to carry a concealed handgun shall be suspended
pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2). A violation of division (B) of this section
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (J)   If a law enforcement officer stops a motor vehicle for a traffic stop
or any other purpose, if any person in the motor vehicle surrenders a firearm
to the officer, either voluntarily or pursuant to a request or demand of the
officer, and if the officer does not charge the person with a violation of this
section or arrest the person for any offense, the person is not otherwise
prohibited by law from possessing the firearm, and the firearm is not
contraband, the officer shall return the firearm to the person at the
termination of the stop.  If a court orders a law enforcement officer to return
a firearm to a person pursuant to the requirement set forth in this division,
R.C. § 2923.163(B) applies.
   (K)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
      AGRICULTURE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 519.01.
      COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4506.25(A).
      MOTOR CARRIER ENFORCEMENT UNIT. Means the Motor Carrier Enforcement Unit
in the Department of Public Safety, Division of State Highway Patrol, that is
created by R.C. § 5503.34.
      MOTOR VEHICLE, STREET and HIGHWAY. Have the same meaning as in R.C. §
4511.01.
      OCCUPIED STRUCTURE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.01.
      TENANT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1531.01.
      UNLOADED. Means any of the following:
         (a)   No ammunition is in the firearm in question, and no ammunition
is loaded into a magazine or speed loader that may be used with the firearm in
question and that is located anywhere within the vehicle in question, without
regard to where ammunition otherwise is located within the vehicle in
question.  For the purposes of division (a) of this definition, ammunition held
in stripper-clips or in en-bloc clips is not considered ammunition that is
loaded into a magazine or speed loader.
         (b)   With respect to a firearm employing a percussion cap, flintlock,
or other obsolete ignition system, when the weapon is uncapped or when the
priming charge is removed from the pan.
(R.C. § 2923.16)
Statutory reference:
   Return of surrendered firearms by law enforcement, see R.C. § 2923.163
§ 137.05  POSSESSING CRIMINAL TOOLS.
   (A)   No person shall possess or have under his or her control any
substance, device, instrument, or article, with purpose to use it criminally.
   (B)   Each of the following constitutes prima facie evidence of criminal
purpose:
      (1)   Possession or control of any dangerous ordnance, or the materials
or parts for making a dangerous ordnance, in the absence of circumstances
indicating the dangerous ordnance, materials or parts are intended for a
legitimate use;
      (2)   Possession or control of any substance, device, instrument, or
article designed or specially adapted for criminal use;
      (3)   Possession or control of any substance, device, instrument, or
article commonly used for criminal purposes, under circumstances indicating the
item is intended for criminal use.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possessing criminal tools.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, possessing criminal tools is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the circumstances indicate that the
substance, device, instrument, or article involved in the offense was intended
for use in the commission of a felony, possessing criminal tools is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2923.24)
§ 137.06  FAILURE TO SECURE DANGEROUS ORDNANCE.
   (A)   No person, in acquiring, possessing, carrying, or using any dangerous
ordnance, shall negligently fail to take proper precautions:
      (1)   To secure the dangerous ordnance against theft, or against its
acquisition or use by any unauthorized or incompetent person;
      (2)   To insure the safety of persons and property.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to a secure
dangerous ordnance, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2923.19)
§ 137.07  UNLAWFUL TRANSACTIONS IN WEAPONS.
   (A)   No person shall:
      (1)   Recklessly sell, lend, give or furnish any firearm to any person
prohibited by R.C. § 2923.13 or 2923.15, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, from acquiring or using any firearm, or recklessly sell,
lend, give or furnish any dangerous ordnance to any person prohibited by R.C. §
2923.13, 2923.15, or 2923.17, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, from acquiring or using any dangerous ordnance;
      (2)   Possess any firearm or dangerous ordnance with purpose to dispose
of it in violation of division (A)(1) of this section;
      (3)   Manufacture, possess for sale, sell, or furnish to any person other
than a law enforcement agency for authorized use in police work, any brass
knuckles, cestus, billy, blackjack, sandbag, switchblade knife, springblade
knife, gravity knife, or similar weapon;
      (4)   When transferring any dangerous ordnance to another, negligently
fail to require the transferee to exhibit such identification, license, or
permit showing him or her to be authorized to acquire dangerous ordnance
pursuant to R.C. § 2923.17, or negligently fail to take a complete record of
the transaction and forthwith forward a copy of the record to the sheriff of
the county or Safety Director or Police Chief of the municipality where the
transaction takes place;
      (5)   Knowingly fail to report to law enforcement authorities forthwith
the loss or theft of any firearm or dangerous ordnance in the person’s
possession and under his or her control.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful transactions in
weapons. A violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation of division (A)(3) or
(A)(4) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second degree. A violation of
division (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2923.20)
§ 137.08  UNDERAGE PURCHASE OF FIREARM OR HANDGUN.
   (A)   No person under 18 years of age shall purchase or attempt to purchase
a firearm.
   (B)   No person under 21 years of age shall purchase or attempt to purchase
a handgun; provided, that this division does not apply to the purchase or
attempted purchase of a handgun by a person 18 years of age or older and under
21 years of age if either of the following applies:
      (1)   The person is a law enforcement officer and has received firearms
training approved by the Ohio Peace Officer Training Council or equivalent
firearms training.
      (2)   The person is an active or reserve member of the armed services of
the United States or the Ohio National Guard, or was honorably discharged from
military service in the active or reserve armed services of the United States
or the Ohio National Guard, and the person has received firearms training from
the armed services or the national guard or equivalent firearms training.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of underage
purchase of a firearm, a delinquent act that would be a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law if it could be committed by an adult. Whoever
violates division (B) of this section is guilty of underage purchase of a
handgun, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2923.211)
Statutory reference:
   Improperly furnishing firearms to a minor, felony, see R.C. § 2923.21
§ 137.09  POINTING AND DISCHARGING FIREARMS AND OTHER WEAPONS.
   (A)   Discharge of firearms on or near prohibited premises. No person shall
do any of the following:
      (1)   Without permission from the proper officials and subject to
division (B)(1) of this section, discharge a firearm upon or over a cemetery or
within 100 yards of a cemetery;
      (2)   Subject to division (B)(2) of this section, discharge of a firearm
on a lawn, park, pleasure ground, orchard, or other ground appurtenant to a
schoolhouse, church, or inhabited dwelling, the property of another, or a
charitable institution;
      (3)   Discharge a firearm upon or over a public road or highway.
   (B)   (1)   Division (A)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who
while on the person’s own land, discharges a firearm.
      (2)   Division (A)(2) of this section does not apply to a person who owns
any type of property described in that division and who, while on the person’s
own enclosure, discharges a firearm.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of discharge
of a firearm on or near prohibited premises. A violation of division (A)(1) or
(A)(2) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. A violation of
division (A)(3) shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2) of this section, a
violation of division (A)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (2)   If the violation created a substantial risk of physical harm to any
person, caused serious physical harm to property, caused physical harm to any
person, or caused serious physical harm to any person, a violation of division
(A)(3) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2923.162)
   (D)   Hunting near township park.
      (1)   No person shall hunt, shoot, or kill game within one-half mile of a
township park unless the Board of Township Park Commissioners has granted
permission to kill game not desired within the limits prohibited by this
division.
(R.C. § 3773.06)
      (2)   Whoever violates division (D)(1) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 3773.99(A))
   (E)   No person shall discharge any BB gun, air gun, or firearm, or make use
of any sling, bow and arrow, or crossbow, within the corporate limits of the
municipality.
   (F)   No person shall, intentionally and without malice, point or aim any BB
gun, air gun, or firearm, or any sling, bow and arrow, or crossbow at or toward
another.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (E) or (F) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (H)   Exceptions. This section shall not prohibit the firing of a military
salute or the firing of weapons by persons of the nation’s armed forces acting
under military authority, and shall not apply to law enforcement officials or
other government officials in the proper enforcement of the law, or to any
person in the proper exercise of the right of self defense, or to any person
otherwise lawfully permitted by proper federal, state or local authorities to
discharge a BB gun, air gun, or firearm, or to use a sling, bow and arrow, or
crossbow in a manner contrary to the provisions of this section. Division (E)
of this section does not extend to cases in which BB guns, air guns, or
firearms, or slings, bows and arrows, or crossbows are used in the confines of
structures or used within the confines of a person’s own property, provided
such use is under adult supervision and is approved by the municipality.
Statutory reference:
   Improperly discharging firearm at or into habitation or school safety zone,
felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.161
§ 137.10  LICENSE OR PERMIT TO POSSESS DANGEROUS ORDNANCE.
   (A)   Upon application to the sheriff of the county or Safety Director or
Police Chief of the municipality where the applicant resides or has his or her
principal place of business, and upon payment of the fee specified in division
(B) of this section, a license or temporary permit shall be issued to qualified
applicants to acquire, possess, carry or use a dangerous ordnance for the
following purposes:
      (1)   Contractors, wreckers, quarry workers, mine operators and other
persons regularly employing explosives in the course of a legitimate business,
with respect to explosives and explosive devices acquired, possessed, carried
or used in the course of such business;
      (2)   Farmers, with respect to explosives and explosive devices acquired,
possessed, carried or used for agricultural purposes on lands farmed by them;
      (3)   Scientists, engineers, and instructors, with respect to a dangerous
ordnance acquired, possessed, carried or used in the course of bona fide
research or instruction;
      (4)   Financial institutions and armored car company guards, with respect
to automatic firearms lawfully acquired, possessed, carried or used by any such
person while acting within the scope of his or her duties;
      (5)   In the discretion of the issuing authority, any responsible person,
with respect to a dangerous ordnance lawfully acquired, possessed, carried or
used for a legitimate research, scientific, educational, industrial or other
proper purpose.
   (B)   Application for a license or temporary permit under this section shall
be in writing under oath to the sheriff of the county or Safety Director or
Police Chief of the municipality where the applicant resides or has his or her
principal place of business. The application shall be accompanied by an
application fee of $50 when the application is for a license, and an
application fee of $5 when the application is for a temporary permit. The fees
shall be paid into the general revenue fund of the county or municipality. The
application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name, age, address, occupation and business address of the
applicant, if he or she is a natural person, or the name, address, and
principal place of business of the applicant if the applicant is a corporation;
      (2)   A description of the dangerous ordnance for which a permit is
requested;
      (3)   A description of the places where and the manner in which the
dangerous ordnance is to be kept, carried, and used;
      (4)   A statement of the purposes for which the dangerous ordnance is to
be acquired, possessed, carried or used;
      (5)   Such other information as the issuing authority may require in
giving effect to this section.
   (C)   Upon investigation, the issuing authority shall issue a license or
temporary permit only if all of the following apply:
      (1)   The applicant is not otherwise prohibited by law from acquiring,
having, carrying or using a dangerous ordnance;
      (2)   The applicant is 21 years of age or over, if the applicant is a
natural person;
      (3)   It appears that the applicant has sufficient competence to safely
acquire, possess, carry or use the dangerous ordnance, and that proper
precautions will be taken to protect the security of the dangerous ordnance and
ensure the safety of persons and property;
      (4)   It appears that the dangerous ordnance will be lawfully acquired,
possessed, carried, and used by the applicant for a legitimate purpose.
   (D)   The license or temporary permit shall identify the person to whom it
is issued, identify the dangerous ordnance involved and state the purposes for
which the license or temporary permit is issued, state the expiration date, if
any, and list such restrictions on the acquisition, possession, carriage, or
use of the dangerous ordnance as the issuing authority considers advisable to
protect the security of the dangerous ordnance and ensure the safety of persons
and property.
   (E)   A temporary permit shall be issued for the casual use of explosives
and explosive devices, and other consumable dangerous ordnance, and shall
expire within 30 days of its issuance. A license shall be issued for the
regular use of a consumable dangerous ordnance, which license need not specify
an expiration date, but the issuing authority may specify such expiration date,
not earlier than one year from the date of issuance, as it considers advisable
in view of the nature of the dangerous ordnance and the purposes for which the
license is issued.
   (F)   The dangerous ordnance specified in a license or temporary permit may
be obtained by the holder anywhere in the state. Pursuant to R.C. § 2923.18(F),
the holder of a license may use such dangerous ordnance anywhere in the state.
The holder of a temporary permit may use such dangerous ordnance only within
the territorial jurisdiction of the issuing authority.
   (G)   The issuing authority shall forward to the State Fire Marshal a copy
of each license or temporary permit issued pursuant to this section, and a copy
of each record of a transaction in a dangerous ordnance and of each report of a
lost or stolen dangerous ordnance, given to the local law enforcement authority
as required by R.C. § 2923.20(A)(4) and (A)(5) or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance. The State Fire Marshal will keep a permanent file of all
licenses and temporary permits issued pursuant to this section, and of all
records of transactions in, and losses or thefts of a dangerous ordnance
forwarded by local law enforcement authorities pursuant to this section.
(R.C. § 2923.18)
§ 137.11  POSSESSION OF AN OBJECT INDISTINGUISHABLE FROM A FIREARM IN A SCHOOL
SAFETY ZONE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly possess an object in a school safety zone if
both of the following apply:
      (1)   The object is indistinguishable from a firearm, whether or not the
object is capable of being fired;
      (2)   The person indicates that the person possesses the object and that
it is a firearm, or the person knowingly displays or brandishes the object and
indicates that it is a firearm.
   (B)   (1)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   An officer, agent, or employee of this or any other state or the
United States, or a law enforcement officer, who is authorized to carry deadly
weapons or dangerous ordnance and is acting within the scope of the officer’s,
agent’s, or employee’s duties, a security officer employed by a board of
education or governing body of a school during the time that the security
officer is on duty pursuant to that contract of employment, or any other person
who has written authorization from the board of education or governing body of
a school to convey deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance into a school safety
zone or to possess a deadly weapon or dangerous ordnance in a school safety
zone and who conveys or possesses the deadly weapon or dangerous ordnance in
accordance with that authorization;
         (b)   Any person who is employed in this state, who is authorized to
carry deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance, and who is subject to and in
compliance with the requirements of R.C. § 109.801, unless the appointing
authority of the person has expressly specified that the exemption provided in
this division (B)(1)(b) does not apply to the person.
      (2)   This section does not apply to premises upon which home schooling
is conducted. This section also does not apply to a school administrator,
teacher or employee who possesses an object that is indistinguishable from a
firearm for legitimate school purposes during the course of employment, a
student who uses an object that is indistinguishable from a firearm under the
direction of a school administrator, teacher or employee, or any other person
who, with the express prior approval of a school administrator, possesses an
object that is indistinguishable from a firearm for a legitimate purpose,
including the use of the object in a ceremonial activity, a play, re- enactment
or other dramatic presentation, or a ROTC activity or another similar use of
the object.
      (3)   This section does not apply to a person who conveys or attempts to
convey a handgun into, or possesses a handgun in, a school safety zone if, at
the time of that conveyance, attempted conveyance, or possession of the
handgun, all of the following apply:
         (a)   The person does not enter into a school building or onto school
premises and is not at a school activity;
         (b)   The person is carrying a valid license or temporary emergency
license to carry a concealed handgun issued to the person under R.C. § 2923.125
or 2923.1213 or a license to carry a concealed handgun that was issued by
another state with which the Attorney General has entered into a reciprocity
agreement under R.C. § 109.69;
         (c)   The person is in the school safety zone in accordance with 18
U.S.C. § 922(q)(2)(B);
         (d)   The person is not knowingly in a place described in R.C. §
2923.126(B)(1) or (B)(3) through (B)(10).
      (4)   This section does not apply to a person who conveys or attempts to
convey a handgun into, or possesses a handgun in, a school safety zone if at
the time of that conveyance, attempted conveyance, or possession of the handgun
all of the following apply:
         (a)   The person is carrying a valid license or temporary emergency
license to carry a concealed handgun issued to the person under R.C. § 2923.125
or R.C. § 2923.1213 or a license to carry a concealed handgun that was issued
by another state with which the Attorney General has entered into a reciprocity
agreement under R.C. § 109.69.
         (b)   The person is the driver or passenger in a motor vehicle and is
in the school safety zone while immediately in the process of picking up or
dropping off a child.
         (c)   The person is not in violation of R.C. § 2923.16.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal possession of an
object indistinguishable from a firearm in a school safety zone. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, illegal possession of an object
indistinguishable from a firearm in a school safety zone is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation
of this section, illegal possession of an object indistinguishable from a
firearm in a school safety zone is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (D)   (1)   In addition to any other penalty imposed upon a person who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of this section, and subject to
division (D)(2) of this section, if the offender has not attained 19 years of
age, regardless of whether the offender is attending or is enrolled in a school
operated by a board of education or for which the State Board of Education
prescribes minimum standards under R.C. § 3301.07, the court shall impose upon
the offender a class four suspension of the offender’s probationary driver’s
license, restricted license, driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, or probationary commercial driver’s license that
then is in effect from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4) and shall
deny the offender the issuance of any permit or license of that type during the
period of the suspension. If the offender is not a resident of this state, the
court shall impose a class four suspension of the nonresident operating
privilege of the offender from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
      (2)   If the offender shows good cause why the court should not suspend
one of the types of licenses, permits or privileges specified in division (D)
(1) of this section or deny the issuance of one of the temporary instruction
permits specified in division (D)(1) of this section, the court in its
discretion may choose not to impose the suspension, revocation or denial
required in division (D)(1) of this section, but the court, in its discretion,
instead may require the offender to perform community service for a number of
hours determined by the court.
   (E)   As used in this section, OBJECT THAT IS INDISTINGUISHABLE FROM A
FIREARM means an object made, constructed, or altered so that, to a reasonable
person without specialized training in firearms, the object appears to be a
firearm.
(R.C. § 2923.122(C) - (G))
Statutory reference:
   Conveyance or possession of deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance in a school
safety zone, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.122(A) and (B)
§ 137.12  POSSESSION OF DEADLY WEAPON WHILE UNDER DETENTION.
   (A)   DETENTION and DETENTION FACILITY have the same meanings as in R.C. §
2921.01.
   (B)   No person under detention at a detention facility shall possess a
deadly weapon.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possession of a deadly
weapon while under detention.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2) of this section,
possession of a deadly weapon while under detention is a felony to be
prosecuted under state law.
      (2)   If the offender, at the time of the commission of the offense, was
under detention as an alleged or adjudicated delinquent child or unruly child
and if at the time the offender commits the act for which the offender was
under detention it would not be a felony if committed by an adult, possession
of a deadly weapon while under detention is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2923.131)
Statutory reference:
   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, felony offenses, see R.C.
§ 2923.131
§ 137.13  CONCEALED HANDGUN LICENSES: POSSESSION OF A REVOKED OR SUSPENDED
LICENSE; ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS; POSTING OF SIGNS PROHIBITING POSSESSION.
   (A)   Possession of a revoked or suspended concealed handgun license.
      (1)   No person, except in the performance of official duties, shall
possess a license to carry a concealed handgun that was issued and that has
been revoked or suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128 or a temporary emergency
license to carry a concealed handgun that was issued and that has been revoked
pursuant to R.C. § 2923.1213.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (A) is guilty of possessing a
revoked or suspended concealed handgun license, a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(R.C. § 2923.1211(B), (C))
   (B)   Additional restrictions. Pursuant to R.C. § 2923.126:
      (1)   (a)   A license to carry a concealed handgun that is issued under
R.C. § 2923.125 on or after March 14, 2007, shall expire five years after the
date of issuance, and a license that is so issued prior to March 14, 2007,
shall expire four years after the date of issuance. A licensee who has been
issued a license under that section shall be granted a grace period of 30 days
after the licensee’s license expires during which the licensee’s license
remains valid. Except as provided in divisions (B)(2) and (B)(3) of this
section, a licensee who has been issued a license under R.C. § 2923.125 or
2923.1213 may carry a concealed handgun anywhere in this state if the licensee
also carries a valid license and valid identification when the licensee is in
actual possession of a concealed handgun. The licensee shall give notice of any
change in the licensee’s residence address to the sheriff who issued the
license within 45 days after that change.
         (b)   If a licensee is the driver or an occupant of a motor vehicle
that is stopped as the result of a traffic stop or a stop for another law
enforcement purpose, and if the licensee is transporting or has a loaded
handgun in the motor vehicle at that time, the licensee shall promptly inform
any law enforcement officer who approaches the vehicle while stopped that the
licensee has been issued a license or temporary emergency license to carry a
concealed handgun and that the licensee currently possesses or has a loaded
handgun; the licensee shall not knowingly disregard or fail to comply with
lawful orders of a law enforcement officer given while the motor vehicle is
stopped, knowingly fail to remain in the motor vehicle while stopped, or
knowingly fail to keep the licensee’s hands in plain sight after any law
enforcement officer begins approaching the licensee while stopped and before
the officer leaves, unless directed otherwise by a law enforcement officer; and
the licensee shall not knowingly remove, attempt to remove, grasp, or hold the
loaded handgun or knowingly have contact with the loaded handgun by touching it
with the licensee’s hands or fingers, in any manner in violation of R.C. §
2923.16(E), after any law enforcement officer begins approaching the licensee
while stopped and before the officer leaves. Additionally, if a licensee is the
driver or an occupant of a commercial motor vehicle that is stopped by an
employee of the motor carrier enforcement unit for the purposes defined in R.C.
§ 5503.04 and if the licensee is transporting or has a loaded handgun in the
commercial motor vehicle at that time, the licensee shall promptly inform the
employee of the unit who approaches the vehicle while stopped that the licensee
has been issued a license or temporary emergency license to carry a concealed
handgun and that the licensee currently possesses or has a loaded handgun.
         (c)   If a licensee is stopped for a law enforcement purpose, and if
the licensee is carrying a concealed handgun at the time the officer
approaches, the licensee shall promptly inform any law enforcement officer who
approaches the licensee while stopped that the licensee has been issued a
license or temporary emergency license to carry a concealed handgun and that
the licensee currently is carrying a concealed handgun; the licensee shall not
knowingly disregard or fail to comply with lawful orders of a law enforcement
officer given while the licensee is stopped or knowingly fail to keep the
licensee’s hands in plain sight after any law enforcement officer begins
approaching the licensee while stopped and before the officer leaves, unless
directed otherwise by a law enforcement officer; and the licensee shall not
knowingly remove, attempt to remove, grasp, or hold the loaded handgun or
knowingly have contact with the loaded handgun by touching it with the
licensee’s hands or fingers, in any manner in violation of R.C. § 2923.12(B),
after any law enforcement officer begins approaching the licensee while stopped
and before the officer leaves.
      (2)   A valid license issued under R.C. § 2923.125 or 2923.1213 does not
authorize the licensee to carry a concealed handgun in any manner prohibited
under R.C. § 2923.12(B) or in any manner prohibited under R.C. § 2923.16. A
valid license does not authorize the licensee to carry a concealed handgun into
any of the following places:
         (a)   A police station, sheriff’s office, or state highway patrol
station, premises controlled by the Bureau of Criminal Identification and
Investigation, a state correctional institution, jail, workhouse, or other
detention facility, an airport passenger terminal, or an institution that is
maintained, operated, managed, and governed pursuant to R.C. § 5119.02(A) or
R.C. § 5123.03(A)(1);
         (b)   A school safety zone if the licensee's carrying the concealed
handgun is in violation of R.C. § 2923.122;
         (c)   A courthouse or another building or structure in which a
courtroom is located, in violation of R.C. § 2923.123;
         (d)   Any premises or open air area for which a D permit has been
issued under R.C. Chapter 4303 if the licensee's carrying the concealed handgun
is in violation of R.C. § 2923.121;
         (e)   Any premises owned or leased by any public or private college,
university, or other institution of higher education, unless the handgun is in
a locked motor vehicle or the licensee is in the immediate process of placing
the handgun in a locked motor vehicle;
         (f)   Any church, synagogue, mosque, or other place of worship, unless
the church, synagogue, mosque, or other place of worship posts or permits
otherwise;
         (g)   A child day-care center, a type A family day-care home, or a
type B family day-care home, except that this division does not prohibit a
licensee who resides in a type A family day-care home or a type B family day-
care home, from carrying a concealed handgun at any time in any part of the
home that is not dedicated or used for day-care purposes, or from carrying a
concealed handgun in a part of the home that is dedicated or used for day-care
purposes at any time during which no children, other than children of that
licensee, are in the home;
         (h)   An aircraft that is in, or intended for operation in, foreign
air transportation, interstate air transportation, intrastate air
transportation, or the transportation of mail by aircraft;
         (i)   Any building that is a government facility of this state or a
political subdivision of this state and that is not a building that is used
primarily as a shelter, restroom, parking facility for motor vehicles, or rest
facility and is not a courthouse or other building or structure in which a
courtroom is located that is subject to division (B)(2)(c) of this section;
         (j)   A place in which federal law prohibits the carrying of handguns.
      (3)   (a)   Nothing in this division (B) shall negate or restrict a rule,
policy, or practice of a private employer that is not a private college,
university, or other institution of higher education concerning or prohibiting
the presence of firearms on the private employer’s premises or property,
including motor vehicles owned by the private employer. Nothing in this
division (B) shall require a private employer of that nature to adopt a rule,
policy, or practice concerning or prohibiting the presence of firearms on the
private employer’s premises or property, including motor vehicles owned by the
private employer.
         (b)   1.   A private employer shall be immune from liability in a
civil action for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that
allegedly was caused by or related to a licensee bringing a handgun onto the
premises or property of the private employer, including motor vehicles owned by
the private employer, unless the private employer acted with malicious purpose.
A private employer is immune from liability in a civil action for any injury,
death, or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused by or related to
the private employer’s decision to permit a licensee to bring, or prohibit a
licensee from bringing, a handgun onto the premises or property of the private
employer. As used in this division, PRIVATE EMPLOYER includes a private
college, university, or other institution of higher education.
            2.   A political subdivision shall be immune from liability in a
civil action, to the extent and in the manner provided in R.C. Chapter 2744,
for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused
by or related to a licensee bringing a handgun onto any premises or property
owned, leased, or otherwise under the control of the political subdivision. As
used in this division, POLITICAL SUBDIVISION has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2744.01.
         (c)   1.   Except as provided in division (B)(3)(c)2. of this section,
the owner or person in control of private land or premises, and a private
person or entity leasing land or premises owned by the state, the United
States, or a political subdivision of the state or the United States, may post
a sign in a conspicuous location on that land or on those premises prohibiting
persons from carrying firearms or concealed firearms on or onto that land or
those premises. Except as otherwise provided in this division, a person who
knowingly violates a posted prohibition of that nature is guilty of criminal
trespass in violation of R.C. § 2911.21(A)(4) and is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree. If a person knowingly violates a posted prohibition of that
nature and the posted land or premises primarily was a parking lot or other
parking facility, the person is not guilty of criminal trespass in violation of
R.C. § 2911.21(A)(4) and instead is subject only to a civil cause of action for
trespass based on the violation.
            2.   A landlord may not prohibit or restrict a tenant who is a
licensee and who on or after September 9, 2008 enters into a rental agreement
with the landlord for the use of residential premises, and the tenant’s guest
while the tenant is present, from lawfully carrying or possessing a handgun on
those residential premises.
            3.   As used in division (B)(3)(c) of this section:
               LANDLORD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01.
               RENTAL AGREEMENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01.
               RESIDENTIAL PREMISES. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01,
except the term does not include a dwelling unit that is owned or operated by a
college or university.
               TENANT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01.
      (4)   A person who holds a license to carry a concealed handgun that was
issued pursuant to the law of another state that is recognized by the Attorney
General pursuant to a reciprocity agreement entered into pursuant to R.C. §
109.69 has the same right to carry a concealed handgun in this state as a
person who was issued a license to carry a concealed handgun under R.C. §
2923.125 and is subject to the same restrictions that apply to a person who
carries a license issued under that section.
      (5)   A peace officer has the same right to carry a concealed handgun in
this state as a person who was issued a license to carry a concealed handgun
under R.C. § 2923.125. For purposes of reciprocity with other states, a peace
officer shall be considered to be a licensee in this state.
      (6)   (a)   A qualified retired peace officer who possesses a retired
peace officer identification card issued pursuant to division (B)(6)(b) of this
section and a valid firearms requalification certification issued pursuant to
division (B)(6)(c) of this section has the same right to carry a concealed
handgun in this state as a person who was issued a license to carry a concealed
handgun under R.C. § 2923.125 and is subject to the same restrictions that
apply to a person who carries a license issued under that section. For purposes
of reciprocity with other states, a qualified retired peace officer who
possesses a retired peace officer identification card issued pursuant to
division (B)(6)(b) of this section and a valid firearms requalification
certification issued pursuant to division (B)(6)(c) of this section shall be
considered to be a licensee in this state.
         (b)   1.   Each public agency of this state or of a political
subdivision of this state that is served by one or more peace officers shall
issue a retired peace officer identification card to any person who retired
from service as a peace officer with that agency, if the issuance is in
accordance with the agency’s policies and procedures and if the person, with
respect to the person’s service with that agency, satisfies all of the
following:
               a.   The person retired in good standing from service as a peace
officer with the public agency, and the retirement was not for reasons of
mental instability;
               b.   Before retiring from service as a peace officer with that
agency, the person was authorized to engage in or supervise the prevention,
detection, investigation, or prosecution of, or the incarceration of any person
for, any violation of law and the person had statutory powers of arrest;
               c.   At the time of the person’s retirement as a peace officer
with that agency, the person was trained and qualified to carry firearms in the
performance of the peace officer’s duties;
               d.   Before retiring from service as a peace officer with that
agency, the person was regularly employed as a peace officer for an aggregate
of 15 years or more, or, in the alternative, the person retired from service as
a peace officer with that agency, after completing any applicable probationary
period of that service, due to a service- connected disability, as determined
by the agency.
            2.   A retired peace officer identification card issued to a person
under division (B)(6)(b)1. of this section shall identify the person by name,
contain a photograph of the person, identify the public agency of this state or
of the political subdivision of this state from which the person retired as a
peace officer and that is issuing the identification card, and specify that the
person retired in good standing from service as a peace officer with the
issuing public agency and satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)(6)
(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(B)1.d. of this section. In addition to the required content
specified in this division, a retired peace officer identification card issued
to a person under division (B)(6)(b)1. of this section may include the firearms
requalification certification described in division (B)(6)(c) of this section,
and if the identification card includes that certification, the identification
card shall serve as the firearms requalification certification for the retired
peace officer. If the issuing public agency issues credentials to active law
enforcement officers who serve the agency, the agency may comply with division
(B)(6)(b)1. of this section by issuing the same credentials to persons who
retired from service as a peace officer with the agency and who satisfy the
criteria set forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(b)1.d. of this section,
provided that the credentials so issued to retired peace officers are stamped
with the word “RETIRED.”
            3.   A public agency of this state or of a political subdivision of
this state may charge persons who retired from service as a peace officer with
the agency a reasonable fee for issuing to the person a retired peace officer
identification card pursuant to division (B)(6)(b)1. of this section.
         (c)   1.   If a person retired from service as a peace officer with a
public agency of this state or of a political subdivision of this state and the
person satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)
(b)1.d. of this section, the public agency may provide the retired peace
officer with the opportunity to attend a firearms requalification program that
is approved for purposes of firearms requalification required under R.C. §
109.801. The retired peace officer may be required to pay the cost of the
course.
            2.   If a retired peace officer who satisfies the criteria set
forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(b)1.d. of this section attends a
firearms requalification program that is approved for purposes of firearms
requalification required under R.C. § 109.801, the retired peace officer’s
successful completion of the firearms requalification program requalifies the
retired peace officer for purposes of division (B)(6) of this section for five
years from the date on which the program was successfully completed, and the
requalification is valid during that five-year period. If a retired peace
officer who satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)
(6)(b)1.d. of this section satisfactorily completes such a firearms
requalification program, the retired peace officer shall be issued a firearms
requalification certification that identifies the retired peace officer by
name, identifies the entity that taught the program, specifies that the retired
peace officer successfully completed the program, specifies the date on which
the course was successfully completed, and specifies that the requalification
is valid for five years from that date of successful completion. The firearms
requalification certification for a retired peace officer may be included in
the retired peace officer identification card issued to the retired peace
officer under division (B)(6)(b) of this section.
            3.   A retired peace officer who attends a firearms requalification
program that is approved for purposes of firearms requalification required
under R.C. § 109.801 may be required to pay the cost of the program.
      (7)   As used in division (B) of this section:
         GOVERNMENT FACILITY OF THIS STATE OR A POLITICAL SUBDIVISION OF THIS
STATE. Means any of the following:
            1.   A building or part of a building that is owned or leased by
the government of this state or a political subdivision of this state and where
employees of the government of this state or the political subdivision
regularly are present for the purpose of performing their official duties as
employees of the state or political subdivision;
            2.   The office of a deputy registrar serving pursuant to R.C.
Chapter 4503 that is used to perform deputy registrar functions.
         QUALIFIED RETIRED PEACE OFFICER. Means a person who satisfies all of
the following:
            1.   The person satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)
(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(b)1.d. of this section.
            2.   The person is not under the influence of alcohol or another
intoxicating or hallucinatory drug or substance.
            3.   The person is not prohibited by federal law from receiving
firearms.
         RETIRED PEACE OFFICER IDENTIFICATION CARD. Means an identification
card that is issued pursuant to division (B)(6)(b) of this section to a person
who is a retired peace officer.
(R.C. § 2923.126)
   (C)   Posting of signs prohibiting possession. Pursuant to R.C. § 2923.1212:
      (1)   The following persons, boards, and entities, or designees, shall
post in the following locations a sign that contains a statement in
substantially the following form:
      “Unless otherwise authorized by law, pursuant to the Ohio Revised Code,
no person shall knowingly possess, have under the person’s control, convey, or
attempt to convey a deadly weapon or dangerous ordnance onto these premises.”
         (a)   The Director of Public Safety or the person or board charged
with the erection, maintenance, or repair of police stations, municipal jails,
and the municipal courthouse and courtrooms in a conspicuous location at all
police stations, municipal jails, and municipal courthouses and courtrooms;
         (b)   The Sheriff or Sheriff’s designee who has charge of the
Sheriff’s office in a conspicuous location in that office;
         (c)   The Superintendent of the State Highway Patrol or the
Superintendent’s designee in a conspicuous location at all state highway patrol
stations;
         (d)   Each sheriff, chief of police, or person in charge of every
county, multi-county, municipal, municipal-county, or multi-county/ municipal
jail or workhouse, community-based correctional facility, halfway house,
alternative residential facility, or other local or state correctional
institution or detention facility within the state, or that person’s designee,
in a conspicuous location at that facility under that person’s charge;
         (e)   The board of trustees of a regional airport authority, chief
administrative officer of an airport facility, or other person in charge of an
airport facility in a conspicuous location at each airport facility under that
person’s control;
         (f)   The officer or officer’s designee who has charge of a courthouse
or the building or structure in which a courtroom is located in a conspicuous
location in that building or structure;
         (g)   The Superintendent of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and
Investigation or the Superintendent’s designee in a conspicuous location in all
premises controlled by that Bureau;
         (h)   The owner, administrator, or operator of a child day-care
center, a type A family day-care home, or a type B family day-care home;
         (i)   The officer of this state or of a political subdivision of this
state, or the officer’s designee, who has charge of a building that is a
government facility of this state or the political subdivision of this state,
as defined in R.C. § 2923.126, and that is not a building that is used
primarily as a shelter, restroom, parking facility for motor vehicles, or rest
facility and is not a courthouse or other building or structure in which a
courtroom is located that is subject to R.C. § 2923.126(B)(3).
      (2)   The following boards, bodies, and persons, or designees, shall post
in the following locations a sign that contains a statement in substantially
the following form:
      “Unless otherwise authorized by law, pursuant to R.C. § 2923.122, no
person shall knowingly possess, have under the person’s control, convey, or
attempt to convey a deadly weapon or dangerous ordnance into a school safety
zone.”
         (a)   A board of education of a city, local, exempted village, or
joint vocational school district or that board’s designee in a conspicuous
location in each building and on each parcel of real property owned or
controlled by the board;
         (b)   A governing body of a school for which the State Board of
Education prescribes minimum standards under R.C. § 3301.07 or that body’s
designee in a conspicuous location in each building and on each parcel of real
property owned or controlled by the school;
         (c)   The principal or chief administrative officer of a nonpublic
school in a conspicuous location on property owned or controlled by that
nonpublic school.
(R.C. § 2923.1212)
§ 137.14  DEFACED FIREARMS.
   (A)   No person shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Change, alter, remove, or obliterate the name of the manufacturer,
model, manufacturer’s serial number, or other mark of identification on a
firearm;
      (2)   Possess a firearm knowing or having reasonable cause to believe
that the name of the manufacturer, model, manufacturer’s serial number, or
other mark of identification on the firearm has been changed, altered, removed,
or obliterated.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) of this section is guilty of
defacing identification marks of a firearm. Except as otherwise provided in
this division, defacing identification marks of a firearm is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (A)(1) of this section, defacing
identification marks of a firearm is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of
possessing a defaced firearm. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
possessing a defaced firearm is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of
division (A)(2) of this section, possessing a defaced firearm is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any firearm on which no
manufacturer’s serial number was inscribed at the time of its manufacture.
(R.C. § 2923.201)
CHAPTER 138:  DRUG OFFENSES
Section
   
138.01   Definitions
   
138.02   Trafficking in controlled substances; gift of marihuana
   
138.03   Drug possession offenses
   
138.04   Possessing drug abuse instruments
   
138.05   Permitting drug abuse
   
138.06   Illegal cultivation of marihuana
   
138.07   Abusing harmful intoxicants
   
138.08   Illegal dispensing of drug samples
   
138.09   Federal prosecution bar to municipal prosecution
   
138.10   Nitrous oxide: improper dispensing or distribution; possession in a
motor vehicle
   
138.11   Laboratory report required
   
138.12   Counterfeit controlled substances
   
138.13   Use, possession, or sale of drug paraphernalia
   
138.14   Controlled substance or prescription labels
   
138.15   Possession, sale, and disposal of hypodermics
   
138.16   Controlled substance schedules
   
138.17   Unlawful furnishing of prescription to enable persons to be issued
handicapped parking placards or license plates
   
138.18   Pseudoephedrine sales
Statutory reference:
   Controlled substances, regulation of pharmacists and other professionals,
see R.C. Chapters 3719 and 4729
   Conviction of professionally licensed persons to be reported to licensing
board, see R.C.§ 2925.38
   Criminal and civil forfeiture of property for felony drug abuse offenses,
see R.C. Chapter 2981
   Destruction of chemicals used to produce methamphetamine;  preservation of
samples, see R.C. § 2925.52
   Driver’s license suspension after certain drug convictions, see R.C. §
4510.07
   Tampering with drugs, felony offense, see R.C. § 2925.24
§ 138.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words,
terms and phrases and their derivatives used in this chapter which are not
defined in this section shall have the meanings given to them in the Ohio
Revised Code.
   ADMINISTER. The direct application of a drug, whether by injection,
inhalation, ingestion, or any other means to a person or an animal.
   ADULTERATE. To cause a drug to be adulterated as described in R.C. §
3715.63.
   BULK AMOUNT. Of a controlled substance means any of the following:
      (1)   For any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance included in
Schedule I, Schedule II, or Schedule III, with the exception of marihuana,
cocaine, L.S.D., heroin, and hashish and except as provided in division (2) or
(5) of this definition, whichever of the following is applicable:
         (a)   An amount equal to or exceeding 10 grams or 25 unit doses of a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of
a Schedule I opiate or opium derivative;
         (b)   An amount equal to or exceeding 10 grams of a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of raw or gum opium;
         (c)   An amount equal to or exceeding 30 grams or 10 unit doses of a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of
a Schedule I hallucinogen other than tetrahydrocannabinol or lysergic acid
amide, or a Schedule I stimulant or depressant;
         (d)   An amount equal to or exceeding 20 grams or 5 times the maximum
daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard pharmaceutical
reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule II opiate or opium derivative;
         (e)   An amount equal to or exceeding 5 grams or 10 unit doses of a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of
phencyclidine;
         (f)   An amount equal to or exceeding 120 grams or 30 times the
maximum daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard
pharmaceutical reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance that is or contains any amount of a Schedule II stimulant that is in
a final dosage form manufactured by a person authorized by the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq., as amended) and the federal
drug abuse control laws, as defined in this section, that is or contains any
amount of a Schedule II depressant substance or a Schedule II hallucinogenic
substance;
         (g)   An amount equal to or exceeding 3 grams of a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of a Schedule II
stimulant, or any of its salts or isomers, that is not in a final dosage form
manufactured by a person authorized by the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act
(21 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq., as amended) and the federal drug abuse control laws.
      (2)   An amount equal to or exceeding 120 grams or 30 times the maximum
daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard pharmaceutical
reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III or IV substance other than an anabolic
steroid or a Schedule III opiate or opium derivative;
      (3)   An amount equal to or exceeding 20 grams or 5 times the maximum
daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard pharmaceutical
reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III opiate or opium derivative;
      (4)   An amount equal to or exceeding 250 milliliters or 250 grams of a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of
a Schedule V substance;
      (5)   An amount equal to or exceeding 200 solid dosage units, 16 grams,
or 16 milliliters of a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III anabolic steroid.
   CERTIFIED GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE. A duly constituted and organized committee of
the Ohio State Bar Association or of one or more local bar associations of the
state that complies with the criteria set forth in Rule V, Section 6 of the
Rules for the Government of the Bar of Ohio.
   COCAINE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A cocaine salt, isomer, or derivative, a salt of a cocaine isomer
or derivative, or the base form of cocaine;
      (2)   Coca leaves or a salt, compound, derivative, or preparation of coca
leaves, including ecgonine, a salt, isomer, or derivative of ecgonine, or a
salt of an isomer or derivative of ecgonine;
      (3)   A salt, compound, derivative, or preparation of a substance
identified in division (1) or (2) of this definition that is chemically
equivalent to or identical with any of those substances, except that the
substances shall not include decocainized coca leaves or extraction of coca
leaves if the extractions do not contain cocaine or ecgonine.
   COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A JUVENILE. An offense is COMMITTED IN THE
VICINITY OF A JUVENILE if the offender commits the offense within 100 feet of a
juvenile or within the view of a juvenile, regardless of whether the offender
knows the age of the juvenile, whether the offender knows the offense is being
committed within 100 feet of or within view of the juvenile, or whether the
juvenile actually views the commission of the offense.
   COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A SCHOOL. An offense is COMMITTED IN THE
VICINITY OF A SCHOOL if the offender commits the offense on school premises, in
a school building, or within 1,000 feet of the boundaries of any school
premises, regardless of whether the offender knows the offense is being
committed on school premises, in a school building, or within 1,000 feet of the
boundaries of any school premises.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. A drug, compound, mixture, preparation, or substance
included in Schedule I, II, III, IV, or V of R.C. § 3719.41.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE ANALOG.
      (1)   The phrase means, except as provided in division (2) of this
definition, a substance to which both of the following apply:
         (a)   The chemical structure of the substance is substantially similar
to the structure of a controlled substance in Schedule I or II.
         (b)   One of the following applies regarding the substance:
            1.   The substance has a stimulant, depressant, or hallucinogenic
effect on the central nervous system that is substantially similar to or
greater than the stimulant, depressant, or hallucinogenic effect on the central
nervous system of a controlled substance in Schedule I or II.
            2.   With respect to a particular person, that person represents or
intends the substance to have a stimulant, depressant, or hallucinogenic effect
on the central nervous system that is substantially similar to or greater than
the stimulant, depressant, or hallucinogenic effect on the central nervous
system of a controlled substance in Schedule I or II.
      (2)   The phrase does not include any of the following:
         (a)   A controlled substance;
         (b)   Any substance for which there is an approved new drug
application;
         (c)   With respect to a particular person, any substance if an
exemption is in effect for investigational use for that person pursuant to
federal law to the extent that conduct with respect to that substance is
pursuant to that exemption;
         (d)   Any substance to the extent it is not intended for human
consumption before the exemption described in division (2)(c) of this
definition takes effect with respect to that substance.
      (3)   A controlled substance analog, to the extent intended for human
consumption, shall be treated for purposes of any provision of this Code or the
Ohio Revised Code as a controlled substance in Schedule I.
   COUNTERFEIT CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any drug that bears, or whose container or label bears, a
trademark, trade name, or other identifying mark used without authorization of
the owner of rights to the trademark, trade name, or identifying mark;
      (2)   Any unmarked or unlabeled substance that is represented to be a
controlled substance manufactured, processed, packed, or distributed by a
person other than the person that manufactured, processed, packed, or
distributed it;
      (3)   Any substance that is represented to be a controlled substance but
is not a controlled substance or is a different controlled substance;
      (4)   Any substance other than a controlled substance that a reasonable
person would believe to be a controlled substance because of its similarity in
shape, size, and color, or its markings, labeling, packaging, distribution, or
the price for which it is sold or offered for sale.
   CULTIVATE. Includes planting, watering, fertilizing, or tilling.
   DANGEROUS DRUG. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any drug to which either of the following applies:
         (a)   Under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, is required to
bear a label containing the legend “Caution: Federal law prohibits dispensing
without a prescription” or “Caution: Federal law restricts this drug to use by
or on the order of a licensed veterinarian” or any similar restrictive
statement, or may be dispensed only upon a prescription;
         (b)   Under R.C. Chapter 3715 or 3719, may be dispensed only upon a
prescription.
      (2)   Any drug that contains a Schedule V controlled substance and that
is exempt from R.C. Chapter 3719 or to which that chapter does not apply;
      (3)   Any drug intended for administration by injection into the human
body other than through a natural orifice of the human body.
   DECEPTION.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   DISCIPLINARY COUNSEL. The disciplinary counsel appointed by the Board of
Commissioners on Grievances and Discipline of the Ohio Supreme Court under the
Rules for the Government of the Bar of Ohio.
   DISPENSE. Means to sell, leave with, give away, dispose of, or deliver.
   DISTRIBUTE. Means to deal in, ship, transport or deliver, but does not
include administering or dispensing a drug.
   DRUG. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any article recognized in the official United States pharmacopeia,
national formulary, or any supplement intended for use in the diagnosis, cure,
mitigation, treatment, or prevention of disease in humans or other animals;
      (2)   Any other article intended for use in the diagnosis, cure,
mitigation, treatment, or prevention of disease in humans or other animals;
      (3)   Any article, other than food, intended to affect the structure or
any function of the body of humans or other animals;
      (4)   Any article intended for use as a component of any article
specified in division (1), (2), or (3) above; but does not include devices or
their components, parts, or accessories.
   DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2913.02(A) that constitutes theft of drugs,
or any violation of R.C. § 2925.02, 2925.03, 2925.04, 2925.041, 2925.05,
2925.06, 2925.11, 2925.12, 2925.13, 2925.22, 2925.23, 2925.24, 2925.31,
2925.32, 2925.36, or 2925.37;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former law of a municipality, state
or any other state or of the United States, that is substantially equivalent to
any section listed in division (1) of this definition;
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former law of a municipality, state
or any other state, or of the United States, of which planting, cultivating,
harvesting, processing, making, manufacturing, producing, shipping,
transporting, delivering, acquiring, possessing, storing, distributing,
dispensing, selling, inducing another to use, administering to another, using,
or otherwise dealing with a controlled substance is an element;
      (4)   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing or attempting to commit, any offense under division (1), (2), or (3)
of this definition.
   DRUG DEPENDENT PERSON. Any person who, by reason of the use of any drug of
abuse, is physically and/or psychologically dependent upon the use of such drug
to the detriment of the person’s health or welfare.
   DRUG OF ABUSE. Any controlled substance, any harmful intoxicant, and any
dangerous drug, as defined in this section.
   FEDERAL DRUG ABUSE CONTROL LAWS. The “Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention
and Control Act of 1970,” 21 U.S.C. §§ 801 et seq., as amended.
   FELONY DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Any drug abuse offense that would constitute a
felony under the laws of this state, any other state, or the United States.
   HARMFUL INTOXICANT. Does not include beer or intoxicating liquor, but means
any of the following:
      (1)   Any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance the gas, fumes, or
vapor of which when inhaled can induce intoxication, excitement, giddiness,
irrational behavior, depression, stupefaction, paralysis, unconsciousness,
asphyxiation, or other harmful physiological effects, and includes but is not
limited to any of the following:
         (a)   Any volatile organic solvent, plastic cement, model cement,
fingernail polish
remover, lacquer thinner, cleaning fluid, gasoline, or other preparation
containing a volatile organic solvent;
         (b)   Any aerosol propellant;
         (c)   Any fluorocarbon refrigerant;
         (d)   Any anesthetic gas.
      (2)   Gamma butyrolactone;
      (3)   1,4 Butanediol.
   HASHISH. The resin or a preparation of the resin contained in marihuana,
whether in solid form or in a liquid concentrate, liquid extract, or liquid
distillate form.
   HYPODERMIC. A hypodermic syringe or needle, or other instrument or device
for the injection of medication.
   JUVENILE. A person under 18 years of age.
   LABORATORY. A laboratory approved by the State Board of Pharmacy as proper
to be entrusted with the custody of controlled substances and the use of
controlled substances for scientific and clinical purposes and for purposes of
instruction.
   LAWFUL PRESCRIPTION. A prescription that is issued for a legitimate medical
purpose by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs, that
is not altered or forged, and that was not obtained by means of deception or by
the commission of any theft offense.
   LICENSED HEALTH PROFESSIONAL AUTHORIZED TO PRESCRIBE DRUGS or PRESCRIBER. An
individual who is authorized by law to prescribe drugs or dangerous drugs or
drug therapy related devices in the course of the individual’s professional
practice, including only the following:
      (1)   A dentist licensed under R.C. Chapter 4715;
      (2)   A clinical nurse specialist, certified nurse-midwife, or certified
nurse practitioner who holds a certificate to prescribe issued under R.C. §
4723.48;
      (3)   An optometrist licensed under R.C. Chapter 4725 to practice
optometry under a therapeutic pharmaceutical agent’s certificate;
      (4)   A physician authorized under R.C. Chapter 4731 to practice medicine
and surgery, osteopathic medicine and surgery, or podiatric medicine and
surgery;
      (5)   A physician assistant who holds a certificate to prescribe issued
under R.C. Chapter 4730;
      (6)   A veterinarian licensed under R.C. Chapter 4741.
   L.S.D. Lysergic acid diethylamide.
   MAJOR DRUG OFFENDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   MANDATORY PRISON TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   MANUFACTURE. To plant, cultivate, harvest, process, make, prepare, or
otherwise engage in any part of the production of a drug, by propagation,
extraction, chemical synthesis, or compounding, or any combination of the same,
and includes packaging, repackaging, labeling, and other activities incident to
production.
   MANUFACTURER. A person who manufactures a controlled substance, as
“manufacture” is defined by this section.
   MARIHUANA. All parts of a plant of the genus cannabis, whether growing or
not, the seeds of a plant of that type; the resin extracted from a part of a
plant of that type; and every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture,
or preparation of a plant of that type or of its seeds or resin. MARIHUANA does
not include the mature stalks of the plant, fiber produced  from the stalks,
oils or cake made from the seeds of the plant, any other compound, manufacture,
salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the mature stalks, except the
resin extracted from the mature stalks, fiber, oil, or cake, or the sterilized
seed of the plant that is incapable of germination. MARIHUANA does not include
HASHISH.
   METHAMPHETAMINE. Methamphetamine, any salt, isomer, or salt of an isomer of
methamphetamine, or any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance containing
meth- amphetamine or any salt, isomer, or salt of an isomer of methamphetamine.
   MINOR DRUG POSSESSION OFFENSE. Either of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2925.11 as it existed prior to July 1, 1996,
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (2)   A violation of R.C. § 2925.11 as it exists on and after July 1,
1996, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that is a misdemeanor
or a felony of the fifth degree.
   OFFICIAL WRITTEN ORDER. An order written on a form provided for that purpose
by the Director of the United States Drug Enforcement Administration, under any
laws of the United States making provision for the order, if the order forms
are authorized and required by federal law.
   PERSON. Means any individual, corporation, government, governmental
subdivision or agency, business trust, estate, trust, partnership, association,
or other legal entity.
   PHARMACIST. A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 to engage in the
practice of pharmacy.
   PHARMACY. Except when used in a context that refers to the practice of
pharmacy, means any area, room, rooms, place of business, department, or
portion of any of the foregoing, where the practice of pharmacy is conducted.
   POSSESS or POSSESSION. Having control over a thing or substance but may not
be inferred solely from mere access to the thing or substance through ownership
or occupation of the premises upon which the thing or substance is found.
   PRESCRIPTION. A written, electronic, or oral order for drugs or combination
or mixtures of drugs to be used by a particular individual or for treating a
particular animal, issued by a licensed health professional authorized to
prescribe drugs.
   PRESUMPTION FOR A PRISON TERM or PRESUMPTION THAT A PRISON TERM SHALL BE
IMPOSED. A presumption as described in R.C. § 2929.13(D) that a prison term is
a necessary sanction for a felony in order to comply with the purposes and
principles of sentencing under R.C. § 2929.11.
   PROFESSIONAL LICENSE. Any license, permit, certificate, registration,
qualification, admission, temporary license, temporary permit, temporary
certificate, or temporary registration that is described in R.C. § 2925.01(W)
(1) through (W)(36) and that qualifies a person as a professionally licensed
person.
   PROFESSIONALLY LICENSED PERSON. Any of the following:
      (1)   A person who has obtained a license as a manufacturer of controlled
substances or a wholesaler of controlled substances under R.C. Chapter 3719;
      (2)   A person who has received a certificate or temporary certificate as
a certified public accountant or who has registered as a public accountant
under R.C. Chapter 4701 and who holds an Ohio permit issued under that chapter;
      (3)   A person who holds a certificate of qualification to practice
architecture issued or renewed and registered under R.C. Chapter 4703;
      (4)   A person who is registered as a landscape architect under R.C.
Chapter 4703 or who holds a permit as a landscape architect issued under that
chapter;
      (5)   A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4707;
      (6)   A person who has been issued a certificate of registration as a
registered barber under R.C. Chapter 4709;
      (7)   A person licensed and regulated to engage in the business of a debt
pooling company by a legislative authority, under authority of R.C. Chapter
4710;
      (8)   A person who has been issued a cosmetologist’s license, hair
designer’s license, manicurist’s license, esthetician’s license, natural hair
stylist’s license, managing cosmetologist’s license, managing hair designer’s
license, managing manicurist’s license, managing esthetician’s license,
managing natural hair stylist’s license, cosmetology instructor’s license, hair
design instructor’s license, manicurist instructor’s license, esthetics
instructor’s license, natural hair style instructor’s license, independent
contractor’s license, or tanning facility permit under R.C. Chapter 4713;
      (9)   A person who has been issued a license to practice dentistry, a
general anesthesia permit, a conscious intravenous sedation permit, a limited
resident’s license, a limited teaching license, a dental hygienist’s license,
or a dental hygienist’s teacher’s certificate under R.C. Chapter 4715;
      (10)   A person who has been issued an embalmer’s license, a funeral
director’s license, a funeral home license, or a crematory license, or who has
been registered for an embalmer’s or funeral director’s apprenticeship under
R.C. Chapter 4717;
      (11)   A person who has been licensed as a registered nurse or practical
nurse, or who has been issued a certificate for the practice of nurse-midwifery
under R.C. Chapter 4723;
      (12)   A person who has been licensed to practice optometry or to engage
in optical dispensing under R.C. Chapter 4725;
      (13)   A person licensed to act as a pawnbroker under R.C. Chapter 4727;
      (14)   A person licensed to act as a precious metals dealer under R.C.
Chapter 4728;
      (15)   A person licensed as a pharmacist, a pharmacy intern, a wholesale
distributor of dangerous drugs, or a terminal distributor of dangerous drugs
under R.C. Chapter 4729;
      (16)   A person who is authorized to practice as a physician assistant
under R.C. Chapter 4730;
      (17)   A person who has been issued a certificate to practice medicine
and surgery, osteopathic medicine and surgery, a limited branch of medicine, or
podiatry under R.C. Chapter 4731;
      (18)   A person licensed as a psychologist or school psychologist under
R.C. Chapter 4732;
      (19)   A person registered to practice the profession of engineering or
surveying under R.C. Chapter 4733;
      (20)   A person who has been issued a license to practice chiropractic
under R.C. Chapter 4734;
      (21)   A person licensed to act as a real estate broker or real estate
salesperson under R.C. Chapter 4735;
      (22)   A person registered as a registered sanitarian under R.C. Chapter
4736;
      (23)   A person licensed to operate or maintain a junkyard under R.C.
Chapter 4737;
      (24)   A person who has been issued a motor vehicle salvage dealer’s
license under R.C. Chapter 4738;
      (25)   A person who has been licensed to act as a steam engineer;
      (26)   A person who has been issued a license or temporary permit to
practice veterinary medicine or any of its branches, or who is registered as a
graduate animal technician under R.C. Chapter 4741;
      (27)   A person who has been issued a hearing aid dealer’s or fitter’s
license or trainee permit under R.C. Chapter 4747;
      (28)   A person who has been issued a class A, class B, or class C
license or who has been registered as an investigator or security guard
employee under R.C. Chapter 4749;
      (29)   A person licensed and registered to practice as a nursing home
administrator under R.C. Chapter 4751;
      (30)   A person licensed to practice as a speech-language pathologist or
audiologist under R.C. Chapter 4753;
      (31)   A person issued a license as an occupational therapist or physical
therapist under R.C. Chapter 4755;
      (32)   A person who is licensed as a professional clinical counselor or
professional counselor, licensed as a social worker or independent social
worker, or registered as a social work assistant under R.C. Chapter 4757;
      (33)   A person issued a license to practice dietetics under R.C. Chapter
4759;
      (34)   A person who has been issued a license or limited permit to
practice respiratory therapy under R.C. Chapter 4761;
      (35)   A person who has been issued a real estate appraiser certificate
under R.C. Chapter 4763;
      (36)   A person who has been admitted to the bar by order of the Ohio
Supreme Court in compliance with its prescribed and published rules.
   PUBLIC PREMISES. Any hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall, or other
place of public accommodation, business, amusement, or resort.
   SALE. Includes delivery, barter, exchange, transfer, or gift, or offer
thereof, and each transaction of those natures made by any person, whether as
principal, proprietor, agent, servant, or employee.
   SAMPLE DRUG. A drug or pharmaceutical preparation that would be hazardous to
health or safety if used without the supervision of a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs, or a drug of abuse, and that, at
one time, had been placed in a container plainly marked as a sample by a
manufacturer.
   SCHEDULE I, II, III, IV, OR V. Controlled substance Schedules I, II, III,
IV, and V established pursuant to R.C. § 3719.41, as amended pursuant to R.C. §
3719.43 or 3719.44.
   SCHOOL. Any school operated by a board of education, any community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314, or any nonpublic school for which the
State Board of Education prescribes minimum standards under R.C. § 3301.07,
whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or training
provided by the school is being conducted at the time a criminal offense is
committed.
   SCHOOL BUILDING. Any building in which any of the instruction,
extracurricular activities, or training provided by a school is conducted,
whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or training
provided by the school is being conducted in the SCHOOL BUILDING at the time a
criminal offense is committed.
   SCHOOL PREMISES. Either of the following:
      (1)   The parcel of real property on which any school is situated,
whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or training
provided by the school is being conducted on the premises at the time a
criminal offense is committed;
      (2)   Any other parcel of real property that is owned or leased by a
board of education of a school, the governing authority of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314, or the governing body of a nonpublic
school for which the State Board of Education prescribes minimum standards
under R.C. § 3301.07 and on which some of the instruction, extracurricular
activities, or training of the school is conducted, whether or not any
instruction, extracurricular activities, or training provided by the school is
being conducted on the parcel of real property at the time a criminal offense
is committed.
   STANDARD PHARMACEUTICAL REFERENCE MANUAL. The current edition, with
cumulative changes if any, of any of the following reference works:
      (1)   The National Formulary;
      (2)   The United States Pharmacopeia, prepared by the authority of the
United States Pharmacopeia Convention, Inc.;
      (3)   Other standard references that are approved by the State Board of
Pharmacy.
   THEFT OFFENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   UNIT DOSE. An amount or unit or a compound, mixture, or preparation
containing a controlled substance that is separately identifiable and in a form
that indicates that it is the amount or unit by which the controlled substance
is separately administered to or taken by an individual.
   WHOLESALER. A person who, on official written orders other than
prescriptions, supplies controlled substances that the person has not
manufactured, produced or prepared personally and includes WHOLESALE
DISTRIBUTOR OF DANGEROUS DRUGS, which means a person engaged in the sale of
dangerous drugs at wholesale and includes any agent or employee of that person
authorized by that person to engage in the sale of dangerous drugs at
wholesale.
(R.C. §§ 2925.01, 3719.01, 3719.011, 3719.013, 4729.01)
§ 138.02  TRAFFICKING IN CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES; GIFT OF MARIHUANA.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Sell or offer to sell a controlled substance;
      (2)   Prepare for shipment, ship, transport, deliver, prepare for
distribution, or distribute a controlled substance, when the offender knows or
has reasonable cause to believe that the controlled substance is intended for
sale or resale by the offender or another person.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   Manufacturers, licensed health professionals authorized to
prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies, and other persons whose
conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731,
and 4741;
      (2)   If the offense involves an anabolic steroid, any person who is
conducting or participating in a research project involving the use of an
anabolic steroid if the project has been approved by the United States Food and
Drug Administration;
      (3)   Any person who sells, offers for sale, prescribes, dispenses, or
administers for livestock or other nonhuman species an anabolic steroid that is
expressly intended for administration through implants to livestock or other
nonhuman species and approved for that purpose under the “Federal Food, Drug
and Cosmetic Act” (21 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq., as amended), and is sold, offered
for sale, prescribed, dispensed, or administered for that purpose in accordance
with that Act.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of the
following:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (C)(2) and (C)(3) of this
section, trafficking in controlled substances is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3) of this section, if
the offense involves a gift of 20 grams or less of marihuana, trafficking in
marihuana is a minor misdemeanor upon a first offense and a misdemeanor of the
third degree upon a subsequent offense.
      (3)   If the offense involves a gift of 20 grams or less of marihuana and
if the offense was committed in the vicinity of a school or in the vicinity of
a juvenile, trafficking in marihuana is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   In addition to any prison term authorized or required by division (C)
of this section and R.C. §§ 2929.13 and 2929.14, and in addition to any other
sanction imposed for the offense under this section or R.C. §§ 2929.11 through
2929.18, the court that sentences a person who is convicted of or pleads guilty
to a violation of division (A) of this section shall do all of the following
that are applicable regarding the offender:
      (1)   The court shall suspend the driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or permit of the offender in accordance with R.C. § 2925.03(G);
      (2)   If the offender is a professionally licensed person, the court
immediately shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
   (E)   (1)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of R.C. § 3719.21 and
except as provided in R.C. § 2925.03(H), the Clerk of the Court shall pay any
mandatory fine imposed pursuant to this section and any fine other than a
mandatory fine that is imposed for a violation of this section pursuant to R.C.
§ 2929.18(A) or (B)(5) to the county, township, municipality, park district, as
created pursuant to R.C. § 511.18 or 1545.04, or state law enforcement agencies
in this state that primarily were responsible for or involved in making the
arrest of, and in prosecuting, the offender. However, the Clerk shall not pay a
mandatory fine so imposed to a law enforcement agency unless the agency has
adopted a written internal control policy under division (E)(2) of this section
that addresses the use of the fine monies that it receives. Each agency shall
use the mandatory fines so paid to subsidize the agency’s law enforcement
efforts that pertain to drug offenses, in accordance with the written internal
control policy adopted by the recipient agency under division (E)(2) of this
section.
      (2)   (a)   Prior to receiving any fine monies under division (E)(1) of
this section or R.C. § 2925.42(B), a law enforcement agency shall adopt a
written internal control policy that addresses the agency’s use and disposition
of all fine monies so received and that provides for the keeping of detailed
financial records of the receipts of those fine monies, the general types of
expenditures made out of those fine monies, and the specific amount of each
general type of expenditure. The policy shall not provide for or permit the
identification of any specific expenditure that is made in an ongoing
investigation. All financial records of the receipts of those fine monies, the
general type of expenditures made out of those fine monies, and the specific
amount of each general type of expenditure by an agency are public records open
for inspection under R.C. § 149.43. Additionally, a written internal control
policy adopted under this division is such a public record, and the agency that
adopted it shall comply with it.
         (b)   Each law enforcement agency that receives in any calendar year
any fine monies under division (E)(1) of this section or R.C. § 2925.42(B)
shall prepare a report covering the calendar year that cumulates all of the
information contained in all of the public financial records kept by the agency
pursuant to division (E)(2)(a) of this section for that calendar year, and
shall send a copy of the cumulative report, no later than the first day of
March in the calendar year following the calendar year covered by the report,
to the Attorney General. Each report received by the Attorney General is a
public record open for inspection under R.C. § 149.43.
      (3)   As used in division (E) of this section:
         LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES. Includes but is not limited to the State
Board of Pharmacy and the office of a prosecutor.
         PROSECUTOR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
   (F)   As used in this section, DRUG includes any substance that is
represented to be a drug.
(R.C. § 2925.03)
Statutory reference:
   Felony drug trafficking offenses, see R.C. § 2925.03(C)
§ 138.03  DRUG POSSESSION OFFENSES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly obtain, possess, or use a controlled
substance.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   Manufacturers, licensed health professionals authorized to
prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies, and other persons whose
conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731,
and 4741;
      (2)   If the offense involves an anabolic steroid, any person who is
conducting or participating in a research project involving the use of an
anabolic steroid if the project has been approved by the United States Food and
Drug Administration;
      (3)   Any person who sells, offers for sale, prescribes, dispenses, or
administers for livestock or other nonhuman species an anabolic steroid that is
expressly intended for administration through implants to livestock or other
nonhuman species and approved for that purpose under the Federal Food, Drug,
and Cosmetic Act, and is sold, offered for sale, prescribed, dispensed, or
administered for that purpose in accordance with that Act;
      (4)   Any person who obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of one of the
following:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2), (C)(3), (C)(4),
and (C)(5), if the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule I or II of R.C. § 3719.41, or is
cocaine, L.S.D., heroin, or a compound, mixture or preparation containing such
drugs, possession of drugs is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law;
      (2)   If the drug involved is a compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance included in Schedule III, IV, or V of R.C. § 3719.41, whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of possession of drugs. The
penalty for the offense shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in the following division,
possession of drugs is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the offender
previously has been convicted of a drug abuse offense, it is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (b)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds the bulk
amount, possession of drugs is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   If the drug involved in the violation is marihuana or a compound,
mixture, preparation or substance containing marihuana other than hashish,
whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of possession of
marihuana. The penalty for the offense shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in the following divisions,
possession of marihuana is a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds 100 grams
but is less than 200 grams, possession of marihuana is a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
         (c)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds 200 grams,
possession of marihuana is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (4)   If the drug involved in the violation is hashish or a compound,
mixture, preparation or substance containing hashish, whoever violates division
(A) of this section is guilty of possession of hashish. The penalty for the
offense shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in the following divisions,
possession of hashish is a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds five grams
but is less than ten grams of hashish in a solid form or equals or exceeds one
gram but is less than two grams of hashish in a liquid concentrate, liquid
extract, or liquid distillate form, possession of hashish is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
         (c)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds ten grams
of hashish in a solid form or equals or exceeds two grams of hashish in a
liquid concentrate, liquid extract, or liquid distillate form, possession of
hashish is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (D)   Arrest or conviction for a minor misdemeanor violation of this section
does not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the person so
arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries about the person’s criminal
record, including any inquiries contained in any application for employment,
license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection with the person’s
appearance as a witness.
   (E)   In addition to any prison term or jail term authorized or required by
division (C) of this section and R.C. §§ 2929.13, 2929.14, 2929.22, 2929.24,
and 2929.25, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and in
addition to any other sanction that is imposed for the offense under this
section, R.C. §§ 2929.11 through 2929.18, or R.C. §§ 2929.21 through 2929.28,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court that sentences
an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of division (A)
of this section shall do the following if applicable regarding the offender:
      (1)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of R.C. § 3719.21, the Clerk
of Court shall pay a fine imposed for a violation of this section pursuant to
R.C. § 2929.18(A) in accordance with and subject to the requirements of R.C. §
2925.03(F). The agency that receives the fine shall use the fine as specified
in R.C. § 2925.03(F).
      (2)   The court shall suspend for not less than six months nor more than
five years the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit.
      (3)   If the offender is a professionally licensed person, in addition to
any other sanction imposed for a violation of this section, the court
immediately shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
(R.C. § 2925.11)
Cross-reference:
   Pay-out fines, see
Ch. 40, Appendix A
Statutory reference:
   Felony drug possession offenses, see R.C. § 2925.11(C)
§ 138.04  POSSESSING DRUG ABUSE INSTRUMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make, obtain, possess, or use any
instrument, article, or thing the customary and primary purpose of which is for
the administration or use of a dangerous drug, other than marihuana, when the
instrument involved is a hypodermic or syringe, whether or not of crude or
extemporized manufacture or assembly, and the instrument, article, or thing
involved has been used by the offender to unlawfully administer or use a
dangerous drug, other than marihuana, or to prepare a dangerous drug, other
than marihuana, for unlawful administration or use.
   (B)   This section does not apply to manufacturers, licensed health
professionals authorized to prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies,
and other persons whose conduct was in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719,
4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, and 4741.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possessing drug abuse
instruments, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a drug abuse offense, violation of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this section, the court shall suspend for not less than six months
nor more than five years the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or permit. If the offender is a professionally licensed person, in addition to
any other sanction imposed for a violation of this section, the court
immediately shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
(R.C. § 2925.12)
§ 138.05  PERMITTING DRUG ABUSE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner, operator, or person in charge of a
locomotive, watercraft, aircraft, or other vehicle, as defined in R.C. §
4501.01, shall knowingly permit the vehicle to be used for the commission of a
felony drug abuse offense.
   (B)   No person, who is the owner, lessee, or occupant, or who has custody,
control, or supervision of premises, or real estate, including vacant land,
shall knowingly permit his or her premises, or real estate, including vacant
land, to be used for the commission of a felony drug abuse offense by another
person.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of permitting drug abuse.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, permitting
drug abuse is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Permitting drug abuse is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if the felony drug abuse offense in question is a
violation of R.C. § 2925.02 or 2925.03.
   (D)   In addition to any prison term authorized or required by division (C)
of this section and R.C. §§ 2929.13 and 2929.14, and in addition to any other
sanction imposed for the offense under this section or R.C. §§ 2929.11 through
2929.18, the court that sentences a person who is convicted of or pleads guilty
to a violation of division (A) of this section shall do all of the following
that are applicable regarding the offender:
      (1)   The court shall suspend for not less than six months nor more than
five years the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit.
      (2)   If the offender is a professionally licensed person, in addition to
any other sanction imposed for a violation of this section, the court
immediately shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of R.C. § 3719.21, the Clerk of
Court shall pay a fine imposed for a violation of this section pursuant to R.C.
§ 2929.18(A) in accordance with and subject to the requirements of R.C. §
2925.03(F). The agency that receives the fine shall use the fine as specified
in R.C. § 2925.03(F).
   (F)   Any premises or real estate that is permitted to be used in violation
of division (B) of this section constitutes a nuisance subject to abatement
pursuant to R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2925.13)
§ 138.06  ILLEGAL CULTIVATION OF MARIHUANA.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cultivate marihuana.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any person listed in R.C. § 2925.03(B)
(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, to
the extent and under the circumstances described in that division.
   (C)   Whoever commits a violation of division (A) of this section is guilty
of illegal cultivation of marihuana.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in the following divisions, illegal
cultivation of marihuana is a minor misdemeanor or, if the offense was
committed in the vicinity of a school or in the vicinity of a juvenile, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   If the amount of marihuana involved equals or exceeds 100 grams but
is less than 200 grams, illegal cultivation of marihuana is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree or, if the offense was committed in the vicinity of a school
or in the vicinity of a juvenile, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (3)   If the amount of marihuana involved equals or exceeds 200 grams,
illegal cultivation of marihuana is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (D)   In addition to any prison term authorized or required by division (C)
of this section and R.C. §§ 2929.13 and 2929.14, and in addition to any other
sanction imposed for the offense under this section or R.C. §§ 2929.11 through
2929.18, the court that sentences a person who is convicted of or pleads guilty
to a violation of division (A) of this section shall do all of the following
that are applicable regarding the offender:
      (1)   The court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit in accordance with R.C. § 2925.03(G). If an
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit is suspended in
accordance with that division, the offender may request termination of, and the
court may terminate, the suspension in accordance with that division;
      (2)   If the offender is a professionally licensed person, the court
immediately shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
   (E)   Arrest or conviction for a minor misdemeanor violation of this section
does not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the person so
arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries about the person’s criminal
record, including any inquiries contained in any application for employment,
license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection with the person’s
appearance as a witness.
(R.C. § 2925.04) 
Statutory reference:
   Illegal manufacturing of controlled substances, felony, see R.C. § 2925.04
   Sale or use of drugs not approved by Food and Drug Administration, felony,
see R.C. § 2925.09
§ 138.07  ABUSING HARMFUL INTOXICANTS.
   (A)   Except for lawful research, clinical, medical, dental, or veterinary
purposes, no person, with purpose to induce intoxication or similar
physiological effects, shall obtain, possess, or use a harmful intoxicant.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of abusing harmful
intoxicants, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a drug abuse offense, abusing harmful intoxicants is a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this section, the court shall suspend for not less than six months
nor more than five years the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or permit. If the offender is a professionally licensed person, in addition to
any other sanction imposed for a violation of this section, the court
immediately shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
(R.C. § 2925.31)
Statutory reference:
   Illegal manufacturing of controlled substances, felony, see R.C. § 2925.04
   Sale or use of drugs not approved by Food and Drug Administration, felony,
see R.C. § 2925.09
§ 138.08  ILLEGAL DISPENSING OF DRUG SAMPLES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly furnish a sample drug to another person.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to manufacturers,
wholesalers, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies, licensed health professionals
authorized to prescribe drugs, and other persons whose conduct is in accordance
with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715, 4723, 4725, 4729, 4730, 4731, and 4741.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal dispensing of
drug samples.
      (2)   If the drug involved in the offense is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule I or II of R.C. § 3719.41 with
the exception of marihuana, illegal dispensing of drug samples is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the drug involved in the offense is a dangerous drug or a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance included in Schedule III, IV, or V
of R.C. § 3719.41, or is marihuana, the penalty for the offense shall be
determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in the following division, illegal
dispensing of drug samples is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
         (b)   If the offense was committed in the vicinity of a school or in
the vicinity of a juvenile, illegal dispensing of drug samples is a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
   (D)   In addition to any prison term authorized or required by division (C)
of this section and R.C. §§ 2929.13 and 2929.14, and in addition to any other
sanction imposed for the offense under this section or R.C. §§ 2929.11 through
2929.18, the court that sentences an offender who is convicted of or pleads
guilty to a violation of division (A) of this section shall do both of the
following:
      (1)   The court shall suspend for not less than six months nor more than
five years the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license.
      (2)   If the offender is a professionally licensed person, in addition to
any other sanction imposed for a violation of this section, the court
immediately shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of R.C. § 3719.21, the Clerk of
Court shall pay a fine imposed for a violation of this section pursuant to R.C.
§ 2929.18(A) in accordance with and subject to the requirements of R.C. §
2925.03(F). The agency that receives the fine shall use the fine as specified
in R.C. § 2925.03(F).
(R.C. § 2925.36)
Statutory reference:
   Felony offenses, see R.C. § 2925.36(C)(2)
§ 138.09  FEDERAL PROSECUTION BAR TO MUNICIPAL PROSECUTION.
   No person shall be prosecuted for a violation of this chapter if the person
has been acquitted or convicted under the federal drug abuse control laws of
the same act or omission which, it is alleged, constitutes a violation of this
chapter.
(R.C. §§ 2925.50, 3719.19)
§ 138.10  NITROUS OXIDE: IMPROPER DISPENSING OR DISTRIBUTION; POSSESSION IN A
MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   Improper dispensing or distribution.
      (1)   No person who dispenses or distributes nitrous oxide in cartridges
shall fail to comply with either of the following:
         (a)   The record-keeping requirements established under division (A)
(3) of this section;
         (b)   The labeling and transaction identification requirements
established under division (A)(4) of this section.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(1)(a) or (A)(1)(b) of this section is
guilty of improperly dispensing or distributing nitrous oxide, a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
      (3)   Beginning July 1, 2001, a person who dispenses or distributes
nitrous oxide shall record each transaction involving the dispensing or
distribution of the nitrous oxide on a separate card. The person shall require
the purchaser to sign the card and provide a complete residence address. The
person dispensing or distributing the nitrous oxide shall sign and date the
card. The person shall retain the card recording a transaction for one year
from the date of the transaction. The person shall maintain the cards at the
person’s business address and make them available during normal business hours
for inspection and copying by officers or employees of the State Board of
Pharmacy or of other law enforcement agencies that are authorized to
investigate violations of this code, R.C. Chapters 2925, 3719, or 4729, or
federal drug abuse control laws. The cards used to record each transaction
shall inform the purchaser of the following:
         (a)   That nitrous oxide cartridges are to be used only for purposes
of preparing food;
         (b)   That inhalation of nitrous oxide can have dangerous health
effects; and
         (c)   That it is a violation of state law to distribute or dispense
cartridges of nitrous oxide to any person under age 21, punishable as a felony
of the fifth degree.
      (4)   (a)   Each cartridge of nitrous oxide dispensed or distributed in
this municipality shall bear the following printed warning: “Nitrous oxide
cartridges are to be used only for purposes of preparing food. Nitrous oxide
cartridges may not be sold to persons under age 21. Do not inhale contents.
Misuse can be dangerous to your health.”
         (b)   Each time a person dispenses or distributes one or more
cartridges of nitrous oxide, the person shall mark the packaging containing the
cartridges with a label or other device that identifies the person who
dispensed or distributed the nitrous oxide and the person’s business address.
(R.C. § 2925.32(B)(4), (D)(2), (F), (G))
   (B)   Possession in a motor vehicle.
      (1)   As used in this section, MOTOR VEHICLE, STREET, and HIGHWAY have
the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      (2)   Unless authorized by this code or by state law, no person shall
possess an open cartridge of nitrous oxide in either of the following
circumstances:
         (a)   While operating or being a passenger in or on a motor vehicle on
a street, highway, or other public or private property open to the public for
purposes of vehicular traffic or parking.
         (b)   While being in or on a stationary motor vehicle on a street,
highway, or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular traffic or parking.
      (3)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of possessing nitrous
oxide in a motor vehicle, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2925.33)
Statutory reference:
   Trafficking in harmful intoxicants, see R.C. § 2925.32
§ 138.11  LABORATORY REPORT REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   In any criminal prosecution for a violation of this chapter or
R.C. Chapters 2925 or 3719, a laboratory report from the Bureau of Criminal
Identification and Investigation or a laboratory operated by another law
enforcement agency, or a laboratory established by or under the authority of an
institution of higher education that has its main campus in this state and that
is accredited by the Association of American Universities or the North Central
Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools, primarily for the purpose of
providing scientific service to law enforcement agencies, and signed by the
person performing the analysis, stating that the substance that is the basis of
the alleged offense has been weighed and analyzed and stating the findings as
to the content, weight, and identity of the substance and that it contains any
amount of a controlled substance and the number and description of unit
dosages, is prima facie evidence of the content, identity, and weight or the
existence and number of unit dosages of the substance. In any criminal
prosecution for a violation of R.C. § 2925.041 or a violation of this chapter,
R.C. Chapter 2925 or R.C. Chapter 3719 that is based on the possession of
chemicals sufficient to produce a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance
included in Schedule I, II, III, IV, or V, a laboratory report from the Bureau
or from any laboratory that is operated or established as described in this
division that is signed by the person performing the analysis, stating that the
substances that are the basis of the alleged offense have been weighed and
analyzed and stating the findings as to the content, weight, and identity of
each of the substances, is prima facie evidence of the content, identity, and
weight of the substances.
      (2)   Attached to that report shall be a copy of a notarized statement by
the signer of the report giving the name of the signer and stating that the
signer is an employee of the laboratory issuing the report and that performing
the analysis is a part of the signer’s regular duties, and giving an outline of
the signer’s education, training, and experience for performing an analysis of
materials included under this section. The signer shall attest that
scientifically accepted tests were performed with due caution, and that the
evidence was handled in accordance with established and accepted procedures
while in the custody of the laboratory.
   (B)   The prosecuting attorney shall serve a copy of the report on the
attorney of record for the accused, or on the accused if the accused has no
attorney, prior to any proceeding in which the report is to be used against the
accused other than at a preliminary hearing or grand jury proceeding where the
report may be used without having been previously served upon the accused.
   (C)   The report shall not be prima facie evidence of the contents,
identity, and weight or the existence and number of unit dosages of the
substance if the accused or the accused’s attorney demands the testimony of the
person signing the report, by serving the demand upon the prosecuting attorney,
within seven days from the accused or the accused’s attorney’s receipt of the
report. The time may be extended by a trial judge in the interests of justice.
   (D)   Any report issued for use under this section shall contain notice of
the right of the accused to demand, and the manner in which the accused shall
demand, the testimony of the person signing the report.
   (E)   Any person who is accused of a violation of this chapter or R.C.
Chapters 2925 or 3719 is entitled, upon written request made to the prosecuting
attorney, to have a portion of the substance that is, or of each of the
substances that are, the basis of the alleged violation preserved for the
benefit of independent analysis performed by a laboratory analyst employed by
the accused person, or, if the accused is indigent, by a qualified laboratory
analyst appointed by the court. Such portion shall be a representative sample
of the entire substance that is, or of each of the substances that are, the
basis of the alleged violation and shall be of sufficient size, in the opinion
of the court, to permit the accused’s analyst to make a thorough scientific
analysis concerning the identity of the substance or substances. The
prosecuting attorney shall provide the accused’s analyst with the sample
portion at least 14 days prior to trial, unless the trial is to be held in a
court not of record or unless the accused person is charged with a minor
misdemeanor, in which case the prosecuting attorney shall provide the accused’s
analyst with the sample portion at least three days prior to trial. If the
prosecuting attorney determines that such a sample portion cannot be preserved
and given to the accused’s analyst, the prosecuting attorney shall so inform
the accused person, or the accused’s attorney. In such a circumstance, the
accused person is entitled, upon written request made to the prosecuting
attorney, to have the accused’s privately employed or court appointed analyst
present at an analysis of the substance that is, or the substances that are,
the basis of the alleged violation, and, upon further written request, to
receive copies of all recorded scientific data that result from the analysis
and that can be used by an analyst in arriving at conclusions, findings, or
opinions concerning the identity of the substance or substances subject to the
analysis.
   (F)   In addition to the rights provided under division (E) of this section,
any person who is accused of a violation of this chapter or R.C. Chapters 2925
or 3719 that involves a bulk amount of a controlled substance, or any multiple
thereof, or who is accused of a violation of R.C. § 2925.11 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, other than a minor misdemeanor violation, that
involves marihuana, is entitled, upon written request made to the prosecuting
attorney, to have a laboratory analyst of the accused’s choice, or, if the
accused is indigent, a qualified laboratory analyst appointed by the court,
present at a measurement or weighing of the substance that is the basis of the
alleged violation. Also, the accused person is entitled, upon further written
request, to receive copies of all recorded scientific data that result from the
measurement or weighing and that can be used by an analyst in arriving at
conclusions, findings, or opinions concerning the weight, volume, or number of
unit doses of the substance subject to the measurement or weighing.
(R.C. § 2925.51)
   (G)   In addition to the financial sanctions authorized or required under
R.C. §§ 2929.18 and 2929.28 and to any costs otherwise authorized or required
under any provision of law, the court imposing sentence upon an offender who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a drug abuse offense may order the offender to
pay to the state, municipal, or county law enforcement agencies that handled
the investigation and prosecution all of the costs that the state, municipal
corporation, or county reasonably incurred in having tests performed under this
section or R.C. § 2925.51 or in any other manner on any substance that was the
basis of, or involved in, the offense to determine whether the substance
contained any amount of a controlled substance if the results of the tests
indicate that the substance tested contained any controlled substance. No court
shall order an offender under this section to pay the costs of tests performed
on a substance if the results of the tests do not indicate that the substance
tested contained any controlled substance. The court shall hold a hearing to
determine the amount of costs to be imposed under this section. The court may
hold the hearing as part of the sentencing hearing for the offender.
(R.C. § 2925.511)
§ 138.12  COUNTERFEIT CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly possess any counterfeit controlled
substance.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section shall be guilty of
possession of counterfeit controlled substances, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of R.C. § 3719.21, the Clerk of
Court shall pay a fine imposed for a violation of this section pursuant to R.C.
§ 2929.18(A) in accordance with and subject to the requirements of R.C. §
2925.03(F). The agency that receives the fine shall use the fine as specified
in R.C. § 2925.03(F).
(R.C. § 2925.37(A), (G), (M))
Statutory reference:
   Trafficking and other felony counterfeit controlled substance offenses, see
R.C. § 2925.37(H) through (K)
§ 138.13  USE, POSSESSION, OR SALE OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   (A)   As used in this section, DRUG PARAPHERNALIA means any equipment,
product, or material of any kind that is used by the offender, intended by the
offender for use, or designed for use, in propagating, cultivating, growing,
harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing,
preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing,
concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing into the
human body, a controlled substance in violation of this chapter. DRUG
PARAPHERNALIA includes but is not limited to any of the following equipment,
products, or materials that are used by the offender, intended by the offender
for use, or designed by the offender for use, in any of the following manners:
      (1)   A kit for propagating, cultivating, growing, or harvesting any
species of a plant that is a controlled substance or from which a controlled
substance can be derived;
      (2)   A kit for manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing,
processing, or preparing a controlled substance;
      (3)   Any object, instrument, or device for manufacturing, compounding,
converting, producing, processing, or preparing methamphetamine;
      (4)   An isomerization device for increasing the potency of any species
of a plant that is a controlled substance;
      (5)   Testing equipment for identifying, or analyzing the strength,
effectiveness, or purity of, a controlled substance.
      (6)   A scale or balance for weighing or measuring a controlled
substance;
      (7)   A diluent or adulterant, such as quinine hydrochloride, mannitol,
mannite, dextrose, or lactose, for cutting a controlled substance;
      (8)   A separation gin or sifter for removing twigs and seeds from, or
otherwise cleaning or refining, marihuana;
      (9)   A blender, bowl, container, spoon, or mixing device for compounding
a controlled substance;
      (10)   A capsule, balloon, envelope, or container for packaging small
quantities of a controlled substance;
      (11)   A container or device for storing or concealing a controlled
substance;
      (12)   A hypodermic syringe, needle, or instrument for parenterally
injecting a controlled substance into the human body;
      (13)   An object, instrument, or device for ingesting, inhaling, or
otherwise introducing into the human body, marihuana, cocaine, hashish, or
hashish oil, such as a metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or
ceramic pipe, with or without a screen, permanent screen, hashish head, or
punctured metal bowl; water pipe; carburetion tube or device; smoking or
carburetion mask; roach clip or similar object used to hold burning material,
such as a marihuana cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be
held in the hand; miniature cocaine spoon, or cocaine vial; chamber pipe;
carburetor pipe; electric pipe; air driver pipe; chillum; bong; or ice pipe or
chiller.
   (B)   In determining if any equipment, product, or material is drug
paraphernalia, a court or law enforcement officer shall consider, in addition
to other relevant factors, the following:
      (1)   Any statement by the owner or by anyone in control of the
equipment, product, or material, concerning its use;
      (2)   The proximity in time or space of the equipment, product, or
material, or of the act relating to the equipment, product, or material, to a
violation of any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2925;
      (3)   The proximity of the equipment, product, or material to any
controlled substance;
      (4)   The existence of any residue of a controlled substance on the
equipment, product, or material;
      (5)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of the owner, or of
anyone in control, of the equipment, product, or material, to deliver it to any
person whom he or she knows intends to use the equipment, product, or material
to facilitate a violation of any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter
2925. A finding that the owner or anyone in control of the equipment, product,
or material is not guilty of a violation of any other provision of this chapter
or R.C. Chapter 2925 does not prevent a finding that the equipment, product, or
material was intended or designed by the offender for use as drug
paraphernalia;
      (6)   Any oral or written instruction provided with the equipment,
product, or material concerning its use;
      (7)   Any descriptive material accompanying the equipment, product, or
material and explaining or depicting its use;
      (8)   National or local advertising concerning the use of the equipment,
product, or material;
      (9)   The manner and circumstances in which the equipment, product, or
material is displayed for sale;
      (10)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of the sales of the
equipment, product, or material to the total sales of the business enterprise;
      (11)   The existence and scope of legitimate uses of the equipment,
product, or material in the community;
      (12)   Expert testimony concerning the use of the equipment, product, or
material.
   (C)   (1)   Subject to division (D)(2) of this section, no person shall
knowingly use, or possess with purpose to use, drug paraphernalia.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly sell, or possess or manufacture with
purpose to sell, drug paraphernalia, if he or she knows or reasonably should
know that the equipment, product, or material will be used as drug
paraphernalia.
      (3)   No person shall place an advertisement in any newspaper, magazine,
handbill, or other publication that is published and printed and circulates
primarily within this state, if he or she knows that the purpose of the
advertisement is to promote the illegal sale in this municipality or in this
state of the equipment, product, or material that the offender intended or
designed for use as drug paraphernalia.
   (D)   (1)   This section does not apply to manufacturers, licensed health
professionals authorized to prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies,
and other persons whose conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715,
4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, and 4741. This section shall not be construed to
prohibit the possession or use of a hypodermic as authorized by R.C. §
3719.172.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to a person’s use,
or possession with purpose to use, any drug paraphernalia that is equipment, a
product, or material of any kind that is used by the person, intended by the
person for use, or designed for use in storing, containing, concealing,
injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing into the human body
marihuana.
   (E)   Notwithstanding R.C. Chapter 2981, any drug paraphernalia that was
used, possessed, sold, or manufactured in violation of this section shall be
seized, after a conviction for that violation, shall be forfeited, and upon
forfeiture shall be disposed of pursuant to R.C. § 2981.12(B).
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (C)(1) of this section is guilty of
illegal use or possession of drug paraphernalia, a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (F)(3) of this section, whoever
violates division (C)(2) of this section is guilty of dealing in drug
paraphernalia, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C)(2) of this section by selling drug
paraphernalia to a juvenile is guilty of selling drug paraphernalia to
juveniles, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (C)(3) of this section is guilty of
illegal advertising of drug paraphernalia, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (G)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this section, the court shall suspend for not less than six months
nor more than five years the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or permit. If the offender is a professionally licensed person, in addition to
any other sanction imposed for a violation of this section, the court
immediately shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
(R.C. § 2925.14)
   (H)   Illegal use or possession of marihuana drug paraphernalia.
      (1)   As used in this division (H), DRUG PARAPHERNALIA has the same
meaning as in division (A) of this section.
      (2)   In determining if any equipment, product, or material is drug
paraphernalia, a court or law enforcement officer shall consider, in addition
to other relevant factors, all factors identified in division (B) of this
section.
      (3)   No person shall knowingly use, or possess with purpose to use, any
drug paraphernalia that is equipment, a product, or material of any kind that
is used by the person, intended by the person for use, or designed for use in
storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise
introducing into the human body marihuana.
      (4)   This division (H) does not apply to any person identified in
division (D)(1) of this section, and it shall not be construed to prohibit the
possession or use of a hypodermic as authorized by R.C. § 3719.172.
      (5)   Division (E) of this section applies with respect to any drug
paraphernalia that was used or possessed in violation of this section.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (H)(3) of this section is guilty of
illegal use or possession of marihuana drug paraphernalia, a minor misdemeanor.
      (7)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this section, the court shall suspend for not less than six months
or more than five years the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or permit. If the offender is a professionally licensed person, in addition to
any other sanction imposed for a violation of this section, the court
immediately shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
(R.C. § 2925.141)
§ 138.14  CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE OR PRESCRIPTION LABELS.
   (A)   Whenever a manufacturer sells a controlled substance, and whenever a
wholesaler sells a controlled substance in a package the wholesaler has
prepared, the manufacturer or wholesaler shall securely affix to each package
in which the controlled substance is contained a label showing in legible
English the name and address of the vendor and the quantity, kind and form of
controlled substance contained therein. No person, except a pharmacist for the
purpose of dispensing a controlled substance upon a prescription, shall alter,
deface, or remove any label so affixed.
   (B)   No person shall alter, deface, or remove any label affixed pursuant to
R.C. § 3719.08 as long as any of the original contents remain.
(R.C. § 3719.08(A), (E))
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this
section, or R.C. § 3719.07 or 3719.08, or a drug abuse offense, a violation of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the
violation involves the sale, offer to sell, or possession of a Schedule I or II
controlled substance, with the exception of marihuana, and if the offender, as
a result of the violation, is a major drug offender, then R.C. § 3719.99(D)
applies.
(R.C. § 3719.99(C))
§ 138.15  POSSESSION, SALE, AND DISPOSAL OF HYPODERMICS.
   (A)   Possession of a hypodermic is authorized for the following:
      (1)   A manufacturer or distributor of, or dealer in hypodermics, or
medication packaged in hypodermics, and any authorized agent of employee of
that manufacturer, distributor or dealer, in the regular course of business;
      (2)   A terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, in the regular course of
business;
      (3)   A person authorized to administer injections, in the regular course
of the person’s profession or employment;
      (4)   A person, when the hypodermic in his possession was lawfully
obtained and is kept and used for the purpose of self-administration of insulin
or other drug prescribed for the treatment of disease by a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs;
      (5)   A person whose use of a hypodermic is for legal research, clinical,
educational, or medicinal purposes;
      (6)   A farmer, for the lawful administration of a drug to an animal;
      (7)   A person whose use of a hypodermic is for lawful professional,
mechanical, trade; or craft purposes.
   (B)   No manufacturer or distributor of, or dealer in, hypodermics or
medication packaged in hypodermics, or their authorized agents or employees,
and no terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, shall display any hypodermic
for sale. No person authorized to possess a hypodermic pursuant to division (A)
of this section shall negligently fail to take reasonable precautions to
prevent any hypodermic in the person’s possession from theft or acquisition by
any unauthorized person.
(R.C. § 3719.172(A), (B))
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of a violation of division (B) of this section, R.C. § 3719.05, 3719.06,
3719.13, 3719.172(B), or 3719.31, or a drug abuse offense, a violation of
division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 3719.99(E))
Statutory reference:
   Felony offenses, see R.C. § 3719.172(C) and (D)
§ 138.16  CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE SCHEDULES.
   Controlled Substance Schedules I, II, III, IV, and V, as established in R.C.
§ 3719.41 and amended by R.C. §§ 3719.43 and 3719.44, are hereby adopted by
reference, and shall be treated as if set forth in full herein.
Statutory reference:
   For comprehensive lists of drugs identified under each of the following
Schedules, see R.C. § 3719.41, as amended by R.C. §§ 3719.43 and 3719.44:
   Schedule I
      (A)   Narcotics - opiates
      (B)   Narcotics - opium derivatives
      (C)   Hallucinogens
      (D)   Depressants
      (E)   Stimulants
   Schedule II
      (A)   Narcotics - opium and opium derivatives
      (B)   Narcotics - opiates
      (C)   Stimulants
      (D)   Depressants
      (E)   Hallucinogenic substances
      (F)   Immediate precursors
   Schedule III
      (A)   Stimulants
      (B)   Depressants
      (C)   Narcotic antidotes
      (D)   Narcotics - narcotic preparations
      (E)   Anabolic steroids
      (F)   Hallucinogenic substances
   Schedule IV
      (A)   Narcotic drugs
      (B)   Depressants
      (C)   Fenfluramine
      (D)   Stimulants
      (E)   Other substances
   Schedule V
      (A)   Narcotic drugs
      (B)   Narcotics - narcotic preparations
      (C)   Stimulants
§ 138.17  UNLAWFUL FURNISHING OF PRESCRIPTION TO ENABLE PERSONS TO BE ISSUED
HANDICAPPED PARKING PLACARDS OR LICENSE PLATES.
   (A)   No physician or chiropractor shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Furnish a person with a prescription in order to enable the person
to be issued a removable windshield placard, temporary removable windshield
placard, or license plates under R.C. § 4503.44, knowing that the person does
not meet any of the criteria contained in R.C. § 4503.44(A)(1).
      (2)   Furnish a person with a prescription described in division (A)(1)
of this section and knowingly misstate on the prescription the length of time
the physician or chiropractor expects the person to have the disability that
limits or impairs the person’s ability to walk in order to enable the person to
retain a placard issued under R.C. § 4503.44 for a period of time longer than
that which would be estimated by a similar practitioner under the same or
similar circumstances.
(R.C. §§ 4731.481, 4734.161)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. §§ 4731.99(F), 4734.99(B))
Cross-reference:
   Parking privileges for persons with disabilities, see §
76.05
§ 138.18  PSEUDOEPHEDRINE SALES.
   (A)   Unlawful purchases.
      (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
         CONSUMER PRODUCT. Means any food or drink that is consumed or used by
humans and any drug, including a drug that may be provided legally only
pursuant to a prescription, that is intended to be consumed or used by humans.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE. Means any material, compound, mixture, or preparation
that contains any quantity of pseudoephedrine, any of its salts, optical
isomers, or salts of optical isomers.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE PRODUCT. Means a consumer product consisting of a
single- ingredient preparation of pseudoephedrine in which pseudoephedrine is
the active ingredient. PSEUDOEPHEDRINE PRODUCT does not include either of the
following:
            1.   A consumer product containing pseudoephedrine that is in a
liquid, liquid capsule, or gel capsule form;
            2.   A consumer product primarily intended for administration to
children under 12 years of age, according to the label instructions, in solid
dosage form, including chewable tablets, when individual dosage units do not
exceed 15 milligrams of pseudoephedrine.
         RETAILER. Means a place of business that offers consumer products for
sale to the general public.
         SINGLE-INGREDIENT PREPARATION. Means a compound, mixture, preparation,
or substance that contains a single active ingredient.
         TERMINAL DISTRIBUTOR OF DANGEROUS DRUGS. Has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 4729.01.
      (2)   (a)   No individual shall knowingly purchase, receive, or otherwise
acquire more than nine grams of any pseudoephedrine product within a period of
30 consecutive days, unless the pseudoephedrine product is dispensed by a
pharmacist pursuant to a valid prescription issued by a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs and the conduct of the pharmacist
and the licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs is in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4731, or 4741.
         (b)   It is not a violation of division (A)(2)(a) of this section for
an individual to receive or accept more than nine grams of any pseudoephedrine
product within a period of 30 consecutive days if the individual is an employee
of a retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, and the employee
receives or accepts from the retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous
drugs the pseudoephedrine product in a sealed container in connection with
manufacturing, warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading
of the product.
      (3)   (a)   No individual under 18 years of age shall knowingly purchase,
receive, or otherwise acquire a pseudoephedrine product, unless the
pseudoephedrine product is dispensed by a pharmacist pursuant to a valid
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs and the conduct of the pharmacist and the licensed health professional
authorized to prescribe drugs is in accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715,
4723, 4729, 4731, or 4741.
         (b)   Division (A)(3)(a) of this section does not apply to an
individual under 18 years of age who purchases, receives, or otherwise acquires
a pseudoephedrine product from any of the following:
            1.   A licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs
or pharmacist who dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides the pseudoephedrine
product to that individual and whose conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapter
3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4731, or 4741;
            2.   A parent or guardian of that individual who provides the
pseudoephedrine product to the individual;
            3.   A person, as authorized by that individual’s parent or
guardian, who dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides the pseudoephedrine
product to the individual;
            4.   A retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs who
provides the pseudoephedrine product to that individual if the individual is an
employee of the retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs and the
individual receives or accepts from the retailer or terminal distributor of
dangerous drugs the pseudoephedrine product in a sealed container in connection
with manufacturing, warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or
unloading of the product.
      (4)   No individual under 18 years of age shall knowingly show or give
false information concerning the individual’s name, age, or other
identification for the purpose of purchasing, receiving, or otherwise acquiring
a pseudoephedrine product.
      (5)   No individual shall knowingly fail to comply with the requirements
of division (E)(3)(c) of this section.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (A)(2)(a) of this section is guilty of
unlawful purchase of a pseudoephedrine product, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (A)(3)(a) of this section is guilty of
underage purchase of a pseudoephedrine product, a delinquent act that would be
a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if it could be committed by an adult.
      (8)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) of this section is guilty of using
false information to purchase a pseudoephedrine product, a delinquent act that
would be a misdemeanor of the first degree if it could be committed by an
adult.
      (9)   Whoever violates division (A)(5) of this section is guilty of
improper purchase of a pseudoephedrine product, a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 2925.55)
   (B)   Unlawful retail sales.
      (1)   (a)   Except as provided in division (B)(1)(b) of this section, no
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs or an employee of a
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall knowingly sell, offer
to sell, hold for sale, deliver, or otherwise provide to any individual within
a period of 30 consecutive days an amount of pseudoephedrine product that is
greater than nine grams.
         (b)   Division (B)(1)(a) of this section does not apply to any
quantity of pseudoephedrine product dispensed by a pharmacist pursuant to a
valid prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to
prescribe drugs if the conduct of the pharmacist and the licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs is in accordance with R.C. Chapter
3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4731, or 4741.
         (c)   It is not a violation of division (B)(1)(a) of this section for
a retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, or employee of either to
provide to an individual more than nine grams of any pseudoephedrine product
within a period of 30 consecutive days if the individual is an employee of the
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, and the employee receives
or accepts from the retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, or
employee the pseudoephedrine product in a sealed container in connection with
manufacturing, warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading
of the product.
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (B)(2)(b) of this section, no
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs or an employee of a
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall sell, offer to sell,
hold for sale, deliver, or otherwise provide a pseudoephedrine product to an
individual who is under 18 years of age.
         (b)   Division (B)(2)(a) of this section does not apply to any of the
following:
            1.   A licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs
or pharmacist who dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides a pseudoephedrine
product to an individual under 18 years of age and whose conduct is in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4731, or 4741;
            2.   A parent or guardian of an individual under 18 years of age
who provides a pseudoephedrine product to the individual;
            3.   A person who, as authorized by the individual’s parent or
guardian, dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides a pseudoephedrine product to
an individual under 18 years of age;
            4.   The provision by a retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous
drugs, or employee of either of a pseudoephedrine product in a sealed container
to an employee of the retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs who
is under 18 years of age in connection with manufacturing, ware- housing,
placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading of the product.
      (3)   No retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall fail
to comply with the requirements of division (E)(3)(b) of this section.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(a) of this section is guilty of
unlawfully selling a pseudoephedrine product, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (B)(2)(a) of this section is guilty of
unlawfully selling a pseudoephedrine product to a minor, a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (B)(3) of this section is guilty of
improper sale of a pseudoephedrine product, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2925.56)
   (C)   Transaction scans.
      (1)   As used in this division and division (D) of this section:
         CARD HOLDER. Means any person who presents a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card to a seller, or an agent or employee
of a seller, to purchase or receive any pseudoephedrine product from the
seller, agent, or employee.
         IDENTIFICATION CARD and TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE. Have the same
meanings as in R.C. § 2927.021.
         SELLER. Means a retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs.
         TRANSACTION SCAN. Means the process by which a seller or an agent or
employee of a seller checks by means of a transaction scan device the validity
of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification card that is
presented as a condition for purchasing or receiving any pseudoephedrine
product.
      (2)   (a)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may perform a
transaction scan by means of a transaction scan device to check the validity of
a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a
card holder as a condition for selling, giving away, or otherwise distributing
to the card holder a pseudoephedrine product.
         (b)   If the information deciphered by the transaction scan performed
under division (C)(2)(a) of this section fails to match the information printed
on the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented
by the card holder, or if the transaction scan indicates that the information
so printed is false or fraudulent, neither the seller nor any agent or employee
of the seller shall sell, give away, or otherwise distribute any
pseudoephedrine product to the card holder.
         (c)   Division (C)(2)(a) of this section does not preclude a seller or
an agent or employee of a seller as a condition for selling, giving away, or
otherwise distributing a pseudoephedrine product to the person presenting the
document from using a transaction scan device to check the validity of a
document other than a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an
identification card if the document includes a bar code or magnetic strip that
may be scanned by the device.
      (3)   Rules adopted by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles under R.C. §
4301.61(C) apply to the use of transaction scan devices for purposes of this
division (C) and division (D) of this section.
      (4)   (a)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall
electronically or mechanically record or maintain any information derived from
a transaction scan, except the following:
            1.   The name and date of birth of the person listed on the
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a
card holder;
            2.   The expiration date and identification number of the driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a card
holder.
         (b)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use the
information that is derived from a transaction scan or that is permitted to be
recorded and maintained under division (C)(4)(a) of this section except for
purposes of division (D) of this section.
         (c)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use a
transaction scan device for a purpose other than the purpose specified in
division (C)(2)(a) of this section.
         (d)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall sell or
otherwise disseminate the information derived from a transaction scan to any
third party, including but not limited to selling or otherwise disseminating
that information for any marketing, advertising, or promotional activities, but
a seller or agent or employee of a seller may release that information pursuant
to a court order or as specifically authorized by division (D) of this section
or any other section of the Ohio Revised Code.
      (5)   Nothing in this division (C) or division (D) of this section
relieves a seller or an agent or employee of a seller of any responsibility to
comply with any other applicable state or federal laws or rules governing the
sale, giving away, or other distribution of pseudoephedrine products.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (C)(2)(b) or (C)(4) of this section is
guilty of engaging in an illegal pseudoephedrine product transaction scan, and
the court may impose upon the offender a civil penalty of up to $1,000 for each
violation. The Clerk of the Court shall pay each collected civil penalty to the
County Treasurer for deposit into the County Treasury.
(R.C. § 2925.57)
   (D)   Affirmative defenses.
      (1)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may not be found
guilty of a charge of a violation of division (B) of this section in which the
age of the purchaser or other recipient of a pseudoephedrine product is an
element of the alleged violation if the seller, agent, or employee raises and
proves as an affirmative defense that all of the following occurred:
         (a)   A card holder attempting to purchase or receive a
pseudoephedrine product presented a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
an identification card;
         (b)   A transaction scan of the driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or identification card that the card holder presented indicated that
the license or card was valid;
         (c)   The pseudoephedrine product was sold, given away, or otherwise
distributed to the card holder in reasonable reliance upon the identification
presented and the completed transaction scan.
      (2)   In determining whether a seller or an agent or employee of a seller
has proven the affirmative defense provided by division (D)(1) of this section,
the trier of fact in the action for the alleged violation of division (B) of
this section shall consider any written policy that the seller has adopted and
implemented and that is intended to prevent violations of division (B) of this
section. For purposes of division (D)(1)(c) of this section, the trier of fact
shall consider that reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and
the completed transaction scan may require a seller or an agent or employee of
a seller to exercise reasonable diligence to determine, and that the use of a
transaction scan device does not excuse a seller or an agent or employee of a
seller from exercising reasonable diligence to determine, the following:
         (a)   Whether a person to whom the seller or agent or employee of a
seller sells, gives away, or otherwise distributes a pseudoephedrine product is
18 years of age or older;
         (b)   Whether the description and picture appearing on the driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a card holder
is that of the card holder.
      (3)   In any criminal action in which the affirmative defense provided by
division (D)(1) of this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a
deputy registrar who issued an identification card under R.C. §§ 4507.50
through 4507.52 shall be permitted to submit certified copies of the records of
that issuance in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of or contractors with
the Bureau of Motor Vehicles in the action.
(R.C. § 2925.58)
   (E)   Retailer’s duties.
      (1)   As used in this division and division (F) of this section:
         DRUG, LICENSED HEALTH PROFESSIONAL AUTHORIZED TO PRESCRIBE DRUGS,
PHARMACY, PRESCRIBER, PRESCRIPTION, and TERMINAL DISTRIBUTOR OF DANGEROUS
DRUGS. Have the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         PHARMACIST. Means a person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 to engage
in the practice of pharmacy.
         PROOF OF AGE. Means a driver’s license, a commercial driver’s license,
a military identification card, a passport, or an identification card issued
under R.C. §§ 4507.50 through 4507.52 that shows a person is 18 years of age or
older.
         WHOLESALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
      (2)   A retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs that sells,
offers to sell, holds for sale, delivers, or otherwise provides a
pseudoephedrine product to the public shall do all of the following:
         (a)   Segregate pseudoephedrine products from other merchandise so
that no member of the public may procure or purchase such products without the
direct assistance of a pharmacist or other authorized employee of the retailer
or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs;
         (b)   With regard to each time a pseudoephedrine product is sold or
otherwise provided:
            1.    Determine, by examination of a valid proof of age, that the
purchaser or recipient is at least 18 years of age;
            2.   Make a reasonable attempt to ensure that no individual
purchases or receives more than nine grams of pseudoephedrine products within a
period of 30 consecutive days.
         (c)   Maintain a log book of pseudoephedrine product purchases, in
accordance with division (E)(3) of this section.
      (3)   (a)   As used in this division (E)(3), LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL
means an officer or employee of any agency or authority of the United States, a
state, a territory, a political division of a state or territory, or an Indian
tribe, who is empowered by the law to investigate or conduct an official
inquiry into a potential violation of law or prosecute or otherwise conduct a
criminal, civil, or administrative proceeding arising from an alleged violation
of law.
         (b)   A retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs that
sells, offers to sell, holds for sale, delivers, or otherwise provides a
pseudoephedrine product to the public shall maintain a log book of all
purchases of pseudoephedrine products. The log book may be maintained in a
tangible format, in an electronic format, or in both a tangible format and an
electronic format. As part of this requirement, the retailer or terminal
distributor of dangerous drugs shall do all of the following:
            1.   Require each purchaser to sign an entry in the log book that
is maintained in the electronic or tangible format;
            2.   Determine whether the name signed in the entry in the log book
corresponds with the name on a government-issued identification card;
            3.   Retain the log book in a tangible format, in an electronic
format, or in both a tangible format and an electronic format for a minimum of
one year after the date of the last purchase recorded in the log book;
            4.   Include in the log book in the manner described in division
(E)(3)(e) of this section or, in the alternative, post, in a conspicuous
location, the following statement:
   “Ohio law prohibits the over-the-counter purchase within any period of 30
consecutive days of more than nine grams of any consumer product in which
pseudoephedrine is the only active ingredient. If you purchase a consumer
product in which pseudoephedrine is the only active ingredient, you are
required to sign a log book that may be accessible to law enforcement officers
and to provide a government-issued identification card to verify your identity.
Except in limited circumstances, the purchase within any period of 30
consecutive days of more than nine grams of any consumer product in which
pseudoephedrine is the only active ingredient, and the purchase by any
individual under 18 years of age of any consumer product in which
pseudoephedrine is the only active ingredient, are subject to criminal
prosecution or delinquency proceedings in accordance with Ohio law. Also, the
provision of false information concerning an individual’s name, age, or other
identification for the purpose of acquiring any consumer product in which
pseudoephedrine is the only active ingredient is subject to criminal
prosecution or delinquency proceedings in accordance with Ohio law.”
         (c)   Each purchaser of a pseudoephedrine product shall do all of the
following:
            1.   Sign and print the purchaser’s name and address in the log
book;
            2.   Provide a government-issued identification card to the
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs to verify the purchaser’s
identity.
         (d)   Information contained in the log book may not be used or
disclosed except in the following circumstances:
            1.   In response to a court order or subpoena;
            2.   In response to a request from a law enforcement official to be
used for law enforcement purposes.
         (e)   If a retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs chooses
to include the statement set forth in division (E)(3)(b)4. of this section in
the log book maintained under division (E)(3)(b) of this section, the statement
shall be set forth in the following manner:
            1.   If the log book is maintained in an electronic format, the
statement shall be set forth in such a manner that it is presented on the
viewing screen to each purchaser who is signing an entry in the log book before
the purchaser may sign the entry.
            2.   If the log book is maintained in a tangible format, the
statement shall be set forth on the cover of the log book and on each page of
the log book.
      (4)   Prescriptions, orders, and records maintained pursuant to this
section and stocks of pseudoephedrine products shall be open for inspection to
federal, state, county, and municipal officers, and employees of the State
Board of Pharmacy whose duty it is to enforce the laws of this state or of the
United States relating to controlled substances. Such prescriptions, orders,
records, and stocks shall be open for inspection by the State Medical Board and
its employees for purposes of enforcing R.C. Chapter 4731.
(R.C. § 3715.05)
   (F)   Theft or loss; reporting requirements.
      (1)   Each retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, pharmacy,
prescriber, or wholesaler that sells, offers to sell, holds for sale, delivers,
or otherwise provides any pseudoephedrine product and that discovers the theft
or loss of any pseudoephedrine product in an amount of more than nine grams per
incident of theft or loss shall notify all of the following upon discovery of
the theft or loss:
         (a)   The State Board of Pharmacy, by telephone immediately upon
discovery of the theft or loss;
         (b)   Law enforcement authorities. If the incident is a theft and the
theft constitutes a felony, the retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous
drugs, pharmacy, prescriber, or wholesaler shall report the theft to the law
enforcement authorities in accordance with R.C. § 2921.22.
      (2)   Within 30 days after making a report by telephone to the State
Board of Pharmacy pursuant to division (F)(1)(a) of this section, a retailer,
terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, pharmacy, prescriber, or wholesaler
shall send a written report to the State Board of Pharmacy.
      (3)   The reports required under this section shall identify the product
that was stolen or lost, the amount of the product stolen or lost, and the date
and time of discovery of the theft or loss.
(R.C. § 3715.06)
TITLE XV:  LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
152.   PLATTING PROVISIONS
      
153.   TENEMENTS
      
154.   ZONING CODE
      
155.   HAMILTON COUNTY STORM WATER DISTRICT
CHAPTER 150:  BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Building Code
   
150.01   Hamilton County Building Code adopted; amendments
Building Permits
   
150.10   Application for permit
   
150.11   Permit fees
Property Maintenance Code
   
150.25   Property Maintenance Code adopted; amendments
Unsafe or Abandoned Buildings
   
150.35   Declaration of public nuisance
   
150.36   Inspection and notice
   
150.37   Service of notice
   
150.38   Permits required
   
150.39   Demolition or repair; costs to be paid by owner
Miscellaneous Provisions
   
150.50   Security key box required
   
150.99   Penalty
BUILDING CODE
§ 150.01  HAMILTON COUNTY BUILDING CODE ADOPTED; AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Adoption. The Hamilton County Building Code and all amendments and
additions made thereto now or hereafter are adopted by reference as if fully
set out herein.  A copy of the code is on file in the office of the Board of
County Commissioners of Hamilton County.
   (B)   Amendments.
      (1)   Section S-2(c)(2) of the Hamilton County, Ohio, Building Code shall
read as follows:
         ORDINARY REPAIR: Ordinary repair, where the value of the work,
including labor and materials, does not exceed $500.00, and is not done by a
contractor, subcontractor or hired labor may be made after obtaining a no cost
permit from the Building Department, provided such work does not constitute
major changes in the building or interfere with the vital features of the
building.
(Ord. 14-85, passed 7-2-1985; Am. Ord. 3-97, passed 3-4-1997)
BUILDING PERMITS
§ 150.10  APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Anyone applying for a building permit shall present and leave a
written executed agreement signed by both the contractor and the property
owner.
   (B)   This agreement shall set forth in reasonable detail the work to be
done and its cost.
   (C)   Whoever willfully misrepresents the work or costs in the agreement
when applying for a permit shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(Ord. 22-84, passed 12-4-1984)
§ 150.11  PERMIT FEES.
   The schedule of building permit fees attached to Resolution No. 12-1981 is
incorporated into the Building Code as if set out herein.
(Res. 12-1981, passed 7-7-1981)
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
§ 150.25  PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE ADOPTED; AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Adoption.  A certain document, three copies of which are on file in
the office of the Clerk- Treasurer of the village, being marked and designated
as the International Property Maintenance Code, 2003 edition, as published by
the International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the Property
Maintenance Code of the Village of Elmwood Place, in the State of Ohio, for
regulating and governing the conditions and maintenance of all property,
buildings, and structures; by providing the standards for supplied utilities
and facilities and other physical things and conditions essential to ensure
that structures are safe, sanitary, and fit for occupation and use; and the
condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use, and
the demolition of such existing structures as herein provided; providing for
the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of
the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of the Property
Maintenance Code on file in the office of the Clerk- Treasurer are hereby
referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this
section, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any,
prescribed in division (B) of this section.
   (B)   Revisions.  The following sections are hereby revised:
      Section 101.1. Insert: Village of Elmwood Place, Ohio.
      Section 103.5. Insert:  Employee hourly rate x hours.
      Section 304.14. Insert: May 1 to October 1.
      Section 602.3. Insert: October 15 to May 15.
      Section 602.4. Insert: October 15 to May 15.
   (C)   Effect on existing circumstances.  Nothing in this section or in the
Property Maintenance Code hereby adopted shall be construed to affect any suit
or proceeding impending in any court, or any rights acquired, or liability
incurred, or any cause or causes of action acquired or existing, under any act
or ordinance hereby repealed by this section; nor shall any just or legal right
or remedy of any character be lost, impaired, or affected by this section.
(Ord. 06-06, passed 2-14-2006)
UNSAFE OR ABANDONED BUILDINGS
§ 150.35  DECLARATION OF PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   All buildings or structures which are structurally unsafe, or which
constitute a fire hazard or are otherwise dangerous to human life, or which in
relation to the existing use constitute a serious hazard to health by reason of
inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, or obsolescence, are for the purposes of
this subchapter declared to be UNSAFE BUILDINGS.  All such unsafe buildings are
declared to be public nuisances and shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation,
or by demolition in accord with the procedures set forth herein.
(Ord. 21-90, passed 10-2-1990)
§ 150.36  INSPECTION AND NOTICE.
   The Village Building Inspector shall examine or cause to be examined every
structure reported to be or believed to be unsafe as defined in §
150.35.  If, after such inspection, the building is determined to be unsafe,
notice shall be given in the following respects:  notice shall be directed to
the owners of record including holders of recorded land contracts to purchase
or land installment contracts, and to persons occupying the premises if known. 
The notice shall describe the defects which cause the structure to be unsafe
and shall order that work shall commence within 30 days to abate the unsafe
condition, and the work shall continue without substantial delay or
interruption in order to complete repair or rehabilitation, or to demolish and
remove the structure leaving the premises in a clean and sanitary condition. 
Any such work undertaken shall be subject to the approval of the Village
Building Inspector.  In cases of clear and present emergency, any notice given
may specify the nature of the emergency and specify a lesser time in initiating
repair or demolition.  Any such notice may also include an order that the
premises be immediately vacated.
(Ord. 21-90, passed 10-2-1990)
§ 150.37  SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   (A)   Proper service of notice, as in §
150.36, shall be by certified mail.  If any party to be served cannot be found,
then notice shall be deemed complete after a copy of the notice has been sent
by ordinary mail to the last known address of the party to be served, and in
addition, a copy of the notice has been published once a week for four
consecutive weeks in a newspaper of general circulation within the village.
   (B)   In case of real and substantial emergency, service of notice, as in §
150.36, may be accomplished or attempted by other means, and the 30-day period
prescribed by §
150.36 may be shortened consistent with the nature of the emergency.
(Ord. 21-90, passed 10-2-1990)
§ 150.38  PERMITS REQUIRED.
   In all cases of construction, repair, or demolition under this subchapter,
all proper permits covering the work, regardless of cost, shall be obtained as
required by law.  Permit fees shall be based on costs established by the
Hamilton County Building Department, but shall in no case be less than $15.
(Ord. 21-90, passed 10-2-1990; Am. Ord. 15-98, passed 12-29-1998)
§ 150.39  DEMOLITION OR REPAIR; COSTS TO BE PAID BY OWNER.
   In all cases where notice has been given as prescribed herein, and where
there has been failure, neglect or refusal to abate the dangerous condition
described within the time period prescribed, then the persons responsible shall
be subject to any penal provisions of the law, and the village shall proceed to
cause the building or structure to be repaired or demolished and removed from
the premises, leaving the premises in a clean, safe, and sanitary condition,
and the cost of the work shall be paid by the village.  The Clerk-Treasurer
shall prepare a bill according to the provisions of R.C. § 715.261, and shall
submit the bill to the owner of the property for payment.  If the village is
not immediately reimbursed for the costs, within 30 days, the amount thereof
shall be certified to the County Treasurer and levied as a special assessment
against the property on which the building or structure was located, which levy
shall be collected in the manner provided for special assessments.
(Ord. 21-90, passed 10-2-1990)  Penalty, see §
150.99
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 150.50  SECURITY KEY BOX REQUIRED.
   (A)   Multi-family dwellings are any structures with three or more
apartments or sleeping rooms.
   (B)   Retail, industrial or commercial structures are any locations used as
a business for the purpose of profit or for storage of materials.
   (C)   The real property owner is responsible for the purchase of the
security key box.
   (D)   Specifications for the security key box shall be promulgated by the
Fire Department and may be obtained from the Fire Department and cannot be
varied from make.
   (E)   Whoever fails to comply with this section is guilty of a misdemeanor
of the third degree.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 2-10-2003; Am. Ord. 12-07, passed 9-11-2007)  Penalty, see
§
150.99
§ 150.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is otherwise provided shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever violates §
150.38 on a first offense is guilty of failing to obtain a building permit, and
may be required, if a permit is approved, to pay a double fee, or a fine of
$100 whichever is greater.  On a second or subsequent offense the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. 
(Ord. 15-98, passed 12-29-1998)
CHAPTER 151:  FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Statutory authorization
   
151.002   Findings of fact
   
151.003   Statement of purpose
   
151.004   Methods of reducing flood loss
   
151.005   Lands to which these regulations apply
   
151.006   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard
   
151.007   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
151.008   Interpretation
   
151.009   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
151.010   Definitions
Administration
   
151.020   Floodplain Administrator designated
   
151.021   Duties and responsibilities of Floodplain Administrator
   
151.022   Floodplain development permits
   
151.023   Application required
   
151.024   Review and approval of a floodplain development permit application
   
151.025   Inspections
   
151.026   Post-construction certifications required
   
151.027   Revoking a floodplain development permit
   
151.028   Exemption from filing a development permit
   
151.029   Map maintenance activities
   
151.030   Data use and flood map interpretation
   
151.031   Substantial damage determinations
Use and Development Standards
   
151.045   Generally
   
151.046   Use regulations
   
151.047   Water and wastewater systems
   
151.048   Subdivisions and large developments
   
151.049   Residential structures
   
151.050   Nonresidential structures
   
151.051   Accessory structures
   
151.052   Recreational vehicles
   
151.053   Above-ground gas or liquid storage tanks
   
151.054   Assurance of flood carrying capacity
Appeals  and Variances
   
151.065   Appeals Board established
   
151.066   Powers and duties
   
151.067   Appeals
   
151.068   Variances
   
151.069   Procedure at hearings
   
151.070   Appeal to the Court
Enforcement
   
151.080   Compliance required
   
151.081   Notice of violation
   
151.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001  STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   (A)   Village of Elmwood Place.  Article XVIII, Section 3, of the Ohio
Constitution grants municipalities the legal authority to adopt land use and
control measures for promoting the health, safety, and general welfare of its
citizens.  Therefore, the Council of the Village of Elmwood Place, State of
Ohio, does ordain as follows in this chapter.
   (B)   Hamilton County.  This chapter is adopted pursuant to authorization
contained in R.C. §§ 307.37 and 307.85.  This chapter adopts regulations for
areas of special flood hazard that are necessary for participation in the
National Flood Insurance Program.  Therefore, the Council of the Village of
Elmwood Place, State of Ohio does ordain as follows in this chapter.
(Ord. 06-04, passed 4-26-2004)
§ 151.002  FINDINGS OF FACT.
   The Village of Elmwood Place has special flood hazard areas that are subject
to periodic inundation which may result in loss of life and property, health
and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services,
extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief, and
impairment of the tax base.  Additionally, structures that are inadequately
elevated, flood-proofed, or otherwise protected from flood damage also
contribute to the flood loss.  In order to minimize the threat of these damages
and to achieve the purposes hereinafter set forth, these regulations are
adopted.
(Ord. 06-04, passed 4-26-2004)
§ 151.003  STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of these regulations to promote the public health, safety,
and general welfare, and to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood-control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains; electric, telephone, and sewer lines; and streets and bridges
located in areas of special flood hazard;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the proper use and
development of areas of special flood hazard so as to protect property and
minimize future flood blight areas;
   (G)   Ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard assume
responsibility for their actions;
   (H)   Minimize the impact of development on adjacent properties within and
near flood-prone areas;
   (I)   Ensure that the flood storage and conveyance functions of the
floodplain are maintained;
   (J)   Minimize the impact of development on the natural, beneficial values
of the floodplain;
   (K)   Prevent floodplain uses that are either hazardous or environmentally
incompatible; and
   (L)   Meet community participation requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Program.
(Ord. 06-04, passed 4-26-2004)
§ 151.004  METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSS.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, these regulations include methods and
provisions for:
   (A)   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety,
and property due to water hazards, or which result in damaging increases in
flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve those uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels,
and natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel flood
waters;
   (D)   Controlling filling, grading, dredging, excavating, and other
development which may increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards in other
areas.
(Ord. 06-04, passed 4-26-2004)
§ 151.005  LANDS TO WHICH THESE REGULATIONS APPLY.
   These regulations shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within
the jurisdiction of the Village of Elmwood Place as identified in §
151.006, including any additional areas of special flood hazard annexed by the
village.
(Ord. 06-04, passed 4-26-2004)
§ 151.006  BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   (A)   For the purposes of these regulations, the following studies and/or
maps are adopted:
      (1)   Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) and Flood Insurance Study (FIS),
Hamilton County and Incorporated Areas, Map Number 39061CINDOA, effective May
17, 2004; and
      (2)   Other studies and/or maps which may be relied upon for
establishment of the flood protection elevation, delineation of the 100-year
floodplain, floodways, or delineation of other areas of special flood hazard
include:
      (3)   Any hydrologic and hydraulic engineering analysis authored by a
registered professional engineer in the State of Ohio which has been approved
by the village as required by §
151.048.
   (B)   Any revisions to the aforementioned maps and/or studies are hereby
adopted by reference and declared to be a part of these regulations.  These
maps and/or studies are on file at the Town Hall, 6118 Vine Street, Elmwood
Place, Ohio.
(Ord. 06-04, passed 4-26-2004)
§ 151.007  ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   These regulations are not intended to repeal any existing ordinances or
resolutions including subdivision regulations, zoning, or building codes.  In
the event of a conflict between these regulations and any other ordinance or
resolution, the more restrictive shall be followed.  These regulations shall
not impair any deed restriction covenant or easement but the land subject to
such interests shall also be governed by the regulations.
(Ord. 06-04, passed 4-26-2004)
§ 151.008  INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   In the interpretation and application of these regulations, all
provisions shall be:
      (1)   Considered as minimum requirements;
      (2)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      (3)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
   (B)   Where a provision of these regulations may be in conflict with a state
or federal law, the state or federal law shall take precedence over these
regulations.
(Ord. 06-04, passed 4-26-2004)
§ 151.009  WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by these regulations is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations.  Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions.  Flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes.  These regulations do
not imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damage.  These
regulations shall not create liability on the part of the Village of Elmwood
Place, any officer or employee thereof, or the Federal Emergency Management
Agency, for any flood damage that results from reliance on these regulations or
any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 06-04, passed 4-26-2004)
§ 151.010  DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in these
regulations shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in
common usage and to give these regulations the most reasonable application.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE.  A structure on the same lot with, and of a nature
customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal structure.
   APPEAL.  A request for review of the Floodplain Administrator's
interpretation of any provision of these regulations or a request for a
variance.
   BASE FLOOD.  The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year. The BASE FLOOD may also be referred to as the 1% chance annual
flood or 100-year flood.
   BASE (100-YEAR) FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE).  The water surface elevation of the
base flood in relation to a specified datum, usually the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum of 1929 or the North American Vertical Datum of 1988, and
usually expressed in feet at Mean Sea Level (MSL).  In Zone AO areas, the BASE
FLOOD ELEVATION is the natural grade elevation plus the depth number (from one
to three feet).
   BASEMENT.  Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   DEVELOPMENT.  Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ENCLOSURE BELOW THE LOWEST FLOOR.  See definition of lowest floor.
   EXECUTIVE ORDER 11988 (FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT).  Issued by President Carter
in 1977, this order requires that no federally assisted activities be conducted
in or have the potential to affect identified special flood hazard areas,
unless there is no practicable alternative.
   FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (FEMA).  The agency with the overall
responsibility for administering the National Flood Insurance Program.
   FILL.  A deposit of earth material placed by artificial means.
   FLOOD or FLOODING.  A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters, and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM).   Usually the initial map, produced by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency, or U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development, for a community depicting approximate special flood hazard areas.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM).  An official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency or the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development has delineated the areas of special flood hazard.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RISK ZONES.  Zone designations on FHBMs and FIRMs that
indicate the magnitude of the flood hazard in specific areas of a community. 
Following are the zone definitions:
      (1)   Zone A.  Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year
flood; base flood elevations are not determined.
      (2)   Zones A1-30 and Zone AE.  Special flood hazard areas inundated by
the 100-year flood; base flood elevations are determined.
      (3)   Zone AO.  Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year
flood; with flood depths of one to three feet (usually sheet flow on sloping
terrain); average depths are determined.
      (4)   Zone AH.  Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year
flood; flood depths of one to three feet (usually areas of ponding); base flood
elevations are determined.
      (5)   Zone A99.  Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year
flood to be protected from the 100-year flood by a federal flood protection
system under construction; no base flood elevations are determined.
      (6)   Zone B and Zone X (shaded).  Areas of 500-year flood; areas subject
to the 100-year flood with average depths of less than one foot or with
contributing drainage area less than one square mile; and areas protected by
levees from the base flood.
      (7)   Zone C and Zone X (unshaded).  Areas determined to be outside the
500-year floodplain.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS).  The official report in which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency or the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development has provided flood profiles, floodway boundaries (sometimes shown
on Flood Boundary and Floodway Maps), and the water surface elevations of the
base flood.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE).  The base flood elevation plus 0 feet of
freeboard.  In areas where no base flood elevations exist from any
authoritative source, the FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION can be historical flood
elevations, or base flood elevations determined and/or approved by the
Floodplain Administrator.
   FLOODWAY.  The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that have been reserved in order to pass the base flood discharge. 
      (1)   A floodway is typically determined through a hydraulic and
hydrologic engineering analysis such that the cumulative increase in the water
surface elevation of the base flood discharge is no more than a designated
height.  In no case shall the designated height be more than one foot at any
point within the community.
      (2)   The floodway is an extremely hazardous area and is usually
characterized by any of the following:  moderate- to high-velocity flood
waters, high potential for debris and projectile impacts, and moderate to high
erosion forces.
   FREEBOARD.  A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for the purposes of floodplain management. FREEBOARD tends to compensate for
the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than
the height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such
as wave action, obstructed bridge openings, debris and ice jams, and the
hydrologic effect of urbanization in a watershed.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE.  Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listings on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on the State of Ohio's inventory of historic
places maintained by the Ohio Historic Preservation Office; or
      (4)   Individually listed on the inventory of historic places maintained
by the Village of Elmwood Place whose historic preservation program has been
certified by the Ohio Historic Preservation Office.
   HYDROLOGIC AND HYDRAULIC ENGINEERING ANALYSIS.  An analysis performed by a
professional engineer, registered in the State of Ohio, in accordance with
standard engineering practices as accepted by FEMA, used to determine flood
elevations and/or floodway boundaries.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC).  An official FEMA determination, by letter, to
amend or revise effective Flood Insurance Rate Maps, Flood Boundary and
Floodway Maps, and Flood Insurance Studies.  LOMCs are broken down into the
following categories:
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA).  A revision based on technical data
showing that a property was incorrectly included in a designated special flood
hazard area. A LOMA amends the current effective Flood Insurance Rate Map and
establishes that a specific property is not located in a special flood hazard
area.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR).  A revision based on technical data
that, usually due to manmade changes, shows changes to flood zones, flood
elevations, floodplain and floodway delineations, and planimetric features. One
common type of LOMR, a LOMR-F, is a determination concerning whether a
structure or parcel has been  elevated by fill above the base flood elevation
and is, therefore, excluded from the special flood hazard area.
      (3)   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR).   A formal review and
comment by FEMA as to whether a proposed project complies with the minimum
National Flood Insurance Program floodplain management criteria. A CLOMR does
not amend or revise effective Flood Insurance Rate Maps, Flood Boundary and
Floodway Maps, or Flood Insurance Studies.
   LOWEST FLOOR.  The LOWEST FLOOR of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement) of a structure. This definition excludes an enclosure below the
lowest floor which is an unfinished or flood- resistant enclosure usable solely
for parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, provided that the enclosure is built in accordance with the
applicable design requirements specified in these regulations for enclosures
below the lowest floor.
   MANUFACTURED HOME.  A structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.  For the purposes of
these regulations, a MANUFACTURED HOME includes manufactured homes and mobile
homes as defined in R.C. Chapter 3733.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK.  As specified in the O.A.C. 3701-27-01, a
manufactured home park means any tract of land upon which three or more
manufactured homes used for habitation are parked, either free of charge or for
revenue purposes, and includes any roadway, building, structure, vehicle, or
enclosure used or intended for use as part of the facilities of the park.  A
tract of land that is subdivided and the individual lots are not for rent or
rented, but are for sale or sold for the purpose of installation of
manufactured homes on the lots, is not a MANUFACTURED HOME PARK, even though
three or more manufactured homes are parked thereon, if the roadways are
dedicated to the local government authority.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP).  The NFIP is a federal program
enabling property owners in participating communities to purchase insurance
protection against losses from flooding.  This insurance is designed to provide
an insurance alternative to disaster assistance to meet the escalating costs of
repairing damage to buildings and their contents caused by floods. 
Participation in the NFIP is based on an agreement between local communities
and the federal government that states if a community will adopt and enforce
floodplain management regulations to reduce future flood risks to all
development in special flood hazard areas, the federal government will make
flood insurance available within the community as a financial protection
against flood loss.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION.  Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the initial effective date of the Village of Elmwood Place Flood
Insurance Rate Map, May 17, 2004, and includes any subsequent improvements to
those structures.
   PERSON.  Includes any individual or group of individuals, corporation,
partnership, association, or any other entity, including state and local
governments and agencies.  An “agency” is further defined in the Ohio R.C. §
111.15 as any governmental entity of the state and includes but is not limited
to any board, department, division, commission, bureau, society, council,
institution, state college or university, community college district, technical
college district, or state community college. "Agency" does not include the
General Assembly, the controlling board, the Adjutant General's Department, or
any court.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.  A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ARCHITECT. A person registered to engage in the
practice of architecture under the provisions of R.C. §§ 4703.01 to 4703.19.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER.  A person registered as a professional
engineer under R.C. Chapter 4733.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL SURVEYOR.  A person registered as a professional
surveyor under R.C. Chapter 4733.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA or AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.  The land in the
floodplain subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year. 
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS are designated by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency on Flood Insurance Rate Maps, Flood Insurance Studies, Flood Boundary
and Floodway Maps and Flood Hazard Boundary Maps as Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A1-30,
and A99.  SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS may also refer to areas that are flood-
prone and designated from other federal, state, or local sources of data,
including but not limited to historical flood information reflecting high-water
marks, previous flood inundation areas, and flood-prone soils associated with a
watercourse.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION.  The date the building permit was issued, provided
the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation,
addition, placement, or other improvement was within 180 days of the permit
date.  The actual start means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. 
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or
foundations or the  erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure.  For a
substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of a building.
   STRUCTURE.  A walled and roofed building, manufactured home, or gas or
liquid storage tank that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE.  Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.  Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred substantial
damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include:
      (1)   Any improvement to a structure which is considered new
construction;
      (2)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified prior to the application for a development permit by
the local Code Enforcement Official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
      (3)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
   VARIANCE.  A grant of relief from the standards of these regulations
consistent with the variance conditions herein.
   VIOLATION.  The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with these regulations.
(Ord. 06-04, passed 4-26-2004)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.020  FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR DESIGNATED.
   The Street Commissioner is hereby appointed to administer and implement
these regulations and is referred to herein as the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 06-04, passed 4-26-2004)
§ 151.021  DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include but are not limited to:
   (A)   Evaluate applications for permits to develop in special flood hazard
areas;
   (B)   Interpret floodplain boundaries and provide flood hazard and flood
protection elevation information;
   (C)   Issue permits to develop in special flood hazard areas when the
provisions of these regulations have been met, or refuse to issue the same in
the event of noncompliance;
   (D)   Inspect buildings and lands to determine whether any violations of
these regulations have been committed;
   (E)   Make and permanently keep all records for public inspection necessary
for the administration of these regulations including Flood Insurance Rate
Maps, Letters of Map Amendment and Revision, records of issuance and denial of
permits to develop in special flood hazard areas, determinations of whether
development is in or out of special flood hazard areas for the purpose of
issuing floodplain development permits, elevation certificates, variances, and
records of enforcement actions taken for violations of these regulations;
   (F)   Enforce the provisions of these regulations;
   (G)   Provide information, testimony, or other evidence as needed during
variance hearings;
   (H)   Coordinate map maintenance activities and FEMA follow-up; and
   (I)   Conduct substantial damage determinations to determine whether
existing structures, damaged from any source and in special flood hazard areas
identified by FEMA, must meet the development standards of these regulations.
(Ord. 06-04, passed 4-26-2004)
§ 151.022  FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to begin construction or other
development activity, including but not limited to filling; grading;
construction; alteration, remodeling, or expanding any structure; or alteration
of any watercourse wholly within, partially within or in contact with any
identified special flood hazard area, as established in §
151.006, until a floodplain development permit is obtained from the Floodplain
Administrator. This floodplain development permit shall show that the proposed
development activity is in conformity with the provisions of these
regulations.  No such permit shall be issued by the Floodplain Administrator
until the requirements of these regulations have been met.
(Ord. 06-04, passed 4-26-2004)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.023  APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   An application for a floodplain development permit shall be required
for all development activities located wholly within, partially within, or in
contact with an identified special flood hazard area.  The application shall be
made by the owner of the property or his or her authorized agent, herein
referred to as the applicant, prior to the actual commencement of the
construction on a form furnished for that purpose. Where it is unclear whether
a development site is in a special flood hazard area, the Floodplain
Administrator may require an application for a floodplain development permit to
determine the development's location. 
   (B)   Such applications shall include but not be limited to:
      (1)   Site plans drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions,
and topography of the area in question; the location of existing or proposed
structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage facilities, and the location
of the foregoing;
      (2)   Elevation of the existing, natural ground where structures are
proposed;
      (3)   Elevation of the lowest floor, including basement, of all proposed
structures;
      (4)   Such other material and information as may be requested by the
Floodplain Administrator to determine conformance with, and provide enforcement
of these regulations; and
      (5)   Technical analyses conducted by the appropriate design professional
registered in the State of Ohio and submitted with an application for a
floodplain development permit when applicable:
         (a)   Flood-proofing certification for nonresidential flood-proofed
structure as required in §
151.050.
         (b)   Certification that fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor
of a structure not meeting the design requirements of §
151.049(E) are designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces.
         (c)   Description of any watercourse alteration or relocation that the
flood carrying capacity of the watercourse will not be diminished, and
maintenance assurances as required in §
151.054(C).
         (d)   A hydrologic and hydraulic analysis demonstrating that the
cumulative effect of proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood by more than one foot in special flood hazard areas
where the Federal Emergency Management Agency has provided base flood
elevations but no floodway as required by §
151.054(B).
         (e)   A hydrologic and hydraulic engineering analysis showing impact
of any development on flood heights in an identified floodway as required by §
151.054(A).
         (f)   Generation of base flood elevation(s) for subdivision and large
scale developments as required by §
151.048.
(Ord. 06-04, passed 4-26-2004)
§ 151.024  REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF A FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Review.
      (1)   After receipt of a complete application, the Floodplain
Administrator shall review the application to ensure that the standards of
these regulations have been met.  No floodplain development permit application
shall be reviewed until all information required in §
151.023 has been received by the Floodplain Administrator.
      (2)   The Floodplain Administrator shall review all floodplain
development permit applications to assure that all necessary permits have been
received from those federal, state, or local governmental agencies from which
prior approval is required.  The applicant shall be responsible for obtaining
such permits as required, including permits issued by the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers under § 10 of the Rivers and Harbors Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 403 and §
404 of the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1341 and 1344, and the Ohio
Environmental Protection Agency under § 401 of the Clean Water Act, being 33
U.S.C. §§ 1341 and 1344.
   (B)   Approval.  Within 30 days after the receipt of a complete application,
the Floodplain Administrator shall either approve or disapprove the
application.  If an application is approved, a floodplain development permit
shall be issued.  All floodplain development permits shall be conditional upon
the commencement of work within one year.  A floodplain development permit
shall expire one year after issuance unless the permitted activity has been
substantially begun and is thereafter pursued to completion.
(Ord. 06-04, passed 4-26-2004)
§ 151.025  INSPECTIONS.
   The Floodplain Administrator shall make periodic inspections at appropriate
times throughout the period of construction in order to monitor compliance with
permit conditions.
(Ord. 06-04, passed 4-26-2004)
§ 151.026  POST-CONSTRUCTION CERTIFICATIONS REQUIRED.
   The following as-built certifications are required after a floodplain
development permit has been issued:
   (A)   For new or substantially improved residential structures, or
nonresidential structures that have been elevated, the applicant shall have a
Federal Emergency Management Agency elevation certificate completed by a
registered surveyor to record as-built elevation data.  For elevated structures
in Zone A and Zone AO areas without a base flood elevation, the elevation
certificate may be completed by the property owner or owner's representative.
   (B)   For all development activities subject to the standards of §
151.029(A), a Letter of Map Revision.
(Ord. 06-04, passed 4-26-2004)
§ 151.027  REVOKING A FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be revocable if, among other things,
the actual development activity does not conform to the terms of the
application and permit granted thereon.  In the event of the revocation of a
permit, an appeal may be taken to the Appeals Board (Variance Board for
Counties) in accordance with §§
151.065 through
151.070.
(Ord. 06-04, passed 4-26-2004)
§ 151.028  EXEMPTION FROM FILING A DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   An application for a floodplain development permit shall not be
required for:
      (1)   Maintenance work such as roofing, painting, and basement sealing,
or for small nonstructural development activities (except for filling and
grading) valued at less than $5,000;
      (2)   Development activities in an existing or proposed manufactured home
park.  That are under the authority of the Ohio Department of Health and
subject to the flood damage reduction provisions of the O.A.C. § 3701.
      (3)   Major utility facilities permitted by the Ohio Power Siting Board
under R.C. Chapter 4906.
      (4)   Hazardous waste disposal facilities permitted by the Hazardous
Waste Siting Board under R.C. Chapter 3734.
      (5)   Development activities undertaken by a federal agency and which are
subject to Federal Executive Order 11988 — Floodplain Management.
   (B)   Any proposed action exempt from filing for a floodplain development
permit is also exempt from the standards of these regulations.
(Ord. 06-04, passed 4-26-2004)
§ 151.029  MAP MAINTENANCE ACTIVITIES.
   To meet National Flood Insurance Program minimum requirements to have flood
data reviewed and approved by FEMA, and to ensure that the Village of Elmwood
Place's flood maps, studies, and other data identified in §
151.006 accurately represent flooding conditions so appropriate floodplain
management criteria are based on current data, the following map maintenance
activities are identified:
   (A)   Requirement to submit new technical data.
      (1)   For all development proposals that impact floodway delineations or
base flood elevations, the community shall ensure that technical data
reflecting those changes be submitted to FEMA within six months of the date the
information becomes available.  These development proposals include:
         (a)   Floodway encroachments that increase or decrease base flood
elevations or alter floodway boundaries;
         (b)   Fill sites to be used for the placement of proposed structures
where the applicant desires to remove the site from the special flood hazard
area;
         (c)   Alteration of watercourses that result in a relocation or
elimination of the special flood hazard area, including the placement of
culverts; and
         (d)   Subdivision or large-scale development proposals requiring the
establishment of base flood elevations in accordance with §
151.048.
      (2)   It is the responsibility of the applicant to have technical data,
required in accordance with §
151.029(A), prepared in a format required for a Conditional Letter of Map
Revision or Letter of Map Revision, and submitted to FEMA.  Submittal and
processing fees for these map revisions shall be the responsibility of the
applicant.
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator shall require a Conditional Letter of
Map Revision prior to the issuance of a floodplain development permit for:
         (a)   Proposed floodway encroachments that increase the base flood
elevation; and
         (b)   Proposed development which increases the base flood elevation by
more than one foot in areas where FEMA has provided base flood elevations but
no floodway.
      (4)   Floodplain development permits issued by the Floodplain
Administrator shall be conditioned upon the applicant obtaining a Letter of Map
Revision from FEMA for any development proposal subject to §
151.029(A)(1).
   (B)   Right to submit new technical data.  The Floodplain Administrator may
request changes to any of the information shown on an effective map that does
not impact floodplain or floodway delineations or base flood elevations, such
as labeling or planimetric details.  Such a submission shall include
appropriate supporting documentation made in writing by the Mayor of the
Village of Elmwood Place, and may be submitted at any time.
   (C)   Annexation/detachment.  Upon occurrence, the Floodplain Administrator
shall notify FEMA in writing whenever the boundaries of the village have been
modified by annexation or the community has assumed authority over an area, or
no longer has authority to adopt and enforce floodplain management regulations
for a particular area.  In order that the village's Flood Insurance Rate Map
accurately represent the Village of Elmwood Place boundaries, include within
such notification a copy of a map of the Village of Elmwood Place suitable for
reproduction, clearly showing the new corporate limits or the new area for
which the village has assumed or relinquished floodplain management regulatory
authority.
(Ord. 06-04, passed 4-26-2004)
§ 151.030  DATA USE AND FLOOD MAP INTERPRETATION.
   The following guidelines shall apply to the use and interpretation of maps
and other data showing areas of special flood hazard:
   (A)   In areas where FEMA has not identified special flood hazard areas, or
in FEMA-identified special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation and
floodway data have not been identified, the Floodplain Administrator shall
review and reasonably utilize any other flood hazard data available from a
federal, state, or other source.
   (B)   Base flood elevations and floodway boundaries produced on FEMA flood
maps and studies shall take precedence over base flood elevations and floodway
boundaries by any other source that reflect a reduced floodway width and/or
lower base flood elevations.  Other sources of data, showing increased base
flood elevations and/or larger floodway areas than are shown on FEMA flood maps
and studies, shall be reasonably used by the Floodplain Administrator.
   (C)   When preliminary Flood Insurance Rate Maps and/or a Flood Insurance
Study have been provided by FEMA:
      (1)   Upon the issuance of a Letter of Final Determination by the FEMA,
the preliminary flood hazard data shall be used and replace all previously
existing flood hazard data provided from FEMA for the purposes of administering
these regulations.
      (2)   Prior to the issuance of a Letter of Final Determination by FEMA,
the use of preliminary flood hazard data shall only be required where no base
flood elevations and/or floodway areas exist or where the preliminary base
flood elevations or floodway area exceed the base flood elevations and/or
floodway widths in existing flood hazard data provided from FEMA.  Such
preliminary data may be subject to change and/or appeal to FEMA.
   (D)   The Floodplain Administrator shall make interpretations, where needed,
as to the exact location of the flood boundaries and areas of special flood
hazard.  A person contesting the determination of the location of the boundary
shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation as
provided in §§
151.065 through
151.070.
   (E)   Where a map boundary showing an area of special flood hazard and field
elevations disagree, the base flood elevations or flood protection elevations
(as found on an elevation profile, floodway data table, established high-water
marks, and the like) shall prevail.
(Ord. 06-04, passed 4-26-2004)
§ 151.031  SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE DETERMINATIONS.
   (A)   Damages to structures may result from a variety of causes, including
flood, tornado, wind, heavy snow, flood, fire, and the like.  After such a
damage event, the Floodplain Administrator shall:
      (1)   Determine whether damaged structures are located in special flood
hazard areas;
      (2)   Conduct substantial damage determinations for damaged structures
located in special flood hazard areas; and
      (3)   Make a reasonable attempt to notify owners of substantially damaged
structures of the need to obtain a floodplain development permit prior to
repair, rehabilitation, or reconstruction.
   (B)   Additionally, the Floodplain Administrator may implement other
measures to assist with the substantial damage determination and subsequent
repair process.  These measures include issuing press releases, public service
announcements, and other public information materials related to the floodplain
development permits and repair of damaged structures; coordinating with other
federal, state, and local agencies to assist with substantial damage
determinations; providing owners of damaged structures materials and other
information related to the proper repair of damaged structures in special flood
hazard areas; and assist owners of substantially damaged structures with
increased cost of compliance insurance claims.
(Ord. 06-04, passed 4-26-2004)
USE AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
§ 151.045  GENERALLY.
   The following use and development standards apply to development wholly
within, partially within, or in contact with any special flood hazard area as
established in §
151.006 or §
151.030(A).
(Ord. 06-04, passed 4-26-2004)
§ 151.046  USE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Permitted uses.  All uses not otherwise prohibited in this section or
any other applicable land use regulation adopted by the village are allowed,
provided they meet the provisions of these regulations.
   (B)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   Private water supply systems in all special flood hazard areas
identified by FEMA, permitted under R.C. § 3701; and
      (2)   Infectious waste treatment facilities in all special flood hazard
areas, permitted under R.C. § 3734.
(Ord. 06-04, passed 4-26-2004)
§ 151.047  WATER AND WASTEWATER SYSTEMS.
   The following standards apply to all water supply, sanitary sewerage and
waste disposal systems not otherwise regulated by the Ohio Revised Code:
   (A)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems;
   (B)   New and replacement sanitary sewerage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharge from the systems into flood waters; and
   (C)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
or contamination from them during flooding.
(Ord. 06-04, passed 4-26-2004)
§ 151.048  SUBDIVISIONS AND LARGE DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage and are subject to all applicable standards in these
regulations.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood damage.
   (D)   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data
are not available, the applicant shall provide a hydrologic and hydraulic
engineering analysis that generates base flood elevations for all subdivision
proposals and other proposed developments containing at least 50 lots or five
acres, whichever is less.
   (E)   The applicant shall meet the requirement to submit technical data to
FEMA in §
151.029(A)(1)(d) when a hydrologic and hydraulic analysis is completed that
generates base flood elevations as required by division (D) of this section.
(Ord. 06-04, passed 4-26-2004)
§ 151.049  RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES.
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure resulting
from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
Where a structure, including its foundation members, is elevated on fill to or
above the base flood elevation, the requirements for anchoring (division (A) of
this section) and construction materials resistant to flood damage (division
(B) of this section) are satisfied.
   (B)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials resistant to flood damage.
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning equipment,
and other service facilities that are designed and/or elevated so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding.
   (D)   (1)   New construction and substantial improvement of any residential
structure, including manufactured homes, shall have the lowest floor, including
basement, elevated to or above the flood protection elevation.
      (2)   For communities having AO Zones:  in Zone AO areas with no
elevations specified, the structure shall have the lowest floor, including
basement, elevated at least two feet above the highest adjacent natural grade.
   (E)   New construction and substantial improvements, including manufactured
homes, that do not have basements and that are elevated to the flood protection
elevation using pilings, columns, posts, or solid foundation perimeter walls
with openings sufficient to allow unimpeded movement of flood waters, may have
an enclosure below the lowest floor provided the enclosure meets the following
standards:
      (1)   Be used only for the parking of vehicles, building access, or
storage; and
      (2)   Be designed and certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls
by allowing for the entry and exit of flood waters; or
      (3)   Have a minimum of two openings on different walls having a total
net area not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area,
and the bottom of all such openings being no higher than one foot above grade. 
The openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other coverings or
devices, provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of flood
waters.
   (F)   Manufactured homes shall be affixed to a permanent foundation and
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy.  Methods of anchoring may include but are not limited to use of over-
the-top or frame ties to ground anchors.
   (G)   Repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon a determination
that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's
continued designation as a historic structure, and is the minimum necessary to
preserve the historic character and design of the structure, shall be exempt
from the development standards of §
151.049.
   (H)   For communities having AO Zones: in AO Zones, new construction and
substantial improvement shall have adequate drainage paths around structures on
slopes to guide flood waters around and away from the structure.
(Ord. 06-04, passed 4-26-2004)
§ 151.050  NONRESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES.
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial, or other nonresidential structure shall meet the requirements of §
151.049(A) through (C) and (E) through (G).
   (B)   New construction and substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial, or other nonresidential structure shall either have the lowest
floor, including basement, elevated to or above the level of the flood
protection elevation; or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, shall meet all of the following standards:
      (1)   Be dry flood-proofed so that the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water to the level of the flood
protection elevation;
      (2)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and
      (3)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect,
through the use of a Federal Emergency Management flood-proofing certificate,
that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with division (B)
(1) and (2) above.
   (C)   For communities having AO Zones:  in Zone AO areas with no elevations
specified, the structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated at least two feet above the highest adjacent natural grade.
(Ord. 06-04, passed 4-26-2004)
§ 151.051  ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   Relief to the elevation or dry flood-proofing standards may be granted for
accessory structures containing no more than 600 square feet. Such structures
must meet the following standards:
   (A)   They shall not be used for human habitation;
   (B)   They shall be constructed of flood-resistant materials;
   (C)   They shall be constructed and placed on the lot to offer the minimum
resistance to the flow of flood waters;
   (D)   They shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation;
   (E)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment shall be
elevated or flood-proofed to or above the level of the flood protection
elevation; and
   (F)   They shall meet the opening requirements of §
151.049(E)(3).
(Ord. 06-04, passed 4-26-2004)
§ 151.052  RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   Recreational vehicles must meet at least one of the following standards:
   (A)   They shall not be located on sites in special flood hazard areas for
more than 180 days;
   (B)   They must be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
   (C)   They must meet all standards of §
151.049.
(Ord. 06-04, passed 4-26-2004)
§ 151.053  ABOVE-GROUND GAS OR LIQUID STORAGE TANKS.
   All above-ground gas or liquid storage tanks shall be anchored to prevent
flotation or lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic
loads.
(Ord. 06-04, passed 4-26-2004)
§ 151.054  ASSURANCE OF FLOOD CARRYING CAPACITY.
   Pursuant to the purpose and methods of reducing flood damage stated in these
regulations, the following additional standards are adopted to assure that the
reduction of the flood carrying capacity of watercourses is minimized:
   (A)   Development in floodways.
      (1)   In floodway areas, development shall cause no increase in flood
levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.  Prior to issuance of
a floodplain development permit, the applicant must submit a hydrologic and
hydraulic analysis, conducted by a registered professional engineer,
demonstrating that the proposed development would not result in any increase in
the base flood elevation; or
      (2)   Development in floodway areas causing increases in the base flood
elevation may be permitted, provided all of the following are completed by the
applicant:
         (a)   Meet the requirements to submit technical data in §
151.029(A);
         (b)   An evaluation of alternatives which would not result in
increased base flood elevations and an explanation why these alternatives are
not feasible;
         (c)   Certification that no structures are located in areas which
would be impacted by the increased base flood elevation;
         (d)   Documentation of individual legal notices to all impacted
property owners within and outside the community, explaining the impact of the
proposed action on their property; and
         (e)   Concurrence of the Mayor of the Village of Elmwood Place and the
Chief Executive Officer of any other communities impacted by the proposed
actions.
   (B)   Development in riverine areas with base flood elevations but no
floodways.
      (1)   In riverine special flood hazard areas identified by FEMA where
base flood elevation data are provided but no floodways have been designated,
the cumulative effect of any proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development, shall not increase the base flood
elevation more than one foot at any point. Prior to issuance of a floodplain
development permit, the applicant must submit a hydrologic and hydraulic
analysis, conducted by a registered professional engineer, demonstrating that
this standard has been met; or
      (2)   Development in riverine special flood hazard areas identified by
FEMA where base flood elevation data are provided but no floodways have been
designated causing more than one foot increase in the base flood elevation may
be permitted, provided all of the following are completed by the applicant:
         (a)   An evaluation of alternatives which would result in an increase
of one foot or less of the base flood elevation and an explanation why these
alternatives are not feasible; and
         (b)   Division (A)(2)(a) and (A)(2)(c) through (e) of this section.
   (C)   Alterations of a watercourse.  For the purpose of these regulations, a
watercourse is altered when any change occurs within its banks. The extent of
the banks shall be established by a field determination of the "bank full
stage." The field determination of "bank full stage" shall be based on methods
presented in Chapter 7 of the USDA Forest Service General Technical Report RM-
245, Stream Channel Reference Sites: An Illustrated Guide to Field Technique or
other applicable publication available from a federal, state, or other
authoritative source. For all proposed developments that alter a watercourse,
the following standards apply:
      (1)   The bank full flood carrying capacity of the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse shall not be diminished.  Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit, the applicant must submit a description of the
extent to which any watercourse will be altered or relocated as a result of the
proposed development, and certification by a registered professional engineer
that the bank full flood carrying capacity of the watercourse will not be
diminished.
      (2)   Adjacent communities, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and the
Ohio Department of Natural Resources, Division of Water must be notified prior
to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse.  Evidence of this
notification must be submitted to the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
      (3)   The applicant shall be responsible for providing the necessary
maintenance for the altered or relocated portion of the watercourse so that the
flood carrying capacity will not be diminished. The Floodplain Administrator
may require the permit holder to enter into an agreement with the Village of
Elmwood Place specifying the maintenance responsibilities.  If an agreement is
required, it shall be made a condition of the floodplain development permit.
      (4)   The applicant shall meet the requirements to submit technical data
in §
151.029(A)(1)(c) when an alteration of a watercourse results in the relocation
or elimination of the special flood hazard area, including the placement of
culverts.
(Ord. 06-04, passed 4-26-2004)
APPEALS AND VARIANCES
§ 151.065  APPEALS BOARD ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The Village of Elmwood Place Council shall appoint an Appeals Board
consisting of five Zoning Board Members.  The members shall serve two-year
terms, after which time they shall be reappointed or replaced by the Village
Council.  Each member shall serve until his or her successor is appointed.
   (B)   A chairperson shall be elected by the members of the Appeals Board.
Meetings of the Appeals Board shall be held as needed and shall be held at the
call of the Chairperson, or in his or her absence, the Acting Chairperson.  All
meetings of the Appeals Board shall be open to the public, except that the
Board may deliberate in executive sessions as part of quasi-judicial hearings
in accordance with law. The Appeals Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings
showing the vote of each member upon each question and shall keep records of
all official actions.  Records of the Appeals Board shall be kept and filed in
the Mayor's Office.
(Ord. 06-04, passed 4-26-2004)
§ 151.066  POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Appeals Board shall:
   (A)   Hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is an error in any
order, requirement, decision or determination made by the Floodplain
Administrator in the administration or enforcement of these regulations; and
   (B)   Authorize variances in accordance with §
151.068 of these regulations.
(Ord. 06-04, passed 4-26-2004)
§ 151.067  APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person affected by any notice and order, or other official action
of the Floodplain Administrator, may request and shall be granted a hearing on
the matter before the Appeals Board, provided that the person shall file,
within 15 days of the date of the notice and order, or other official action, a
brief statement of the grounds for the hearing or for the mitigation of any
item appearing on any order of the Floodplain Administrator's decision.  The
appeal shall be in writing, signed by the applicant, and be filed with the
Floodplain Administrator.  Upon receipt of the appeal, the Floodplain
Administrator shall transmit the notice and all pertinent information on which
the Floodplain Administrator's decision was made to the Appeals Board.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the notice of appeal, the Appeals Board shall fix a
reasonable time for the appeal, give notice in writing to parties in interest,
and decide the appeal within a reasonable time after it is submitted.
(Ord. 06-04, passed 4-26-2004)
§ 151.068  VARIANCES.
   (A)   Any person believing that the use and development standards of these
regulations would result in unnecessary hardship may file an application for a
variance.  The Appeals Board shall have the power to authorize, in specific
cases, those variances from the standards of these regulations, not
inconsistent with federal regulations, as will not be contrary to the public
interest where, owning to special conditions of the lot or parcel, a literal
enforcement of the provisions of these regulations would result in unnecessary
hardship.
      (1)   Application for a variance.
         (a)   Any owner, or agent thereof, of property for which a variance is
sought shall make an application for a variance by filing it with the
Floodplain Administrator, who upon receipt of the variance shall transmit it to
the Appeals Board.
         (b)   The application at a minimum shall contain the following
information:  name, address, and telephone number of the applicant; legal
description of the property; parcel map; description of the existing use;
description of the proposed use; location of the floodplain; description of the
variance sought; and reason for the variance request.
      (2)   Notice for public hearing.  The Appeals Board shall schedule and
hold a public hearing within 30 days after the receipt of an application for a
variance from the Floodplain Administrator.  Prior to the hearing, a notice of
the hearing shall be given in one or more newspapers of general circulation in
the community at least ten days before the date of the hearing.
      (3)   Public hearing.  At the hearing the applicant shall present such
statements and evidence as the Appeals Board requires.  In considering such
variance applications, the Appeals Board shall consider and make findings of
fact on all evaluations, all relevant factors, standards specified in other
sections of these regulations and the following factors:
         (a)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
         (b)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         (c)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of the damage on the individual owner;
         (d)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility
to the community;
         (e)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use
which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
         (f)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
         (g)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
         (h)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for that area;
         (i)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         (j)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
         (k)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (B)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship due to the physical characteristics of the property. 
Increased cost or inconvenience of meeting the requirements of these
regulations does not constitute an exceptional hardship to the applicant;
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights beyond that which is allowed in these regulations;
additional threats to public safety; extraordinary public expense, nuisances,
fraud on or victimization of the public, or conflict with existing local laws;
      (4)   A determination that the structure or other development is
protected by methods to minimize flood damages;
      (5)   A determination that the variance is the minimum necessary,
considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (C)   Upon consideration of the above factors and the purposes of these
regulations, the Appeals Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of these regulations.
   (D)   Other conditions for variances.
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      (2)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood level, providing items (a) through (k) in division (A)(3)
of this section have been fully considered.  As the lot size increases beyond
one-half acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance
increases.
      (3)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with a lowest floor
elevation below the base flood elevation and the cost of flood insurance will
be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest floor
elevation.
(Ord. 06-04, passed 4-26-2004)
§ 151.069  PROCEDURE AT HEARINGS.
   (A)   All testimony shall be given under oath.
   (B)   A complete record of the proceedings shall be kept, except
confidential deliberations of the Board, but including all documents presented
and a verbatim record of the testimony of all witnesses.
   (C)   The applicant shall proceed first to present evidence and testimony in
support of the appeal or variance.
   (D)   The Administrator may present evidence or testimony in opposition to
the appeal or variance.
   (E)   All witnesses shall be subject to cross- examination by the adverse
party or his or her counsel.
   (F)   Evidence that is not admitted may be proffered and shall become part
of the record for appeal.
   (G)   The Board shall issue subpoenas upon written request for the
attendance of witnesses.  A reasonable deposit to cover the cost of issuance
and service shall be collected in advance.
   (H)   The Board shall prepare conclusions of fact supporting its decision. 
The decision may be announced at the conclusion of the hearing and thereafter
issued in writing or the decision may be issued in writing within a reasonable
time after the hearing.
(Ord. 06-04, passed 4-26-2004)
§ 151.070  APPEAL TO THE COURT.
   Those aggrieved by the decision of the Appeals Board may appeal the decision
to the Hamilton County Court of Common Pleas, as provided in R.C. Chapter 2506.
(Ord. 06-04, passed 4-26-2004)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 151.080  COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, erected, constructed,
reconstructed, repaired, extended, converted, enlarged, or altered without full
compliance with the terms of these regulations and all other applicable
regulations which apply to uses within the jurisdiction of these regulations,
unless specifically exempted from filing for a development permit as stated in
§
151.028.
   (B)   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit shall be a violation
of these regulations and shall be punishable in accordance with §
151.999.
   (C)   Floodplain development permits issued on the basis of plans and
applications approved by the Floodplain Administrator authorize only the use
and arrangement set forth in such approved plans and applications or amendments
thereto.  Use, arrangement, or construction contrary to that authorized shall
be deemed a violation of these regulations and punishable in accordance with §
151.999.
(Ord. 06-04, passed 4-26-2004)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.081  NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Whenever the Floodplain Administrator determines that there has been a
violation of any provision of these regulations, he or she shall give notice of
the violation to the person responsible therefor and order compliance with
these regulations as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Such notice and order shall:
      (1)   Be put in writing on an appropriate form;
      (2)   Include a list of violations, referring to the section or sections
of these regulations that have been violated, and order remedial action which,
if taken, will effect compliance with the provisions of these regulations;
      (3)   Specify a reasonable time for performance;
      (4)   Advise the owner, operator, or occupant of the right to appeal; and
      (5)   Be served on the owner, occupant, or agent in person.  However,
this notice and order shall be deemed to be properly served upon the owner,
occupant, or agent if a copy thereof is sent by registered or certified mail to
the person's last known mailing address, residence, or place of business, and/
or a copy is posted in a conspicuous place in or on the dwelling affected.
(Ord. 06-04, passed 4-26-2004)
§ 151.999  PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements shall be deemed to be a strict liability offense, and shall
constitute a fourth degree misdemeanor.  Any person who violates these
regulations or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall upon
conviction thereof be fined or imprisoned as provided by the laws of the
Village of Elmwood Place.  Each day the violation continues shall be considered
a separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the village from
taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any
violation. The village shall prosecute any violation of these regulations in
accordance with the penalties stated herein.
(Ord. 06-04, passed 4-26-2004)
CHAPTER 152:  PLATTING PROVISIONS
Section
   
152.01   Application of chapter
   
152.02   Authority
   
152.03   Hearing
   
152.04   Council may adopt or reject plat
   
152.05   Transmission to County Recorder
   
152.06   Permit for erection of building on plat
   
152.07   Appeal
   
152.08   Removal of buildings without permit
   
152.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Planning Commission, see §§
32.01 through
32.07
§ 152.01  APPLICATION OF CHAPTER.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to platted street widening or
street extensions as well as to new streets.  The term STREET or STREETS shall
include streets, avenues, boulevards, lanes, alleys, parkways, roads, and other
public ways.
§ 152.02  AUTHORITY.
   The Village Planning Commission is empowered to make, from time to time,
plans for the location of the proposed lines of a street or streets in any
portion of the village, and to make, from time to time, plats of the areas or
districts thus planned, showing the location of the lines.  The Commission may
transmit to the Council any plat, together with the Commission's estimate of
the period or periods within which the land shown on the plat as street
location or locations should, in its opinion, be required by the municipality
for street purposes. 
§ 152.03  HEARING.
   Before passing upon any plat transmitted by the Municipal Planning
Commission, Council shall hold a hearing thereon at a time and place specified
by Council.  Notice of the time and place of the hearing, with a general
description of the district or area covered by the plat, shall be given not
less than 30 days previous to the time fixed therefor, by mailing the notice to
the owner of each lot or parcel of land included within or abutting upon the
proposed future street lines as shown on the plat, at the address of the owner
as known to the Clerk of Council, and by one publication in a newspaper of
general circulation in the village.
§ 152.04  COUNCIL MAY ADOPT OR REJECT PLAT.
   After the hearing Council may, by resolution, adopt or reject the plat or
may modify it with the approval of the Municipal Planning Commission, or, in
the event of disapproval by the Commission, may, by a favorable vote of not
less than two-thirds of Council's entire membership, modify the plat and adopt
the modified plat.
§ 152.05  TRANSMISSION TO COUNTY RECORDER.
   After adoption of any plat, the Clerk of Council shall transmit one attested
copy of the adopted plat to the County Recorder.  The adoption of a plat shall
not, however, be deemed the opening or establishment of any street, nor the
taking of any land for street purposes nor for public use.
§ 152.06  PERMIT FOR ERECTION OF BUILDING ON PLAT.
   Within 20 years from and after the adoption of any plat by Council, no
permit shall be issued by the Director of Buildings for the erection of any
building, structure, or part thereof on any part of the land between the
proposed lines of a street or streets, as platted upon any approved plat, and
no building, structure, or part thereof shall be erected on any such land. 
However, the Zoning Board of Appeals shall have the power, upon an appeal filed
with it by the owner of any such land or part thereof, by a vote of a majority
of its members, to direct the Director of Buildings to grant a permit for a
building, structure, or part thereof within the platted street location.  The
Board shall make this direction in any case in which it finds, upon the
evidence and arguments presented to it upon the appeal, that, balancing the
interest of the municipality in preserving the integrity of the municipality’s
plan, as evidenced by the plat, against the interest of the owner of the
property in the use of his or her property and in the benefits of the ownership
thereof, the grant of the permit is required by considerations of reasonable
justice and equity. 
§ 152.07  APPEAL.
   Before taking action on any such appeal, the Board of Appeals shall conduct
a hearing at which parties in interest shall have an opportunity to be heard
and produce evidence.  At least 15 days' notice of the place of this hearing
and the time of the hearing shall be given to the appellant by mail at the
address specified in his or her appeal petition.  In the event that the Board
of Appeals shall direct a building permit to be issued after any such appeal,
it shall specify the exact location, ground area, height, and other details as
to the extent and character of the building, structure, or part for which the
permit is granted. 
§ 152.08  REMOVAL OF BUILDINGS WITHOUT PERMIT.
   The Director of Buildings and other officers of the municipality may abate
or remove or prevent the continuance or occupancy of any such building,
structure, or part thereof in the manner provided in the case of buildings
erected without a building permit.  The Village Solicitor is authorized to
bring appropriate proceedings to enjoin the erection of any such building,
structure, or part.
§ 152.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever shall, within 20 years after the adoption of a plat, erect a
building or structure or part thereof within the lines of an adopted platted
street, except in accordance with a permit authorized by the Zoning Board of
Appeals, shall be fined not to exceed $500. Each day’s continuance of a
violation shall be considered as a separate offense.
CHAPTER 153:  TENEMENTS
Section
   
153.01   Definitions
   
153.02   Overcrowded tenement prohibited
   
153.03   Cooking in sleeping room prohibited
   
153.04   Cooking apparatus, prima facie evidence
   
153.05   Tenements to be kept clean
   
153.06   Notice
   
153.07   Rental property inspections
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   OCCUPIED.  Shall be construed as though followed by the words “or is
intended, arranged, or designed to be occupied.”
   TENEMENT HOUSE.  A house or building, or portion thereof, which is rented,
leased, let, or hired out to be occupied, or is occupied as a home or residence
of three or more families living independently of each other, doing their
cooking upon the premises, and having a common right to the halls, stairways,
yards, water closets, or privies, or some of them.
Statutory reference:
   Duties of landlord, see R.C. § 5321.04
   Duties of tenant, see R.C. § 5321.05
§ 153.02  OVERCROWDED TENEMENT PROHIBITED.
   No room in any tenement house shall be so overcrowded as to afford less than
500 cubic feet of air to each person 12 years of age or over, or less than 250
cubic feet of air to each person 11 years of age or younger. 
Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.03  COOKING IN SLEEPING ROOM PROHIBITED.
   If more than one person, whether adult or child, uses a room for sleeping
purposes, it shall be unlawful for any cooking or eating to be done in the
room, and it shall be unlawful for the owner of any tenement house to rent or
let any room for these purposes. 
Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.04  COOKING APPARATUS, PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE.
   The fact that there is a cooking stove, range, or other cooking apparatus in
use in any room in which more than one person sleeps shall be prima facie
evidence that the owner of the building has let, rented, or leased the room in
violation of §
153.03.
§ 153.05  TENEMENTS TO BE KEPT CLEAN.
   The owners of tenement houses shall cause to be kept clean all parts of the
building, and shall also supply metal receptacles for garbage and ashes. 
Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.06  NOTICE.
   The owner of every tenement house shall cause a copy of this chapter to be
conspicuously posted in each set of rooms rented, let, or leased.
Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.07  RENTAL PROPERTY INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Village Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to pay the sum of $15 per
inspection to any individual designated by the Building Inspector and approved
by the Mayor, who shall inspect rental property under the direction of the
Building Inspector.
   (B)   Payment for inspections shall come from rental property permit fees,
and shall be paid upon receipt of the fees.
(Ord. 9-89, passed 7-18-1989)
§ 153.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any section of this chapter shall be fined as set forth in
§
10.99 and the costs of prosecution.  Each and every day that any tenement house
is used or occupied in violation of any section of this chapter shall be deemed
a separate and distinct offense.
CHAPTER 154:  ZONING CODE
Section
   
154.01   Zoning code adopted
   
154.02   Reserved
   
154.03   Zoning procedure
§ 154.01  ZONING CODE ADOPTED.
   The zoning code for residential and commercial property (Ordinance No. 10-
07, passed September 11, 2007) and all amendments and additions thereto are
adopted by reference as if fully set out herein.  A copy of the code is on file
in the village offices.
(Am. Ord. 10-07, passed 9-11-2007)
§ 154.02  RESERVED.
§ 154.03  ZONING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Council may change or amend the area or regulations, but it must first
submit the proposed change to the Planning Commission for its approval or
disapproval.  The Planning Commission shall have not less than 30 days to
consider the report.
   (B)   Before any ordinance may be passed, Council shall hold a public
hearing and shall give 30 days notice of the time and place thereof in a
newspaper of general circulation.  If the ordinance intends to rezone ten or
less parcels of land, written notice of the hearing shall be mailed by the
Clerk of Council, by first class mail, at least 20 days before the date of the
public hearing, to the owners of property within and contiguous to and directly
across the street from the parcel or parcels, to the addresses of the owners
appearing on the County Auditor’s current tax list.
   (C)   During the 30 days, the text or copy of the text of the ordinance,
plans, and maps shall be on file for public examination in the office of the
Clerk.
   (D)   The ordinance may be passed after the hearing.
CHAPTER 155:  HAMILTON COUNTY STORM WATER DISTRICT
Section
   
155.01   Adoption by reference
§ 155.01  ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Council hereby approves and adopts the "Determinations and Background
Pertinent to Storm Water Management in Hamilton County," which are attached to
Resolution 03-09, passed May 12, 2009, as Exhibit A and hereby fully
incorporated herein.
   (B)   Council hereby adopts, establishes and implements within the village
the Rules and Regulations of the Hamilton County Storm Water District, Article
I - Definitions, Article II - Illicit Discharge Regulations, Article III -
Earthworks Regulations, Article IV - Stream Corridor Regulations, and Article V
- Post-Construction Storm Water Quality Regulations ("Post-Construction
Regulations"), with the exception of geotechnical requirements for hillsides
and slopes under Sections 311 and 315 of the Earthwork Regulations [JAA1], as
the same are set forth in Exhibit B which are attached to Resolution 03-09,
passed May 12, 2009 and incorporated into this chapter as if fully rewritten
herein.
   (C)   These Rules and Regulations of the HCSWD may be duly amended or
modified by the Board of County Commissioners of Hamilton County, Ohio from
time to time, and that Council must adopt said amendments or modifications to
these Rules and Regulations of the HCSWD unless Council enacts alternative
rules and regulations that are mutually agreed to be as stringent or more
stringent than the Rules and Regulations of the HCSWD.
   (D)   Council and the appropriate administrative officials of the village
will cooperate with the  HCSWD in the enforcement of the Rules and Regulations,
and shall exercise such legal authority as it may possess which may be
reasonably required to assist the HCSWD in carrying out the intent of the Rules
and Regulations within the municipal corporate boundaries in order to achieve
and maintain compliance with the requirements of state and federal law
regarding the Phase II Program.
   (E)   Council hereby:
      (1)   Authorizes and designates the HCSWD and its authorized designated
agent(s) to act as the Enforcing Official for [Article II - Illicit Discharge
Regulations, Article III - Earthwork Regulations, Article IV - Stream Corridor
Regulations, and Article V - Post-Construction Storm Water Quality Regulations
("Post-Construction Regulations")] within the corporate boundaries of the
village;
      (2)   Consents to and hereby authorizes the proper administrative
officials of the village to enter into such agreements with the Board as may be
necessary and appropriate for the District to provide such Phase II services;
and
      (3)   Consents to collection of an equitable fee by the District for the
performance of such services from property owners located within the municipal
corporate boundary of the village through property assessments or related
charges, and/or from developers within the village for the provision of such
services, which fee shall be reasonably determined by the District in
consultation with the village.
   (F)   It is the intent of the Village Council that the remedies provided in
this chapter and in the Rules and Regulations are intended to be in addition to
and not exclusive of any other remedies as may be available under applicable
federal, state or local law.
(Res. 03-09, passed 5-12-2009)
 
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   BONDS
      
II.   EASEMENTS
      
III.   FRANCHISES
      
IV.   LEASES
      
V.   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
      
VI.   SPECIAL CONTRACTS
      
VII.   STREET LIGHTS
      
VIII.   VACATIONS
      
IX.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
TABLE I:  BONDS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Providing for the issuance of $350,000 of notes in
20-92    12-2-1992   anticipation of the issuance of bonds for the purpose of
                     constructing road improvements in the village
                     Providing for the issuance of $400,000 of property
02-07    1-5-2007    acquisition and improvement bonds for the purpose of
                     acquisition and renovation of several properties
08-10    10-12-2010  Amending Ordinance No. 02-07.
02-11    3-22-2011   Amending Ordinance No. 08-10.
                    
 
TABLE II:  EASEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
25-72    5-17-1972   Easement to C.G. & E.
3-73     - -1973     Easement to C.G. & E.
                    
 
TABLE III:  FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Granting Warner Cable Corporation a nonexclusive franchise
7-79     5-1-1979    to construct, operate, and maintain a cable television
                     system in the village
                     Granting Southwestern Ohio Water Company a license to
19-90    8-7-1990    operate, maintain, review and remove certain facilities in
                     the public ways of the village
                     Granting Time Warner Cable a nonexclusive franchise to
13-94    8-2-1994    construct, operate, and maintain a cable television system
                     in the village
                    
 
TABLE IV:  LEASES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
8-1946   4-17-1946   Land for park children
8-69     6-4-1969    Land for baseball facilities
5A-70    5-6-1970    Land for baseball facilities
14-75    6-4-1975    Land at Elmwood Avenue, Maple and Walnut Streets to Tool
                     Steel Gear and Pinion Company for parking
7-77     2-1-1977    Library space in town hall to Public Library of Cincinnati
                     and Hamilton County
                    
 
TABLE V:  REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.   Date Passed Description
20-1926    10-20-1926  Appropriate property for garbage
12-1957    10-16-1957  Adjust city boundary with City of Cincinnati
5-1959     2-11-1959   Exchange of realty
10-1959    6-24-1959   Purchase of land for off-street parking
16-1959    9-22-1959   Transfer of realty
14-1960    5-11-1960   Sale of lots No. 636 and 639
11-1961    6-14-1961   Purchase of realty to improve Township Ave.
12-1961    6-14-1961   Purchase of realty to improve Township Ave.
11-1964    9-16-1964   Purchase of realty for storing vehicles, etc.
17-68      10-10-1968  Designating certain real estate as Urban Renewal Area
17-74      10-2-1974   Purchase of realty at 300 Maple St. to use as a
                       municipal facility
19-74      - -1974     Purchase of real estate at 300 Maple St.
16-76      3-2-1976    Purchase of real estate located at 317 Maple St.
15-77      5-28-1977   Purchase of real estate located at 315 Maple St.
19-77      9-6-1977    Purchase of real estate located at northwest corner of
                       Vine St. and Township Ave.
6-97       4-1-1997    Purchase of building and property located at 6110 Vine
                       Street in the village
Res. 15-06 10-10-2006  Authorizing the Mayor to pursue acquisition of property
                       at 318 Maple St. for community revitalization
Res. 02-08 5-13-2008   Authorizing the village to acquire properties located at
                       5900 and 5902 Vine Street.
                      
 
TABLE VI:  SPECIAL CONTRACTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
7-    -  -  Mutual Fire Association agreement with surrounding communities
1948  1948
18-   -  -  Civil Defense agreement with Hamilton County
1952  1952
6-    5-2-   Agreement with Cincinnati Water Works
1956  1956
15-   8-17-  Mutual Assistance Contract for fire fighting purposes
1966  1966
14-68 -  -  Agreement with County Commissioners for sewer improvements
      1968
16A-  9-18-  Contract with Sheriff of Hamilton County for the purpose of keeping prisoners
68    1968
6-69  4-2-   Contract with Counties of Hamilton, Warren, Butler, and Clermont to form a
      1969   District 13 Crime Council
12-69 9-17-  Agreement with Byrnes and Conway Company for improving Chestnut Street
      1969
17-71 6-2-   Agreement with Sheriff of Hamilton County for housing prisoners under sentence
      1971   by the village
35-76 11-9-  Agreement of cooperation with Hamilton County pursuant to the Housing and
      1976   Community Development Act of 1974
26-77 10-4-  Agreement of cooperation with Hamilton County pursuant to the Housing and
      1977   Community Development Act of 1974
28-77 12-6-  Agreement with City of Cincinnati for boarding and maintaining prisoners
      1977
31-78 12-5-  Agreement with City of Cincinnati for boarding and maintaining prisoners
      1978
18-   9-1-   Contract with American Legal Publishing for updating the code of ordinances
1981  1981
8-83  3-1-   Mutual police protection and aid agreement with other communities in Hamilton
      1983   County
      2-6-   Authorizing the execution of a participation agreement to cause the Village of
4-90  1990   Elmwood Place to become a member of the Ohio Municipal League Joint Self-
             Insurance Pool
5-92  2-4-   Authorizing an agreement relative to the improvement of Vine Street between
      1992   the village and the Board of County Commissioners
2-93  1-5-   Authorizing the Chief of Police to enter into a lease with the Village of
      1993   Arlington Heights for the use of a police vehicle and other related services
14-94 8-16-  Agreement with US DOT for improvement of Conrail cross at grade Township
      1994   Avenue
13-96 5-7-   Authorizing an agreement relative to the improvement of Vine Street between
      1996   the village and the Board of County Commissioners
      3-26-  Agreement between the village and the Bureau of Workers’ Compensation to
5-98  1998   provide coverage for all volunteer fire and life squad personnel and all
             auxiliary police personnel
6-99  6-28-  Authorizing an agreement of cooperation with Hamilton County pursuant to
      1999   provisions of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended
Res.  4-2-   Mutual agreement with Auditor of State for participation in  the Uniform
03-02 2002   Accounting Network
07-02 5-7-   Authorizing an agreement of cooperation with Hamilton County pursuant to
      2002   provisions of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended
Ord./ 6-25-  Authorizing an agreement of cooperation with Hamilton County pursuant to
Res.  2002   provisions of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended
12-02 8-6-   Authorizing a contract with Hamilton County for radio dispatching services for
      2002   the Police and Fire Departments
Res.  1-12-  Authorizing a right of entry agreement with the City of Cincinnati
01-05 2005
05-02 3-5-   Authorizing participation in the county’s Linked Deposit Loan Program
      2002
      9-8-   Authorizing a memorandum of understanding with the City of Cincinnati
08-04 2004   regarding the site cleanup and transfer of the  village waste facility to the
             City of Cincinnati
06-05 4-12-  Authorizing an agreement with the Board of County Commissioners relative to
      2005   the improvement of Township Avenue
07-05 5-10-  Authorizing an agreement of cooperation with Hamilton County pursuant to
      2005   provisions of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended
Res.  9-15-  Agreement for establishment of the First Suburbs Consortium of Southwest Ohio
06-05 2005
Res.  11-17- Authorizing the lease-purchase agreement for the acquisition of two new police
08-05 2005   vehicles
Res.  2-14-  Adopting the Hamilton County Natural Hazard Mitigation Plan
1-06  2006
Res.  6-12-  Adopting the Hamilton County Natural Hazard Mitigation Plan
02-07 2007
–   - -    Agreement of cooperation with Hamilton County pursuant to the provisions of
      2008   the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended
03-08 3-11-  Providing for employment of a solicitor for the village
      2008
06-08 5-13-  Agreement of cooperation with Hamilton County pursuant to the provisions of
      2008   the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended
             Agreement with Hamilton County Public Works Department for the purpose of
05-09 6-8-   accepting, reviewing and approving plans, calculations, drawings,
      2009   specifications and data, approving plans and making inspections pertaining to
             storm water quantity control planning
02-09 2-11-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement allowing Mark Reiber to be
      2009   employed for one day only as an Elmwood Place Police Officer.
05-09 6-8-   Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement with the Hamilton County
      2009   Public Works Department
12-10 12-14- Providing for employment of a solicitor for the village
      2010
      6-21-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement of cooperation with Hamilton
04-11 2011   County pursuant to provisions of the Housing and Community Development Act of
             1974, as amended.
5-11  8-19-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement with the Greater Cincinnati
      2011   Water Works (GCWW) for the purpose of waste collection billing
04-12 1-18-  Providing for employment of a solicitor for the village
      2012
            
 
TABLE VII:  STREET LIGHTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
9-1962   4-11-1962   C.G. & E., additional street lighting
4-1963   2-13-1963   C.G. & E., additional street lighting
7-1963   5-22-1963   C.G. & E., additional street lighting
3-1964   4-1-1964    C.G. & E., additional street lighting
8-1966   2-7-1966    C.G. & E., additional street lighting
7-1967   5-17-1967   C.G. & E., street lighting (five years)
6-70     5-6-1970    C.G. & E., additional street lighting
23-71    9-1-1971    C.G. & E., additional street lighting
4-72     2-2-1972    C.G. & E., additional street lighting
15-72    4-5-1972    C.G. & E., additional street lighting
24-72    5-3-1972    C.G. & E., additional street lighting
25-73    10-3-1973   C.G. & E., additional street lighting
22-76    3-2-1976    C.G. & E., additional street lighting
36-76    11-9-1976   C.G. & E., additional street lighting
17-77    7-5-1977    C.G. & E., additional street lighting
20-77    8-16-1977   C.G. & E., additional street lighting
                    
 
TABLE VIII:  VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
4-1949   7-6-1949    Part of McGregor Ave.
11-1957  10-16-1957  Part of Poplar St.
4-1960   1-27-1960   Part of 66th St.
14-69    12-12-1969  Part of Pine St.
10-96    4-2-1996    Vacating Pine St.
                     Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement with
04-06    1-12-2006   Norfolk-Southern Railroad for the closing of crossings at
                     Locust and Elmwood Ave., Walnut and Elmwood Ave., and Oak
                     and Elmwood Ave.
                    
 
TABLE IX:  ZONING MAP CHANGES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
11-70    11-18-1970  Changing lots 197, 198, 199, 200, 201, 211, 212 of L.C.
                     Hopkins First Subdivision from R-1 to B-1
                     Changing property located at the northeast corner of the
17-90    8-7-1990    intersection of Blade Street and Helen Street from R-1 to
                     M-1
                    
 
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
Historical References to Ohio Revised Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
HISTORICAL REFERENCES TO OHIO REVISED CODE
R.C. Section Code Section
R.C. Section                 Code Section
1.01                         10.01
1.02                         10.02
1.05                         10.02
1.14                         10.03
1.15                         10.03
1.23                         10.05
1.42                         10.03
1.43                         10.03
1.44                         10.02
1.45                         10.03
1.46                         10.03
1.50                         10.07
1.54                         10.04
1.55                         10.05
1.56                         10.05
1.57                         10.04
1.58                         10.04
1.59                         10.02
146.03                       32.35
146.06                       32.37
701.01                       10.02
713.01                       32.02,
                             32.03
713.02                       32.05
713.06                       32.06
713.10                       32.07
715.67                       130.99
731.51                       93.71
731.52                       93.72
731.53                       93.73
731.54                       93.74
733.23                       31.04
733.24                       31.15
733.25                       31.15
733.26                       31.16
733.68                       31.01
733.69                       31.02
733.70                       31.02
733.71                       31.02
737.161                      33.25
737.20                       33.55
737.23                       34.06
737.24                       34.05
737.25                       34.05
737.29                       33.56,
                             33.57
737.31                       33.58
737.32                       33.59
901.51                       131.21
901.99(A)                    131.21
951.11                       90.06
951.12                       90.07
951.13                       90.08
955.26                       90.28
955.39                       90.28
955.99(C)                    90.28
959.03                       90.05
959.04                       90.05
959.13                       90.02
959.99(C)                    90.05
959.99(D)                    90.02
1349.17                      131.33
1349.99                      131.33
1533.171(A)                  131.24,
                             135.05
1533.99(C)                   131.24,
                             135.05
2705.02                      39.04
2705.09                      39.05
2901.01                      130.02
2901.02                      130.03
2901.03                      130.04
2901.04                      130.04
2901.05                      130.13
2901.06                      130.14
2901.08                      130.15
2901.09                      130.21
2901.11                      130.16
2901.13                      130.06
2901.21                      130.07
2901.22                      130.08
2901.23                      130.09
2901.24                      130.10
2903.05                      135.02
2903.06                      135.03
2903.09                      135.01
2903.10                      135.19
2903.13                      135.04
2903.14                      135.04
2903.16                      135.19
2903.21                      135.06
2903.211                     135.06
2903.22                      135.06
2903.31                      135.17
2903.33                      135.20
2903.34                      135.20
2903.341                     135.20
2903.35                      135.20
2903.36                      135.20
2905.03                      135.07
2905.05                      135.08
2905.12                      135.09
2907.01                      133.01
2907.04                      133.02
2907.06                      133.03
2907.08                      133.05
2907.09                      133.04
2907.10                      133.06
2907.23                      133.07
2907.24                      133.08
2907.241                     133.08
2907.25                      133.09
2907.26                      133.13
2907.31                      133.10
2907.311                     133.11
2907.33                      133.12
2907.35                      133.10
2907.36                      133.13
2907.37                      133.15
2907.38                      133.16
2907.39                      133.17
2907.40                      133.18
2909.01                      131.01
2909.03                      131.02
2909.06                      131.03
2909.07                      131.04
2909.08(A)-(E)               131.05
2909.09                      131.03
2909.11(B)-(D)               131.02
2909.31                      136.21
2911.21                      131.06
2911.211                     131.06
2911.23                      131.06
2911.32                      131.07
2913.01                      131.01
2913.02                      131.08
2913.03                      131.09
2913.04                      131.10
2913.07                      131.35
2913.11                      131.11
2913.21                      131.12
2913.31(B), (C)(2)           131.25
2913.32                      131.27
2913.33                      131.13
2913.34                      131.29
2913.40                      131.23
2913.401                     131.23
2913.41                      131.14
2913.42                      131.15
2913.43                      131.16
2913.44                      131.28
2913.441                     132.11
2913.45                      131.16
2913.47                      131.23
2913.48                      131.23
2913.51                      131.18
2913.61(B)-(E)               131.19
2913.71                      131.20
2913.72                      131.25
2913.73                      131.25
2915.01                      134.01
2915.02                      134.02
2915.03                      134.03
2915.04                      134.04
2915.05                      134.05
2915.06                      134.14
2915.09                      134.06
2915.091                     134.10
2915.092                     134.11
2915.093                     134.12
2915.094                     134.13
2915.10                      134.07
2915.11                      134.08
2915.12                      134.09
2915.13                      134.12
2917.01                      132.10
2917.03                      132.01
2917.031                     132.01
2917.04                      132.02
2917.05                      132.03
2917.11                      132.04
2917.12                      132.05
2917.13                      132.06
2917.21                      132.07
2917.31                      132.08
2917.32                      132.09
2917.40                      132.13
2917.41                      132.18
2919.01                      135.10
2919.11                      135.11
2919.12                      135.11
2919.121                     135.11
2919.122                     135.11
2919.14                      135.12
2919.18                      135.11
2919.21                      135.13
2919.22(A)-(E),(H)           135.14
2919.23                      135.15
2919.231                     135.15
2919.24                      135.18
2919.25                      135.16
2919.27                      135.23
2921.01                      136.01
2921.04                      136.17
2921.13                      136.02
2921.14                      136.14
2921.15                      136.19
2921.21                      136.03
2921.22                      136.04
2921.23                      136.05
2921.24                      136.16
2921.25                      136.16
2921.29                      136.21
2921.31                      136.06
2921.32                      136.07
2921.321                     136.15
2921.33                      136.08
2921.331(A)-(C),(E),(F)      70.02
2921.36                      136.13
2921.37                      136.13
2921.42                      136.09
2921.43                      136.10
2921.44                      136.11
2921.45                      136.12
2921.51                      132.12
2921.52(A)-(D)               136.18
2923.02                      130.11
2923.03                      130.12
2923.11                      91.20,
                             137.01
2923.12                      137.02
2923.1211(B),(C)             137.13
2923.1212                    137.13
2923.122(C)-(G)              137.11
2923.126                     137.13
2923.131                     137.12
2923.15                      137.03
2923.16                      137.04
2923.162                     137.09
2923.18                      137.10
2923.19                      137.06
2923.20                      137.07
2923.201                     137.14
2923.211                     137.08
2923.24                      137.05
2925.01                      138.01
2925.03                      138.02
2925.04                      138.06
2925.11                      138.03
2925.12                      138.04
2925.13                      138.04
2925.14                      138.13
2925.141                     138.13
2925.31                      138.07
2925.32(B)(4),(D)(2),(F),(G) 138.10
2925.33                      138.10
2925.36                      138.08
2925.37(A),(G),(M)           138.12
2925.50                      138.09
2925.51                      138.11
2925.511                     138.11
2925.55                      138.18
2925.56                      138.18
2925.57                      138.18
2925.58                      138.18
2927.01                      135.29
2927.02                      135.25
2927.021                     135.25
2927.022                     135.25
2927.023                     135.25
2927.03                      135.21
2927.12                      135.22
2927.15                      135.30
2927.27                      130.20
2929.21                      130.99
2929.22                      130.18
2929.23                      133.99
2929.24                      130.99
2929.25                      130.99
2929.26                      130.99
2929.27                      130.99
2929.28                      130.99
2929.31                      130.99
2929.41                      130.19
2935.041                     131.22
2935.11                      39.04
2935.28                      70.08
2935.36(E)                   130.02
2981.07                      131.32
2981.11                      130.17
2981.12                      130.17
2981.13(A)                   130.17
3701.81                      135.28
3701.82                      91.40
3701.99(C)                   91.40,
                             135.28
3715.05                      138.18
3715.06                      138.18
3716.11                      135.24
3716.99(C)                   135.24
3719.01                      138.01
3719.011                     138.01
3719.013                     138.01
3719.08(A), (E)              138.14
3719.172(A),(B)              138.15
3719.19                      138.09
3719.99(C)                   138.14
3719.99(E)                   138.15
3737.62                      131.30
3737.99(D)                   131.30
3743.01                      91.20
3743.54                      91.22
3743.65(A)-(E))              91.21
3743.99(C)                   91.99
3767.16                      93.38
3767.201                     70.09
3767.99(D)                   70.09,
                             93.38
3773.06                      137.09
3773.99(A)                   137.09
3781.55                      133.04
3791.031                     135.27
4301.01                      92.01
4301.20                      92.02
4301.21                      92.03
4301.22                      92.04
4301.58                      92.05
4301.60                      92.06
4301.62                      92.07
4301.63                      92.08
4301.631                     92.09
4301.633                     92.11
4301.634                     92.12
4301.637                     92.14
4301.638                     92.04
4301.638                     92.13
4301.639                     92.15
4301.64                      92.16
4301.66                      92.18
4301.67                      92.19
4301.68                      92.19
4301.69                      92.13
4301.70                      92.99
4301.74                      92.27
4301.99(A)                   92.07,
                             92.99
                             92.04,
4301.99(B)                   92.09,
                             92.15,
                             92.19
                             92.03,
                             92.05,
                             92.06,
                             92.10,
4301.99(C)                   92.11,
                             92.13,
                             92.18,
                             92.19,
                             92.27
4301.99(D),(H)               92.04
4301.99(E)                   92.08,
                             92.09
4301.99(F)                   92.12
4301.99(I)                   92.13
4303.202(B)                  92.17
4303.25                      92.05
4303.40                      92.26
4303.99(D)                   92.17
4399.09                      92.21
4399.10                      92.22
4399.14                      92.23
4399.15                      92.24
4399.16                      92.25
4399.99(A)                   92.25
4399.99(B)                   92.21
4399.99(C)                   92.22
4399.99(D)                   92.23
4399.99(E)                   92.24
4501.01(LL)                  70.01
4501.01(TT)                  72.40
4503.05                      71.02
4503.11(A)                   71.01
4503.11(D)                   71.01
4503.21(A)                   71.01
4503.21(B)                   71.01
4503.236                     71.03
4505.18                      71.04
4506.01                      71.25
4506.011                     71.26
4506.02                      71.26
4506.03(A)-(C)               71.28
4506.03(D)                   71.28
4506.04(A),(B)               71.27
4506.04(C)                   71.27
4506.05(A)                   71.28
4506.05(B)                   71.28
4506.10(A),(E)               71.29
4506.12(E)                   71.27
4506.12(F)                   71.27
4506.15(A)                   71.30
4506.15(B)                   71.30
4506.17(H)                   71.30
4506.17(N)                   71.30
4506.19                      71.31
4506.20                      71.31
4506.23                      71.30
4506.99                      71.99
4507.02(A)                   71.12
4507.03                      71.12
4507.04                      71.12
4507.05(F)                   71.11
4507.05(I)                   71.11
4507.071(J)                  71.11
4507.071(B)-(I)              71.11
4507.30                      71.10
4507.31(A)                   71.11
4507.31(B)                   71.11
4507.321                     71.13
4507.35                      71.16
4507.36                      71.17
4507.99                      71.99
4509.102                     136.02
4509.74                      73.28
                             71.18,
4510.04                      71.20 -
                             71.22
4510.05                      71.15
4510.11                      71.18
4510.111                     71.18
4510.12                      71.19
4510.14                      71.20
4510.15                      71.15
4510.16                      71.21
4510.21                      71.22
4510.44                      73.03
4511.01                      70.01
4511.02                      10.16
4511.03                      70.03
4511.031                     70.30
4511.04                      70.04
4511.041                     70.04
4511.042                     70.04
4511.05                      70.05
4511.051                     70.06
4511.08                      70.07
4511.091(A)                  73.15
4511.091(B)                  73.15
4511.094                     70.31
4511.12(A)                   70.20
4511.12(B)                   70.20
4511.121(A)-(C),(E)          70.20
4511.121(D)                  70.20
4511.13                      70.21
4511.131                     70.22
4511.132                     70.23
4511.14                      70.24
4511.16                      70.26
4511.17                      70.27
4511.18                      70.28
4511.181                     73.01
4511.191(A)                  73.011
4511.19(A)-(M)               73.01
4511.191(D)                  73.011
4511.192                     73.011
4511.194                     73.012
4511.20                      73.05
4511.201                     73.06
4511.202                     73.07
4511.203                     71.14
4511.204                     72.72
4511.205                     72.73
4511.21(A)-(G)               73.10
4511.21(O)                   73.10
4511.21(P)                   73.10
4511.211(A)-(E)              73.10
4511.211(F)                  73.10
4511.213(A)-(C)              72.60
4511.213(D)                  72.60
4511.22                      73.11
4511.23                      73.14
4511.24                      73.12
4511.25                      72.01
4511.251                     73.13
4511.26                      72.03
4511.27                      72.04
4511.28                      72.05
4511.29                      72.06
4511.30                      72.06
4511.31                      72.08
4511.32                      72.09
4511.33                      72.10
4511.34                      72.11
4511.35                      72.12
4511.36                      72.13
4511.37                      72.14
4511.38                      72.15
4511.39                      72.16
4511.40                      72.17
4511.41                      72.20
4511.42                      72.21
4511.43                      72.22
4511.431(A)                  72.22
4511.431(B)                  72.22
4511.432(D)                  72.22
4511.432(A)-(C),(E)          72.22
4511.44                      72.24
4511.441                     72.25
4511.45                      72.26
4511.451                     72.27
4511.452                     72.28
4511.46                      72.29
4511.47                      72.30
4511.48                      72.31
4511.481                     72.40
4511.49                      72.35
4511.491                     72.39
4511.50                      72.36
4511.51                      72.37
4511.511                     72.38
4511.512                     72.40
4511.52                      75.01
4511.521                     75.02
4511.53                      75.03
4511.54                      75.04
4511.55                      75.05
4511.56                      75.06
4511.60                      72.02
4511.61                      72.45
4511.62                      72.46
4511.63                      72.47
4511.64                      72.48
4511.65                      70.10
4511.66                      76.01
4511.661                     76.02
4511.67                      76.03
4511.68                      76.04
4511.681                     76.06
4511.69                      76.05
4511.70                      72.55
4511.701                     72.56
4511.71                      72.57
4511.711(A)                  72.58
4511.711(B)                  72.58
4511.712                     72.59
4511.713(A)                  72.58
4511.713(B)                  72.58
4511.72(A)                   72.60
4511.72(B)                   72.60
4511.73                      72.61
4511.74(A),(B)               72.62
4511.74(C)                   72.62
4511.75                      72.80
4511.751                     72.81
4511.76(C),(E),(F)           72.82
4511.761                     72.83
4511.762                     72.84
4511.763                     72.85
4511.764                     72.86
4511.77                      72.87
4511.771                     72.88
4511.772                     72.89
4511.79                      73.02
4511.81(A)-(H), (K), (L)     72.63
4511.82(A),(B),(D)           72.62
4511.82(C)                   72.62
4511.84                      72.66
4511.85                      72.67
4511.99                      70.99
4513.02(A),(H)               74.01
4513.021                     74.02
4513.03                      74.03
4513.04                      74.04
4513.05                      74.05
4513.06                      74.06
4513.07                      74.07
4513.071                     74.08
4513.08                      74.09
4513.09                      74.10
4513.10                      74.11
4513.11                      74.12
4513.111                     74.12
4513.12                      74.13
4513.13                      74.14
4513.14                      74.15
4513.15                      74.16
4513.16                      74.17
4513.17                      74.18
4513.171                     74.18
4513.18                      74.19
4513.181                     74.20
4513.182                     74.21
4513.19                      74.22
4513.20                      74.23
4513.201                     74.24
4513.202                     74.25
4513.21                      74.26
4513.22                      74.27
4513.23                      74.28
4513.24                      74.29
4513.241(C)-(I)              74.31
4513.241(J)                  74.31
4513.25                      74.30
4513.26                      74.31
4513.261                     74.32
4513.262                     74.33
4513.263                     72.64
4513.27                      74.34
4513.28                      74.35
4513.29                      74.36
4513.30                      74.41
4513.31                      74.42
4513.32                      74.43
4513.33                      74.44
4513.34                      74.40
4513.36                      73.20
4513.361                     73.21
4513.50                      74.38
4513.51(A),(B)               74.38
4513.51(D)                   74.38
4513.66                      70.15
                             74.03 -
                             74.08,
                             74.10 -
                             74.19,
4513.99                      74.21 -
                             74.30,
                             74.34 -
                             74.36,
                             74.40 -
                             74.43
4519.01                      75.25
4519.02                      75.34
4519.04(B)                   75.35
4519.20(A), (B)              75.26
4519.20(C)                   75.26
4519.22(A)                   75.26
4519.22(B)                   75.26
4519.40                      75.27
4519.41                      75.28
4519.44                      75.29
4519.45                      75.30
4519.46                      75.31
4519.47                      75.32
4519.48                      75.33
4519.66                      75.36
4549.02                      73.25
4549.021                     73.26
4549.03                      73.27
4549.05                      70.11
4549.08                      71.05
4549.081(B)                  70.20
4549.081(C)                  70.20
4549.10                      71.07
4549.11(A)                   71.01
4549.11(B)                   71.01
4549.12(A)                   71.01
4549.12(B)                   71.01
4549.18                      71.05
4549.20                      74.39
4729.01                      138.01
4731.481                     138.17
4731.99(F)                   138.17
4734.161                     138.17
4734.99(B)                   138.17
4931.40(A)                   136.20
4931.49(D)-(F)               136.20
4931.99(A),(C)               136.20
4933.18                      131.34
4933.19                      131.34
5577.02                      74.45
5577.03                      74.46
5577.04                      74.46
5577.041                     74.46
5577.042                     74.51
5577.043                     74.51
5577.05                      74.47
5577.06                      74.47
5577.10                      74.48
5577.11                      74.49
5577.12                      74.50
5577.15                      74.43
5577.99(A)                   74.45
5577.99(C)                   74.46,
                             74.47
5577.99(D)                   74.48
5577.99(E)                   74.49
5589.08                      72.68
5589.081                     74.37
5589.12                      131.10
                             72.68,
5589.99(B)                   74.37,
                             131.10
                             
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
12-1981  7-7-1981    150.11
03-02    4-2-2002    T.S.O. VI
07-02    12-6-2002   37.05
03-01    2-10-2003   31.24
03-05    12-8-2003   33.01
04-01    1-17-2004   33.01
01-05    1-12-2005   T.S.O. VI
06-05    9-15-2005   T.S.O. VI
08-05    11-17-2005  T.S.O. VI
1-06     2-14-2006   T.S.O. VI
04-06    5-9-2006    50.20
02-07    6-12-2007   T.S.O. VI
15-06    10-10-2006  T.S.O. V
01-08    1-8-2008    117.01 -
                     117.09
02-08    5-13-2008   T.S.O. V
03-09    5-12-2009   155.01
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.  Date Passed Code Section
20-1926   10-20-1926  T.S.O. V
8-1946    4-17-1946   T.S.O. IV
7-1948    -  -1948   T.S.O. VI
4-1949    7-6-1949    T.S.O. VIII
18-1952   -  -1952   T.S.O. VI
6-1956    5-2-1956    T.S.O. VI
11-1957   10-16-1957  T.S.O. VIII
12-1957   10-16-1957  T.S.O. V
5-1959    2-11-1959   T.S.O. V
10-1959   6-24-1959   T.S.O. V
16-1959   9-22-1959   T.S.O. V
4-1960    1-27-1960   T.S.O. VIII
14-1960   5-11-1960   T.S.O. V
11-1961   6-14-1961   T.S.O. V
12-1961   6-14-1961   T.S.O. V
9-1962    4-11-1962   T.S.O. VII
4-1963    2-13-1963   T.S.O. VII
7-1963    5-22-1963   T.S.O. VII
3-1964    4-1-1964    T.S.O. VII
11-1964   9-16-1964   T.S.O. V
8-1966    2-7-1966    T.S.O. VII
15-1966   8-17-1966   T.S.O. VI
7-1967    5-17-1967   T.S.O. VII
14-68     -  -1968   T.S.O. VI
15-68     7-3-1968    31.15
16A-68    9-18-1968   T.S.O. VI
17-68     10-10-1968  T.S.O. V
6-69      4-2-1969    T.S.O. VI
8-69      6-4-1969    T.S.O. IV
12-69     9-17-1969   T.S.O. VI
14-69     12-12-1969  T.S.O. VIII
5A-70     5-6-1970    T.S.O. IV
6-70      5-6-1970    T.S.O. VII
11-70     11-18-1970  T.S.O. IX
13-71     5-5-1971    73.15
17-71     6-2-1971    T.S.O. VI
18-71     6-11-1971   93.80 -
                      93.82
20-71     8-4-1971    91.55
23-71     9-1-1971    T.S.O. VII
26-71     11-17-1971  132.14
27-71     11-17-1971  90.25
29-71     12-15-1971  113.04
34-71     12-31-1971  113.13
4-72      2-2-1972    T.S.O. VII
13-72     4-5-1972    31.22
15-72     4-5-1972    T.S.O. VII
24-72     5-3-1972    T.S.O. VII
25-72     5-17-1972   T.S.O. II
3-73      - -1973     T.S.O. II
25-73     10-3-1973   T.S.O. VII
16-74     8-7-1974    93.04
17-74     10-2-1974   T.S.O. V
19-74     - -1974     T.S.O. V
11-75     5-7-1975    33.01
14-75     6-4-1975    T.S.O. IV
–       3-2-1976    30.01
16-76     3-2-1976    T.S.O. V
22-76     3-2-1976    T.S.O. VII
25-76     5-4-1976    93.23
30-76     9-11-1976   36.01 -
                      36.13
35-76     11-9-1976   T.S.O. VI,
                      T.S.O. VII
7-77      2-1-1977    T.S.O. IV
10-77     2-10-1977   116.12
15-77     5-28-1977   T.S.O. V
17-77     7-5-1977    T.S.O. VII
20-77     8-16-1977   T.S.O. VII
19-77     9-6-1977    T.S.O. V
26-77     10-4-1977   T.S.O. VI
28-77     12-6-1977   T.S.O. VI
3-78      1-3-1978    31.19
9-78      2-7-1978    31.18
15-78     5-2-1978    115.01 -
                      115.19
27-78     10-24-1978  39.01
31-78     12-5-1978   T.S.O. VI
6-79      3-6-1979    131.31
7-79      5-1-1979    T.S.O. III
12-1980   7-1-1980    93.99
10-A 1980 7-7-1980    33.02
13-1981   7-7-1981    37.01
14-1981   7-7-1981    37.02
18-1981   9-1-1981    T.S.O. VI
25-1981   12-1-1981   39.02
                      34.05,
4-82      2-2-1982    34.07,
                      34.09
2-82      5-3-1982    40.02
5-82      5-4-1982    31.21
3-83      1-4-1983    39.02
7-83      3-1-1983    37.03
8-83      3-1-1983    T.S.O. VI
18-83     6-7-1983    91.55
19-83     6-7-1983    113.02
20-83     6-7-1983    33.09
21-83     6-7-1983    94.01
22-83     9-6-1983    39.02
4-84      4-3-1984    94.02
22-84     12-4-1984   150.10
2-85      - -1985     40.01
14-85     7-2-1985    150.01
                      33.04,
16-85     7-8-1985    33.08,
                      33.14
86-8      7-1-1986    93.05,
                      93.99
86-9      7-1-1986    70.13
87-6      1-20-1987   33.02
87-15     6-2-1987    33.03
87-16     8-4-1987    39.02
                      91.65,
87-21     11-10-1987  91.66,
                      91.99
88-10     4-4-1988    71.45 -
                      71.48
14-88     7-5-1988    34.11
                      110.01 -
16-88     8-2-1988    110.04,
                      110.99
                      114.01 -
18-88     8-2-1988    114.10,
                      114.99
21-88     11-1-1988   33.05
9-89      7-18-1989   153.07
12-89     8-8-1989    74.53
11-89     12-5-1989   76.12
4-90      2-6-1990    T.S.O. VI
12-90     6-5-1990    95.09
13-90     6-5-1990    33.01
16-90     6-21-1990   33.12
17-90     8-7-1990    T.S.O. IX
19-90     8-7-1990    T.S.O. III
21-90     10-2-1990   150.35 -
                      150.39
                      95.02 -
24-90     11-29-1990  95.06,
                      95.10,
                      95.99
25-90     12-12-1990  39.03
20-90     1-2-1991    95.20 -
                      95.29
2-91      2-5-1991    33.10
7-91      6-4-1991    71.45
13-91     8-6-1991    32.20 -
                      32.22
19-91     11-12-1991  33.11
20-91     11-12-1991  73.08
23-91     11-12-1991  90.40
25-91     11-12-1991  31.23
26-91     11-12-1991  31.22
27-91     11-12-1991  31.20
30-91     12-18-1991  39.01
31-91     12-18-1991  31.20
1-92      1-2-1992    31.17
5-92      2-4-1992    T.S.O. VI
9-92      6-2-1992    94.04
10-92     6-6-1992    33.25
13-92     7-9-1992    33.25
15-92     10-6-1992   33.10
16-92     10-6-1992   31.23
20-92     12-2-1992   T.S.O. I
2-93      1-5-1993    T.S.O. VI
8-93      4-6-1993    76.13
10-93     4-6-1993    70.14
7-94      2-1-1994    132.16
9-94      4-5-1994    132.15
10-94     5-24-1994   40.02
12-94     8-2-1994    132.17
13-94     8-2-1994    T.S.O. III
14-94     8-16-1994   T.S.O. VI
16-94     - -1994     94.03
18-94     11-1-1994   132.16
                      50.35 -
2-95      2-15-1995   50.40,
                      50.99
3-95      2-15-1995   34.11
4-95      2-15-1995   40.03,
                      40.99
                      50.35 -
6-95      3-14-1995   50.40,
                      50.99
2-96      2-6-1996    33.01
3-96      2-6-1996    33.25
4-96      2-6-1996    33.01
10-96     4-2-1996    T.S.O. VIII
13-96     5-7-1996    T.S.O. VI
15-96     6-4-1996    34.01 -
                      34.06
16-96     10-1-1996   90.99
3-97      3-4-1997    150.01
6-97      4-1-1997    T.S.O. V
7-97      4-1-1997    135.26
11-97     6-16-1997   33.11
19-97     10-7-1997   37.04
2-98      1-6-1998    33.08
3-98      1-6-1998    33.40 -
                      33.42
5-98      3-26-1998   T.S.O. VI
11-98     10-6-1998   30.01
15-98     12-29-1998  150.38,
                      150.99
2-99      3-2-1999    40.03
6-99      6-28-1999   T.S.O. VI
03-2000   1-4-2000    31.40
7-00      7-11-2000   34.12
8-00      8-1-2000    31.05
13-00     11-7-2000   40.03
14-00     11-7-2000   94.01
15-00     11-7-2000   31.41
16-00     12-5-2000   91.55
08-01     9-4-2001    31.20,
                      31.40
09-01     9-4-2001    39.01
03-02     2-5-2002    31.42
04-02     3-5-2002    40.03,
                      40.99
05-02     3-5-2002    T.S.O. VI
07-02     5-7-2002    T.S.O. VI
06-02     6- -2002    40.03
08-02     6-25-2002   40.03
10-02     7-9-2002    33.02
11-02     8-6-2002    Ch. 40, App. A
12-02     8-6-2002    T.S.O. VI
20-02     12-5-2002   40.01
22-02     12-16-2002  33.09
24-02     12-26-2002  50.38
01-03     2-10-2003   150.50
02-03     2-10-2003   34.11
11-03     7-14-2003   39.01
12-03     7-14-2003   Ch. 40, App. A
17-03     12-8-2003   33.25
                      151.001 -
                      151.010,
                      151.020 -
                      151.031,
                      151.045 -
06-04     4-26-2004   151.054,
                      151.065 -
                      151.070,
                      151.080,
                      151.081,
                      151.999
08-04     9-8-2004    T.S.O. VI
01-05     1-12-2005   40.01
03-05     1-12-2005   70.99
02-05     1-24-2005   30.01
06-05     4-12-2005   T.S.O. VI
07-05     5-10-2005   T.S.O. VI
08-05     5-10-2005   37.03
09-05     6-14-2005   39.01
10-05     6-14-2005   72.42
11-05     6-14-2005   75.07
13-05     6-17-2005   31.41
14-05     7-7-2005    Ch. 40, App. A
04-06     1-12-2006   T.S.O. VIII
05-06     2-14-2006   73.01 -
                      73.012
06-06     2-14-2006   150.25
07-06     2-14-2006   31.42
10-06     5-9-2006    39.02
                      31.03,
                      31.20,
                      31.40,
                      31.41,
11-06     5-9-2006    33.01,
                      33.04,
                      33.05,
                      33.10,
                      34.12,
                      39.01
13-06     7-11-2006   132.15
02-07     1-5-2007    T.S.O. I
04-07     3-13-2007   37.04
05-07     3-13-2007   31.06
8-07      4-10-2007   38.01
09-07     9-11-2007   32.50 -
                      32.53
10-07     9-11-2007   154.01
11-07     9-11-2007   38.02
12-07     9-11-2007   150.50
–       - -2008     T.S.O. VI
02-08     3-11-2008   33.07
03-08     3-11-2008   T.S.O. VI
06-08     5-13-2008   T.S.O. VI
07-08     6-10-2008   33.25
08-08     7-8-2008    39.04
10-08     9-22-2008   31.40
11-08     9-22-2008   39.01
03-09     3-10-2009   74.53
05-09     6-8-2009    T.S.O. VI
02-09     2-11-2009   T.S.O. VI
03-09     3-10-2009   74.53
05-09     6-8-2009    T.S.O. VI
06-09     7-14-2009   33.07
07-09     7-14-2009   40.03
10-09     12-8-2009   117.02,
                      117.03
03-10     3-9-2010    40.03
05-10     4-13-2010   117.02,
                      117.03
06-10     4-13-2010   34.11
07-10     10-12-2010  90.26
08-10     10-12-2010  T.S.O. I
10-10     12-14-2010  39.02
12-10     12-14-2010  T.S.O. VI
02-11     3-22-2011   T.S.O. I
04-11     6-21-2011   T.S.O. VI
5-11      8-19-2011   T.S.O. VI
6-11      8-9-2011    50.38
7-11      8-19-2011   50.39
04-12     1-18-2012   T.S.O. VI
06-12     3-13-2012   33.25
07-12     6-12-2012   Ch. 40, App. A
08-12     6-12-2012   78.01 -
                      78.07
09-12     7-10-2012   77.01 -
                      77.07
10-12     9-11-2012   77.07
12-12     10-22-2012  77.07
                     
 
 
