Glendale, Ohio
Code of Ordinances
2023 S-11 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2023-20, passed 5-1-23
State legislation current through 1-6-23
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street Suite 310 Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
VILLAGE OFFICIALS
2017
VILLAGE OFFICIALS
MAYOR                 Donald A. Lofty
SOLICITOR             Laura Abrams
VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR Loretta Rokey
CLERK                 Rebecca Terrell
TREASURER             Michael Beaugrand
CHIEF OF POLICE       David Warman
FIRE CHIEF            Kevin Hardwick
                      
COUNCILMEMBERS (6)
William S. Aronstein  Terms through 1/1/18
Alan E. Hoeweler            1/1/18
David Schmid                1/1/20
Marilyn Duke                1/1/20
Michael Besl                1/1/18
Jenny Kilgore               1/1/18
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE 1983 - NO. 26
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE VILLAGE OF GLENDALE, OHIO,
RECODIFYING, RENUMBERING, REVISING AND REARRANGING EXISTING ORDINANCES OF THIS
VILLAGE, ENACTING ADDITIONAL MATERIAL AND REPEALING VARIOUS ORDINANCES AND
SECTIONS THEREOF.
   WHEREAS, the ordinances of this Village are voluminous and it is difficult
on occasion to locate certain material when needed, and
   WHEREAS, this Council has hired the American Legal Publishing Company of
Cincinnati, Ohio, to recodify, rearrange, renumber the general and permanent
ordinances of this Village, and
   WHEREAS, this Council has had the opportunity to review this codification in
manuscript form, and
   WHEREAS, a final version of this Code of Ordinances has been prepared and
presented to this Council.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE VILLAGE OF GLENDALE,
STATE OF OHIO:
   SECTION 1. That the general and permanent ordinances of this Village as
published by the American Legal Publishing Company and certified as official by
the Clerk of this Council under the general titles of General Provisions,
Administration, Public Works, Traffic Code, General Regulations, Business
Regulations, General Offenses, and Land Usage be and the same are hereby
enacted as the Codified Ordinances of Glendale, Ohio.
   SECTION 2. That all revisions, rearrangements and renumbering of existing
ordinances as are contained in this codification are hereby adopted as
ordinances of this Village.
   SECTION 3. The Code of Ordinances, consisting of the various titles as
hereinbefore and therein designated, and all provisions thereof, shall take
effect and be in force, at, on and after 12:01 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time on
October 7, 1983.
   SECTION. 4. The Code of Ordinances may be amended or supplemented at any
time and, when any amendment or supplement is adopted in such form as to
indicate the intention of this Council to make the same a part thereof, such
amendment or supplement shall be incorporated in, and deemed a part of, the
Code of Ordinances so that any reference to the Code of Ordinances shall be
understood and construed as including the Code of Ordinances, and any and all
such amendments and supplements thereto.
   SECTION 5. All amendments and supplements enacted as a part of the Code of
Ordinances shall be integrated therewith by following the form of arrangement
and plan hereby and therein adopted. Each title shall be subdivided into
chapters, and each chapter shall be subdivided into sections.
   SECTION 6. This adopting ordinance, the Code of Ordinances of the Village of
Glendale, Ohio, hereby adopted and any and all amendments and supplements which
may be adopted shall be known and referred to as the Code of Ordinances of
Glendale, Ohio.
   SECTION 7. The Clerk of this Council shall keep a complete master copy in
book form and in connection therewith or attached there to in such form and
manner as he may determine to be most easily available for most easy reference,
a copy of all amendments and supplements bearing such title, chapter, or
section designations as may be proper.
   SECTION 8. In the interpretation of any provision of the Code of Ordinances,
or of any ordinance amending or supplementing the same, general terms, phrases,
and expressions therein shall be liberally construed so as to carry out the
intent and meaning of this Council, and shall have the meaning commonly
ascribed thereto, unless a different meaning is required by the context or to
give effect to such ordinances.
   The headings of sections contained in the Code of Ordinances shall be
printed in all capital letters, and in case of conflict between such heading
and the contents of any section, the contents of the section shall control,
notwithstanding such headings.
   SECTION 9. Each section and each part of each section of the Code of
Ordinances is hereby declared to be an independent section or part of a section
and notwithstanding any other evidence of legislative intent, it is hereby
declared to be the controlling legislative intent that if any such section or
part of a section, or any provision thereof, or the application thereof to any
person or circumstances, is held to be invalid, the remaining sections or parts
of sections and the application of such provision to any other person or
circumstances, other than those as to which it is held invalid, shall not be
affected thereby, and it is hereby declared to be the legislative intent that
the Code of Ordinances would have been adopted independently of such section,
sections, or part of a section so held to be invalid.
   SECTION 10. The Code of Ordinances contains all of the provisions of a
general and permanent nature pertaining to the subjects therein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances, parts of ordinances and sections of the prior
Code of Ordinances, which are incorporated in or pertain to the subjects
enumerated and embraced in this Code of Ordinances are hereby repealed as of
12:01 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time on October 7, 1983.
   SECTION 11. The repeal of ordinances and Code of Ordinances sections as
provided in Section 10 hereof shall not affect:
      (1)   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in the Code of
Ordinances;
      (2)   Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture
incurred, or any contract or right established or accruing before October 7,
1983;
      (3)   Any ordinance or resolution, promising or guaranteeing the payment
of money to or by the Village authorizing the issuance of any bonds or notes of
the Village or any other evidence of the Village's indebtedness, or any
contract or obligation assumed by the Village;
      (4)   Any right or franchise conferred by any ordinance or resolution of
this Council to any person or corporation;
      (5)   Any ordinance naming, relocating or vacating any street or public
way, or any ordinance identifying stop streets at intersections, one-way
streets or any other traffic regulations;
      (6)   Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes, assessments or charges;
      (7)   Any prosecuting, suit or other proceeding pending, or any judgment
rendered on or prior to October 7, 1983;
      (8)   Any ordinance adopted by this Council after July 5, 1983.
   SECTION 12. The Clerk of this Council is authorized to sell to the public to
the extent they are not needed by this Village, the complete set of books
comprising of the Code of Ordinances, separately by volume, or by the component
title, as well as supplements hereafter published, at such prices as the
Council may from time to time determine, considering overhead, handling and
other related costs of the Village.
   The Clerk of this Council shall distribute periodically, the amendments and
supplements to the Code of Ordinances, which shall be prepared and published no
less than once per year insofar as is possible and practicable.
PASSED: September 6, 1983
                                    Harry M. Matthews
                                    Mayor
ATTEST:
      Stephen H. Burton
      Clerk
ORD. NO. 1986-25
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE VILLAGE OF GLENDALE.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Company of Cincinnati, Ohio has completed
the l986 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Village of Glendale, which
supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted since the prior
supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Company has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Ohio Code; and
   WHEREAS, adoption of these recommendations would bring those sections of the
Code of Ordinances of the Village of Glendale into conformance with the Ohio
Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Ohio;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Village Council of the Village of
Glendale, State of Ohio:
   SECTION l. That the l986 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Village
of Glendale, Ohio as submitted by American Legal Publishing Company of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage.
Passed this 8th day of September, l986.
                                    Harry M. Matthews
                                    Mayor
Attest:
Stephen H. Burton
Village Clerk
ORD. NO. 1990-33
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE VILLAGE OF GLENDALE.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the l990 S-5 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Village of
Glendale, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the
revision or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are
based on or make references to sections of the Ohio Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Ohio;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Council of the Village of Glendale,
State of Ohio, three-fourths of all members elected thereto concurring:
      SECTION l. That the l990 S-5 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Village of Glendale, Ohio as submitted by American Legal Publishing, and as
attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if set out
in its entirety.
      SECTION 2. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency
measure for the purpose of the timely and efficient administration of Village
affairs and shall take effect and be in force from and after its date of
passage.
PASSED: November 5, 1990
Harry M. Matthews /s/
Mayor
Attest:
Stephen H. Burton /s/
Village Clerk
ORDINANCE 1996-07
   ENACTING AS AN ORDINANCE, A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE VILLAGE OF GLENDALE
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING CODIFYING, AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE VILLAGE OF GLENDALE DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SAID
CODE.
   WHEREAS, the present general ordinances of the Village of Glendale are
incomplete and inadequate and the manner of arrangement, classification and
indexing thereof is insufficient to meet the immediate needs of the Village;
and
   WHEREAS, the Acts of the State Legislature of the State of Ohio empower and
authorize the Village Legislative Body of this Village to revise, amend,
restate, codify and to compile any existing ordinance or ordinances and all new
ordinances not heretofore adopted or published and to incorporate said
ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
   WHEREAS, the Legislative Body of the Village of Glendale has authorized a
general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the Village
of a general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinances in book
form.
      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Council of the Village of
Glendale, State of Ohio, three-fourths of all members elected thereto
concurring:
      SECTION I: That the general ordinances of the Village of Glendale as
herein revised, amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are
adopted as and shall constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the Village of
Glendale".
      SECTION II: Said Code as adopted in Section I shall consist of the
following titles, to-wit:
               Title I      General Provisions
               Title III   Administration
               Title V      Public Works
               Title VII   Traffic Code
               Title IX   General Regulations
               Title XI   Business Regulations
               Title XIII   General Offenses
               Title XV   Land Usage
               Tables of Special Ordinances
               Parallel References
               Index
      SECTION III: All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in
said Code shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of said
Code except as they are included and reordained in whole or in part in said
Code; provided such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or penalty
incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of said Code, nor
shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying taxes,
appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory, establishing franchises
or granting special rights to certain persons, authorizing public improvements,
authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing of money, authorizing the
purchase or sale of real or personal property, granting or accepting easements,
plat or dedication of land to public use, naming or vacating or setting the
boundaries of streets, alleys or other public places, nor to any other
ordinance of a temporary or special nature or pertaining to subjects not
contained therein.
      SECTION IV: Said Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Village Legislative Body and the Clerk/Treasurer
of the Village of Glendale is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of
said Code in the Office of the Village of Glendale.
      SECTION V: Said Code shall be in full force upon adoption of this
ordinance and said code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places
of the ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations
therein contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly
signed, attested, recorded and approved and that any public hearings and
notices thereof required by law have been given.
      SECTION VI: This ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure
for the purpose of the timely and efficient administration of Village affairs
and shall take effect immediately upon its passage.
   PASSED:   February 6, 1996
   Alexander J. Brockmeier /s/
   Mayor
   Frank C. Leister /s/
   Clerk/Treasurer
ORDINANCE 1996-51
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE VILLAGE OF GLENDALE
   BE IT ORDAINED, by the Council of the Village of Glendale, State of Ohio, a
majority of all members elected thereto concurring:
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the Supplement to the Code of Ordinance, current to January of 1996,
of the Village of Glendale, which supplement contains all ordinances of general
nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Corp. has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
made references to sections of the Ohio Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Ohio.
   Full Reading Voted By Majority of Council: October 1, 1996
      To be posted in 5 public locations and to take effect on October 15, 1996
      PASSED:   October 1, 1996
   Alexander J. Brockmeier /s/
   Mayor
   Ephriam D. Swafford /s/
   Clerk
ORDINANCE 2005-39
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE VILLAGE OF GLENDALE
   BE IT ORDAINED, by the Council of the Village of Glendale, State of Ohio,
three-fourths of all members elected thereto concurring:
Section I: American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2005 S-4 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances, which supplement
contains general, permanent, enacted ordinances and recent Ohio codes since the
prior supplement, and it is the intent of Glendale to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of law in the State of Ohio and that
the 2005 S-4 supplement is hereby adopted in its entirety and deemed published
as of the day of this ordinances adoption and shall be keep on file in the
Office of the Clerk.
Section II: This ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure for
the purpose of the timely and efficient administration of Village affairs, the
immediate preservation of the public peace, health and or safety, as provided
by Ohio Revised Code 731.30, and shall take effect immediately upon passage.
   PASSED:   November 7th, 2005
   Thomas U. Todd /s/
   Mayor
   William Aronstein /s/
   Clerk/Treasurer
ORDINANCE 2008-10
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE VILLAGE OF GLENDALE
   BE IT ORDAINED, by the Council of the Village of Glendale, State of Ohio,
three-fourths of all members elected thereto concurring:
Section I: American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2007 S-5 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances, which supplement
contains general, permanent, enacted ordinances and recent Ohio codes since the
prior supplement, and it is the intent of Glendale to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of law in the State of Ohio and that
the 2007 S-5 supplement is hereby adopted in its entirety and deemed published
as of the day of this ordinances adoption and shall be keep on file in the
Office of the Clerk.
Section II: This ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure for
the purpose of the timely and efficient administration of Village affairs, the
immediate preservation of the public peace, health and or safety, as provided
by Ohio Revised Code 731.30, and shall take effect immediately upon passage.
   PASSED:   March 3rd, 2008
   Joseph C. Hubbard /s/
   Joseph C. Hubbard, Mayor
Attest:
   W. Charles Ehlers /s/
   W. Charles Ehlers, Clerk
ORDINANCE 2010-15
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE
   CODE OF ORDINANCES OF THE VILLAGE OF GLENDALE
   BE IT ORDAINED, by the Council of the Village of Glendale, State of Ohio,
three-fourths of all members elected thereto concurring:
Section I: American Legal Publishing Corp. of Cincinnati, Ohio has completed
the 2010 S-6 Supplement to the Glendale Code of Ordinances, which supplement
contains general, permanent, enacted ordinances and recent Ohio Codes since the
prior supplement in 2007, and it is the intent of Glendale to accept these
updated sections in accordance with the changes of law in the State of Ohio and
that the 2010 S-6 supplement is hereby adopted in its entirety and deemed
published as of the day of this ordinances adoption and shall be kept on file
in the Office of the Clerk.
Section II: This ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure for
the purpose of the timely and efficient administration of Village affairs and
shall take effect immediately upon its passage.
   PASSED:   April 5, 2010
   Joseph C. Hubbard /s/
   Joseph C. Hubbard, Mayor
Attest:
   W. Charles Ehlers /s/
   W. Charles Ehlers, Clerk
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
11.   PRECINCT BOUNDARIES
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.05   Construction of section references
   
10.06   Conflicting provisions
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Ordinances repealed
   
10.11   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.12   Ordinances saved
   
10.13   Amendments to code; amendatory language
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the municipality,
as revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“municipal code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified
ordinances” or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
(R.C. § 1.01)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to such
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the "traffic code." Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation "§" followed by the number, such as "§
10.01." Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AND may be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
(R.C. § 1.02(F))
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
(R.C. § 1.02(B))
   CHILD. Includes child by adoption.
   COUNCIL. The Legislative Authority of the municipality.
   COUNTY. The county or counties in which the municipality is located.
   FIRE CHIEF. Shall include the Chief of a fire department if such fire
department has been established in the municipality, and shall include the Fire
Prevention Officer if no fire department has been established in the
municipality.
   IMPRISONED. Shall have the same meaning as in R.C. § 1.05.
   INTERNET. The international computer network of both federal and non-federal
interoperable packet switched data networks, including the graphical subnetwork
known as the world wide web.
(R.C. § 1.59)
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent, or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of incorporeal nature.
(R.C. § 701.01(F))
   LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY. The Legislative Authority of the municipality.
   MAY. Is permissive.
   MUNICIPALITY. The municipality of Glendale, Ohio.
   O.A.C. Refers to the Ohio Administrative Code.
   OATH. Includes affirmation; and SWEAR includes affirm.
(R.C. §§ 1.59, 701.01)
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner, or
tenant in common of the whole or part of such property.
   PERSON. Includes an individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust,
partnership, and association.
(R.C. §§ 1.59(C), 701.01)
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real property.
   PLAN OF SEWERAGE, SYSTEM OF SEWERAGE, SEWER, and SEWERS. Includes sewers,
sewage disposal works and treatment plants, and sewage pumping stations,
together with facilities and appurtenances necessary and proper therefor.
(R.C. § 701.01)
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates, and interests.
(R.C. § 701.01(E))
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county,
state, or federal government, its officers, or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   R.C. or REVISED CODE. Refers to the Ohio Revised Code.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail; and CERTIFIED MAIL includes
registered mail.
(R.C. § 1.02(G))
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The State of Ohio.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts, and all other public thoroughfares within the municipality.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of such
premises, alone or with others.
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
(R.C. § 1.44)
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners; principals,
agents, and employees; and all officials, public or private.
(R.C. § 1.02(A))
   WRITING. Includes printing.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. The terms include any representation of words,
letters, symbols, or figures; this provision does not affect any law relating
to signatures.
(R.C. §§ 1.59, 701.01(J))
   YEAR. Twelve consecutive months.
(R.C. § 1.44)
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Common and technical usage. Words and phrases shall be read in context
and construed according to the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and
phrases that have acquired a technical or particular meaning, whether by
legislative definition or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
(R.C. § 1.42)
   (B)   Singular and plural; gender; tenses. As used in this code, unless the
context otherwise requires:
      (1)   The singular includes the plural, and the plural includes the
singular.
      (2)   Words of one gender include the other genders.
      (3)   Words in the present tense include the future tense.
(R.C. § 1.43)
   (C)   Calendar; computation of time.
      (1)   The time within which an act is required by law to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and including the last day; except that when
the last day falls on Sunday or a legal holiday, then the act may be done on
the next succeeding day that is not a Sunday or a legal holiday.
      (2)   When a public office, in which an act required by law is to be
performed, is closed to the public for the entire day that constitutes the last
day for doing the act or before its usual closing time on that day, the act may
be performed on the next succeeding day that is not a Sunday or a legal
holiday.
      (3)    LEGAL HOLIDAY, as used in divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) of this
section, means the following days:
         (a)   The first day of January, known as New Year’s day;
         (b)   The third Monday in January, known as Martin Luther King day;
         (c)   The third Monday in February, known as Washington-Lincoln day;
         (d)   The day designated in the “Act of June 28, 1968,” 82 Stat. 250,
5 U.S.C. 6103, as amended, for the commemoration of Memorial day;
         (e)   The nineteenth day of June, known as Juneteenth day;
         (f)   The fourth day of July, known as Independence day;
         (g)   The first Monday in September, known as Labor day;
         (h)   The second Monday in October, known as Columbus day;
         (i)   The eleventh day of November, known as Veteran’s day;
         (j)   The fourth Thursday in November, known as Thanksgiving day;
         (k)   The twenty-fifth day of December, known as Christmas day;
         (l)   Any day appointed and recommended by the Governor of this state
or the President of the United States as a holiday.
      (4)   If any day designated in this section as a legal holiday falls on a
Sunday, the next succeeding day is a legal holiday.
(R.C. § l.14)
      (5)   When an act is to take effect or become operative from and after a
day named, no part of that day shall be included. If priority of legal rights
depends upon the order of events on the same day, such priority shall be
determined by the times in the day at which they respectively occurred.
(R.C. § l.15)
      (6)   If a number of months is to be computed by counting the months from
a particular day, the period ends on the same numerical day in the concluding
month as the day of the month from which the computation is begun, unless there
are not that many days in the concluding month, in which case the period ends
on the last day of that month.
(R.C. § l.45)
      (7)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a
reasonable time or reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or notice
shall mean the time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the
duty or compliance with the notice.
   (D)   Authority. When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as
well be done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be
construed to include the acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (E)   Joint authority. All words purporting to give joint authority to three
or more village officers or other persons shall be construed as giving
authority to a majority of the officers or other persons, unless it is
otherwise expressly declared in the law giving the authority or inconsistent
with state statute or other provisions.
   (F)   Exceptions. The rules of construction shall not apply to any law which
contains any express provision excluding this construction, or when the subject
matter or context of a law may be repugnant thereto.
§ 10.04 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing statute does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
(R.C. § 1.57)
   (B)   The re-enactment, amendment, or repeal of an ordinance does not,
except as provided in division (C) of this section:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder.
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation, or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded, or incurred thereunder.
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal.
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding, or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment; and the
investigation, proceeding, or remedy may be instituted, continued, or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment imposed, as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment for any offense is reduced
by a re-enactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture, or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
(R.C. § 1.58)
§ 10.05 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, or of divisions or subdivisions of a
section, such reference shall be construed to mean a violation of any provision
of the section, sections, divisions or subdivisions included in the reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
(R.C. § l.23)
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.06 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be construed so as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the subject matter taken as a whole.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of this code or the application thereof to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions or applications of the section or related sections which can
be given effect without the invalid provision or application, and to this end
the provisions are severable.
(R.C. § 1.50)
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the Village of Glendale exercising the powers,
duties, or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any
transfer of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error be discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.10 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
legislative body, or a certain municipal officer or employee, to make
additional ordinances or regulations for the purpose of carry-ing out the
intent of the ordinance, all ordinances and regulations of a similar nature
serving such purpose effected prior to the codification and not inconsistent
thereto, shall remain in effect and are saved.
§ 10.13 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section, or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. Any
chapter, section, or division repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded
from this code by omission from reprinted pages. Subsequent ordinances as
printed or omitted shall be prima facie evidence of the subsequent ordinances
until the legislative body of the village shall adopt a new code of ordinances.
   (B)   The following language should be used by the municipality to amend,
add, or repeal a chapter, section, or division:
      (1)   Section amended:
         "Section       of the Glendale Code of Ordinances is amended to read
as follows: . . ."
      (2)   Section added:
         "Section      , which reads as follows, is added to and amends the
Glendale Code of Ordinances: . . ."
      (3)   Section repealed:
         "Section           of the Glendale Code of Ordinances, which reads as
follows, is repealed: . . ."
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty of fine or imprisonment is otherwise provided, the
offender shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense or violation.
CHAPTER 11: PRECINCT BOUNDARIES
Section
   
11.01   Precinct boundaries
§ 11.01 PRECINCT BOUNDARIES.
   For the purpose of holding elections, the village shall be subdivided into
four voting precincts, as follows.
   (A)   All of the territory east of Troy and south of Sharon Avenue, with
voting headquarters at Bethany School.
   (B)   All of the territory north of Sharon and east of a line 100 feet east
of Church Street, with the voting headquarters at town hall.
   (C)   All of the territory south of Sharon, west of Greenville, and east of
Congress Avenue, with voting headquarters at the community house.
   (D)   All of the territory east of Congress and west of a line 100 feet east
of Church Street, with voting headquarters at the Glendale Lyceum.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   COUNCIL
         
31.   OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
         
32.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
         
33.   TOWN HALL
         
34.   EMPLOYEES
         
35.   MUNICIPAL LIABILITY INSURANCE
         
36.   MUNICIPAL FUNDS
CHAPTER 30: COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Adoption of rules of order
   
30.02   Posting of notices
   
30.03   Depository of village funds
§ 30.01 ADOPTION OF RULES OF ORDER.
   At the January organizational meeting of Council each year, the Council
shall adopt by motion Rules of Council for the calendar year. The Rules of
Council must be in compliance with applicable Ohio Revised Code and Ohio
Attorney General opinions.
(Ord. 2000-22, passed 3-13-00)
§ 30.02 POSTING OF NOTICES.
   (A)   The bulletin boards at the southwest corner of Coral and Congress
Avenues, the Town Hall, the Post Office, the community bulletin board in the
village square, the police station, and Chester Road in the area of St.
Edmund's Place are declared to be the six most public places in the village for
publication of ordinances, resolutions, statements, orders, proclamations,
notices, and reports.
   (B)   All ordinances, resolutions, statements, orders, proclamations,
notices and reports now and hereafter requiring publication shall be published
by posting copies thereof at these six places, unless otherwise required by law
or directed by Council.
('56 Code, § 16-31) (Ord. 2000-22, passed 3-13-00; Am. Ord. 2005-07, passed 4-
4-05)
§ 30.03 DEPOSITORY OF VILLAGE FUNDS.
   All public monies of the village shall be deposited in a depository or
depositories selected pursuant to the provisions of the Uniform Depository Act,
R.C. § 135.01 et seq. and the public monies shall be administered in accordance
with the provisions of The Uniform Depository Act.
(‘56 Code, § 16-32)
(Ord. 2000-22, passed 3-13-00)
CHAPTER 31: OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
Duties
   
31.01   Village Administrator
   
31.02   Mayor
   
31.03   Clerk; Treasurer
   
31.04   Solicitor
   
31.05   Chief of Police
   
31.06   Water/Waste Water Superintendent
   
31.07   Service Superintendent
   
31.08   Assistant Solicitor
   
31.09   Utility Superintendent
   
31.10   Administrative Assistant
   
31.11   Mayor’s Court Magistrate and prosecutor
Removals
   
31.20   Mayor to file charges
   
31.21   Hearing
   
31.22   Suspension
   
31.23   Attendance of witnesses
Salaries and Bonds
   
31.30   Bonds
   
31.31   Salaries
§ 31.01 VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The position of Village Administrator is hereby established.
(Ord. 12, passed 4-19-82)
   (B)   The compensation for the Village Administrator shall be as established
from time to time by Council.
(Ord. 13, passed 4-19-82)
   (C)   The Administrator is authorized to employ temporary employees for
seasonal programs as needed for the day-to-day operations of the village.
(Ord. 1998-04, passed 1-6-98)
Cross-reference:
   Employee classifications, see §
34.10
§ 31.02 MAYOR.
   The Mayor shall faithfully perform all the duties prescribed for him by law
or ordinance.
('56 Code, § 17)
 § 31.03 CLERK; TREASURER.
   (A)   The Clerk shall keep accurate statements of all money received and
expended by the village, maintain records of all property owned by the village
as well as the income derived therefrom and any taxes and assessments paid. At
the beginning of each fiscal year, the Clerk shall certify to the County
Auditor all available sources for expenditure for each fund to allow the County
Budget Commission to amend its certificate of estimated resources. The Clerk
shall attend all Council meetings, keep records (minutes) of all proceedings,
and maintain all rules, bylaws, and legislation. The Clerk shall execute all
contracts with the Mayor and shall provide the certification that the necessary
funds are available on contracts, as required. The Clerk shall perform any
other duties as may be required by law or ordinance.
   (B)   The Treasurer shall receive and safely keep moneys belonging to the
village and shall disburse the moneys in a manner and upon vouchers the Council
shall from time to time ordain or direct. The Treasurer shall settle and
account with the Council monthly and also whenever the Council may by
resolution or ordinance require. The Treasurer shall report annually to the
Council, not later than the first regular meeting thereof in April, the
condition of the finances of the village, the amounts received, the sources of
such receipts, the disbursements made and on what account during the calendar
year preceding. Such account shall exhibit the balance remaining in each fund
at the end of the year. The Treasurer shall keep a treasury investment account
documenting the investment of village funds. The Treasurer shall ensure the
deposit of village funds according to the Uniform Depository Act, R.C. Chapter
135. The Treasurer shall represent the village as a member of the Village
Records Commission to approve the disposal of obsolete records in compliance
with the village records retention policy. The Treasurer shall perform other
duties as may be required by law or ordinance.
(Ord. 2017-23, passed 4-3-17)
§ 31.04 SOLICITOR.
   (A)   Legal counsel shall be provided for this village, and the person
employed as the counsel shall be known as the “Solicitor of the Village of
Glendale.” The Solicitor shall be employed by Council at the first meeting of
Council in January for the ensuing year.
   (B)   The Solicitor shall be an attorney at law, admitted to practice in the
courts of Ohio. It shall be the duty of the Solicitor to act as attorney and
counsel for the village and the officers thereof in their official capacity,
and, as an attorney, to prosecute and defend all actions by or against the
village or any department or officer thereof during the time of his employment;
and to render legal opinions to the Council and to any department or officer of
the village, upon request, in writing.
   (C)   In case of the resignation or removal of the Solicitor before the
expiration of his term, a successor may be employed by Council to serve
temporarily from month to month at a salary to be established by Council,
payable monthly until the time Council may again reemploy a Solicitor upon an
annual basis.
('56 Code, § 17-11)
§ 31.05 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall fully and faithfully perform all duties
required of him by law or ordinance or resolution of Council. It shall be the
duty of the Chief of Police to take care of and preserve the personal property
of the village, and generally to protect the property and premises of the
citizens from injury and depredation.
('56 Code, § 17-3)
   (B)   The Mayor is hereby authorized to waive the mandatory residency of the
Police Chief if it has been reasonably demonstrated that the Police Chief's
residency is within an acceptable response radius.
(Ord. 1992-8, passed 1-6-92)
§ 31.06 WATER/WASTE WATER SUPERINTENDENT.
   The Water/Waste Water Superintendent shall be appointed by the Mayor,
confirmed by the Village Council and will serve for a term of one year and will
be appointed on an annual basis. He shall be responsible for the general
operation, maintenance, and care of the village sewage and water treatment
plants, and shall perform all other lawful duties as prescribed by the Mayor,
the Village Council, and or the Village Administrator.
§ 31.07 SERVICE SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   A Service Superintendent shall be appointed by the Mayor and confirmed
by the Village Council and will serve for a term of one year, and will be
appointed on an annual basis. He shall perform duties as may be prescribed by
the Mayor, Village Council, or the Village Administrator.
   (B)   The Service Superintendent may recommend appointment of an assistant,
to be titled Street Foreman, and that this position will provide, in addition
to working labor, assistance to the Service Superintendent in the form of
administration and personnel supervision. All appointments to the Foreman
position will require the approval of the Village Administrator.
   (C)   The position of crew leader is a completely working labor position of
a class III service employee that is charged with supervising employees
assigned to him on a day-to-day basis. The Service Superintendent will assign
crew leaders as is necessary for the efficient operation of the village
services.
(Ord. 1991-69, passed 12-2-91)
§ 31.08 ASSISTANT SOLICITOR.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized to appoint an Assistant Solicitor for a term
ending as of the date of the first meeting of the Village Council during
calendar year 1999. This appointment shall be effective at the time of
appointment and for the rate of compensation to be established by the Mayor.
(Ord. 1992-3, passed 1-6-92; Am. Ord. 1998-02, passed 1-6-98)
§ 31.09 UTILITY SUPERINTENDENT.
   The position of Utility Superintendent is hereby established and the Village
Administrator is authorized to employ the position with compensation to be
established by Council.
(Ord. 1995-30, passed 5-8-95)
§ 31.10 ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT.
   The position of Administrative Clerk is amended to Administrative Assistant
with appointment and compensation as established by Council.
(Ord. 1993-21, passed 4-5-93; Am. Ord. 1995-7, passed 2-14-95)
§ 31.11 MAYOR’S COURT MAGISTRATE AND PROSECUTOR.
   The Mayor is hereby empowered and authorized to employ and appoint a
qualified and certified Magistrate and a prosecutor for the Mayor’s Court of
the village and negotiate and award fair and reasonable compensation.
(Ord. 2000-02, passed 1-10-00)
REMOVALS
§ 31.20 MAYOR TO FILE CHARGES.
   The Mayor shall have general supervision over each department and the
executive officers of the village. When the Mayor has reason to believe that
the head of a department or an officer has been guilty in the performance of
his official duty of bribery, misfeasance, malfeasance, nonfeasance, misconduct
in office, gross neglect of duty, gross immorality, or habitual drunkenness, he
shall immediately file with the Council, except when the removal of the head of
the department or officer is otherwise provided for by law, written charges
against that person, setting forth in detail a statement of the alleged guilt,
and at the same time, or as soon thereafter as possible, serve or cause to be
served a true copy of the charges with the person against whom the charges are
made. This service may be in person or by leaving a copy of the charges at the
office of the person, and due return thereof made to Council, as is provided
for the return of the service of summons in a civil action.
('56 Code, § 17-5)
Statutory reference:
   Charges against officers, see R.C. § 733.35
§ 31.21 HEARING.
   When the charges are filed with Council as provided in §
31.20, the charges shall be for hearing at the next regular meeting thereof,
unless Council extends the time for the hearing, which shall be done only on
the application of the accused. The accused may appear in person and by
counsel, examine all witnesses, and answer all charges against him. The
judgment or action of the Council shall be final, but to remove the officer the
votes of two-thirds of all members elected to the Council shall be required.
('56 Code, § 17-6)
Statutory reference:
   Hearing of charges, see R.C. § 733.36
§ 31.22 SUSPENSION.
   Pending any of the proceedings set forth in §
31.21, the person may be suspended by a majority vote of all members elected to
Council, but the suspension shall not be for a longer period than 15 days,
unless the hearing of the charges is extended upon the application of the
accused, and in this event the suspension shall not exceed a period of 30 days.
('56 Code, § 17-7)
Statutory reference:
   Suspension of accused pending hearing, see R.C. § 733.37
§ 31.23 ATTENDANCE OF WITNESSES.
   (A)   For the purpose of so investigating charges against the head of any
department or officer, the Council may issue subpoenas or compulsory process to
compel the attendance of persons and the production of books and papers before
the Council and may provide by ordinance for exercising and enforcing this
provision.
   (B)   In all cases in which the attendance of witnesses may be compelled for
an investigation, any member of the Council may administer the requisite oaths,
and the Council shall have the same power to compel the giving of testimony by
the attending witnesses as is conferred upon courts of justice. In all cases,
witnesses shall be entitled to the same privileges, immunities, and
compensation as are allowed witnesses in civil cases, and the costs of all
these proceedings shall be payable from the general fund of the municipal
corporation.
('56 Code, § 17-8)
Statutory reference:
   Oaths and compulsory testimony, see R.C. § 733.39
   Power of legislative authority, see R.C. § 733.38
SALARIES AND BONDS
§ 31.30 BONDS.
   (A)   The amounts of the bonds required to be given by the Mayor, Clerk/
Treasurer, the Police Chief, the Village Administrative Assistant, the Village
Administrator, the Water Works Clerk/Post Mistress, and police officers before
entering upon the duties of their respective officers for the faithful
performance of their duties as officers, shall be respectively as follows:
      (1)   Mayor
      (2)   Clerk/Treasurer
      (3)   Police Chief
      (4)   Administrative Assistant
      (5)   Village Administrator
      (6)   Water Works Clerk/Post Mistress
      (7)   Police officers
   (B)   The cost of the bonds of the Mayor, Clerk/Treasurer, the Police Chief,
the Village Administrator, and the police officers if given by a security
company, shall be paid by the village out of the general fund.
('56 Code, § 17-12)
   (C)   The cost of the bond of the Water Works Clerk/Post Mistress if given
by a security company, shall be paid by the Village Water Works Department out
of the water works fund.
§ 31.31 SALARIES.
   (A)   Mayor. The salary of the Mayor shall be established by Council,
payable quarterly out of the general fund.
   (B)   Clerk/Treasurer. The salary of the Clerk/Treasurer shall be
established by the Village Council, payable quarterly out of the general fund.
   (C)   Village Administrator. The salary of the Village Administrator shall
be as established by Council, from time to time, payable out of the general
fund.
   (D)   Water/Waste Water Superintendent. The salary of the Water/Waste Water
Superintendent shall be established by Council, from time to time, and will be
paid 25% from the Water Enterprise Fund and 75% from the Sewage Enterprise
Fund.
   (E)   Police Chief. The salary of the Police Chief shall be in the amount
fixed from time to time, by the Council, payable out of the general fund.
   (F)   Solicitor. The salary of the Solicitor shall be as established by
Council, payable quarterly out of the general fund. In addition to this salary
the Solicitor shall receive an extra compensation for extraordinary or unusual
service as Council may determine.
   (G)   Service Superintendent. The salary of the Service Superintendent shall
be in the amount fixed, from time to time, by the Council, payable out of the
general fund. However, in addition to a salary, the Service Superintendent,
shall be paid for extraordinary services which he may render, and as deemed
proper by Council.
   (H)   Firefighters. The Chief and each volunteer firefighters shall be paid
in amounts for their various services as Council, from time to time, shall
establish, payable out of the general fund. The Chief of the Fire Department
shall certify the name of each person entitled to compensation hereunder for
each fire or other emergency or practice session attended, together with the
number of hours of service and total amount of compensation to which each may
be entitled.
   (I)   Hourly Employees.
      (1)   All hourly employees will be paid according to their respective job
classification and seniority. The rate for each classification will be
established, from time to time, by the Council and payable from the general
fund.
      (2)   Hourly employees assigned to the Utility Department will be paid
from the Enterprise Account by the following ratio: 25% Water Fund and 75%
Sewage Fund.
(Ord. 1983-24, passed 7-5-83; Am. Ord. 1991-59, passed 10-7-91)
CHAPTER 32: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Board of Park Trustees
   
32.01   Management of park funds
   
32.02   Improvements
   
32.03   Members; appointment
Fire Department
   
32.20   Establishment
   
32.21   Duties
   
32.22   Equipment
   
32.23   Compensation
Police Department
   
32.30   Appointment
   
32.31   Removal
   
32.32   Special police officers
   
32.33   Auxiliary police officers
   
32.34   Suspension
   
32.35   Compensation
   
32.36   Uniforms purchased by Council
   
32.37   Commission and appointment of special police officers
   
32.38   Compensation for assistance in an emergency
Planning and Historic Preservation Commission
   
32.45   Appointment of members; term
   
32.46   Powers
   
32.47   Platting Commission of the village
   
32.48   Control over buildings
   
32.49   Employee expenditures
   
32.50   Zoning plans
   
32.51   Regulations imposed on districts
   
32.52   Height limitation regulations
   
32.53   Limitations on lot occupancy
   
32.54   Classification of buildings and other structures
   
32.55   Historic Preservation Commission of the village
   
32.56   Planning and Historic Preservation Commission procedures
BOARD OF PARK TRUSTEES
§ 32.01 MANAGEMENT OF PARK FUNDS.
   A Board of Park Trustees to be appointed as hereinafter provided shall
manage and administer all property for park purposes and funds to be used in
connection therewith given to the village by deed or gift, devise, or bequest
in accordance with the provisions or conditions of the deed of gift, devise, or
bequest.
('56 Code, § 15-1)
Statutory reference:
   Trustees of park funds, see R.C. §§ 755.19 - 755.37
§ 32.02 IMPROVEMENTS.
   When a deed of gift, devise, or bequest requires the investment or change of
investment of the principal of the property or funds or any part thereof, the
property or funds and any part for the improvement of which in whole or in part
the fund is to be used, or any property for the care or management of which in
whole or in part the fund is used, shall be managed, controlled, and
administered by the Board of Park Trustees.
('56 Code, § 15-2)
§ 32.03 MEMBERS; APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   The Board of Park Trustees shall consist of six resident electors of
the village who shall be appointed by the Mayor subject to the confirmation of
Council. The Park Trustees shall serve without compensation for the term of
four years and until their successors are appointed and qualified.
   (B)   They shall be appointed in the first instance to serve for one, two,
three, and four years respectively, and thereafter their successors shall be
appointed one each year to serve for the term of four years, but not more than
two shall be of the same political party.
   (C)   Vacancies in the Board by death, resignation, or otherwise shall be
filled in like manner for the remainder of the term.
('56 Code, §15-3) (Ord. 2016-31, passed 7-11-16)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.20 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby established the Glendale Village Volunteer Fire
Department.
   (B)   The Fire Chief and each volunteer fireman shall be appointed by the
Mayor with the advice and consent of Council in accordance with the provisions
of R.C. § 737.22.
   (C)   The Fire Chief and each volunteer fireman shall be paid for his
services the compensation provided in §
31.31 (I).
   (D)   The Fire Department shall be at all times under the supervision and
subject to the orders of the Mayor.
('56 Code, § 17-11)
§ 32.21 DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Chief or police officers, on every fire
alarm, to repair to the place of the fire for the preservation of the public
peace, and for the removal of suspicious persons and others not usefully
employed in the extinguishment of the fire or the preservation of property.
('56 Code, § 4-8)
§ 32.22 EQUIPMENT.
   The fire engine and other fire apparatus belonging to the village shall be
under the supervision and control of the Fire Committee of the Council, and the
Committee shall make rules and regulations for the proper care thereof and for
the use thereof in case of fire, subject to the orders and approval of Council.
('56 Code, § 4-9)
§ 32.23 COMPENSATION.
   (A) The active members of the Village Fire Department shall be paid an
hourly rate as determined by annual pay ordinance.
(Ord. 1983-12, passed 3-7-83; Am. Ord. 1997-45, passed 2-3-98)
   (B)   The volunteer firefighters of the village are hereby granted the
option not to take compensation for services rendered to the village through
its Fire Department.
(Ord. 1990-10, passed 2-5-90)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.30 APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   The village shall have a Police Chief, who shall be an elector of the
village, and any number of police officers as Council may from time to time
determine. The Chief of Police and police officers shall be appointed by the
Mayor with the advice and consent of Council and subject to Council's
confirmation.
   (B)   The village may have part-time police officers who shall be appointed
in the same manner as police officers, but shall serve with compensation and
fringe benefits, if any, as determined by Village Council.
(Ord. 1982-20, passed 7-12-82)
   (C)   All appointments made hereunder shall be for a probationary period of
one year continuous service, and no appointment shall be deemed finally made
until the appointee has satisfactorily served his probationary period. At the
end of the probationary period, the Mayor shall transmit to Council a record of
the employee's service, with his recommendations thereon, and with the
concurrence of Council the Mayor may remove or finally appoint the employee as
the case may be.
   (D)   The employees finally appointed shall continue in office until removed
therefrom for the causes, and under the powers and procedure provided by R.C.
§§ 733.35 through 733.39.
('56 Code, § 17-14)
Cross-reference:
   Duties of Police Chief, see §
32.21
§ 32.31 REMOVAL.
   (A)   When the Mayor has reason to believe that the Chief of Police or any
police officer has been guilty in the performance of his official duty of
bribery, misfeasance, malfeasance, nonfeasance, misconduct in office, gross
neglect of duty, gross immorality, or habitual drunkenness, he shall
immediately file with Council written charges against that person, setting
forth in detail a statement of the alleged guilt, and at the same time, or as
soon thereafter as possible, serve or cause to be served a true copy of the
charges with the person against whom the charges are made. This service may be
made in person or by leaving a copy of the charges at the office of that
person, and due return thereof made to Council.
   (B)   Council shall hear the charges at its next regular meeting unless
Council extends the time for the hearing, which shall be done only on
application of the accused. The accused may appear in person and by counsel,
examine all witnesses, and answer all charges against him. To remove the
officer, the votes of two-thirds of all members elected to Council shall be
required. Council's decision removing the accused shall be appealable, as
provided by R.C. §§ 737.15 and 737.16.
   (C)   Pending any of the proceeding the person may be suspended by a
majority vote of all members elected to Council, but this suspension shall not
be for longer than 15 days unless hearing of charges is extended upon
application of the accused, and in that event the suspension shall not exceed a
period of 30 days.
('56 Code, § 17-14-1)
§ 32.32 SPECIAL POLICE OFFICERS.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized, when he shall deem it necessary for the best
interests of the village, to appoint any number of special police officers as
he may deem necessary, to serve in cases of emergency, by day or night. Their
compensation shall be at the rate as established from time to time by Council.
('56 Code, § 17-15)
§ 32.33 AUXILIARY POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Legislative Authority may establish, by ordinance, an auxiliary
police unit within the police department, and provide for the regulation of
auxiliary police officers. The Mayor shall be the executive head of the
auxiliary police unit, shall make all appointments and removals of auxiliary
police officers, subject to any general rules prescribed by the Legislative
Authority by ordinance, and shall prescribe rules for the organization,
training, administration, control, and conduct of the auxiliary police unit.
The Marshal shall have exclusive control of the stationing and transferring of
all auxiliary police officers, under such general rules as the Mayor
prescribes.
   (B)   (1)   The Legislative Authority may establish, by ordinance, a parking
enforcement unit within the police department, and provide for the regulation
of parking enforcement officers. The Mayor shall be the executive head of the
parking enforcement unit, shall make all appointments and removals of parking
enforcement officers, subject to any general rules prescribed by the
Legislative Authority by ordinance, and shall prescribe rules for the
organization, training, administration, control, and conduct of the parking
enforcement unit. The Mayor may appoint parking enforcement officers who agree
to serve for nominal compensation, and persons with physical disabilities may
receive appointments as parking enforcement officers.
      (2)   The authority of the parking enforcement officers shall be limited
to the enforcement of ordinances governing parking in accessible parking
locations and fire lanes and any other parking ordinances specified in the
ordinance creating the parking enforcement unit. Parking enforcement officers
shall have no other powers.
      (3)   The training of parking enforcement officers shall include
instruction in general administrative rules and procedures governing the
parking enforcement unit, the role of the judicial system as it relates to
parking regulations and enforcement, proper techniques and methods relating to
the enforcement of parking ordinances, human interaction skills, and first aid.
(R.C. § 737.161)
§ 32.34 SUSPENSION.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized to suspend or remove any Chief of Police or
police officer who has not been finally appointed under the provisions of §
32.30 hereof, or special police officer for neglect of duty, misconduct, or
other sufficient cause, and to appoint other persons to fill the temporary
vacancy caused thereby, and all suspensions or removals and the cause thereof,
and all appointments, shall be reported to the Council, by the Mayor, for their
action at the next regular meeting thereafter.
('56 Code, § 17-17)
§ 32.35 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The compensation of the police officers, who also are known as patrol
officers, shall be not less than the minimum amount nor more than the maximum
amount which Council, from time to time, by ordinance shall determine. However,
the amounts for each police officer shall be fixed by the Mayor with approval
of Council, having due regard to the efficiency and years of service of the
individual police officer. ('56 Code, § 17-18)
   (B)   With the recommendation of the Police Chief, and the approval of the
Police Committee, the salary of a newly hired police officer, with at least two
years of experience as a police officer, will be the percentage of a regular
full-time police officer as follows:
      (1)   75-85% during the probationary period if the police officer has at
least two years of prior police experience.
      (2)   95% after the probationary period if the police officer has at
least three years prior police experience.
      (3)   100% after the probationary period if the police officer has at
least four years of prior police experience.
   (C)   The pay rate of a newly hired police officer, without prior
experience, is hereby established as a percentage of a full-time police officer
as follows:
      (1)   75% during the one-year probationary period.
      (2)   85% beginning of the second year.
      (3)   95% beginning of the third year.
      (4)   100% beginning of the fourth year.
(Ord. 1986, passed 9-8-86)
§ 32.36 UNIFORMS PURCHASED BY COUNCIL.
   In addition to the compensation provided for the Chief of Police and police
officers in §§
32.32 and
32.35, the Council may, when it deems necessary and expedient to do so,
purchase uniforms for the Chief of Police and police officers.
('56 Code, § 17-19)
§ 32.37 COMMISSION AND APPOINTMENT OF SPECIAL POLICE OFFICERS.
   Special police officers performing special police duties for the benefit of,
and at the expense of private persons or corporations, may be appointed and
commissioned by the Mayor, subject to the confirmation of Council, on
application of the private persons or corporations, and a showing of the
necessity of this action. The special police officers so appointed, and
commissioned, shall be subject to the orders of the Mayor, and Police Chief,
and shall obey the rules and regulations of the Police Department. They shall
give bond in the same amount as police officers, and shall possess the power of
police officers in arresting persons for offenses against the laws and
ordinances. The Mayor may, at any time, revoke the commission of the special
police officer for cause, which shall be stated in writing to Council.
('56 Code, § 17-20)
§ 32.38 COMPENSATION FOR ASSISTANCE IN AN EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Any person, who in response to a request by the Chief of Police or
other member of the Police Department, assists in an emergency involving the
saving of life or protection, care, or assistance to any sick or injured person
who may be paid compensatory in an amount to be determined by the Village
Council.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall certify the name of each person entitled to
compensation hereunder for each emergency, together with the number of hours of
service and total amount of compensation which each person may be entitled.
('56 Code, § 17-21)
PLANNING AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION
§ 32.45 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS; TERM.
   (A)   The Glendale Planning and Historic Preservation Commission
(hereinafter referred to as GPHPC) shall consist of eight members, all of whom
shall have an interest in historic preservation. The eight members shall
include the Mayor and seven citizens appointed by the Mayor and approved by the
Council. To the extent available, the seven citizens of the village should
include at least three individuals who are preservation-related professionals
and/or have substantial training or experience in a preservation-related field,
including the disciplines of history, architecture, architectural history,
planning, archaeology or a related discipline. All seven citizens shall serve
four years each and appointment dates shall be made so that no more than two
member's terms shall expire in any one year.
   (B)   No member of the GPHPC shall hold any position of trust or profit or
engage in any occupation or activity interfering or inconsistent with the
duties of such member. Nor shall any member use or attempt to use their
official position to secure anything of value for them that would not
ordinarily accrue to them in the performances of official duties.
   (C)   All eight members of the GPHPC shall be voting members on general
planning, zoning and historic preservation issues, as defined in §
32.55, with the exception of the Mayor who may vote on planning and zoning
issues but shall not vote on historic preservation issues. In the event of an
appeal of the GPHPC's finding to Council, any Councilperson who serves on the
GPHPC shall abstain from voting for or against the appeal in Council. The Mayor
may not vote to break a tie resulting from an appeal to Council if the Mayor
voted as a member of the GPHPC.
   (D)   In order to transact all business and vote on all issues coming before
the GPHPC the presence of a quorum of four members of the GPHPC shall be
necessary.
('56 Code, § 18) (Ord. 1993-51, passed 11-4-93; Am. Ord. 1994-37, passed 7-5-
94; Am. Ord. 1999-47, passed 2-7-00; Am. Ord. 2001-40, passed 4-1-02)
Statutory reference:
   Planning Commission, see R.C. § 713.01
§ 32.46 POWERS.
   (A)   The Glendale Planning and Historic Preservation Commission (GPHPC)
shall have power to make plans and maps of the whole or any portion of the
village, and of any land outside the municipality, which, in the opinion of the
GPHPC, bears relation to the planning of the municipality, and may make changes
in the plans or maps when it deems the changes advisable. The maps or plans
shall show the GPHPC's recommendations for new streets, alleys, ways, viaducts,
bridges, subways, parkways, parks, playgrounds, or any other public grounds or
public improvements, and the removal, relocation, widening, or extension of the
public works then existing.
   (B)   With a view to the systematic planning of the village the GPHPC may
make recommendations to the Mayor, Council, and department heads concerning the
location of streets, transportation, and communication facilities, public
buildings, and grounds. The GPHPC may have the power to control, preserve, and
care for historical landmarks, to control in the manner provided by ordinance
the design and location of works of art and public monuments, which are or may
become the property of the municipality, the removal, relocation, and
alteration of any works belonging to the municipality, and the design of
bridges, viaducts, street fixtures, and other public structures and
appurtenances.
   (C)   Whenever the GPHPC shall have made a plan of the municipality, or any
portion thereof, no public building, street, boulevard, parkway, park,
playground, public ground, canal, bridge, viaduct, tunnel utility (whether
publicly or privately owned), or part thereof, shall be constructed or
authorized to be constructed in the municipality or the planned portion of the
municipality until and unless the location thereof shall be approved by the
GPHPC. In case of disapproval, the GPHPC shall communicate its reasons for
disapproval to Council and the department head of the department which has
control of the construction of the proposed improvement or utility.
   (D)   Council, by a vote of not less than two-thirds of its members shall
have the power to overrule the disapproval. The narrowing, ornamentation,
vacation, or change in the use of streets and other public ways, grounds, and
places shall be subject to similar approval, and disapproval may be similarly
overruled.
   (E)   The GPHPC may make recommendation to any public authorities or to any
corporations or individuals in the municipality or the territory contiguous
thereto, concerning the location of any buildings, structures or works to be
erected or constructed by them.
('56 Code, § 18-1) (Ord. 2001-40, passed 4-1-02)
Statutory reference:
   Powers and duties of Planning Commission, see R.C. § 713.02
§ 32.47 PLATTING COMMISSION OF THE VILLAGE.
   The Planning Commission shall be the platting commission of the
municipality, and all the powers and duties provided by law for platting
commissioner or commissioners of municipalities shall be deemed transferred to
the Planning Commission.
('56 Code, § 18-2)
Statutory reference:
   Service as Platting Commission, see R.C. § 713.03
§ 32.48 CONTROL OVER BUILDINGS.
   The Planning Commission shall control the height, structural design, and
location of all buildings hereafter erected in the village.
('56 Code, § 18-3)
Statutory reference:
   Building control, see R.C. § 713.04
§ 32.49 EMPLOYEE EXPENDITURES.
   The Planning Commission shall have power to control, appoint, or employ
architects, engineers, and other professional service, and clerks, draftsmen,
and other subordinates as it shall deem necessary for the performance of its
functions. The expenditures for the service and employments shall be within the
amounts appropriated for the persons by the Council, and Council shall provide
for the expense and accommodations necessary for the work of the Commission.
('56 Code, § 18-4)
Statutory reference:
   Employment of architects and engineers, see R.C. § 713.05
§ 32.50 ZONING PLANS.
   The Planning Commission shall have power to frame and adopt a plan or plans
for dividing the municipality or any portion thereof into zones or districts
representing the recommendations of the Commission, in the interest of the
public health, safety, convenience, comfort, prosperity, or general welfare,
for the limitations or regulations of the height, the bulk and location
(including percentage of lot occupancy, set back building lines, and area and
dimensions of yards, courts, and other open spaces), and the uses of buildings
and other structures and of premises in the zones or districts.
('56 Code, § 18-5)
Statutory reference:
   Division into zones, see R.C. § 713.06
§ 32.51 REGULATIONS IMPOSED ON DISTRICTS.
   Whenever the Planning Commission certifies to the Council any plan for the
districting or zoning of the municipality according to the uses of buildings
and other structures and of premises, then the Council in the interest of the
promotion of the public health, safety, convenience, comfort, prosperity, or
general welfare, may regulate and restrict the location of buildings and other
structures and of premises to be used for trade, industry, residence, or other
specified uses, and for this purpose, divide the municipality into districts of
a number, shape, and area as may be deemed best suited to carry out the
purposes of this section. For each of the districts, regulations may be imposed
classes of trades, industries, residence, or other purposes for which buildings
or other structures or premises may be permitted to be erected, altered, or
used subject to special regulations.
('56 Code, § 18-6)
Statutory reference:
   Restriction in location of buildings and structures, see R.C. § 713.07
§ 32.52 HEIGHT LIMITATION REGULATIONS.
   Whenever the Planning Commission certifies to the Council any plan for the
districting or zoning of the municipality according to the height of buildings
and other structures, then the Council, in the interest of the promotion of
public health, safety, convenience, comfort, prosperity, or general welfare,
may regulate and limit the height of buildings and other structures thereafter
erected or altered and for this purpose divide the municipality into districts
of a number, shape, and area as may be deemed best suited to carry out the
purpose of this section. Any regulation imposing a lower height limitation than
may be provided by state statute shall, within the district for which it is
imposed, prevail over the limitations provided by state statute.
('56 Code, § 18-7)
Statutory reference:
   Restrictions on height, see R.C. § 713.08
§ 32.53 LIMITATIONS ON LOT OCCUPANCY.
   Whenever the Planning Commission certifies to the Council thereof any plan
for districting or zoning of the municipality according to the bulk and
location of buildings and other structures (including percentage of lot
occupancy, set back building lines, and area of yards, courts, and other open
spaces), then the Council may, in the interest of the promotion of the public
health, safety, convenience, comfort, prosperity, or general welfare, regulate
the bulk and location of buildings and other structures thereafter erected or
altered, the percentage of lot occupancy, set back building lines, and the area
of yards, courts, and other open spaces and for these purposes may divide the
municipality into districts of a number, shape, and area as may be deemed best
suited to carry out the purposes of this section. Any regulation imposing a
lower percentage of lot occupancy, wider or larger courts, deeper yards, or
other more strict limitations than those provided by state statute shall,
within the district for which it is imposed, prevail over the limitations
provided by state statute.
('56 Code, § 18-8)
Statutory reference:
   Restrictions on bulk and location, see R.C. § 713.09
§ 32.54 CLASSIFICATION OF BUILDINGS AND OTHER STRUCTURES.
   (A)   The districting or zoning of the village or part thereof may be based
upon any combination of two or more of the purposes described in §§
32.51 through
32.53. In the determination and establishment of districts as above provided,
buildings and other structures may be classed on the basis of the nature or
character of trade, industry, profession, or other activity conducted or to be
conducted therein, the number of persons, families, or other group units to
reside in or use them, the public, quasi-public, or private nature of the use
thereof, or upon any other basis or bases relevant to the promotion of the
public safety, health, morals, convenience, prosperity, or welfare. Any
ordinance, measure, or regulation authorized in this section or §§
32.51 through
32.53 shall be passed in accordance with the procedures set forth in §
154.66 of this code.
   (B)   The Council may, from time to time, amend or change the number, shape,
area, or regulations of or within any district or districts in accordance with
the procedures set forth in §
154.66 of this code.
   (C)   The Council may create an Administrative Board to administer the
details of the application of the regulations, and may delegate to the Board,
in accordance with general rules and regulations to be set forth in the
districting ordinances and regulations, the power to hear and determine appeals
from refusal of building permits by building commissioners or other officers,
to permit exceptions to and variations from the district regulations in the
classes of cases or situations specified in the regulations and to administer
the regulations as specified therein. These administrative powers and functions
may be delegated by Village Council to the GPHPC or Board.
('56 Code, §18-9) (Ord. 2001-40, passed 4-1-02; Am. Ord. 2016-46, passed 11-7-
16)
Statutory reference:
   Basis of districting or zoning, see R.C. § 713.10
§ 32.55 HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION OF THE VILLAGE.
   (A)   The Glendale Planning and Historic Preservation Commission (GPHPC)
shall be the historic preservation commission of the municipality, and all the
powers and duties provided by law for the historic preservation commission of
the municipality shall be deemed transferred to the GPHPC. All the members of
the GPHPC, except the Mayor, shall have a vote on historic preservation matters
as outlined below.
   (B)   The GPHPC shall have the following powers and duties:
      (1)   To conduct or cause to be conducted a continuing survey of cultural
resources in the village.
      (2)   To make recommendations for designation of local historic
districts, landmarks, pivotal buildings, historic sites and contributing
buildings to the Village Council.
      (3)   To establish and use written guidelines for the preservation of
designated local historic districts, landmarks, pivotal buildings, historic
sites and contributing buildings in decisions on requests for permits for
alterations, demolitions, additions and site improvements to listed landmarks,
pivotal buildings, contributing buildings, historic sites and new construction
within historic district(s).
      (4)   To make, or have made, a detailed map of the historic district(s)
in the village. Such map shall include the location of the historic district
(s), landmarks, pivotal buildings, historic sites and contributing buildings by
their number and shall be maintained at the Village Office and available for
public inspection.
      (5)   To review all proposed National Register nominations for properties
within the village.
      (6)   To review and approve or deny applications for certificates of
appropriateness within the village.
(Ord. 1993-51, passed 11-4-93; Am. Ord. 2001-40, passed 4-1-02)
§ 32.56 PLANNING AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION PROCEDURES.
   The Glendale Planning and Historic Preservation Commission (GPHPC) shall
adopt such rules and procedures as may be necessary for the conduct of its
business. At the first meeting of each calendar year, the GPHPC shall elect a
chairman, vice chairman, secretary and any other officers it may deem
necessary, from among its members.
(Ord. 1993-51, passed 11-4-93; Am. Ord. 2001-40, passed 4-1-02)
CHAPTER 33: TOWN HALL
Section
   
33.01   Rental for meetings
   
33.02   Rental fee; hours; rules for use
   
33.03   Janitor appointed by Village Administrator
   
33.04   Janitor to open and close the hall and rooms
   
33.05   Weekly meetings
   
33.06   Rental charge for non-profit Glendale organizations
   
33.07   Janitorial fees
   
33.08   Intoxicating liquor prohibited
§ 33.01 RENTAL FOR MEETINGS.
   The Village Administrator, under the supervision and control of Council, may
rent the upper hall for entertainments, lectures, meetings, and other purposes
as may be suitable, to reputable organizations and persons as may make
application therefor, and upon the payment of the rent and security deposit
hereinafter specified to instruct staff to open and prepare the hall for the
meeting.
('56 Code, §12) (Am. Ord. 2020-34, passed 10-5-20)
§ 33.02 RENTAL FEE; HOURS; RULES FOR USE.
   The rent for the upper hall of the Town Hall shall be in an amount as
Council, from time to time, by ordinance shall determine, but in no event shall
the hall remain open after midnight, except for cleanup. There shall be two
tiers of fees established by Council, to wit: (1) residents and/or Glendale
organizations; and (2) non-residents and/or non-Glendale organizations. Only
beer and wine may be served therein and it shall be the tenant's
responsibility, when applicable, to secure licensing for said beverages from
the State of Ohio.
('56 Code, §12-1) (Am. Ord. 2020-34, passed 10-5-20)
§ 33.03 JANITOR APPOINTED BY VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR.
   A janitor shall be appointed by the Village Administrator subject to removal
at any time at the pleasure of the Village Administrator. He shall be held
responsible for the maintenance and protection of the Town Hall. He shall see
that the building is heated and kept clean, and shall report any matter needing
repair or other attention to the Village Administrator. He shall be paid a
salary as Council, from time to time, by ordinance shall determine.
('56 Code, § 12-2)
§ 33.04 JANITOR TO OPEN AND CLOSE THE HALL AND ROOMS.
   All keys for the buildings and halls and rooms of the Town Hall shall be at
all times in charge of the janitor, and no other person or organization shall
be permitted to have any key to the building or rooms thereof. The janitor
shall have charge of opening and closing the hall and rooms, and of the care of
the personal property therein, and he shall not open the hall for the use of
any person desiring to rent the hall except upon the authority of the Village
Administrator, as provided in §
33.01.
('56 Code, § 12-3)
§ 33.05 WEEKLY MEETINGS.
   In the event that Council shall from time to time make arrangements with
individuals or organizations, for renting the hall for stated weekly meetings,
or otherwise, at a special rent, as hereinafter provided, the Chairman of the
Council Committee on Public Buildings and Parks shall so notify the Village
Administrator, and he shall instruct the janitor to open up the hall regularly
for the stated meetings, without special authority for each meeting. In no
event shall any person have possession of any key to the rooms, or be permitted
to open the hall in absence of the janitor.
('56 Code, § 12-4)
§ 33.06 RENTAL CHARGE FOR NON-PROFIT GLENDALE ORGANIZATIONS.
   Reduced rental shall be charged by the village for use of the Town Hall by a
Glendale religious, educational, charitable, or civic organization for a
meeting or other function at which no admission is charged, and which involves
no raising of money in any way whatsoever, as determined by Council from time
to time. The non-profit organization shall additionally pay a security deposit.
If the organization uses the hall for a meeting or other function at which
admission is charged or which involves raising of money in any way whatsoever,
the organization shall pay the regular rental provided by §
33.02.
('56 Code, §12-7) (Am. Ord. 2020-34, passed 10-5-20)
§ 33.07 JANITORIAL FEES.
   In addition to the regular salary paid to the janitor, he shall receive for
openings of the Town Hall fees in an amount which Council shall fix, from time
to time, by ordinance.
('56 Code, § 12-8)
§ 33.08 INTOXICATING LIQUOR PROHIBITED.
   No intoxicating hard liquor shall be at any time sold, given away, or used
in the Town Hall or grounds thereof.
('56 Code, §12-9) (Am. Ord. 2020-34, passed 10-5-20) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 34: EMPLOYEES
Section
   
34.01   Sick leave
   
34.02   Special leave with pay
   
34.03   Other leaves of absence
   
34.04   Military leave of absence
   
34.05   Vacations
   
34.06   Holidays
   
34.07   Service and Police Department overtime and work periods
   
34.08   Longevity pay
   
34.09   Contribution of deferred compensation funds
   
34.10   Employee classifications
   
34.11   Position and compensation ordinances
   
34.12   Reimbursement for approved training and for mileage expenses
   
34.13   Waiver of pension pick-up provision
§ 34.01 SICK LEAVE.
   (A)   Each full-time employee of the village shall be entitled to 4.6 hours
of sick leave pay for each 80 hours of service, or 15 days per calendar year,
without limit, as described in R.C. § 124.38.
   (B)   Sick leave may be used for the following reasons:
      (1)   Personal illness.
      (2)   Injury.
      (3)   Exposure to contagious diseases which would be communicated to
other employees.
      (4)   Illness, injury, or death in the employee's immediate family. (See
§
34.03)
   (C)   (1)   Compensation will be paid the employee provided that he has
contacted their immediate supervisor prior to the start of the scheduled work
period. Any illness, as defined in division (B) above, that is three
consecutive work days, or more, must present a doctor's certificate in order to
be paid for the time off.
      (2)   To receive sick pay for an illness or injury lasting ten days or
longer, the department head may require the employee to submit to a medical
examination from a physician selected by the Mayor. The results of that
examination must be turned over to the employee's department head. Failure to
turn over the examination records will result in the loss of all pay and
benefits and will become grounds for dismissal.
      (3)   Sick leave credit cannot be earned while an employee is on long
term sick leave. Long term sick leave being defined as ten days or more.
   (D)   (1)   An employee who transfers from another public agency shall be
credited with the unused balance of their accumulated sick leave from that
other agency as required in R.C. § 124.38.
      (2)   To receive such credit, the employee must present a written
statement from their past public employer attesting to the amount of unused
sick leave the employee accumulated, and certifying that the employee had not
been compensated for the accumulated balance.
      (3)   No credit will be given for an employee who has been out of public
service for ten years or longer.
   (E)   For retirement purposes, an employee shall be paid 50% of his
accumulated sick leave up to a maximum accumulation of 120 days.
(Am. Ord. 2005-09, passed 3-7-05)
   (F)   As of July 1, 1985, an employee of the village who has accumulated 120
days or more of unused sick leave, shall, upon application, be compensated for
unused sick leave in excess of 120 days. The rate of compensation shall be one
day's pay for two days of unused sick leave and payable the second week in
January of each calendar year.
(Am. Ord. 2004-07, passed 3-1-04)
      (1)   Employees who terminate their employment or who have their
employment terminated from the village prior to December 31 of any year, shall
not be eligible to receive the payment the following January.
      (2)   Retiring employees will be compensated at the rate as contained in
division (E) above.
      (3)   Effective June 1, 1987 and thereafter an employee shall receive
payment for unused sick leave upon termination of employment by death in the
same manner as received upon termination of employment by retirement.
   (G)   (1)   An employee of the village, who within a 12-month period, uses
in excess of four occasions of sick time, will be subject to counseling by his
department head, who will make a report of his findings in writing to the
Village Administrator. For further occasions of sick leave during the 12-month
period, the Administrator may require from such employee a doctor's excuse and
take such other action as is consistent with this section. Within this context,
an occasion is defined as "any consecutive period of work days greater than
four hours during which an employee is absent from regular work and for which
the employee is claiming sick leave."
      (2)   Employees of the village who have three or fewer sick time
occasions in a given year will be entitled to an additional eight hours of
vacation time for every week of vacation credit. For purposes of adding this
credit to the current year record of an employee, his work record of actual
sick time occasions for the preceding year will be used.
(Am. Ord. 1985-22, passed 7-1-85; Am. Ord. 1987-26, passed 7-6-87; Am. Ord.
1990-19, passed - - 90)
§ 34.02 SPECIAL LEAVE WITH PAY.
   (A)   (1)   A village employee who is required to serve on a jury, or has
been subpoenaed in any court of record in the county, or contiguous counties or
has been subpoenaed in any court of record in the United States, shall be paid
his regular salary for the period of time so served.
      (2)   To receive compensation, the employee must present a copy of their
subpoena to their respective department head.
   (B)   Village employees shall be granted time off with pay for taking any
required examination pertinent to their village employment before a state or
federal licensing board.
§ 34.03 OTHER LEAVES OF ABSENCE.
   (A)   An employee will be granted up to five days leave of absence, with
pay, with the approval of the department head, in the event of a death in the
employee's immediate family. For this purpose, the IMMEDIATE FAMILY is defined
as father, mother, sister, brother, wife, husband, children, stepchildren, or
stepparents.
      (1)   Employees will be permitted to take one day's leave of absence for
relatives that are not part of the immediate family. Employees request for more
than one day for nonimmediate family members will be reviewed on an individual
basis by the department head.
      (2)   The death leave for full-time employees of five days for a death in
the immediate family and one day for a death in the non-immediate family, as
defined in such Code shall be charged against such employee's sick leave.
(Ord. 1987-19, passed 6-1-87)
   (B)   An additional holiday is hereby established for full-time employees of
the Village of Glendale which shall be one floating holiday per year which may
be selected by the employee, but must be approved by such employee's immediate
supervisor.
(Ord. 1987-19, passed 6-1-87)
   (C)   Sick leave for illness in immediate family. Sick leave for full-time
employees of the village is granted under the following conditions in the
following amounts for sickness in the immediate family as defined in division
(A) above:
      (1)   Official quarantine of the immediate family for a period of
quarantine;
      (2)   To care for or make arrangements for a member of the immediate
family, but not to exceed three days within a three-month period;
      (3)   Incidents involving accidents, major or minor surgery, critical or
sudden illness, but not to exceed three days within a three-month period;
      (4)   For purposes of this section, psychiatric disorders shall be
regarded as an illness;
      (5)   Time beyond three days for sickness mentioned in divisions (2) and
(3) above shall be charged against an employee's compensatory time, vacation
time, floating holidays, or as time off without pay and must be approved by
such employee's supervisor.
   (D)   Sick leave for fathers of new-born children.
      (1)   A father of a new-born child may use up to three days of sick leave
from the date of birth of such child.
(Ord. 1987-43, passed 12-29-87)
§ 34.04 MILITARY LEAVE OF ABSENCE.
   (A)   All village employees who are members of the National Guard, or other
reserve components of the armed forces of the United States, shall be entitled
to leave of absence from their respective duties for such time as they are in
the military service, on field training or on active duty for periods not to
exceed 30 days in any one calendar year.
      (1)   If the employee's military pay is less than his normal village pay
for such a period, he shall be paid the difference by the village.
      (2)   In determining an employee's military service for the purpose of
this section, allowances for travel, food, or housing shall not be considered;
but any other pay or allowances of whatever nature shall be considered.
   (B)   Village employees will be required to use one week of their vacation
entitlement when military training requires two weeks of consecutive absence
from work.
   (C)   Reservist called to active duty for periods of greater than 30 days
will remain classified as village employees but will stop accumulating vacation
credit, sick time, or drawing the difference between the rate of military and
village earnings. All other pay or benefits associated with employment with the
village will cease on the employee's thirty-first day of active duty.
§ 34.05 VACATIONS.
   (A)   Employees of the village are not entitled to paid vacation until they
have completed one year of full-time employment with the village. For purposes
of vacation time earned, units of vacation credits are earned and taken by
units of hours and not work days, due to varying hours of employee work days
(eight to 12 hours per day). After one year of service, paid vacation will be
granted as follows:
   1-5 years:   2 weeks vacation   (80 hrs)
    6 years:   2 weeks, 1 day      (88 hrs)
    7 years:   2 weeks, 2 days   (96 hrs)
    8 years:   2 weeks, 3 days   (104 hrs)
    9 years:   2 weeks, 4 days   (112 hrs)
    10 years:   3 weeks      (120 hrs)
    11 years:   3 weeks, 1 day      (128 hrs)
    12 years:   3 weeks, 2 days   (136 hrs)
    13 years:   3 weeks, 3 days   (144 hrs)
    14 years:   3 weeks, 4 days   (152 hrs)
    15 years:   4 weeks      (160 hrs)
    16 years:   4 weeks      (160 hrs)
    17 years:   4 weeks, 1 day      (168 hrs)
    18 years:   4 weeks, 1 day      (168 hrs)
    19 years:   4 weeks, 2 days   (176 hrs)
    20 years:   4 weeks, 2 days   (176 hrs)
    21 years:   4 weeks, 3 days   (184 hrs)
    22 years:   4 weeks, 3 days   (184 hrs)
    23 years:   4 weeks, 4 days   (192 hrs)
    24 years:   4 weeks, 4 days   (192 hrs)
    25+ years:   5 weeks      (200 hrs)
   (B)   (1)   In computing the eligibility for vacation rights, prior service
with the state or any political subdivision of the state, will be used in
determining vacation entitlement as prescribed in R.C. § 124.13.
      (2)   To earn such entitlement, an employee will be required to submit a
letter from their past employer indicating the employee's date of hire and date
of separation.
   (C)   Employees who are separated from municipal service during any calendar
year after the effective date of this section, and who have had no vacation
during such calendar year, shall be entitled to pay or vacation days.
   (D)   Employees who retire from the village will be eligible for full
vacation credit based upon their anniversary date with the village; not on the
current calendar year.
   (E)   In the event a full-time employee dies while in a regular paid status
with the village, any
unused vacation will be paid to the beneficiary named by the employee, and
using the anniversary date for computation purposes.
   (F)   Vacation time cannot be accumulated.
      (1)   All employees must take their vacation time within the calendar
year.
      (2)   An employee will be permitted to take pay in lieu of time off. With
department supervisor approval, one week (40 hours) of vacation time may be
sold back to the village. With approval of department supervisor and Mayor,
second week (40 hours) of vacation time may be sold back to the village.
(Am. Ord. 2002-08, passed 3-16-92; Am. Ord. 2007-13, passed 3-5-07)
   (G)   Excessive sick leave, disability, maternity, or military leave will
reduce an employee's vacation entitlement on a pro rata basis. For the purposes
of this section, excessive sick leave, disability, maternity, or military leave
are defined as 30 days or more per year.
(Am. Ord. 1992-17, passed 3-16-92; Am. Ord. 1993-32, passed 6-7-93; Am. Ord.
2000-10, passed 2-7-00)
§ 34.06 HOLIDAYS.
   (A)   All established police officers shall have their holiday time posted
to them at the beginning of each calendar year and may use said holiday hours
only when scheduling allows and as authorized by the Chief of Police. The
following holidays have been established for all full-time employees of the
village:
      (1)   New Year's day
      (2)   Good Friday
      (3)   Memorial day
      (4)   Independence day
      (5)   Labor day
      (6)   Thanksgiving Day
      (7)   Thanksgiving Day, Day After
      (8)   Christmas Eve
      (9)   Christmas Day
      (10)    Floating Holiday (Employee Choice), three days (Am. Ord. 2005-09,
passed 3-7-05)
      (11)    Martin Luther King Day
      (12)    President's Day (Am. Ord. 2004-07, passed 3-1-04)
   (B)   In any of the above holidays fall on a Sunday, the holiday will be
recognized the following Monday. If the holiday should fall on Saturday, the
holiday will be observed on the preceding Friday.
   (C)   In order for an employee to be paid for the holiday, he must work the
last scheduled day before the holiday and the next scheduled day after the
holiday, or present a doctor's statement explaining the nature of the illness.
   (D)   Holidays which occur during vacation leave will not be charged against
an employee's vacation time.
   (E)   Seasonal and part-time employees are entitled to the holiday benefits
as full-time employees, except for the floating holiday, upon the completion of
two calendar years of service when the employees are subject to a regular five-
day work schedule and are unable to do so due to an established holiday as
outlined in division (A). The holiday pay benefits shall be based on the
average hours worked per day in the employee’s scheduled work week.
(Am. Ord. 1992-18, passed 3-16-92; Am. Ord. 1997-13, passed 3-4-97; Am. Ord.
2000-10, passed 2-7-00; Am. Ord. 2001-14, passed 4-2-01)
§ 34.07 SERVICE AND POLICE DEPARTMENT OVERTIME AND WORK PERIODS.
   (A)   All employees of the Service Department, with the exception of the
Service Superintendent, shall be paid for all overtime authorized by the
Service Superintendent at 1-1/2 times their hourly rates. Work performed on a
holiday will be paid at two times their hourly rate plus their normal pay for
the holiday.
   (B)   All full-time employees of the Police Department and the Service
Department, except the Chief of Police and the Village Administrator, shall
have the election to take straight time pay or compensation time off at time
and one-half.
      (1)   The election shall be available to full-time employees of the
Service Department after eight hours of work in any one day or 40 hours of work
in any one week.
      (2)   The election shall be available to police officers after ten hours
of work in any one day and 40 hours of work in any one week or (when working a
12 hour schedule) after 12 hours of work in any one day or 120 hours in a 21
day period.
   (C)   With the approval of the department head, compensatory time may be
granted in lieu of monetary compensation for overtime hours worked by an
employee. An employee may accumulate up to 150 hours of comp-time and the hours
may be carried from one calendar year to the next. Upon retirement, or
termination of employment, the employee shall be compensated at his current
rate, for any accumulated comp-time.
   (D)   No village employee shall have the right to refuse to work overtime
when, in the opinion of his supervisor, a situation exists that requires
immediate attention.
   (E)   The standard work period for village employees shall consist of 80
hours within a 14 day period for those employees assigned to eight or ten hour
shifts. Employees assigned to 12 hour shifts shall have a work period of 120
hours within a 21 day period.
(Am. Ord. 1984-25, passed 7-2-84; Am. Ord. 1991-69, passed 12-2-91; Am. Ord.
2000-10, passed 2-7-00; Am. Ord. 2009-16, passed 3-16-09)
§ 34.08 LONGEVITY PAY.
   (A)   Upon completion of continuous years of service, employees of the
village shall receive a longevity payment as described in the following ranges:
(Am. Ord. 2008-11, passed 3-3-07)
      3-5 Year      $60 per year
      6-10 Years      $70 per year
      11+ Years      $80 per year
   (B)   Within the context of this longevity section, continuous service is
defined as “continuous service within the village and or another municipality
of the state that an employee transferred directly from, subject to
verification by the Administrative Assistant.
(Am. Ord. 1989-27, passed 7-3-89; Am. Ord. 1991-77, passed 12-18-91; Am. Ord.
1997-13, passed 3-4-97; Am. Ord. 2000-12, passed 3-13-00)
§ 34.09 CONTRIBUTION OF DEFERRED COMPENSATION FUNDS.
   (A)   The Mayor, from time to time as a salaried employees performance may
warrant, may approve of a certain monetary contribution within the Glendale
Deferred Compensation Plan, as administered by the International City Managers
Association, herein called the ICMA Plan, and that said contribution, when
warranted and approved, is considered merit compensation upon said eligible
employee.
   (B)   Activation of said monetary contribution within the ICMA Plan, and to
the credit of certain employees, shall not be valid without the Mayor's written
authorization, of which a specified amount is described, and that said
authorization has been reviewed by Council, void of said Council's objection,
and placed within said employees personnel records, and that said contribution
will remain in effect, paid in a timely fashion to the ICMA Plan, until such
authorization and activation is cancelled by the Mayor.
(Ord. 1994-17, passed 2-7-94)
§ 34.10 EMPLOYEE CLASSIFICATIONS.
   There shall be four general classes of employees defined as follows:
   (A)   Full-time employees. Those employees who perform prescribed duties on
an established schedule of 40 hours or more per week and who have been in the
employment of the village beyond their six month probationary period, except
for public officers whose probationary period is one year.
   (B)   Probationary employees. All employees who have not completed their
probationary period.
   (C)   Part-time employees. Employees who perform prescribed duties who may
work an established schedule and who ordinarily work fewer than 40 hours per
week. These employees ordinarily work on a temporary basis.
   (D)   Seasonal employees. Employees who perform prescribed duties but who
may work an established schedule and who ordinarily work during a particular
season such as summer or fall.
(Am. Ord. 2001-14, passed 4-2-01)
§ 34.11 POSITION AND COMPENSATION ORDINANCES.
   Provisions for the position and compensation ordinances are not included
herein since they are subject of frequent change. For information on these
subjects, consult the Clerk/Treasurer.
§ 34.12 REIMBURSEMENT FOR APPROVED TRAINING AND FOR MILEAGE EXPENSES.
   The village employees may have payments made for or may be reimbursed for
approved training and for mileage upon the approval of the Village
Administrator, Chief of Police and Fire Chief for their respective departments,
and the Mayor for the Village Administrator, Chief of Police, and Fire Chief.
(Ord. 1982-26, passed 9-17-82)
§ 34.13 WAIVER OF PENSION PICK-UP PROVISION.
   In the interest of reflecting complete and whole wage averages to the Ohio
pension boards, an employee who is within three years of retirement may elect
to waive the pension pick-up provision of the full-time employee pay scale and
instead receive the same amount as regular compensation and pay the pension
themselves.
(Ord. 2001-27, passed 6-4-01)
CHAPTER 35: MUNICIPAL LIABILITY INSURANCE
Section
   
35.01   Self-insurance programs
   
35.02   Joint self-insurance pools
§ 35.01 SELF-INSURANCE PROGRAMS.
   (A)   (1)   A political subdivision may use public funds to secure insurance
with respect to its and its employees' potential liability in damages in civil
actions for injury, death, or loss to persons or property allegedly caused by
an act or omission of the political subdivision or any of its employees in
connection with a governmental or proprietary function. The insurance may be at
the limits, for the circumstances, and subject to the terms and conditions,
that are determined by the political subdivision in its discretion. The
insurance may be for the period of time that is set forth in specifications for
competitive bids or, when competitive bidding is not required, for the period
of time that is mutually agreed upon by the political subdivision and insurance
company. The period of time does not have to be, but can be, limited to the
fiscal cycle under which the political subdivision is funded and operated.
      (2)   (a)   Regardless of whether a political subdivision procures a
policy of liability insurance pursuant to division (A)(1) of this section or
otherwise, the political subdivision may establish and maintain a self-
insurance program relative to its and its employees' potential liability in
damages in civil actions for injury, death, or loss to persons or property
allegedly caused by an act or omission of the political subdivision or any of
its employees in connection with a governmental or proprietary function. The
political subdivision may reserve such funds as it deems appropriate in a
special fund that may be established pursuant to an ordinance or resolution of
the political subdivision and not subject to R.C. § 5705.12. The political
subdivision may allocate the costs of insurance of a self-insurance program, or
both, among the funds or accounts in the subdivision's treasury on the basis of
relative exposure and loss experience. The political subdivision may require
any deductibles under an insurance or self- insurance program, or both, to be
paid from funds or accounts in the subdivision’s treasury from which a loss was
directly attributable. If it so chooses, the political subdivision may contract
with any person, other political subdivision, or regional council of
governments for purposes of the administration of such program.
         (b)   Political subdivisions that have established self-insurance
programs relative to their and their employees' potential liability as
described in division (A)(2)(a) of this section may mutually agree that their
self-insurance programs will be jointly administered in a specific manner.
   (B)   The purchase of liability insurance, or the establishment and
maintenance of a self-insurance program, by a political subdivision does not
constitute a waiver of any immunity or defense of the political subdivision or
its employees, except that the political subdivision may specifically waive any
immunity or defense to which it or its employees may be entitled if a provision
to that effect is specifically included in the policy of insurance or in a
written plan of operation of the self-insurance program, or if any, the
legislative enactment of the political subdivision authorizing the purchase of
the insurance or the establishment and maintenance of the self-insurance
program. Such a specific waiver shall be only to the extent of the insurance or
self-insurance program coverage.
   (C)   The authorizations for political subdivisions to secure insurance and
to establish and maintain self-insurance programs in this section are in
addition to any other authority to secure insurance or to establish and
maintain self-insurance programs that is granted pursuant to the Revised Code
or the Ohio Constitution, and they are not in derogation of any other
authorization.
(R.C. § 2744.08)
   (D)   If a political subdivision, pursuant to division (A)(2)(a) of this
section, has allocated costs to, or required the payment of deductibles from,
funds or accounts in the subdivision’s treasury, the subdivisions’s fiscal
officer, pursuant to ordinance or resolution of the Legislative Authority,
shall transfer amounts equal to those costs or deductibles from the funds or
accounts of the subdivision’s General Fund if both of the following occur:
      (1)   The subdivision requests payment from the employee responsible for
the funds or accounts for those costs or deductibles;
      (2)   The employee receiving the request fails to remit payment within 45
days after the date of receipt of the request.
   (E)   The provisions of R.C. §§ 5705.14, 5705.15, and 5705.16 do not apply
to transfers made pursuant to division (D) of this section.
(R.C. § 2744.082)
§ 35.02 JOINT SELF-INSURANCE POOLS.
   (A)   Regardless of whether a political subdivision under R.C. § 2744.08,
secures a policy or policies of liability insurance, establishes and maintains
a self-insurance program, or enters into an agreement for the joint
administration of a self-insurance program, the political subdivision may,
pursuant to a written agreement, and to the extent that it considers necessary,
join with other political subdivisions in establishing and maintaining a joint
self-insurance pool to provide for the payment of judgments, settlement of
claims, expense, loss, and damage that arises, or is claimed to have arisen,
from an act or omission of the political subdivision or any of its employees in
connection with a governmental or proprietary function and to indemnify or hold
harmless the subdivision's employees against such loss or damage. All of the
following apply to a joint self- insurance pool under this section:
      (1)   (a)   Such funds shall be reserved as are necessary, in the
exercise of sound and prudent actuarial judgment, to cover potential political
subdivision and employee liability, expense, loss, and damage. A report of
aggregate amounts so reserved and aggregate disbursements made from such funds,
together with a written report of a member of the American Academy of Actuaries
certifying whether the amounts reserved conform to the requirements of this
division, are computed in accordance with accepted loss reserving standards,
and are fairly stated in accordance with sound loss reserving principles,
prepared and maintained in the office of the pool administrator described in
division (A)(2) of this section. The report shall be prepared and maintained on
or before the last day of March for the preceding calendar year or, if the
joint self-insurance pool's fiscal year is other than a calendar year, not
later than 90 days after the close of the pool's fiscal year.
         (b)   The report required by this division shall include, but not be
limited to, the aggregate disbursements made for the administration of the
pool, including claims paid, costs of the legal representation of political
subdivisions and employees, and fees paid to consultants.
         (c)   The pool administrator described in division (A)(2) of this
section shall make the report required by this division available for
inspection by any person at all reasonable times during regular business hours,
and, upon the request of such person, shall make copies of the report available
at cost within a reasonable period of time. The pool administrator also shall
submit a copy of the report to the auditor of state.
         (d)   The report required by this division is in lieu of the records
required by R.C. § 149.431(A).
      (2)   A contract may be awarded, without the necessity of competitive
bidding, to any person, political subdivision, nonprofit corporation organized
under R.C. Ch. 1702, or regional council of governments created under R.C. Ch.
167 for purposes of administration of a joint self-insurance pool. No such
contract shall be entered into without full, prior, public disclosure of all
terms and conditions. Such disclosure shall include, at a minimum, a statement
listing all representations made in connection with any possible savings and
losses resulting from such contract, and potential liability of any political
subdivision or employee. The proposed contract and statement shall be disclosed
and presented at a meeting of the political subdivision not less than one week
prior to the meeting at which the political subdivision authorizes the
contract.
      (3)   A joint self-insurance pool shall include a contract with a member
of the American Academy of Actuaries for the preparation of the written
evaluation of the reserve funds required under division (A)(1) above.
      (4)   A joint self-insurance pool may allocate the costs of funding the
pool among the funds or accounts in the treasuries of the political
subdivisions on the basis of their relative exposure and loss experience. A
joint self-insurance program may require any deductible under the program to be
paid from funds or accounts in the treasury of the political subdivision from
which a loss was directly attributable.
   (B)   Two or more political subdivisions may also authorize the
establishment and maintenance of a joint risk-management program, including but
not limited to the employment of risk managers and consultants, for the purpose
of preventing and reducing the risks covered by insurance, self-insurance, or
joint self-insurance programs.
   (C)   A political subdivision is not liable under a joint self- insurance
pool for any amount in excess of amounts payable pursuant to the written
agreement for the participation of the political subdivision in the joint self-
insurance pool. Under a joint self- insurance pool agreement a political
subdivision may, to the extent permitted under the written agreement, assume
the risks of any other political subdivision, including the indemnification of
its employees. A joint self-insurance pool, established under this section, is
deemed a separate legal entity for the public purpose of enabling the members
of the joint self-insurance pool to obtain insurance or to provide for a
formalized, jointly administered self- insurance fund for its members. An
entity created pursuant to this section is exempt from all state and local
taxes.
   (D)   (1)   Any political subdivision may issue general obligation bonds, or
special obligation bonds which are not payable from real or personal property
taxes, and may also issue notes in anticipation of such bonds, pursuant to an
ordinance or resolution of its legislative authority or other governing body
for the purpose of providing funds to pay judgments, losses, damages, and the
expenses of litigation or settlement of claims, whether by way of a reserve or
otherwise, and to pay the political subdivision's portion of the cost of
establishing and maintaining a joint self-insurance pool or to provide for the
reserve in the special fund authorized by R.C. § 2744.08(A)(2)(a).
      (2)   In its ordinance or resolution authorizing bonds or notes under
this section, a political subdivision may elect to issue such bonds or notes
under the procedures set forth in R.C. Ch. 133. In the event of such an
election, notwithstanding R.C. Ch. 133, the maturity of the bonds may be for
any period authorized in the ordinance or resolution not exceeding 20 years,
which period shall be the maximum maturity of the bonds for purposes of R.C. §
133.22.
      (3)   Bonds and notes issued under this section shall not be considered
in calculating the net indebtedness of the political subdivision under R.C. §§
133.04, 133.05, 133.06, and 133.07. R.C. §§ 9.98 through 9.983 apply to bonds
or notes authorized under this section.
   (E)   (1)   A joint self-insurance pool, in addition to its powers to
provide self-insurance against any and all liabilities under this chapter, may
also include any one or more of the following forms of property or casualty
self-insurance for the purpose of covering any other liabilities or risks of
the members of the pool:
         (a)   Public general liability, professional liability, or employees
liability;
         (b)   Individual or fleet motor vehicle or automobile liability and
protection against other liability and loss associated with the ownership,
maintenance, and use of motor vehicles;
         (c)   Aircraft liability and protection against other liability and
loss associated with the ownership, maintenance, and use of aircraft;
         (d)   Fidelity, surety, and guarantee;
         (e)   Loss or damage to property and loss of use and occupancy of
property by fire, lightning, hail, tempest, flood, earthquake, or snow,
explosion, accident, or other risk;
         (f)   Marine, inland transportation and navigation, boilers,
containers, pipes, engines, flywheels, elevators, and machinery;
         (g)   Environmental impairment; or
         (h)   Loss or damage by any hazard upon any other risk to which
political subdivisions are subject, which is not prohibited by statute or at
common law from being the subject of casualty or property insurance.
      (2)   A joint self-insurance pool is not an insurance company. Its
operation does not constitute doing an insurance business and is not subject to
the insurance laws of this state.
   (F)   A public official or employee of a political subdivision who is or
becomes a member of the governing body of a joint self-insurance pool in which
the political subdivision participates is not in violation of R.C. § 102.03(D)
or (E), § 102.04(C) or § 2921.42 as a result of the political subdivision's
entering under this section into the written agreement to participate in the
pool or into any contract with the pool.
   (G)   This section shall not be construed to affect the ability of any
political subdivision to self-insure under the authority conferred by any other
section of the Revised Code.
(R.C. § 2744.081)
CHAPTER 36: MUNICIPAL FUNDS
Section
   
36.01   Capital Fund
   
36.02   Sanitary Sewer Treatment Account
   
36.03   Mayor's Court Computer Fund
   
36.04   An Other Trust and Agency Fund
   
36.05   Village Office Improvement Fund
   
36.06   Building Department Enterprise Fund
§ 36.01 CAPITAL FUND.
   A special fund is hereby established to receive funds which may only be
designated for such capital improvements to the village as the Village Council
may determine from time to time by resolution as payable from this fund.
(Ord. 1983-38, passed - - 83; Am. Ord. 1988-36, passed 12-5-88)
§ 36.02 SANITARY SEWER TREATMENT ACCOUNT.
   The Sanitary Sewer Treatment Account is hereby established as an Enterprise
fund separate from the General Fund.
(Ord. 1990-9, passed 1-80-90)
§ 36.03 MAYOR'S COURT COMPUTER FUND.
   A Mayor's Court Computer Fund is created as provided by R.C. § 5705.12, and
requires that $10 of every Mayor's Court case be assessed the fee, and that the
fee be transferred and deposited into the Mayor's Court Computer Fund. The fund
expenditures shall be restricted solely for operational and maintenance
expenses related to the Mayor's Court Computer system.
(Ord 1993-61, passed 11-4-93; Am. Ord. 2011-31, passed 7-5-11)
§ 36.04 AN OTHER TRUST AND AGENCY FUND.
   (A)   An expendable trust fund entitled An Other Trust and Agency Fund is
created for the purpose of retaining unclaimed moneys of the village as
required by R.C. § 9.39
   (B)   Any unclaimed money is deposited to the credit of this fund and
retained there until claimed by its lawful owner. If not claimed within a
period of five years, the money shall revert to the general fund.
(Ord. 1994-56, passed 12-6-94)
§ 36.05 VILLAGE OFFICE IMPROVEMENT FUND.
   A special fund is created, subject to approval and recognition by the State
Auditor, named the Village Office Improvement Fund, and shall from time to time
receive funds at the direction of Council for the purpose of funding
construction costs in the improvement of the village office.
(Ord 1994-59, passed 12-6-94)
§ 36.06 BUILDING DEPARTMENT ENTERPRISE FUND.
   The village is re-establishing a Building Department in which expenses will
be paid and receipts of fees made and that an Enterprise Fund, separate from
the general fund, is hereby required and authorized, pending approval from the
state.
(Ord. 1998-18, passed 5-5-98)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.   SEWERS
         
51.   WATER
CHAPTER 50: SEWERS
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
Administration
   
50.05   Wastewater Treatment Superintendent; control of sanitary sewer system
   
50.06   Public Works Superintendent; control of storm sewer system
   
50.07   Director of Finance; collection, custody, and disbursement of funds
   
50.08   Rules and regulations
   
50.09   Inspection
Use of Public Sewers
   
50.15   Deposit of waste on public or private property prohibited
   
50.16   Discharge into natural outlet prohibited
   
50.17   Private disposal system unlawful; exception
   
50.18   Installation of sewers and toilet facilities
   
50.19   Discharge of storm or surface water into sanitary sewer and sanitary
material into storm sewer
   
50.20   Discharge of storm water and unpolluted drainage
   
50.21   Discharge of certain substances into sewers prohibited
   
50.22   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors
   
50.23   Tests and analyses
   
50.24   Special agreements
Building Sewers and Connections
   
50.35   Permit required for construction, connecting with, or opening sewer;
fee
   
50.36   Application for installation of new sewer service; entry fee
   
50.37   Responsibility for cost of sewers
   
50.38   Separate sewer required for each building
   
50.39   Use of old building sewers
   
50.40   Required pipe materials
   
50.41   Size and slope of sewer
   
50.42   Entrance into building; grade and depth
   
50.43   Removal of sewage where gravity flow not possible
   
50.44   Excavations
   
50.45   Joints
   
50.46   Connecting building sewer into public sewer
   
50.47   Notification when sewer ready for inspection
   
50.48   Safety requirements; restoration of pavement
   
50.49   Laying pipe in street; permission required
   
50.50   Settlement of surface over a drain; repairs
   
50.51   License required for connection with or opening sewer
Miscellaneous
   
50.80   Damage to sewer system prohibited
   
50.81   User fees
 
   
50.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Utility payment made to agent, see §
51.33
Statutory reference:
   Power of the village to maintain and operate sewer system, see R.C. § 715.40
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   B.O.D. (denoting "BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND"). That quantity of oxygen
utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedure in five days at 20°C., expressed in parts per million by
weight. B.O.D. shall be determined as described under the heading "Biochemical
Oxygen Demand" in the latest edition of "Standard Methods for the Examination
of Water, Sewage, and Industrial Wastes", as published jointly by the American
Public Health Association, and the Federation of Sewage and Industrial Wastes
Associations.
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building, and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking, and dispensing of food,
and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial, commercial, or
manufacturing processes, as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   LANDSCAPE METER. A water meter installed on a new irrigation service line
that shall only be connected to a closed lawn irrigation system.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other
body of surface or ground water.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. Waste from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than 1/2-inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and which is controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. The waste from water closets, urinals, lavatories, sinks,
bathtubs, showers, household laundries, cellar floor drains, garage floor
drains, bars, soda fountains, cuspidors, refrigerator drips, drinking
fountains, and stable floor drains.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface,
and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface, and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and
disposing of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters
and drainage, but excludes sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Wastewater Treatment Superintendent when reference is
made to the sanitary sewer system, and the Public Works Superintendent when
reference is made to the storm sewer system.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The dry weight of the solids physically suspended in a
flow of sewage, industrial waste, or water is determined by the method of
determining suspended matter described under the heading "Suspended Matter" in
the latest edition of "Standard Methods for the Examination of Water, Sewage,
and Industrial Wastes", as published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association, and the Federation of Sewage
and Industrial Wastes Associations, and expressed in parts per million by
weight.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(Am. Ord. 2014-41, passed 11-3-14)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 50.05 WASTEWATER TREATMENT SUPERINTENDENT; CONTROL OF SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM.
   The operation, maintenance, and repair of the sewage treatment plant and the
sanitary sewage system of the village, and the construction, use, maintenance,
and repair of building sewers and connections to the sanitary sewage system of
the village shall be under the supervision of and shall be the responsibility
of the Wastewater Treatment Superintendent.
§ 50.06 PUBLIC WORKS SUPERINTENDENT; CONTROL OF STORM SEWER SYSTEM.
   The operation, maintenance, and repair of the storm sewer system of the
village shall be under the supervision of and shall be the responsibility of
the Street Foreman.
§ 50.07 DIRECTOR OF FINANCE; COLLECTION, CUSTODY, AND DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS.
   The collection and custody of sewage disposal charges and various permit
fees provided in this chapter, and the disbursement thereof, shall be made
under the supervision of the Water Works clerk.
§ 50.08 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Wastewater treatment Superintendent, Street Foreman, and Village
Administrator are authorized to adopt and enforce, subject to the approval of
the Village Council, such rules and regulations as they deem necessary in the
execution of the responsibilities and duties prescribed in this chapter.
§ 50.09 INSPECTION.
   (A)   The Wastewater Treatment Superintendent and the Street Foreman, or
city employees designated by them, shall be permitted to enter on any premises
within the city for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, and testing to insure compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Wastewater Treatment Superintendent, with respect to sanitary
sewers, and the Street Foreman, with respect to storm sewers, shall maintain
accurate and complete records of all permits issued for and inspections made of
the construction of building sewers and connections to the public sewers. They
shall cause the abandonment and removal of connections to public sewers which
violate the provisions of this chapter.
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 50.15 DEPOSIT OF WASTE ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   No person shall place, deposit, or permit to be deposited in an unsanitary
manner on public or private property within the village, or in any area under
the jurisdiction of the village, any human or animal excrement, garbage, or
other objectionable waste.
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.16 DISCHARGE INTO NATURAL OUTLET PROHIBITED.
   No person shall discharge sanitary sewage into any natural outlet within the
village or discharge industrial wastes or other polluted water into the outlets
unless the person so doing is operating with the approval of, or under a permit
issued by, the State Water Pollution Control Board.
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.17 PRIVATE DISPOSAL SYSTEM UNLAWFUL; EXCEPTION.
   Except as provided in this chapter, no person shall construct or maintain
any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility intended or
used for the disposal of sewage.
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.18 INSTALLATION OF SEWERS AND TOILET FACILITIES.
   (A)   Whenever a public sanitary sewer is installed in a public right-of-way
abutting premises from which sewage or industrial or business waste originate,
direct connection from any structure on such premises shall be made with such
public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter; and, if
necessary, suitable toilet facilities shall be installed within each structure.
   (B)   In the case of new construction on such premises, where the shortest
distance between any point in the foundation wall of such construction and the
nearest boundary of the public right-of-way in which the sewer is located is
200 feet or less, direct connection with such sanitary sewer shall be made.
Such connection shall be by means of gravity flow sewer lines, or, in the case
of a structure whose building sewer is at a lower level than the public
sanitary sewer, so that gravity flow cannot be established, such connection
shall be by means of a suitable mechanical device to lift the waste and pump
the waste to the public sewer.
   (C)   In case of structures existing on such premises at the time the public
sanitary sewer is installed, the shortest distance between any point in whose
foundation wall and the nearest boundary of the public right-of-way in which
the sewer is located is 200 feet or less, and whose building sewer is at a
higher level than the public sanitary sewer, so that gravity flow from such
structure to the public sanitary sewer can be established, direct connection
with such sanitary sewer shall be made.
   (D)   Violations. Any person, firm, or corporation having been issued a
written notice pursuant to this section, who fails to comply with such written
notice within the time stipulated therein, shall be guilty of a minor
misdemeanor for each day during which such failure or refusal continues.
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.19 DISCHARGE OF STORM OR SURFACE WATER INTO SANITARY SEWER AND SANITARY
MATERIAL INTO STORM SEWER.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water, surface
water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling water, or
unpolluted industrial process waters into any sanitary sewer. No person shall
discharge sanitary sewage into a storm sewer.
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.20 DISCHARGE OF STORM WATER AND UNPOLLUTED DRAINAGE.
   Storm water and any other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such
sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers, or to a natural outlet
approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process
waters may be discharged on approval of the Superintendent into a storm sewer
or natural outlet.
§ 50.21 DISCHARGE OF CERTAIN SUBSTANCES INTO SEWAGE PROHIBITED.
   Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any of the following waters or wastes into any public sewer:
   (A)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F.
   (B)   Any water or waste which may contain more than 100 parts per million
by weight of fat, oil, or grease.
   (C)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
   (D)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded.
   (E)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure, or any other solid or viscous
substance capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage works.
   (F)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 9.0, or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, and personnel of the sewage works.
   (G)   Any waters or wastes containing a toxic or poisonous substance in
sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process,
or constituting a hazard to humans or animals, or creating any hazard in the
receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant.
   (H)   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of such character and
quality that unusual attention or expense is required to handle such materials
at the sewage treatment plant.
   (I)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance.
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.22 GREASE, OIL, AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes,
sand, and other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
by of a type and capacity approved by the Superintendent, and shall be located
as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
   (B)   Grease and oil interceptors shall be constructed of impervious
materials capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature.
They shall be of substantial construction, watertight, and equipped with easily
removable covers which, when bolted in place, shall be gastight and watertight.
   (C)   Where installed, all grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be
maintained by the owner at his expense, in continuously efficient operation at
all times.
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.23 TESTS AND ANALYSES.
   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in §§
50.21 and 50.22, shall be determined in accordance with "Standard Methods for
the Examination of Water and Sewage," and shall be determined at the control
manhole, or on suitable samples taken at the control manhole. In the event that
no special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be considered
to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which
the building sewer is connected.
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.24 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the village and any business concern
whereby a business waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor by the business.
Penalty, see § 50.99
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 50.35 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR CONSTRUCTION, CONNECTING WITH, OR OPENING SEWER;
FEE.
   (A)   No house sewer shall be constructed to connect with a public sanitary,
storm, or combined sewer, nor shall any connection be made to the public sewer
within the village until the written permission of the Superintendent has been
obtained by the person, firm, or corporation employed to perform the work. An
application for a permit shall be signed by the owner, agent, or lessee of the
property for which the connection is to be made, and by the person, firm, or
corporation employed to perform the work, and must describe the property and
state the purpose for which the connection is desired.
   (B)   The application shall be accompanied by a utility inspection fee to be
established by the village. A copy of this schedule containing the fee shall be
available at the office of the Village Clerk.
(Am. Ord. 2015-08, passed 3-2-15) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.36 APPLICATION FOR INSTALLATION OF NEW SEWER SERVICE; ENTRY FEES.
   (A)   No new installation of sewer service by the village sewer system or an
extension or alteration of existing sewer service shall be permitted unless and
until application for such new installation of service or extension or
alteration of existing sewer service is filed by the person employed to perform
the work with the Wastewater Treatment Superintendent prior to the performance
of any work on such installation, extension, or alteration of sewer service. A
permit for such installation, extension, or alteration of sewer service shall
be issued by the Superintendent on the approval of such application as herein
provided, and payment of the applicable sewer system entry fee, if any, herein
established.
   (B)   Form and contents of application. The application shall be
countersigned by the owner of the property for which the installation,
extension, or alteration of sewer service is requested, or an authorized agent
thereof. Such application shall contain the legal description of the property,
the street location, the officially dedicated building number, the size and
character of the service pipe, as well as a complete and full description of
the proposed use of the premises on which such new installation, extension, or
alteration of service is requested. Any additional information required for a
full knowledge of the purpose of such service shall be clearly and fully set
forth in the application. The Superintendent or Village Administrator empowered
to withhold approval of any application is not fully set forth.
   (C)   There is established a sewer system entry fee, which shall be paid to
the village by an applicant for sewer service. A copy of fees shall be
available in the village office.
      (1)   The entry fee established shall be paid in all cases wherein a new
installation of sewer service is applied for. NEW INSTALLATION OF SEWER
SERVICE, as used in this section, means an installation of village sewer
service at a location at which no city sewer service has been previously
installed; or a resumption of sewer service at a location at which city sewer
service has been previously installed, but by reason of the destruction or
demolition of a structure on the premises, has not been used for a continuous
period of eight years prior to resumption of sewer service. However, any
resumption of sewer service which, at any location and following any period of
nonuse of sewer service at such location, will increase sewer usage so as to
increase the number of equivalent dwelling units (EDU), as that term is used
herein, at such location shall be considered a new installation of sewer
service, and shall require the payment of the full sewer service entry fee
established, notwithstanding any other provision of this section.
      (2)   The entry fee established shall be set by ordinance. Fee schedules
shall be on file with the village office.
      (3)   Such entry fee shall be paid at the time that an application for a
new installation for sewer service is filed with the Wastewater Treatment
Superintendent as provided in division (A) above.
      (4)   All income and revenue derived from or obtained from the entry fees
herein established shall be placed in the sewer enterprise capital fund and may
be transferred by ordinance to cover sewer debt service on sewer improvements.
   (D)   The applicant shall also be responsible for the payment of all costs
for materials and labor necessitated by the installation, extension, or
alteration of the sewer service applied for.
   (E)   Additional regulations regarding tap-in or entry into the village
sewer system. All tap-ins or entries to the sewer system shall be made during
the village's regular work week. No tap-in or entry to the sewer system shall
be made unless at least 24 hours' notice of the date and time of such tap-in or
entry shall have been given to the Sewer Department.
(Ord. 1987-39, passed 11-2-87; Am. Ord. 2015-09, passed 3-2-15)
§ 50.37 RESPONSIBILITY FOR COST OF SEWERS.
   It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to pay the cost of
constructing and maintaining the building sewer from the point where such
building sewer connects with the public sewer line into the building or
premises served.
§ 50.38 SEPARATE SEWER REQUIRED FOR EACH BUILDING.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except where present sewer structures are in use; and except that
where one building stands at the rear of another on an interior lot and no
private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear building through
an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the building sewer from the front
building may be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one
building sewer.
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.39 USE OF OLD BUILDING SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found on examination and test by the Superintendent or Street Foreman
to meet all the requirements of this chapter.
§ 50.40 REQUIRED PIPE MATERIALS.
   The building sanitary sewer shall be cast iron soil pipe, ASTM specification
(A74-42) or ASTM D-3034, SDR-35; vitrified clay sewer pipe, ASTM specification
(C13-44T) or equal; or other suitable material approved by the Superintendent.
Joints shall be tight and waterproof. Any part of the building sewer that is
located within ten feet of a water service pipe shall be constructed of cast
iron soil pipe with leaded joints. Cast iron pipe with leaded joints may be
required by the Superintendent where the building sewer is exposed to damage by
tree roots. If installed in filled or unstable ground, the building sewer shall
be of cast iron soil pipe, except that nonmetallic material may be accepted if
laid on a suitable concrete bed or cradle, as approved by the Superintendent.
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.41 SIZE AND SLOPE OF SEWER.
   The size and slope of the building sanitary sewer shall be subject to the
approval of the Superintendent, but in no event shall the diameter be less than
four inches. The slope of such four-inch pipe shall be not less than 1/4-inch
per foot.
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.42 ENTRANCE INTO BUILDING; GRADE AND DEPTH.
   Whenever possible the building sanitary sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. No building sewer shall be
laid parallel to or within three feet of any bearing wall which might thereby
be weakened. The depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost. The
building sewer shall be laid at uniform grade and in straight alignment insofar
as possible. Changes in direction shall be made only with properly curved pipe
and fittings.
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.43 REMOVAL OF SEWAGE WHERE GRAVITY FLOW NOT POSSIBLE.
   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit gravity
flow to the public sanitary sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drain shall
be lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the building sewer.
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.44 EXCAVATIONS.
   All excavations required for the installation of a building sanitary sewer
shall be open trench work unless otherwise approved by the Superintendent. Pipe
laying and backfill shall be performed in accordance with ASTM specification
(C12-19), except that no backfill shall be placed until the work has been
inspected.
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.45 JOINTS.
   (A)   All joints and connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Cast
iron pipe joints shall be firmly packed with oakum or hemp and filled with
molten lead, Federal Specification (QQ-1-156), not less than one inch deep.
Lead shall be run in one pouring and caulked tight. No paint, varnish, or other
coatings shall be permitted on the jointing material until after the joint has
been tested and approved.
   (B)   All joints in vitrified clay pipe or between such pipe and metals
shall be made with approved hot-poured jointing material or cement mortar as
specified below.
   (C)   Material for hot-poured joints shall not soften sufficiently to
destroy the effectiveness of the joint when subjected to a temperature of
160°F. and shall not be soluble in any of the wastes carried by the drainage
system. The joint shall first be caulked tight with jute, hemp, or similar
approved material.
   (D)   Cement joints shall be made by packing a closely twisted jute or oakum
gasket of suitable size to partly fill the annular space between the pipes. The
remaining space shall be filled and firmly compacted with mortar composed of
one part portland cement and three parts mortar sand. The material shall be
mixed dry; however, sufficient water shall be added to make the mixture
workable. Mortar which has begun to set shall not be used or retempered. Lime
putty or hydrated lime may be substituted to the extent of not more than 25% of
the volume of the portland cement that may be added.
   (E)   Other jointing materials and methods may be used only on approval of
the Superintendent.
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.46 CONNECTING BUILDING SEWER INTO PUBLIC SEWER.
   The connection of the building sanitary sewer into the public sewer shall be
made at the "Y" branch, if such branch is available at a suitable location. If
the public sewer is 12 inches in diameter or less, and no properly located "Y"
branch is available, a neat hole may be cut into the public sewer to receive
the building sewer, with entry in the downstream direction at an angle of
approximately 45 degrees. A 45 degree ell may be used to make such connection
with the spigot and inner surface of the public sewer. The invert of the
building sewer at the point of connection shall be at the same or at a higher
elevation than the invert of the public sewer. A smooth neat joint shall be
made, and the connection made secure and watertight by encasement in concrete.
Special fittings may be used for the connection only when approved by the
Superintendent.
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.47 NOTIFICATION WHEN SEWER READY FOR INSPECTION.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the village office
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the Superintendent
or his representative.
§ 50.48 SAFETY REQUIREMENTS; RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   All excavations for a building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.49 LAYING PIPE IN STREET; PERMISSION REQUIRED.
   No person or corporation shall lay any pipe or conduit for any purpose
whatsoever in any street within five feet on either side of a public sewer in
any street without the permission of the Superintendent.
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.50 SETTLEMENT OF SURFACE OVER A DRAIN; REPAIRS.
   Any settlement of the surface over a drain on any street or public way
occurring within one year after the laying of the drain shall be repaired by
the city at the expense of the drain layer, if the repairs are not made by the
drain layer within 24 hours after notice to repair is given to the drain layer
by the Superintendent.
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.51 LICENSE REQUIRED FOR CONNECTION WITH OR OPENING SEWER.
   With the exception of the owner of the building, no person shall construct a
building sewer or drain, uncover, make any connections with or openings into,
alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without having been
authorized or licensed to perform such work.
Penalty, see § 50.99
MISCELLANEOUS
§ 50.80 DAMAGE TO SEWER SYSTEM PROHIBITED.
   No person shall tamper with or damage a sewer main, building sewer, or any
structure, appurtenance, or equipment which is a part of the city's sewage
disposal system.
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.81 USER FEES.
   (A)   Purposes.
      (1)   The village has heretofore constructed a sanitary sewerage system
for the benefit of the residents of the village.
      (2)   The costs of operating and maintaining the system, as well as
paying the debt service on all bonds and notes issued to finance the
construction of and improvements to the system, should be paid by the users of
said public facility.
      (3)   It has been determined that most municipalities in Ohio have
established fees for the usage of sewerage service as the means of paying the
costs of said service.
      (4)   The establishment of a user fee would enable the Waste Water
Department of the village to become independent, to a great extent, from
external financial support.
      (5)   The Water Department of the village has been financially
independent because of a water system user fee imposed by the village.
      (6)   The establishment of a user fee for the system would eliminate the
need to use moneys in the General Fund of the village for the purposes of the
system.
      (7)   It is common practice in Ohio for municipalities to base their user
fee for sanitary sewerage service on water consumption.
   (B)   Establishments. For the reasons stated in division (A) above there is
and shall be established a user fee for the usage of the sanitary sewerage
system of the village, such user fee to be based on water consumption and
established by ordinance. Current sanitary sewerage system user fees shall be
available and on file in the office of the Village Clerk.
   (C)   Application. The sanitary sewerage system user fees shall apply to all
users of the water system of the village, except those users who are not
connected to the sanitary sewer system of the village.
(Ord. 1989-40, passed 12-19-89; Am. Ord. 1995-49, passed 12-5-95; Am. Ord.
1997-19, passed 6-3-97; Am. Ord. 2002-09, passed 3-4-01; Am. Ord. 2015-10,
passed 3-2-15; Am. Ord. 2015-11, passed 3-2-15)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined not
more than $100 for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed
on each day during or on which the violation occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
   
51.01   Scope
   
51.02   Village not liable for interruption of service
   
51.03   Control of municipal water system
   
51.04   Inspection of water system equipment
   
51.05   Application for water service
   
51.06   Responsibility for cost of installation and maintenance of service
lines and other equipment
   
51.07   Installation of service lines and house connections
   
51.08   Tapping charges
   
51.09   Inspection and test of service line
   
51.10   Purity of supply not to be impaired by cross-connections
   
51.11   Stopcocks and shutoffs
   
51.12   Breaks and leaks in service line
   
51.13   Water meters
   
51.14   Remote reading devices
   
51.15   Damaged meters repaired by Water Department at consumer's expense
   
51.16   Estimating consumption when meter fails
   
51.17   Water consumed through leak; charges
   
51.18   Billing
   
51.19   Responsibility of payment
   
51.20   Delinquent accounts
   
51.21   Turn off of water for a violation
   
51.22   Customer-disputed billing
   
51.23   Deferred payment plans
   
51.24   Delinquent bills; lien
   
51.25   Proper notice of water assessments
   
51.26   Installation of fire protection service
   
51.27   Application for connection of sprinkler systems
   
51.28   Fire hydrants
   
51.29   Pipes may not be used for general supply
   
51.30   Fire department has right to use such fixtures for fire protection
   
51.31   Malicious interference with fire hydrant or water regulators
   
51.32   Tampering
   
51.33   Utility payments made to agent
   
51.34   Backflow prevention devices
   
51.35   Landscape meters
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 SCOPE.
   (A)   The supply of water by the village shall be governed by the
requirements hereinafter provided in this chapter.
   (B)   It is stipulated as a condition of the granting of water supply by the
village that all persons now using such water supply, or who may hereafter make
application therefor, shall be considered as having agreed to be bound by all
the rules and regulations as are herein or as may hereafter be prescribed.
§ 51.02 VILLAGE NOT LIABLE FOR INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE.
   No person shall enter a claim for damage against the village or any officer
thereof for damage to any pipe, fixture, or appurtenance by reason of
interrupted water supply, or variation of pressure, or for damage of any nature
whatsoever caused by the turning off or turning on, either wholly or partially,
of the water supply for the extension, alteration, or repair of any water main
or premise supply, or for the discontinuance of the premise water supply for
the violation of any rule or regulation contained in or authorized by this
chapter. No claims will be allowed against the village on account of the
interruption of the water supply caused by the breaking of pipes or machinery,
by stoppage for repairs, or on account of fire or other emergency; and no
claims shall be allowed for any damage caused by the breaking of any pipe or
machinery.
§ 51.03 CONTROL OF MUNICIPAL WATER SYSTEM.
   The municipal water system, including but not limited to all treatment
facilities, water mains, laterals, valves, hydrants, meters, and services, is
under the exclusive control of the Village Administrator. In addition, such
control shall include all piping from the municipal mains to the point of
ultimate consumption of where the municipal water is finally discharged freely
at atmospheric pressure.
§ 51.04 INSPECTION OF WATER SYSTEM EQUIPMENT.
   The Village Administrator or authorized agents whose duty it may be to enter
upon private premises to examine meters, pipes or other fixtures used in
connection with the municipal water system shall be equipped with the proper
credential. These agents or meter readers authorized by the Village
Administrator must have free access at all reasonable hours to all parts of the
building for the purpose of inspecting meters, examining fixtures, and
observing the manner in which the water is used. In case any authorized agents
or meter reader is refused admittance to any premises or is hindered or
prevented from making such examination, the water will be turned off and not
turned on again until free access is given.
§ 51.05 APPLICATION FOR WATER SERVICE.
   (A)   All applications for water service shall be made at the village office
by the owner of the premises to be supplied, or by his authorized agent.
   (B)   No application for water service shall be allowed, and no water shall
be supplied to any applicant or consumer where it is apparent that the
applicant or consumer is indebted to the village for water supplied, work done,
material furnished, or penalties imposed. This provision shall apply whether
the indebtedness was incurred at the premises for which application is made or
at any other premises supplied by the village within or without the corporate
limits.
   (C)   The water supply will be turned off on the written request of the
owner. The property will continue to receive quarterly bills, unless the owner
agrees to the $25 shut off fee. In cases of emergency, there will be no charge
for the cut off.
   (D)   No person, firm, corporation, or any other legal entity may connect to
any municipal water line, tamper with or remove any meter or meter seal, or
insert a meter bypass without the permission of the Village Administrator under
penalty provided in R.C. § 4933.22 and also under penalty of having the water
service terminated.
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.06 RESPONSIBILITY FOR COST OF INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE OF SERVICE
LINES AND OTHER EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to pay the cost
of constructing the water service line from the point where such service line
connects with the water main into the building or premises served.
   (B)   The village shall maintain the curb cock, control cocks, valve boxes,
and the service line from the water main to the curb cock without expense to
the property owner. The service line and other equipment used in the supply of
water from the curb cock into the building or premises served shall be
maintained free of defective condition at the expense of the owner or occupant
of the property.
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.07 INSTALLATION OF SERVICE LINES AND HOUSE CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Installation of service lines shall be at least six feet apart. All
water lines shall be above the level of sewer lines by at least one foot at all
crossings and where laid in the same ditch shall be placed on a shelf at least
three times the width of the pipe and one foot above the sewer pipe. Exceptions
may be granted by the Village Administrator.
   (B)   House connections. All house connections shall be a minimum of 3/4-
inch of Type K copper tubing or polyethylene high density pipe 160# per square
inch rating, known as service pipe or municipal pipe that can be flared for use
with compression fittings.
   (C)   A separate service pipe must be laid from the main for each building,
except that a service pipe may extend from the owner's house or place of
business to his own barn or garage in the rear if desired. There shall be no
combination between the curb line and the building of two or more water supply
lines for the supply through a larger single line.
   (D)   No division of the water service of any lot or parcel of land shall be
made for the extension and independent meterage of the supply to an adjoining
lot or parcel of land without special permission of the Superintendent. No
division of a water supply service shall be made at the curb for separate
supplies therefrom for two or more separate premises having frontage on any
street or public service strip without special permission of the
Superintendent.
   (E)   Water services shall be laid on a solid ground bottom and shall have
not less than three feet of ground or sand filling. When laid in a combined
sewer and water trench, the service shall be laid on a shelf of solid ground
not nearer than 12 inches to the side of the wall of the sewer trench.
   (F)   No water service shall be laid through any trench having cinders,
rubbish, rock, or gravel fill, or any other material which may cause injury to
or disintegration of the service pipe, unless adequate means of protection are
provided by sand filling or such insulation as may be approved by the
Superintendent. Service pipes passing through curb or retaining walls shall be
adequately safeguarded by the provision of a channel space or pipe casing not
less than twice the diameter of the service pipe. The space between the service
pipe and the channel or pipe casing shall be filled and lightly caulked with
oakum, mastic cement, or other resilient material, and made impervious to
moisture.
   (G)   When a change of direction of a cast iron service is made on either
side of a curb or retaining wall, the cast iron fitting shall be securely
braced to prevent the loosening or blowing out of the lead in the caulking
joints. The bracing shall be made by concrete backing or by clamp rods
extending from the fitting bell to the next bell or fitting, or by clamp rods
securely anchored in the wall. Such clamp rods should not be less than 5/8-inch
diameter and, when buried in soil, should be protected against corrosion by
painting with tar asphaltum or other suitable means. Set screws for fastening
clamp rods to pipe shall not be permitted.
   (H)   In backfilling the pipe trench, the service pipe must be protected
against injury by carefully hand tamping the ground filling, free from hard
lumps, rocks, stones, or other injurious material, around and at least six
inches over the pipe.
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.08 TAPPING CHARGES.
   (A)   Charges for all taps shall be set by ordinance. Copies of these
charges shall be on file with the office of the Village Clerk.
   (B)   All taps must be installed by a qualified contractor. The shutoff is
made at the main in the street. The service line from the main into the
property shall be the responsibility of the customer. The municipality will
arrange for such tap to be made and a meter shall be ordered at the expense of
the customer.
   (C)   If a two-inch tap is to be made with corporation and curb stop, the
line to be tapped must be at least a 1/8-inch line. The hole to be drilled for
such a tap cannot be drilled in a smaller size line.
   (D)   All taps over two inches shall be made with sleeve and valve and
shutoff in the street at the main.
   (E)   All income and revenue derived from or obtained from the tap fees
herein established shall be placed in the water enterprise capital fund and may
be transferred by ordinance to cover water debt service on water improvements.
(Am. Ord. 2015-12, passed 3-2-15)
§ 51.09 INSPECTION AND TEST OF SERVICE LINE.
   No plumber shall cover or permit the covering of any water service line
until the installation has been inspected and approved by the Superintendent of
the Water Division. When so directed, the plumber shall subject the piping to a
hydrostatic test in the presence of the Inspector.
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.10 PURITY OF SUPPLY NOT TO BE IMPAIRED BY CROSS-CONNECTIONS.
   Every person owning or occupying premises receiving its water supply from
the city shall maintain such water supply free from any connection, either of a
direct or of an indirect nature, with a water supply from a foreign source or
by any manner of connection with any fixture or appliance whereby water from a
foreign supply or the waste from any fixture, appliance, waste, or soil pipe
may flow, be siphoned, or pumped into the piping of the water system. All
existing private fire protection systems having cross-connection with private
supplies must maintain the double check and gate valves free from leakage or
defect of any nature.
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.11 STOPCOCKS AND SHUTOFFS.
   The stopcocks and shutoffs at the curb shall be covered with a standard cast
iron box which shall be placed two feet inside the curb line in front of the
premises supplied, and in all cases shall be set flush with the surface of the
sidewalk or ground. The same shall be kept free from dirt or other obstacles
that would interfere with the shutting off or turning on of water. Each house
or building shall have a separate and distinct stopcock, located outside the
premises, and on public right-of-way adjoining such premises.
§ 51.12 BREAKS AND LEAKS IN SERVICE LINE.
   Whenever a break or leak occurs in a service line between the main and the
curb box the Village Administrator or his authorized agents will repair this at
its own expense as soon as possible, but if the break or leaks occurs back of
the curb box at any place on the premises supplied, the property owner shall
have the break or leak repaired at his own expenses. Failure to make repairs
within 30 days may result in water being turned off.
§ 51.13 WATER METERS.
   (A)   Every water service shall be equipped with a water meter secured
through the Water Works Department. Water meters may be new or used and must be
tested and approved by the Village Administrator or his authorized agents. No
meter smaller than 3/4-inch shall be installed. The cost of furnishing water
meters is the responsibility of the property owner. All water meters are the
property of the municipality. Two inch and larger meters shall be of the
compound type.
   (B)   Installation and use of quick operating or lever type hydrants or
valves which cause excessive water hammer on service branches or on main lines
is prohibited.
   (C)   Meter readings will be taken semi-annually and as near the same date
each year as possible. Meters must be installed in such manner and place that
will make them readily accessible for reading. If the water meter reader is
unable to obtain a reading by reason of the meter being out of order or unable
to gain entrance to the meter, an estimated charge will be made on previous
readings or similar services of the same use of water. Should the meter not be
put in order or free access be made to read same in a reasonable time, the
water may be shut off until such repairs are made and free access is provided
and reported to the office of the Village Administrator.
   (D)   When a service line is replaced, a new water meter shall be installed
outside the structure at the owner's cost.
(Am. Ord. 1986-11, passed 5-6-86)
§ 51.14 REMOTE READING DEVICES.
   Remote reading devices required by the municipality shall be attached to the
meter and shall be placed through the house or building foundation or structure
and attached to the outside of the house or building in accordance with the
instructions of the Village Administrator or his authorized agents. The expense
of such installation shall be the responsibility of the property owner.
§ 51.15 DAMAGED METERS REPAIRED BY WATER DEPARTMENT AT CONSUMER'S EXPENSE.
   Meters damaged by abuse, misuse, accident, freezing, or any act of
carelessness by others will be repaired by the Water Department at the expense
of consumer or owner.
§ 51.16 ESTIMATING CONSUMPTION WHEN METER FAILS.
   If a meter fails to register, the consumption of water will be estimated on
the basis of what the consumption was for a period when water was supplied
under similar conditions and was correctly metered.
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.17 WATER CONSUMED THROUGH LEAK; CHARGES.
   All water that passes through a meter shall be charged for whether used or
wasted or lost by leakage, except that the Village Administrator may make such
abatement as seems to him right and proper in case of a leak, when it does not
appear that the owner or user could be reasonably expected to know of the leak,
or to have had a fair chance to stop the same. The reduction shall not exceed
one-half of the excess bill.
§ 51.18 BILLING.
   (A)   The water service rates shall be as set, from time to time, by
legislative authority. Bills will be mailed on a quarterly basis and will be
determined by two intermittent annual readings and two estimated bills.
   (B)   For construction purposes, a flat rate of $25 shall be required for
house building for each six-month period or part thereof.
   (C)   The above charges, except where metered, shall be payable when the
tapping permit is issued.
   (D)   All consumers located outside the corporation limits shall have
applied to the regular charges listed herein a 25% additional charge to
minimum, metered usage tap fees, and service charges.
§ 51.19 RESPONSIBILITY OF PAYMENT.
   Owners of the property are responsible for all Glendale utilities (water and
sewage fees). Effective August 2, 1999, all new accounts involving tenants
leasing from landlords, the account shall be in the name of the landlord and
the landlord shall be responsible and directly billed each quarter for said
utilities. Existing accounts, established prior to August 9, 1999 and are in
the name of the tenants, may continue until such time as they are terminated,
providing their accounts are kept current and in conformance with all other
utility guidelines and ordinances. All unpaid accounts for water shall require
termination of water service and collection of past due fees via a tax lien on
the property as prescribed in this chapter.
(Ord. 1999-24, passed 8-16-99)
§ 51.20 DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   All unpaid water rents become due and payable on the twentieth day of
the month of issue after which a 10% penalty is added to the original charge.
Failure to receive notice by mail will not excuse customers from paying water
bills.
   (B)   After the thirty-first day, late notices will be mailed to customers
advising them they are in danger of having their water service terminated. Ten
days after the thirty-first day, all delinquent accounts will be notified by
mail that the respective customer will have his water service terminated if
payment is not received within ten days.
(Am. Ord. 1984-11, passed 4-2-84)
§ 51.21 TURN OFF OF WATER FOR A VIOLATION.
   In case it becomes necessary to turn off the water on account of violation
of any rule or regulation of the Water Department, a charge of $25 will be made
for turning water off. Service will be restored during normal working hours.
§ 51.22 CUSTOMER-DISPUTED BILLING.
   (A)   A utility customer may dispute the correctness of all or part of the
quarterly billing charged for utility service, in accordance with the procedure
set forth in this section. The utility customer aggrieved by an error in the
quarterly billing shall notify the billing office within the time permitted;
otherwise, the right to dispute the billing shall be deemed waived. A utility
customer who has disputed all or part of a billing, pursuant to this section,
shall not be entitled to dispute these amounts when carried forward as part of
a subsequent billing.
   (B)   The procedure to resolve disputed billing charges shall be as follows.
      (1)   A customer aggrieved by a quarterly billing shall notify the
utility billing office in writing, within 14 calendar days from the date the
billing was issued. The notice shall state the portion of the billing amount
which is in dispute, and set forth the reasons the customer believes he is not
obligated to pay as billed.
      (2)   The customer's first procedure is to request a check of the water
meter. If the meter is found to be registering low or in favor of customer, the
customer will not be charged more than the original bill. The customer would be
required to pay the $10 inspection fee for the meter.
      (3)   If on examination and testing it is found that such meter will not
register within the tolerance limit of the following percentages of water
through it, namely, 2% over or under on meter size 3/4-inch on flows of one to
20 gallons per minute, then it shall be considered inaccurate and no charge for
testing will be made and the water charges will be adjusted on the basis of
this test.
§ 51.23 DEFERRED PAYMENT PLANS.
   (A)   A customer who temporarily becomes unable to timely and completely pay
a charge when due may contact the billing office and file a written application
for the establishment of a deferred payment plan to enable the customer to pay
the account and avoid termination of utility service. The billing clerk shall
review all applications to determine if the customer is eligible for a deferred
payment plan and make a recommendation to the Village Administrator. Within
five working days, the Village Administrator will rule on the recommendation.
   (B)   The following classes of customers are ineligible to request deferred
payment plans.
      (1)   A customer whose utility service has been terminated for non-
payment of all or part of a monthly billing, or other amount owed the utility,
until all arrearages have been fully and completely paid.
      (2)   A customer with an account that is otherwise current who has
defaulted in his obligation to make timely payments under a prior deferred
payment plan within one year of the customer's current request.
      (3)   A customer who is currently making installment and surcharge
payments under a prior deferred payment plan.
   (C)   When an application for a deferred payment plan is received from an
ineligible customer, the utility billing office shall notify the customer of
the reason the customer is ineligible. The utility billing office shall proceed
as if the customer had not made the request.
   (D)   An eligible customer, whose request is timely filed, shall be
scheduled for an appointment with a representative, shall discuss the matter
with the customer, and shall determine a suitable deferred payment plan. The
plan shall become effective on the signing of the agreement by the utility
representative and the customer, which shall be executed within five days after
its submission to the customer. A failure to execute a deferred payment
agreement within this time shall permit the utility to act as if it were not
submitted.
   (E)   No deferred payment plan shall be established which does not meet the
following minimum requirements.
      (1)   An initial payment of at least 25% of the outstanding balance
covered under the deferred payment plan, payable at the time of the customer's
written acceptance of the deferred payment agreement.
      (2)   A maximum of five subsequent monthly installment payments of at
least 15% of the outstanding balance under the deferred payment plan; each
installment due 30 days after payment of the prior payment.
      (3)   A monthly surcharge of 1% of the customer's outstanding balance
under the deferred payment account, payable at the time each installment is
due.
      (4)   An agreement between the customer and the utility, that the
customer's failure to make timely payments in accordance with the deferred
payment plan, shall subject the customer to summary termination of utility
services within 72 hours after the default under the plan.
§ 51.24 DELINQUENT BILLS; LIEN.
   Water bills levied by or pursuant to this chapter that become delinquent as
provided by the terms of these sections shall be made a lien upon the premises
served and if not paid within 60 days may certified to the County Auditor who
shall place the same on the tax duplicate of the county with interest and
penalties allowed by law and to be collected as other taxes are collected.
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.25 PROPER NOTICE OF WATER ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   Whenever in these rules it is stated that notice will be given to the
consumer, it signifies that the notice left on or sent to the premises where
water is consumed shall be sufficient notification.
   (B)   The municipality tries to give proper notice of water assessments but
by law cannot guarantee the delivery of water charges by mail. Owners buying or
selling properties should see that proper transfer of ownership is made at the
office of the Village Administrator and water charges paid to date of transfer
of title. The municipality will make every possible effort to collect water
charges or assessments as promptly as the nature and volume of its business
permit but no consumer or owner of property shall be relieved from an
obligation for assessments that may be unpaid through failure of the
municipality to make collections as provided by its rules.
§ 51.26 INSTALLATION OF FIRE PROTECTION SERVICE.
   The installation of fire protection service connections to supply water to
stand pipes and sprinkler systems for fire protection only shall be permitted
when application and plans for such service have been submitted and approved
and the classification of this service determined by the Village Administrator.
§ 51.27 APPLICATION FOR CONNECTION OF SPRINKLER SYSTEMS.
   Applicants for connection with the municipal mains for the purpose of
obtaining a supply of water for sprinkler systems must first furnish plans and
specifications to the same to the Village Administrator for his approval. Plans
or blue prints showing the fire system as completed, with all measurements,
outlets, detector check, and so on, must be filed with the office of the
Village Administrator before water will be allowed to supply the system from
mains of the municipal water system.
§ 51.28 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   No person, except a duly authorized municipal employee, the municipal
engineers, or agent of the municipality when acting in accordance with
municipal responsibilities and with consent of the Village Administrator, or a
member of the Village Fire Department shall open any fire hydrant except in
accordance with the procedure hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Any person wishing to open a fire hydrant, except as provided in
division (A) hereof, shall obtain permission from the Village Administrator in
advance. This permission shall be on a written form supplied by the Village
Administrator which shall specify the name and address of the applicant, the
time, date, location, purpose, and length of time the hydrant shall be open and
such other information as the Village Administrator shall require.
   (C)   Any member of the Village Fire Department may open any municipal fire
hydrant provided that the opening of such hydrants is part of duly authorized
fire departmental training exercises or in the act of maintaining or testing,
flowing or flushing of the hydrant. Further, notice of such training exercises
must be given by the Fire Chief to the Village Administrator at least one week
prior to such flowing, flushing or testing exercises along with a list of the
areas within the municipality where such activity is to take place. A duly
authorized Fire Department training exercise is understood to mean an exercise
authorized by the Fire Chief. There is no fee assessed by the municipality for
such opening or for water used.
   (D)   The minimum fee for opening a fire hydrant shall be $25 provided that
the Village Administrator shall have the authority to collect an additional fee
equal to the retail cost of the water used in those situations where in excess
of $25 of water is consumed.
   (E)   The applicant shall be responsible for any damage to persons or
property attributable to the opening of any hydrant and shall hold the
municipal harmless therefrom.
   (F)   The Village Administrator shall be authorized to refuse permission to
open a hydrant when weather or water supply conditions make it inappropriate.
(Am. Ord. 2013-35, passed 1-6-14)
Cross-reference:
   Malicious interference with fire hydrant, see §
51.31
§ 51.29 PIPES MAY NOT BE USED FOR GENERAL SUPPLY.
   Pipes intended for fire protection shall not be tapped or used for the
general supply of any building, structure, or premises.
(Ord. 2013-35, passed 1-6-14)
§ 51.30 FIRE DEPARTMENT HAS RIGHT TO USE SUCH FIXTURES FOR FIRE PROTECTION.
   In case of fire, any Fire Department shall have the right to use any
hydrant, hose pipe, or other fixture wholly or in part from any fixture used
for fire protection.
§ 51.31 MALICIOUS INTERFERENCE WITH FIRE HYDRANT OR WATER REGULATORS.
   Malicious interference with a fire hydrant or other water regulator with
intent to cause transmission of water is violative of R.C. § 4933.22. Anyone
engaged in such activity within the municipality will be subject to the
provisions of R.C. § 4933.22 and the applicable penalty provisions of R.C. §
4933.99.
§ 51.32 TAMPERING.
   No person shall tamper with or cause damage to a water main, lateral,
service line, stop, valve, box, manhole, fire hydrant, meter, or to any other
part of the water system. No person, firm, partnership, corporation, or other
legal entity shall put filler, animal matter, shavings, dirt, or any other
substance into any source of municipal water supply.
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.33 UTILITY PAYMENTS MADE TO AGENT.
   If a customer makes payment on or before the due date of a bill to an agent
designated or authorized by the public utility to accept payment, the payment
shall not be considered past due regardless of whether or not it is received in
the company offices by the due date.
(R.C. § 4905.75)
§ 51.34 BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   (A)   If, in the judgement of the Superintendent of Utilities, an approved
backflow prevention device is necessary for the safety of the public water
system, the Superintendent of Utilities will give written notice to the water
consumer to install such an approved device within 30 days. The water consumer
shall, at his own expense, install such an approved device at a location and in
a manner approved by the Superintendent of Utilities and shall have inspections
and tests made of such approved devices as required by the Superintendent of
Utilities.
   (B)   No person, firm or corporation shall establish or permit to be
established or maintain or permit to be maintained any connection whereby a
private, auxiliary or emergency water supply other than the regular public
water supply of the village may enter the supply or distributing system of said
municipality, unless such private auxiliary or emergency water supply and the
method of connection and use of such supply shall have been approved by the
Superintendent of Utilities of the village and by the Ohio Environmental
Protection Agency.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Superintendent of Utilities to cause
surveys and investigations to be made of industrial and other properties served
by the public water supply where actual or potential hazards to the public
water supply may exist. Such surveys and investigations shall be made a matter
of public record and shall be repeated as often as the Superintendent of
Utilities shall deem necessary.
   (D)   The Superintendent of Utilities of the village or his or its duly
authorized representative shall have the right to enter at any reasonable time,
upon reasonable notice, any property served by a connection to the public water
supply or distribution system of the village for the purpose of inspecting the
piping system or systems thereof. On demand the owner, lessees or occupants of
any property so served shall furnish to the Superintendent of Utilities any
information which he may request regarding the piping system or systems or
water use on such property. The refusal of such information, when demanded,
shall, within the discretion of the Superintendent of Utilities, be deemed
evidence of the presence of improper connections as provided in this section.
   (E)   The Superintendent of Utilities of the village is hereby authorized
and directed to discontinue, after reasonable notice to the occupant thereof,
the water service to any property wherein any connection in violation of the
provisions of this section is known to exist, and to take such other
precautionary measures as he may deem necessary to eliminate any danger or
contamination of the public water supply distribution mains. Water service to
such property shall not be restored until such conditions shall have been
eliminated or corrected in compliance with the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 1992-20, passed 4-6-92)
§ 51.35 LANDSCAPE METERS.
   (A)   The Water Department shall, at the request of any residential property
owner and upon completion of the proper application process and payment by the
property owner of the current associated fees, permit the tapping of the
existing residential service line, prior to the existing water meter, for the
installation of a landscape meter and irrigation service line per village
specifications and at the owner’s cost for recording such water irrigation
usage that does not directly enter the sanitary sewer system.
      (1)   In the event the landscape meter is installed using the existing
line, a permit fee of $200 shall be required to install said meter to an
irrigation service line off of the residential service line.
   (B)   If conditions exist that make tapping the residential service line
unfeasible, the residential property owner may tap the water main for the
purposes of installing an irrigation system and landscape meter and shall pay
the appropriate tap fee for a new service line in accordance with §
51.08. A new water meter shall be installed per village specifications at the
property owner’s cost.
   (C)   A backflow prevention device shall be installed at the expense of the
property owner per §
51.34(A). Inspections are to be performed in accordance with state and local
plumbing code.
   (D)   Water use measured by a landscape meter shall not be subject to
sanitary sewerage user fees.
   (E)   Inspection of all work shall be performed by the Water Department
designee, with applicable fees for said inspection to be paid by the property
owner.
(Ord. 2014-41, passed 11-3-14)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined not
more than $100 for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed
on each day during or on which the violation occurs or continues. In the event
of a continuing violation, the Superintendent may cause the discontinuance of
water service to the premises of the violator until the violation has ceased.
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter
         
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
71.   LICENSING PROVISIONS
         
72.   TRAFFIC RULES
         
73.   MOTOR VEHICLE CRIMES
         
74.   EQUIPMENT AND LOADS
         
75.   BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
         
76.   PARKING REGULATIONS
         
77.   SCHOOL BUSES
         
78.   PEDESTRIANS
         
79.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
         
80.   OPERATION, PARKING OF VEHICLES IN VILLAGE PARKS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Scope of title
   
70.03   Compliance with order of police officer
   
70.04   Prohibition against resisting traffic officer
   
70.05   Emergency vehicles to proceed cautiously past red or stop signal
   
70.051   Exceptions generally; emergency, public safety and coroner vehicles
exempt
   
70.06   Persons riding or driving animals upon roadways
   
70.07   Prohibitions on use of freeways
   
70.08   Use of private property for vehicular travel
   
70.09   Names of persons damaging real property by operation of vehicle to be
provided to owner
   
70.095   Removal of vehicles after accidents
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.10   Obeying traffic-control devices
   
70.11   Signal lights
   
70.12   Signals over reversible lanes
   
70.13   Pedestrian-control signals
   
70.14   (Reserved)
   
70.15   Prohibition against unauthorized signs and signals
   
70.16   Prohibition against alteration, defacing, or removal
   
70.17   Unnecessary horn blowing
   
70.18   Owner's responsibility
   
70.19   Permitting or authorizing violations
   
70.20   Throwing objects at or from vehicle
   
70.21   Direction of traffic
   
70.22   Traffic-control devices; authorization
   
70.23   Crosswalks; authorization
   
70.24   Signal preemption devices; prohibitions
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Traffic law photo-monitoring devices, state regulations, see R.C. §§
4511.092 et seq.
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided, the definitions set forth in R.C. §
4501.01 shall apply to this title and the penal laws of the municipality.
   (B)   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL TRACTOR. Every self-propelled vehicle designed or used for
drawing other vehicles or wheeled machinery, but having no provision for
carrying loads independently of such other vehicles, and used principally for
agricultural purposes.
   ALLEY. A street or highway intended to provide access to the rear or side of
lots or buildings in urban districts, and not intended for the purpose of
through vehicular traffic, and any street or highway that has been declared an
ALLEY by the Legislative Authority of the municipality in which the street or
highway is located.
   ARTERIAL STREET. Any United States or state numbered route, controlled-
access highway, or other major radial or circumferential street or highway
designated by local authorities within their respective jurisdictions as part
of a major arterial system of streets or highways.
   BEACON. A highway traffic signal with one or more signal sections that
operate in a flashing mode.
   BICYCLE. Every device, other than a device that is designed solely for use
as a play vehicle by a child, that is propelled solely by human power upon
which a person may ride, and that has two or more wheels, any of which is more
than 14 inches in diameter.
   BUS. Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than nine passengers,
and used for the transportation of persons other than in a ridesharing
arrangement, and every motor vehicle, automobile for hire, or funeral car,
other than a taxicab or motor vehicle used in a ridesharing arrangement,
designed and used for the transportation of persons for compensation.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory fronting upon a street or highway,
including the street or highway, between successive intersections within the
municipality, where 50% or more of the frontage between successive
intersections is occupied by buildings in use for business, or within or
outside the municipality where 50% or more of the frontage for a distance of
300 feet or more is occupied by buildings in use for business, and the
character of the territory is indicated by official traffic-control devices.
   CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINE. A motor vehicle that is designed to carry nine or
fewer passengers and is operated for hire pursuant to a prearranged contract
for the transportation of passengers on public roads and highways along a route
under the control of the person hiring the vehicle and not over a defined and
regular route. “Prearranged contract” means an agreement, made in advance of
boarding, to provide transportation from a specific location in an chauffeured
limousine. CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINE does not include any vehicle that is used
exclusively in the business of funeral directing.
(R.C. § 4501.01(LL))
   CHILD DAY-CARE CENTER and TYPE A FAMILY DAY-CARE HOME. These terms shall
have the same meanings as set forth in R.C. § 5104.01.
   COMMERCIAL TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle having motive power designed or used
for drawing other vehicles, and not so constructed as to carry any load
thereon, or designed or used for drawing other vehicles while carrying a
portion of the other vehicles, or the load thereon, or both.
   CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every street or highway in respect to which
owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal right or
access to or from the same except at certain points only and in a manner as may
be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over the street or
highway.
   CROSSWALK.
      (1)   That part of a roadway at intersections ordinarily included within
the real or projected prolongation of property lines and curb lines or, in the
absence of curbs, the edges of the traversable roadway;
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere,
distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the
surface;
      (3)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this definition, there
shall not be a crosswalk where the Legislative Authority has placed signs
indicating no crossing.
   DRIVER or OPERATOR. Any person who drives or is in actual physical control
of a vehicle.
   DUMPSTER. Any container designed or used for the collection and hauling of
waste or debris, including but not limited to roll-off containers or boxes and
bin containers.
   ELECTRIC BICYCLE. Means a "class 1 electric bicycle", a "class 2 electric
bicycle", or a "class 3 electric bicycle" as defined below.
      (1)   CLASS 1 ELECTRIC BICYCLE. Means a bicycle that is equipped with
fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that
provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling and ceases to provide
assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of 20 miles per hour.
      (2)   CLASS 2 ELECTRIC BICYCLE. Means a bicycle that is equipped with
fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that may
provide assistance regardless of whether the rider is pedaling and is not
capable of providing assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of 20 miles
per hour.
      (3)   CLASS 3 ELECTRIC BICYCLE. Means a bicycle that is equipped with
fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that
provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling and ceases to provide
assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of 28 miles per hour.
   EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Emergency vehicles of municipal, township or county
departments or public utility corporations, when identified as such as required
by law, the Director of Public Safety, or local authorities, and motor vehicles
when commandeered by a police officer.
   EXPLOSIVES. Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is intended for
the purpose of producing an explosion that contains any oxidizing and
combustible units or other ingredients in such proportions, quantities, or
packing that an ignition by fire, by friction, by concussion, by percussion, or
by a detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause a sudden
generation of highly heated gases, such that the resultant gaseous pressures
are capable of producing destructive effects on contiguous objects, or of
destroying life or limb. Manufactured articles shall not be held to be
explosives when the individual units contain explosives in limited quantities
of such nature or in such packing that it is impossible to procure a
simultaneous or a destructive explosion of the units, to the injury of life,
limb, or property by fire, friction, concussion, percussion, or by a detonator,
such as fixed ammunition for small arms, firecrackers, or safety fuse matches.
   EXPRESSWAY. A divided arterial highway for through traffic with full or
partial control of access with an excess of 50% of all crossroads separated in
grade.
   FLAMMABLE LIQUID. Any liquid which has a flash point of 70°F or less, as
determined by a tagliabue or equivalent closed cup test device.
   FREEWAY. A divided multi-lane highway for through traffic with crossroads
separated in grade and with full control of access.
   FUNERAL ESCORT VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle, including a funeral hearse, while
used to facilitate the movement of a funeral procession.
   GROSS WEIGHT. The weight of a vehicle plus the weight of any load thereon.
   GROSS WEIGHT. The weight of a vehicle plus the weight of any load thereon.
   HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE VEHICLE. A vehicle used in snow and ice removal or road
surface maintenance, including a snow plow, traffic line striper, road sweeper,
mowing machine, asphalt distributing vehicle, or other such vehicle designed
for use in specific highway maintenance activities.
   HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SIGNAL. A power-operated traffic control device by which
traffic is warned or directed to take some specific action. The term does not
include a power-operated sign, steadily illuminated pavement marker, warning
light, or steady burning electric lamp.
   HYBRID BEACON. A type of beacon that is intentionally placed in a dark mode
between periods of operation where no indications are displayed and, when in
operation, displays both steady and flashing traffic control signal
indications.
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of
two highways that join one another at, or approximately at, right angles, or
the area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways that join at
any other angle might come into conflict. The junction of an alley or driveway
with a roadway or highway does not constitute an intersection unless the
roadway or highway at the junction is controlled by a traffic control device.
      (2)   If a highway includes two roadways that are 30 feet or more apart,
then every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting
highway constitutes a separate intersection. If both intersecting highways
include two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then every crossing of any two
roadways of such highways constitutes a separate intersection.
      (3)   At a location controlled by a traffic control signal, regardless of
the distance between the separate intersections as described in division (2) of
this definition:
         (a)   If a stop line, yield line, or crosswalk has not been designated
on the roadway within the median between the separate intersections, the two
intersections and the roadway and median constitute one intersection.
         (b)   Where a stop line, yield line, or crosswalk line is designated
on the roadway on the intersection approach, the area within the crosswalk and
any area beyond the designated stop line or yield line constitute part of the
intersection.
         (c)   Where a crosswalk is designated on a roadway on the departure
from the intersection, the intersection includes the area that extends to the
far side of the crosswalk.
   LANED HIGHWAY. A highway the roadway of which is divided into two or more
clearly marked lanes for vehicular traffic.
   LOCAL AUTHORITIES. Every county, municipal, and other local board or body
having authority to adopt police regulations under the Constitution and laws of
this state.
   LOW-SPEED MICROMOBILITY DEVICE. Means a device weighing less than 100 pounds
that has handlebars, is propelled by an electric motor or human power, and has
an attainable speed on a paved level surface of not more than 20 miles per hour
when propelled by the electric motor.
   MEDIAN. The area between two roadways of a divided highway, measured from
edge of traveled way to edge of traveled way, but excluding turn lanes. The
width of a median may be different between intersections, between interchanges,
and at opposite approaches of the same intersection.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle propelled or drawn by power other than muscular
power or power collected from overhead electric trolley wires, except motorized
bicycles, electric bicycles, road rollers, traction engines, power shovels,
power cranes and other equipment used in construction work, and not designed
for or employed in general highway transportation, hole-digging machinery,
well-drilling machinery, ditch-digging machinery, farm machinery, and trailers
designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage
and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or
highway for a distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of 25 miles per
hour or less.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle, other than a tractor, having a seat or
saddle for the use of the operator and designed to travel on not more than
three wheels in contact with the ground, including, but not limited to, motor
vehicles known as “motor-driven cycle,” “motor scooter,” “autocycle,” “cab-
enclosed motorcycle,” or “motorcycle” without regard to weight or brake
horsepower.
   MOTORIZED BICYCLE OR MOPED. Any vehicle having either two tandem wheels or
one wheel in the front and two wheels in the rear, that may be pedaled, and
that is equipped with a helper motor of not more than 50 cubic centimeters
piston displacement that produces not more than one brake horsepower, and is
capable of propelling the vehicle at a speed of no greater than 20 miles per
hour on a level surface. The terms do not include an electric bicycle.
   MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIR. Any self-propelled vehicle designed for, and used by,
a person with a disability and that is incapable of a speed in excess of eight
miles per hour.
   MOVING VAN. A truck with an enclosed cargo space generally used for the
moving of residential or commercial property from one location to another.
   MULTI-WHEEL AGRICULTURAL TRACTOR. A type of agricultural tractor that has
two or more wheels or tires on each side of one axle at the rear of the
tractor, is designed or used for drawing other vehicles or wheeled machinery,
has no provision for carrying loads independently of the drawn vehicles or
machinery, and is used principally for agricultural purposes.
   OPERATE. To cause or have caused movement of a vehicle.
   OWNER. Any person having a legal or equitable interest in property or
otherwise having control of the property.
   PARKING or PARKED. The standing of a vehicle upon a street, road, alley,
highway or public ground, whether accompanied or unaccompanied by a driver.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any natural person afoot. The term includes a personal delivery
device as defined in R.C. § 4511.513 unless the context clearly suggests
otherwise.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, partnership, association or corporation.
   POLE TRAILER. Every trailer or semitrailer attached to the towing vehicle by
means of a reach, pole, or by being boomed or otherwise secured to the towing
vehicle, and ordinarily used for transporting long or irregular shaped loads
such as poles, pipes, or structural members capable, generally, of sustaining
themselves as beams between the supporting connections.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic, or
to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
   PORTABLE STORAGE UNIT (PSU). Any container transported to a designated
location for storage or moving purposes (typically known as pods, MODS, and the
like).
   PREDICATE MOTOR VEHICLE OR TRAFFIC OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.03, 4511.051, 4511.12, 4511.132,
4511.16, 4511.20, 4511.201, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.213, 4511.22, 4511.23,
4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32,
4511.33, 4511.34, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40,
4511.41, 4511.42, 4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.432, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.451,
4511.452, 4511.46, 4511.47, 4511.48, 4511.481, 4511.49, 4511.50, 4511.511,
4511.53, 4511.54, 4511.55, 4511.56, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59, 4511.60,
4511.61, 4511.64, 4511.66, 4511.661, 4511.68, 4511.70, 4511.701, 4511.71,
4511.711, 4511.712, 4511.713, 4511.72, 4511.73, 4511.763, 4511.771, 4511.78, or
4511.84;
      (2)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.17(A)(2), 4511.51(A) through (D), or
4511.74(A);
      (3)   A violation of any provision of R.C. §§ 4511.01 through 4511.76 for
which no penalty otherwise is provided in the section that contains the
provision violated;
      (4)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.214;
      (5)   A violation of a municipal ordinance that is substantially
equivalent to any section or provision set forth or described in division (1),
(2), (3), or (4) of this definition.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot or parcel of land, easement or public way, including
any structures thereon.
   PRIVATE ROAD OPEN TO PUBLIC TRAVEL. A private toll road or road, including
any adjacent sidewalks that generally run parallel to the road, within a
shopping center, airport, sports arena, or other similar business or recreation
facility that is privately owned but where the public is allowed to travel
without access restrictions. The term includes a gated toll road but does not
include a road within a private gated property where access is restricted at
all times, a parking area, a driving aisle within a parking area, or a private
grade crossing.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership used for
vehicular travel by the owner, and those having express or implied permission
from the owner, but not by other persons.
   PROPERTY. Has the same meaning as "premises" as that term is defined herein.
   PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE. Any of the following:
      (1)   Ambulances, including private ambulance companies under contract to
a municipality, township, or county, and private ambulances and nontransport
vehicles bearing license plates issued under R.C. § 4503.49;
      (2)   Motor vehicles used by public law enforcement officers or other
persons sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state;
      (3)   Any motor vehicle when properly identified as required by the
Director of Public Safety, when used in response to fire emergency calls or to
provide emergency medical service to ill or injured persons, and when operated
by a duly qualified person who is a member of a volunteer rescue service or a
volunteer fire department, and who is on duty pursuant to the rules or
directives of that service. The State Fire Marshal shall be designated by the
Director of Public Safety as the certifying agency for all public safety
vehicles described herein;
      (4)   Vehicles used by fire departments, including motor vehicles when
used by volunteer firefighters responding to emergency calls in the fire
department service when identified as required by the Director of Public
Safety;
      (5)   Any vehicle used to transport or provide emergency medical service
to an ill or injured person, when certified as a PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE, shall
be considered such a vehicle when transporting an ill or injured person to a
hospital, regardless of whether such vehicle has already passed a hospital;
      (6)   Vehicles used by the Motor Carrier Enforcement Unit for the
enforcement of orders and rules of the Public Utilities Commission as specified
in R.C. § 5503.34.
   PUBLIC WAY. Any street, alley or similar parcel of land essentially
unobstructed from the ground to the sky, which is deeded, dedicated or
otherwise permanently appropriated the public for public use.
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property operating upon rails placed
principally on a private right-of-way.
   RAILROAD SIGN OR SIGNAL. Any sign, signal, or device erected by authority of
a public body or official or by a railroad, and intended to give notice of the
presence of railroad tracks or the approach of a railroad train.
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine or an electric or other motor, with or
without cars coupled thereto, operated by a railroad.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory, not comprising a business district,
fronting on a street or highway, including the street or highway, where, for a
distance of 300 feet or more, the frontage is improved with residences or
residences and buildings in use for business.
   RIDESHARING ARRANGEMENT. Includes the transportation of persons in a motor
vehicle where the transportation is incidental to another purpose of a
volunteer driver, and includes RIDESHARING ARRANGEMENTS known as carpools,
vanpools, and buspools.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Either of the following, as the context requires:
      (1)   The right of a vehicle or pedestrian to proceed uninterruptedly in
a lawful manner in the direction in which it, he or she is moving, in
preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching from a different
direction into its, his or her path;
      (2)   A general term denoting land, property, or the interest therein,
usually in the configuration of a strip, acquired for or devoted to
transportation purposes. When used in this context, RIGHT-OF-WAY includes the
roadway, shoulders or berm, ditch, and slopes extending to the right-of-way
limits under the control of the state or local authority.
   ROAD SERVICE VEHICLE. Wreckers, utility repair vehicles, and state, county,
and municipal service vehicles equipped with visual signals by means of
flashing, rotating, or oscillating lights.
   ROADWAY. That portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel, except the berm or shoulder. If a highway includes two or
more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY means any roadway separately, but not
all the roadways collectively.
   RURAL MAIL DELIVERY VEHICLE. Every vehicle used to deliver United States
mail on a rural mail delivery route.
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians, and protected or marked or indicated by adequate
signs so as to be plainly visible at all times.
   SCHOOL BUS. Every bus designed for carrying more than nine passengers which
is owned by a public, private, or governmental agency or institution of
learning, and operated for the transportation of children to or from a school
session or a school function, or owned by a private person and operated for
compensation for the transportation of children to or from a school session or
a school function; provided SCHOOL BUS does not include a bus operated by a
municipally owned transportation system, a mass transit company operating
exclusively within the territorial limits of a municipality, or within such
limits and the territorial limits of municipalities immediately contiguous to
the municipality, nor a common passenger carrier certified by the Public
Utilities Commission unless the bus is devoted exclusively to the
transportation of children to and from a school session or a school function,
and SCHOOL BUS does not include a van or bus used by a licensed child day-care
center or Type A Family Day-Care Home to transport children from the child day-
care center or Type A Family Day-Care Home to a school if the van or bus does
not have more than 15 children in the van or bus at any time.
   SEMITRAILER. Every vehicle designed or used for carrying persons or property
with another and separate motor vehicle so that in operation a part of its own
weight or that of its load, or both, rests upon and is carried by another
vehicle.
   SHARED-USE PATH. A bikeway outside the traveled way and physically separated
from motorized vehicular traffic by an open space or barrier and either within
the highway right-of-way or within an independent alignment. A shared-use path
also may be used by pedestrians, including skaters, joggers, users of manual
and motorized wheelchairs, and other authorized motorized and non-motorized
users.
   SHARED-USE PATH. A bikeway outside the traveled way and physically separated
from motorized vehicular traffic by an open space or barrier and either within
the highway right-of-way or within an independent alignment. A shared-use path
also may be used by pedestrians, including skaters, joggers, users of manual
and motorized wheelchairs, and other authorized motorized and non- motorized
users. A SHARED-USE PATH does not include any trail that is intended to be used
primarily for mountain biking, hiking, equestrian use, or other similar uses,
or any other single track or natural surface trail that has historically been
reserved for non-motorized use.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
line of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STATE HIGHWAY. A highway under the jurisdiction of the Department of
Transportation, outside the limits of municipalities, provided that the
authority conferred upon the Director of Transportation in R.C. § 5511.01 to
erect state highway route markers and signs directing traffic shall not be
modified by R.C. §§ 4511.01 through 4511.79 and 4511.99.
   STATE ROUTE. Every highway which is designated with an official state route
number and so marked.
   STOP INTERSECTION. Any intersection at one or more entrances of which stop
signs are erected.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
open to the use of the public as a thoroughfare for purposes of vehicular
travel.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every street or highway as provided in R.C. § 4511.65, or a
substantially similar municipal ordinance.
   THRUWAY. A through highway whose entire roadway is reserved for through
traffic and on which roadway parking is prohibited.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars, and
other devices, either singly or together, while using for purposes of travel
any highway or private road open to public travel.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE. A flagger, sign, signal, marking, or other device
used to regulate, warn, or guide traffic, placed on, over, or adjacent to a
street, highway, private road open to public travel, pedestrian facility, or
shared-use path by authority of a public agency or official having
jurisdiction, or, in the case of a private road open to public travel, by
authority of the private owner or private official having jurisdiction.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL. Any highway traffic signal by which traffic is
alternately directed to stop and permitted to proceed.
   TRAILER. Every vehicle designed or used for carrying persons or property
wholly on its own structure, and for being drawn by a motor vehicle, including
any vehicle when formed by or operated as a combination of a semitrailer and a
vehicle of the dolly type, such as that commonly known as a trailer dolly, a
vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or agricultural production
materials between a local place of storage or supply and the farm when drawn or
towed on a street or highway at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour and a
vehicle designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of
storage and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a
street or highway for a distance of more than ten miles or at a speed of more
than 25 miles per hour.
   TRUCK. Every motor vehicle, except trailers and semitrailers, designed and
used to carry property.
   URBAN DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including any street or
highway which is built up with structures devoted to business, industry, or
dwelling houses situated at intervals of less than 100 feet for a distance of
one-quarter of a mile or more, and the character of the territory is indicated
by official traffic-control devices.
   VEHICLE. Every device, including a motorized bicycle and an electric
bicycle, in, upon, or by which any person or property may be transported or
drawn upon a highway, except that VEHICLE does not include any motorized
wheelchair, any electric personal assistive mobility device, any low-speed
micromobility device, any personal delivery device as defined in R.C. §
4511.513, any device that is moved by power collected from overhead electric
trolley wires or that is used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks, or
any device, other than a bicycle, that is moved by human power.
   WASTE COLLECTION VEHICLE. A vehicle used in the collection of garbage,
refuse, trash, or recyclable materials.
(R.C. § 4511.01)
(Am. Ord. 2019-39, passed 12-2-19)
§ 70.02 SCOPE OF TITLE.
   (A)   The provisions of this traffic code, except for §§
73.01 and
73.011, do not apply to persons, teams, motor vehicles, and other equipment
while actually engaged in work upon the surface of a highway within an area
designated by traffic-control devices, but apply to those persons and vehicles
when traveling to or from such work.
   (B)   The driver of a highway maintenance vehicle owned by this state or any
political subdivision of this state, while the driver is engaged in the
performance of official duties upon a street or highway, provided the highway
maintenance vehicle is equipped with flashing lights and such other markings as
are required by law and such lights are in operation when the driver and
vehicle are so engaged, shall be exempt from criminal prosecution for
violations of R.C. §§ 4511.22, 4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.30,
4511.31, 4511.33, 4511.35, 4511.66, 4513.02, and 5577.01 to 5577.09, and any
substantially similar municipal ordinance.
   (C)   (1)   This section does not exempt a driver of a highway maintenance
vehicle from civil liability arising from a violation of R.C. § 4511.22,
4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.33, 4511.35,
4511.66, or 4513.02 or R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially similar
municipal ordinance.
      (2)   This section does not exempt a driver of a vehicle who is not a
state employee and who is engaged in the transport of highway maintenance
equipment from criminal liability for a violation of R.C. §§ 5577.01 through
5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   As used in this section, ENGAGED IN THE PERFORMANCE OF OFFICIAL DUTIES
includes driving a highway maintenance vehicle to and from the manufacturer or
vehicle maintenance provider and transporting a highway maintenance vehicle,
equipment, or materials to and from a work location.
(R.C. § 4511.04)
§ 70.03 COMPLIANCE WITH ORDER OF POLICE OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall fail to comply with any lawful order or direction of
any police officer invested with authority to direct, control, or regulate
traffic.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle so as willfully to elude or
flee a police officer after receiving a visible or audible signal from a police
officer to bring the person's motor vehicle to a stop.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to comply
with an order or signal of a police officer.
      (2)   A violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (3)   Except as provided in divisions (C)(4) and (5) of this section, a
violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (4)   Except as provided in division (C)(5) of this section, a violation
of division (B) of this section is a felony and shall be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if the jury or judge as trier of fact finds by proof
beyond a reasonable doubt that in committing the offense, the offender was
fleeing immediately after the commission of a felony.
      (5)   (a)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a felony and
shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law if the jury or judge as trier
of fact finds any of the following by proof beyond a reasonable doubt:
            1.   The operation of the motor vehicle by the offender was a
proximate cause of serious physical harm to persons or property.
            2.   The operation of the motor vehicle by the offender caused a
substantial risk of serious physical harm to persons or property.
         (b)   If a police officer pursues an offender who is violating
division (B) of this section and division (C)(5)(a) of this section applies,
the sentencing court, in determining the seriousness of an offender's conduct
for purposes of sentencing the offender for a violation of division (B) of this
section, shall consider, along with the factors set forth in R.C. §§ 2929.12
and 2929.13 that are required to be considered, all of the following:
            1.   The duration of the pursuit;
            2.   The distance of the pursuit;
            3.   The rate of speed at which the offender operated the motor
vehicle during the pursuit;
            4.   Whether the offender failed to stop for traffic lights or stop
signs during the pursuit;
            5.   The number of traffic lights or stop signs for which the
offender failed to stop during the pursuit;
            6.   Whether the offender operated the motor vehicle during the
pursuit without lighted lights during a time when lighted lights are required;
            7.   Whether the offender committed a moving violation during the
pursuit;
            8.   The number of moving violations the offender committed during
the pursuit;
            9.   Any other relevant factors indicating that the offender's
conduct is more serious than conduct normally constituting the offense.
   (D)   In addition to any other sanction imposed for a violation of division
(A) of this section or a misdemeanor violation of division (B) of this section,
the court shall impose a class five suspension from the range specified in R.C.
§ 4510.02(A)(5). If the offender previously has been found guilty of an offense
under this section or under R.C. § 2921.331 or any other substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, in addition to any other sanction imposed for
the offense, the court shall impose a class one suspension as described in R.C.
§ 4510.02(A)(1). The court may grant limited driving privileges to the offender
on a suspension imposed for a misdemeanor violation of this section as set
forth in R.C. § 4510.021. No judge shall suspend any portion of the suspension
under a class one suspension of an offender’s license, permit, or privilege
required by this division.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      MOVING VIOLATION has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2743.70.
      POLICE OFFICER has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
(R.C. § 2921.331(A) - (C), (E), (F)) ('56 Code, § 8-7-B)
§ 70.04 PROHIBITION AGAINST RESISTING TRAFFIC OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall resist, hinder, obstruct, or abuse any sheriff,
constable, or other official while that official is attempting to arrest
offenders under any provision of this Title. No person shall interfere with any
person charged under any provision of this Title with the enforcement of the
law relative to public highways.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.36)
   (C)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the hindrance,
obstruction, resistance, or interference alleged consisted of constitutionally
protected speech only.
Cross-reference:
   Obstructing official business, see §
136.11
   Resisting arrest, see §
136.13
§ 70.05 EMERGENCY VEHICLES TO PROCEED CAUTIOUSLY PAST RED OR STOP SIGNAL.
   (A)   The driver of any emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when
responding to an emergency call, upon approaching a red or stop signal or any
stop sign, shall slow down as necessary for safety to traffic, but may proceed
cautiously past the red or stop sign or signal with due regard for the safety
of all persons using the street or highway.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.03)
§ 70.051 EXCEPTIONS GENERALLY; EMERGENCY, PUBLIC SAFETY AND CORONER VEHICLES
EXEMPT.
   (A)   The provisions of R.C. §§ 4511.12, 4511.13, 4511.131, 4511.132,
4511.14, 4511.202, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.22, 4511.23, 4511.25, 4511.26,
4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33, 4511.34,
4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40, 4511.41, 4511.42,
4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.432, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59,
4511.60, 4511.61, 4511.62, 4511.66, 4511.68, 4511.681, and 4511.69, and any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, do not apply to the driver of an
emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle if the emergency vehicle or public
safety vehicle is responding to an emergency call, is equipped with and
displaying at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating light visible under
normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
vehicle and if the driver of the vehicles is giving an audible signal by siren,
exhaust whistle, or bell. This section does not relieve the driver of an
emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(R.C. § 4511.041)
   (B)   The provisions of R.C. §§ 4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29,
4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, and
4511.66, or any substantially similar municipal ordinances, do not apply to a
coroner, deputy coroner or coroner's investigator operating a motor vehicle in
accordance with R.C. § 4513.171 or a substantially similar municipal ordinance.
This division does not relieve a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner's
investigator operating a motor vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard
for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(R.C. § 4511.042)
§ 70.06 PERSONS RIDING OR DRIVING ANIMALS UPON ROADWAYS.
   Every person riding, driving, or leading an animal upon a roadway is subject
to the provisions of this traffic code, applicable to the driver of a vehicle,
except those provisions of this traffic code which by their nature are
inapplicable.
(R.C. § 4511.05)
§ 70.07 PROHIBITIONS ON USE OF FREEWAYS.
   (A)   No person, unless otherwise directed by a police officer, shall:
      (1)   As a pedestrian, occupy any space within the limits of the right-
of-way of a freeway, except: in a rest area; on a facility that is separated
from the roadway and shoulders of the freeway and is designed and appropriately
marked for pedestrian use; in the performance of public works or official
duties; as a result of an emergency caused by an accident or breakdown of a
motor vehicle; or to obtain assistance;
      (2)   Occupy any space within the limits of the right-of-way of a
freeway, with: an animal-drawn vehicle; a ridden or led animal; herded animals;
a pushcart; a bicycle, except on a facility that is separated from the roadway
and shoulders of the freeway and is designed and appropriately marked for
bicycle use; an electric bicycle; a bicycle with motor attached; a motor-driven
cycle with a motor which produces not to exceed five brake horsepower; an
agricultural tractor; farm machinery; except in the performance of public works
or official duties.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.051)
§ 70.08 USE OF PRIVATE PROPERTY FOR VEHICULAR TRAVEL.
   The provisions of this traffic code do not prevent the owner of real
property, used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel by permission of
the owner and not as a matter of right, from prohibiting such use or from
requiring additional conditions to those specified in this traffic code, or
otherwise regulating such use as may seem best to the owner.
(R.C. § 4511.08)
§ 70.09 NAMES OF PERSONS DAMAGING REAL PROPERTY BY OPERATION OF VEHICLE TO BE
PROVIDED TO OWNER.
   (A)   As used in this section, MOTOR VEHICLE has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 4501.01.
   (B)   If damage is caused to real property by the operation of a motor
vehicle in, or during the, violation of any section of the Revised Code or of
any municipal ordinance, the law enforcement agency that investigates the case,
upon request of the real property owner, shall provide the owner with the names
of the persons who are charged with the commission of the offense. If a request
for the names is made, the agency shall provide the names as soon as possible
after the persons are charged with the offense.
   (C)   The personnel of law enforcement agencies who act pursuant to division
(B) of this section in good faith are not liable in damages in a civil action
allegedly arising from their actions taken pursuant to that division. Political
subdivisions and the state are not liable in damages in a civil action
allegedly arising from the actions of personnel of their law enforcement
agencies if the personnel have immunity under this division.
(R.C. § 2935.28)
§ 70.095 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES AFTER ACCIDENTS.
   (A)   If a motor vehicle accident occurs on any highway, public street, or
other property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel and if any
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property that has been damaged or spilled as
a result of the motor vehicle accident is blocking the highway, street, or
other property or is otherwise endangering public safety, a public safety
official may do either of the following without the consent of the owner but
with the approval of the law enforcement agency conducting any investigation of
the accident:
      (1)   Remove, or order the removal of, the motor vehicle if the motor
vehicle is unoccupied, cargo, or personal property from the portion of the
highway, public street, or property ordinarily used for vehicular travel on the
highway, public street, or other property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular travel.
      (2)   If the motor vehicle is a commercial motor vehicle, allow the owner
or operator of the vehicle the opportunity to arrange for the removal of the
motor vehicle within a period of time specified by the public safety official.
If the public safety official determines that the motor vehicle cannot be
removed within the specified period of time, the public safety official shall
remove or order the removal of the motor vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, the
Department of Transportation, any employee of the Department of Transportation,
or a public safety official who authorizes or participates in the removal of
any unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property as authorized by
division (A) of this section, regardless of whether the removal is executed by
a private towing service, is not liable for civil damages for any injury,
death, or loss to person or property that results from the removal of that
unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property. Further, except as
provided in division (B)(2) of this section, if a public safety official
authorizes, employs, or arranges to have a private towing service remove any
unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property as authorized by division
(A) of this section, that private towing service is not liable for civil
damages for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that results from
the removal of that unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to any of the
following:
         (a)   Any person or entity involved in the removal of an unoccupied
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property pursuant to division (A) of this
section if that removal causes or contributes to the release of a hazardous
material or to structural damage to the roadway;
         (b)   A private towing service that was not authorized, employed, or
arranged by a public safety official to remove an unoccupied motor vehicle,
cargo, or personal property under this section;
         (c)   Except as provided in division (B)(2)(d) of this section, a
private towing service that was authorized, employed, or arranged by a public
safety official to perform the removal of the unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo,
or personal property but the private towing service performed the removal in a
negligent manner;
         (d)   A private towing service that was authorized, employed, or
arranged by a public safety official to perform the removal of the unoccupied
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property that was endangering public safety
but the private towing service performed the removal in a reckless manner.
   (C)   As used in divisions (A) and (B) of this section:
      HAZARDOUS MATERIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.232.
      PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICIAL. Means any of the following:
         (a)   The sheriff of the county, or the chief of a law enforcement
agency in the municipal corporation, township, port authority, conservancy
district, or township or joint police district, in which the accident occurred;
         (b)   A state highway patrol trooper;
         (c)   The chief of the fire department having jurisdiction where the
accident occurred;
         (d)   A duly authorized subordinate acting on behalf of an official
specified in divisions (a) to (c) of this definition.
(R.C. § 4513.66)
   (D)   If a towing service is removing a motor vehicle, and the removal was
not authorized under R.C. § 4513.60, 4513.601, 4513.61, or 4513.66, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, prior to removing the motor
vehicle, the towing service shall provide a written estimate of the price for
the removal to the operator of the motor vehicle, if requested.
   (E)   The towing service shall ensure that any estimate provided under
division (D) of this section includes the fees, services to be rendered, and
destination of the vehicle.
   (F)   If a towing service fails to provide a written estimate as required by
this section, the towing service shall not charge fees for the towing and
storage of the motor vehicle that exceed 25% of any applicable fees established
by the public utilities commission in rules adopted under R.C. § 4921.25(B)(4)
or, if the vehicle was towed within a municipal corporation that has
established vehicle removal and storage fees, 25% of the fees established by
the municipal corporation.
   (G)   Any storage facility that accepts towed vehicles shall conspicuously
post a notice at the entrance to the storage facility that states the
limitation on fees established under division (F) of this section.
(R.C. § 4513.68)
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.10 OBEYING TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   No pedestrian or driver of a vehicle shall disobey the
instructions of any traffic-control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code, unless at the time otherwise directed by a
police officer.
      (2)   No provision of this traffic code for which signs are required
shall be enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the
alleged violation, an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently
legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular
section of this traffic code does not state that signs are required, that
section shall be effective even though no signs are erected or in place.
(R.C. § 4511.12(A)) ('56 Code, § 8-7-B)
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, any operator
of a commercial motor vehicle, upon approaching a scale location established
for the purpose of determining the weight of the vehicle and its load, shall
comply with any traffic control device or the order of a peace officer
directing the vehicle to proceed to be weighed or otherwise inspected.
      (2)   Any operator of a commercial motor vehicle, upon bypassing a scale
location in accordance with division (C) of this section, shall comply with an
order of a peace officer to stop the vehicle to verify the use and operation of
an electronic clearance device.
   (C)   Any operator of a commercial motor vehicle that is equipped with an
electronic clearance device authorized by the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol under R.C. § 4549.081 may bypass a scale location, regardless of
the instruction of a traffic control device to enter the scale facility, if
either of the following apply:
      (1)   The in-cab transponder displays a green light or other affirmative
visual signal and also sounds an affirmative audible signal;
      (2)   Any other criterion established by the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol is met.
   (D)   Any peace officer may order the operator of a commercial motor vehicle
that bypasses a scale location to stop the vehicle to verify the use and
operation of an electronic clearance device.
   (E)   As used in this section, COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE means any
combination of vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating or an actual gross
vehicle weight of more than 10,000 pounds if the vehicle is used in interstate
or intrastate commerce to transport property and also means any vehicle that is
transporting hazardous materials for which placarding is required pursuant to
49 C.F.R. Parts 100 to 180.
(R.C. § 4511.121(A)-(C), (E))
   (F)   No person shall use an electronic clearance device if the device or
its use is not in compliance with rules of the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol.
(R.C. § 4549.081(B))
   (G)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree. If
the offender commits the offense while distracted and the distracting activity
is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense, the offender is
subject to the additional fine established under § 70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.12(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (B) of this
section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of division (B)
of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender commits the offense while
distracted and the distracting activity is a contributing factor to the
commission of the offense, the offender is subject to the additional fine
established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.121(D))
      (3)   Whoever violates division (F) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the
third degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.081(C))
§ 70.11 SIGNAL LIGHTS.
    Highway traffic signal indications for vehicles and pedestrians shall have
the following meanings:
   (A)   Steady green signal indication.
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a circular green signal indication
is permitted to proceed straight through or turn right or left or make a u-turn
movement except as such movement is modified by a lane-use sign, turn
prohibition sign, lane marking, roadway design, separate turn signal
indication, or other traffic control device. Such vehicular traffic, including
vehicles turning right or left or making a u-turn movement, shall yield the
right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         (b)   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn
movement to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching
from the opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard
during the time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the
intersection.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a green arrow signal indication, displayed
alone or in combination with another signal indication, is permitted to
cautiously enter the intersection only to make the movement indicated by such
arrow, or such other movement as is permitted by other indications displayed at
the same time. Such vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left
or making a u-turn movement, shall yield the right-of-way to both of the
following:
         (a)   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
         (b)   Other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (3)   (a)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication,
as provided in R.C. § 4511.14, pedestrians facing a circular green signal
indication are permitted to proceed across the roadway within any marked or
unmarked associated crosswalk. The pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to
vehicles lawfully within the intersection or so close as to create an immediate
hazard at the time that the green signal indication is first displayed.
         (b)   Pedestrians facing a green arrow signal indication, unless
otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or other traffic control
device, shall not cross the roadway.
   (B)   Steady yellow signal indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular yellow signal indication
is thereby warned that the related green movement or the related flashing arrow
movement is being terminated or that a steady red signal indication will be
exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter the
intersection. The provisions governing vehicular operation under the movement
being terminated shall continue to apply while the steady circular yellow
signal indication is displayed.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow arrow signal indication is
thereby warned that the related green arrow movement or the related flashing
arrow movement is being terminated. The provisions governing vehicular
operation under the movement being terminated shall continue to apply while the
steady yellow arrow signal indication is displayed.
      (3)   Pedestrians facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow signal
indication, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication as
provided in R.C. § 4511.14 or other traffic control device, shall not start to
cross the roadway.
   (C)   Steady red signal indication.
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular red signal
indication, unless entering the intersection to make another movement permitted
by another signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line; but if
there is no stop line, traffic shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the
near side of the intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, then before
entering the intersection; and shall remain stopped until a signal indication
to proceed is displayed except as provided in divisions (C)(1), (C)(2), and (C)
(3) of this section.
         (b)   Except when a traffic control device is in place prohibiting a
turn on red or a steady red arrow signal indication is displayed, vehicular
traffic facing a steady circular red signal indication is permitted, after
stopping, to enter the intersection to turn right, or to turn left from a one-
way street into a one-way street. The right to proceed with the turn shall be
subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a stop at a stop
sign.
      (2)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady red arrow signal indication
shall not enter the intersection to make the movement indicated by the arrow
and, unless entering the intersection to make another movement permitted by
another signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line; but if
there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, then before entering the
intersection; and shall remain stopped until a signal indication or other
traffic control device permitting the movement indicated by such red arrow is
displayed.
         (b)   When a traffic control device is in place permitting a turn on a
steady red arrow signal indication, vehicular traffic facing a steady red arrow
indication is permitted, after stopping, to enter the intersection to turn
right, or to turn left from a one-way street into a one-way street. The right
to proceed with the turn shall be limited to the direction indicated by the
arrow and shall be subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a
stop at a stop sign.
      (3)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication as
provided in R.C. § 4511.14 or other traffic control device, pedestrians facing
a steady circular red or steady red arrow signal indication shall not enter the
roadway.
      (4)   Local authorities by ordinance, or the Director of Transportation
on state highways, may prohibit a right or a left turn against a steady red
signal at any intersection, which shall be effective when signs giving notice
thereof are posted at the intersection.
   (D)   Flashing green signal indication. A flashing green signal indication
has no meaning and shall not be used.
   (E)   Flashing yellow signal indication.
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing
a flashing circular yellow signal indication, is permitted to cautiously enter
the intersection to proceed straight through or turn right or left or make a u-
turn movement except as such movement is modified by lane-use signs, turn
prohibition signs, lane markings, roadway design, separate turn signal
indications, or other traffic control devices. Such vehicular traffic,
including vehicles turning right or left or making a u-turn movement, shall
yield the right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         (b)   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn
to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the
time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the intersection.
      (2)   (a)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing
a flashing yellow arrow signal indication, displayed alone or in combination
with another signal indication, is permitted to cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by such arrow, or other such
movement as is permitted by other signal indications displayed at the same
time. Such vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left or
making a u-turn, shall yield the right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         (b)   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn
to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the
time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the intersection.
      (3)   Pedestrians facing any flashing yellow signal indication at an
intersection, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or
other traffic control device, are permitted to proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked associated crosswalk. Pedestrians shall yield the
right-of-way to vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the
flashing yellow signal indication is first displayed.
      (4)   When a flashing circular yellow signal indication is displayed as a
beacon to supplement another traffic control device, road users are notified
that there is a need to pay additional attention to the message contained
thereon or that the regulatory or warning requirements of the other traffic
control device, which might not be applicable at all times, are currently
applicable.
   (F)   Flashing red signal indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing a
flashing circular red signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line; but if there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk on the near
side of the intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway before entering the intersection. The right to proceed
shall be subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a stop at a
stop sign.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing any flashing red signal indication at an
intersection, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or
other traffic control device, are permitted to proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked associated crosswalk. Pedestrians shall yield the
right-of-way to vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the
flashing red signal indication is first displayed.
      (3)   When a flashing circular red signal indication is displayed as a
beacon to supplement another traffic control device, road users are notified
that there is a need to pay additional attention to the message contained
thereon or that the regulatory requirements of the other traffic control
device, which might not be applicable at all times, are currently applicable.
Use of this signal indication shall be limited to supplementing stop, do not
enter, or wrong way signs, and to applications where compliance with the
supplemented traffic control device requires a stop at a designated point.
   (G)   In the event an official traffic-control signal is erected and
maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of this
section shall be applicable except as to those provisions which by their nature
can have no application. Any stop required shall be made at a sign or marking
on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the absence of
any such sign or marking the stop shall be made at the signal.
   (H)   This section does not apply at railroad grade- crossings. Conduct of
drivers of vehicles approaching railroad grade crossings shall be governed by
R.C. §§ 4511.61 and 4511.62.
(R.C. § 4511.13) ('56 Code, §§ 8-7-J, 8-7-K) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.12 SIGNALS OVER REVERSIBLE LANES.
   The meanings of lane-use control signal indications are as follows:
   (A)   A steady downward green arrow. A road user is permitted to drive in
the lane over which the arrow signal indication is located.
   (B)   A steady yellow “X”. A road user is to prepare to vacate the lane over
which the signal indication is located because a lane control change is being
made to a steady red “X” signal indication.
   (C)   A steady white two-way left-turn arrow. A road user is permitted to
use a lane over which the signal indication is located for a left turn, but not
for through travel, with the understanding that common use of the lane by
oncoming road users for left turns also is permitted.
   (D)   A steady white one-way left-turn arrow. A road user is permitted to
use a lane over which the signal indication is located for a left turn, without
opposing turns in the same lane, but not for through travel.
   (E)   A steady red “X”. A road user is not permitted to use the lane over
which the signal indication is located and that this signal indication shall
modify accordingly the meaning of other traffic controls present.
(R.C. § 4511.131) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.13 PEDESTRIAN-CONTROL SIGNALS.
    Whenever special pedestrian-control signals exhibiting the words “walk” or
“don't walk,” or the symbol of a walking person or an upraised palm are in
place, these signals shall indicate the following instructions:
   (A)   A steady walking person signal indication, which symbolizes “walk”,
means that a pedestrian facing the signal indication is permitted to start to
cross the roadway in the direction of the signal indication, possibly in
conflict with turning vehicles. The pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to
vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the walking person
signal indication is first shown.
   (B)   A flashing upraised hand signal indication, which symbolizes “don’t
walk”, means that a pedestrian shall not start to cross the roadway in the
direction of the signal indication, but that any pedestrian who has already
started to cross on a steady walking person signal indication shall proceed to
the far side of the traveled way of the street or highway, unless otherwise
directed by a traffic control device to proceed only to the median of a divided
highway or only to some other island or pedestrian refuge area.
   (C)   A steady upraised hand signal indication means that a pedestrian shall
not enter the roadway in the direction of the signal indication.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to invalidate the continued
use of pedestrian control signals utilizing the word “wait” if those signals
were installed prior to March 28, 1985.
   (E)   A flashing walking person signal indication has no meaning and shall
not be used.
(R.C. § 4511.14)
§ 70.14 (RESERVED)
Editor’s note:
   This section, formerly based on R.C. § 4511.15 (Flashing Traffic Signals),
was repealed because underlying state law was repealed by the Ohio General
Assembly.
§ 70.15 PROHIBITION AGAINST UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS AND SIGNALS.
       (A)   (1)   No person shall place, maintain, or display upon or in view
of any highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device which purports
to be, is an imitation of, or resembles a traffic-control device or railroad
sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, or hides
from view or interferes with the effectiveness of any traffic-control device or
any railroad sign or signal, and no person shall place or maintain, nor shall
any public authority permit, upon any highway any traffic sign or signal
bearing thereon any commercial advertising. This section does not prohibit
either the erection upon private property adjacent to highways of signs giving
useful directional information and of a type that cannot be mistaken for
traffic-control devices, or the erection upon private property of traffic-
control devices by the owner of real property in accordance with R.C. §§
4511.211 and 4511.432.
      (2)   Every prohibited sign, signal, marking, or device is a public
nuisance, and the authority having jurisdiction over the highway may remove the
same or cause it to be removed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.16)
§ 70.16 PROHIBITION AGAINST ALTERATION, DEFACING, OR REMOVAL.
   (A)   No person, without lawful authority, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly move, deface, damage, destroy, or otherwise improperly
tamper with any traffic-control device, any railroad sign or signal, or any
inscription, shield, or insignia on the device, sign, or signal, or any part of
the device, sign, or signal;
      (2)   Knowingly drive upon or over any freshly applied pavement marking
material on the surface of a roadway while the marking material is in an
undried condition, and is marked by flags, markers, signs, or other devices
intended to protect it;
      (3)   Knowingly move, damage, destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper
with a manhole cover.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A)(1) or (3) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree. If a violation of division (A)(1) or (3) of this section creates a risk
of physical harm to any person, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If a violation of division (A)(1) or (3) of this section causes
serious physical harm to property that is owned, leased, or controlled by a
state or local authority, the offender is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within
one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses,
whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.17)
§ 70.17 UNNECESSARY HORN BLOWING.
   No person shall sound any signaling device except when reasonably necessary
for the prevention of an accident.
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.18 OWNER'S RESPONSIBILITY.
   The violation of any section or provision of the traffic code by means of a
motor vehicle shall be prima facie evidence that such violation was committed
by or with the authority or permission of the owner of such vehicle.
§ 70.19 PERMITTING OR AUTHORIZING VIOLATIONS.
   No person being the owner or in charge of any vehicle shall authorize,
direct, or permit another person to violate any section or provision of the
traffic code by means of such vehicle.
§ 70.20 THROWING OBJECTS AT OR FROM A VEHICLE.
   No person shall willfully and maliciously throw a stone or other substance
or shoot a missile at or from a railway car, train, locomotive, motor bus, or
other motor vehicle.
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.21 DIRECTION OF TRAFFIC.
   Police officers and members of the Fire Department are authorized in the
event that a fire or other emergency condition or the safeguarding or
expediting of traffic so require, to direct traffic otherwise than as the
traffic code specifically provides. The direction of traffic may be by word or
audible signal, be gesture or visible signal, or by any combination thereof.
§ 70.22 TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES; AUTHORIZATION.
   It shall be the duty of the Village Administrator or person designated by
the Village Administrator to place and maintain traffic-control devices
required by the traffic code. The Village Administrator is authorized to place
and maintain such other traffic-control devices as determined to be necessary
for the proper control of traffic.
§ 70.23 CROSSWALKS; AUTHORIZATION.
   The Village Administrator or his designee is authorized to establish
crosswalks at such places as determined necessary, and shall designate them by
appropriate marks or signs.
§ 70.24 SIGNAL PREEMPTION DEVICES; PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall possess a portable signal preemption device.
      (2)   No person shall use a portable signal preemption device to affect
the operation of a traffic- control device.
   (B)   Division (A)(1) of this section does not apply to any of the following
persons and division (A)(2) of this section does not apply to any of the
following persons when responding to an emergency call:
      (1)   A peace officer, as defined in R.C. § 109.71(A)(1), (A)(12), (A)
(14), or (A)(19);
      (2)   A state highway patrol officer;
      (3)   A person while occupying a public safety vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 4511.01(E)(1), (E)(3), or (E)(4).
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   As used in this section, PORTABLE SIGNAL PREEMPTION DEVICE means a
device that, if activated by a person, is capable of changing a traffic-control
signal to green out of sequence.
(R.C. § 4511.031)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this traffic code for which no
penalty otherwise is provided in the section violated is guilty of one of the
following:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this
section, a minor misdemeanor;
      (2)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
      (3)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more predicate motor vehicle or
traffic offenses, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.99)
   (B)   Violations committed while distracted.
      (1)   As used in this section and each section referenced in division (B)
(2) of this section, all of the following apply:
         (a)   DISTRACTED means doing either of the following while operating a
vehicle:
            1.   Using an electronic wireless communications device, as defined
in R.C. § 4511.204, in violation of that section.
            2.   Engaging in any activity that is not necessary to the
operation of a vehicle and impairs, or reasonably would be expected to impair,
the ability of the operator to drive the vehicle safely.
         (b)   DISTRACTED does not include operating a motor vehicle while
wearing an earphone or earplug over or in both ears at the same time. A person
who so wears earphones or earplugs may be charged with a violation of R.C. §
4511.84, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
         (c)   DISTRACTED does not include conducting any activity while
operating a utility service vehicle or a vehicle for or on behalf of a utility,
provided that the driver of the vehicle is acting in response to an emergency,
power outage, or a circumstance affecting the health or safety of individuals.
As used in this division (B)(1)(c):
            UTILITY. An entity specified in R.C. § 4905.03(A), (C), (D), (E),
or (G).
            UTILITY SERVICE VEHICLE. A vehicle owned or operated by a utility.
      (2)   If an offender violates R.C. § 4511.03, 4511.051, 4511.12,
4511.121, 4511.132, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.213, 4511.22, 4511.23, 4511.25,
4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33,
4511.34, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40, 4511.41,
4511.42, 4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.451, 4511.46, 4511.47,
4511.54, 4511.55, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59, 4511.60, 4511.61, 4511.64,
4511.71, 4511.711, 4511.712, 4511.713, 4511.72, or 4511.73, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the
violation, the offender is subject to the applicable penalty for the violation
and, notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.28, is subject to an additional fine of not
more than $100 as follows:
         (a)   1.   Subject to Traffic Rule 13, if a law enforcement officer
issues an offender a ticket, citation, or summons for a violation of any of the
aforementioned sections of the Ohio Revised Code, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, that indicates that the offender was distracted
while committing the violation and that the distracting activity was a
contributing factor to the commission of the violation, the offender may enter
a written plea of guilty and waive the offender's right to contest the ticket,
citation, or summons in a trial provided that the offender pays the total
amount of the fine established for the violation and pays the additional fine
of $100.
            2.   In lieu of payment of the additional fine of $100, the
offender instead may elect to attend a distracted driving safety course, the
duration and contents of which shall be established by the Ohio Director of
Public Safety. If the offender attends and successfully completes the course,
the offender shall be issued written evidence that the offender successfully
completed the course. The offender shall be required to pay the total amount of
the fine established for the violation, but shall not be required to pay the
additional fine of $100, so long as the offender submits to the court both the
offender's payment in full and such written evidence.
         (b)   1.   If the offender appears in person to contest the ticket,
citation, or summons in a trial and the offender pleads guilty to or is
convicted of the violation, the court, in addition to all other penalties
provided by law, may impose the applicable penalty for the violation and may
impose the additional fine of not more than $100.
            2.   If the court imposes upon the offender the applicable penalty
for the violation and an additional fine of not more than $100, the court shall
inform the offender that, in lieu of payment of the additional fine of not more
than $100, the offender instead may elect to attend the distracted driving
safety course described in division (B)(2)(a) of this section. If the offender
elects the course option and attends and successfully completes the course, the
offender shall be issued written evidence that the offender successfully
completed the course. The offender shall be required to pay the total amount of
the fine established for the violation, but shall not be required to pay the
additional fine of not more than $100, so long as the offender submits to the
court the offender's payment and such written evidence.
      (3)   If a law enforcement officer issues an offender a ticket, citation,
or summons for a violation of any of the sections of the Revised Code listed in
division (B)(2) of this section that indicates that the offender was distracted
while committing the violation and that the distracting activity was a
contributing factor to the commission of the violation, the officer shall do
both of the following:
         (a)   Report the issuance of the ticket, citation, or summons to the
officer's law enforcement agency;
         (b)   Ensure that such report indicates the offender's race.
(R.C. § 4511.991)
CHAPTER 71: LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
Operator's License Regulations
   
71.01   False statements
   
71.02   License required as driver or commercial driver; prohibition against
unlicensed operation on private property
   
71.03   Production of license on demand
   
71.04   Improper display, possession, or transfer of license
   
71.05   Permitting minor to operate vehicle prohibited; temporary instruction
permit; probationary license
   
71.06   (Reserved)
   
71.07   Employment of a minor to operate a taxicab
   
71.08   Restriction against owner lending vehicle for use of another
Suspension
   
71.10   License suspended or revoked by court of record
   
71.101   Driving under suspension or in violation of license restriction
   
71.102   Operating motor vehicle or motorcycle without valid license
   
71.103   Driving under OVI suspension
   
71.104   Driving under financial responsibility law suspension or cancellation;
driving under a nonpayment of judgment suspension
   
71.105   Failure to reinstate license
Vehicle License Regulations
   
71.15   Display of license plates or validation stickers required
   
71.16   Use of unauthorized plates
   
71.17   Operating without license plates
   
71.18   Operating with number of former owner
   
71.19   Resident operating with number issued by foreign state
 
   
71.99   Penalty
OPERATOR'S LICENSE REGULATIONS
§ 71.01 FALSE STATEMENTS.
   (A)   Prohibition against false statements. No person shall knowingly make a
false statement to any matter or thing required by the provisions of this
traffic code.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4507.36)
Cross-reference:
   Falsification, see §
136.10
§ 71.02 LICENSE REQUIRED AS DRIVER OR COMMERCIAL DRIVER; PROHIBITION AGAINST
UNLICENSED OPERATION ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   No person shall permit the operation of a motor vehicle
upon any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking, knowing the operator does not have a valid
driver's license issued to the operator by the Registrar of Motor Vehicle or a
deputy registrar under R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid commercial driver's license
issued under R.C. Chapter 4506. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
whoever violates this division is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When
the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
         (b)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this
section or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   No person shall receive a driver's license, or a motorcycle
operator's endorsement of a driver's or commercial driver's license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card unless and until the person
surrenders to the Registrar or a deputy registrar all valid licenses, temporary
instruction permits, and identification cards issued to the person by another
jurisdiction recognized by this state.
      (3)   The Registrar shall report the cancellation of a license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card to the issuing authority, together
with information that the license, temporary instruction permit, or
identification card is now issued in this state. The Registrar or a deputy
registrar shall destroy any such license, temporary instruction permit, or
identification card that is not returned to the issuing authority.
      (4)   No person shall possess more than one valid license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card at any time.
(R.C. § 4507.02(A))
   (B)   (1)   No person shall be required to obtain a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license for the purpose of temporarily driving, operating, drawing,
moving, or propelling a road roller or road machinery upon a street or highway.
      (2)   No person shall be required to obtain a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license for the purpose of temporarily driving, operating, drawing,
moving, or propelling any agricultural tractor or implement of husbandry upon a
street or highway at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less.
      (3)   No person shall drive, operate, draw, move, or propel any
agricultural tractor or implement of husbandry upon a street or highway at a
speed greater than 25 miles per hour unless the person has a current, valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license.
      (4)   No person having a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license
shall be required to have a motorcycle operator’s endorsement to operate a
motorcycle having three wheels with a motor of not more than 50 cubic
centimeters piston displacement.
      (5)   No person having a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license
shall be required to have a motorcycle operator’s endorsement to operate an
autocycle or a cab-enclosed motorcycle.
      (6)   Every person on active duty in the military or naval forces of the
United States, when furnished with a driver’s permit and when operating an
official motor vehicle in connection with such duty, is exempt from the license
requirements of R.C. Chapters 4506 and 4507. Every person on active duty in the
military or naval forces of the United States or in service with the peace
corps, volunteers in service to America, or the foreign service of the United
States, is exempt from the license requirements of such sections for the period
of the person’s active duty or service and for six months thereafter, provided
such person was a licensee under such sections at the time the person commenced
the person's active duty or service. This section does not prevent such a
person or the person's spouse or dependent from making an application, as
provided in R.C. § 4507.10(C), for the renewal of a driver’s license or
motorcycle operator’s endorsement or as provided in R.C. § 4506.14 for the
renewal of a commercial driver’s license during the period of the person’s
active duty or service.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (B)(3) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.03)
   (C)   Whoever violates any provisions of this section is guilty of the
following:
      (1)   If the offender's driver's or commercial driver's license or permit
was expired at the time of the offense for no more than six months, subject to
divisions (C)(3) to (5), below, the offense is a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   If the license or permit was expired at the time of the offense for
more than six months, subject to divisions (C)(3) to (5), below, the offense is
a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (3)   If the offender previously was convicted of or pleaded guilty to
one offense of operating a motor vehicle without a valid license or one
violation of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance within the past
three years, the offense is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (4)   If the offender previously was convicted of or pleaded guilty to
two offenses of operating a motor vehicle without a valid license or violations
of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance within the past three years,
the offense is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (5)   If the offender previously was convicted of or pleaded guilty to
three or more offenses of operating a motor vehicle without a valid license or
violations of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance within the past
three years, the offense is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (6)   Whoever violates any of the other provisions of this section not
covered by divisions (C)(l) through (5) above is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
      If the offender was convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more
offenses of operating a motor vehicle without a valid license or violations of
a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance within the past three years, and
if the offender's license was expired for more than six months at the time of
the offense, the act requires the court to impose a Class 7 (a definite period
not to exceed one year) suspension of the offender's license, permit, or
privilege. The court may not impose a license suspension for a first violation
or operating a motor vehicle without a valid license or if more than three
years have passed since the offender's last violation of operating a motor
vehicle without a valid license. The penalty shall be as specified in §
70.99.
(Ord. 2004-05, passed 2-2-04)
   (D)   Nonresidents, permitted to drive upon the highways of their own state,
may operate any motor vehicle upon any highway in this state without
examination or license under R.C. §§ 4507.01 to 4507.39, inclusive, upon
condition that such nonresident may be required at any time or place to prove
lawful possession or their right to operate such motor vehicle, and to
establish proper identity.
(R.C. § 4507.04)
§ 71.03 PRODUCTION OF LICENSE ON DEMAND.
   (A)   The operator of a motor vehicle shall display the operator’s driver’s
license, or furnish satisfactory proof that the operator has a driver’s
license, upon demand of any peace officer or of any person damaged or injured
in any collision in which the licensee may be involved. When a demand is
properly made, and the operator has the operator’s driver’s license on or about
the operator’s person, the operator shall not refuse to display the license. A
person’s failure to furnish satisfactory evidence that the person is licensed
under R.C. Chapter 4507 when the person does not have the person’s license on
or about the person’s person shall be prima facie evidence of the person’s not
having obtained a driver’s license.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, whoever
violates this section is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section,
R.C. § 4507.35, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense
is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.35)
§ 71.04 IMPROPER DISPLAY, POSSESSION, OR TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Display or cause or permit to be displayed, or possess any
identification card, driver's or commercial driver's license, temporary
instruction permit, or commercial driver's license temporary instruction permit
knowing the same to be fictitious, or to have been canceled, suspended, or
altered;
      (2)   Lend to a person not entitled thereto, or knowingly permit a person
not entitled thereto to use any identification card, driver’s or commercial
driver’s license, temporary instruction permit or commercial driver’s license
temporary instruction permit issued to the person so lending or permitting the
use thereof;
      (3)   Display, or represent as one's own, any identification card,
driver's or commercial driver's license, temporary instruction permit, or
commercial driver's license temporary instruction permit not issued to the
person so displaying the same;
      (4)   Fail to surrender to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, upon the
Registrar’s demand, any identification card, driver’s or commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit that has been suspended or canceled;
      (5)   In any application for an identification card, driver's or
commercial driver's license, temporary instruction permit, or commercial
driver's license temporary instruction permit or any renewal, reprint, or
duplicate thereof, knowingly conceal a material fact or present any physician's
statement required under R.C. § 4507.08 or 4507.081 when knowing the same to be
false or fictitious.
   (B)   Whoever violates any division of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.30)
Statutory reference:
   Use of license to violate liquor laws; suspension; procedures, see R.C. §
4510.33
§ 71.05 PERMITTING MINOR TO OPERATE VEHICLE PROHIBITED; TEMPORARY INSTRUCTION
PERMIT; PROBATIONARY LICENSE.
   (A)   No person shall cause or knowingly permit any minor to drive a motor
vehicle upon a highway as an operator, unless the minor has first obtained a
license or permit to drive a motor vehicle under R.C. Chapter 4507.
(R.C. § 4507.31(A))
   (B)   (1)   No holder of a temporary instruction permit issued under R.C. §
4507.05(A) shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or
private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking
in violation of the conditions established under R.C. § 4507.05(A).
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (B)(3)(b) of this section, no
holder of a temporary instruction permit that is issued under R.C. § 4507.05(A)
and that is issued on or after July 1, 1998, and who has not attained the age
of 18 years, shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or
private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking
between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m.
         (b)   The holder of a temporary instruction permit issued under R.C. §
4507.05(A) on or after July 1, 1998, who has not attained the age of 18 years,
may operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or private property
used by the public for purposed of vehicular travel or parking between the
hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m. if, at the time of such operation, the holder
is accompanied by the holder’s parent, guardian, or custodian, and the parent,
guardian, or custodian holds a current valid driver’s or commercial driver’s
license issued by this state, is actually occupying a seat beside the permit
holder, and does not have a prohibited concentration of alcohol in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine as provided in R.C. § 4511.19
(A).
(R.C. § 4507.05(F))
   (C)   (1)   (a)   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has held
the license for less than 12 months shall operate a motor vehicle upon a
highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m. unless
the holder is accompanied by the holder’s parent or guardian.
         (b)   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has held the
license for 12 months or longer shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or
any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. unless the
holder is accompanied by the holder’s parent or guardian.
      (2)   (a)   Subject to division (E)(1) of this section, division (C)(1)
(a) of this section does not apply to the holder of a probationary driver’s
license who is doing either of the following:
            1.   Traveling to or from work between the hours of midnight and 6:
00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession
written documentation from the holder’s employer.
            2.   Traveling to or from an official function sponsored by the
school the holder attends between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m., provided
that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession written documentation
from an appropriate official of the school;
            3.   Traveling to or from an official religious event between the
hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s
immediate possession written documentation from an appropriate official
affiliated with the event.
         (b)   Division (C)(1)(b) of this section does not apply to the holder
of a probationary driver’s license who is doing either of the following:
            1.   Traveling to or from work between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and
5:00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession
written documentation from the holder’s employer.
            2.   Traveling to or from an official function sponsored by the
school the holder attends between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m.,
provided that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession written
documentation from an appropriate official of the school;
            3.   Traveling to or from an official religious event between the
hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s
immediate possession written documentation from an appropriate official
affiliated with the event.
      (3)   An employer, school official, or official affiliated with a
religious event is not liable in damages in a civil action for any injury,
death, or loss to person or property that allegedly arises from, or is related
to, the fact that the employer, school official, or official affiliated with a
religious event provided the holder of a probationary driver’s license with the
written documentation described in division (C)(2) of this section. The
Registrar of Motor Vehicles shall make available at no cost a form to serve as
the written documentation described in division (C)(2) of this section, and
employers, school officials, officials affiliated with religious events, and
holders of probationary driver’s licenses may utilize that form or may choose
to utilize any other written documentation to meet the requirements of that
division.
      (4)   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has held the
license for less than 12 months shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or
any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking with more than one person who is not a family member
occupying the vehicle unless the probationary license holder is accompanied by
the probationary license holder’s parent, guardian, or custodian.
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a violation of division (C)(1)(a) or
(C)(1)(b) of this section if, at the time of the violation, an emergency
existed that required the holder of the probationary driver’s license to
operate a motor vehicle in violation of division (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) of this
section or the holder was an emancipated minor.
   (E)   (1)   If a person is issued a probationary driver’s license prior to
attaining the age of 17 years and the person pleads guilty to, is convicted of,
or is adjudicated in juvenile court of having committed a moving violation
during the six-month period commencing on the date on which the person is
issued the probationary driver’s license, the court with jurisdiction over the
violation may order that the holder must be accompanied by the holder’s parent
or guardian whenever the holder is operating a motor vehicle upon a highway or
any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking for a period not to exceed six months or the date the holder
attains the age of 17 years, whichever occurs first.
      (2)   Any person who is subject to the operating restrictions established
under division (E)(1) of this section as a result of a first moving violation
may petition the court for driving privileges without being accompanied by the
holder’s parent or guardian during the period of time determined by the court
under that division. In granting the driving privileges, the court shall
specify the purposes of the privileges and shall issue the person appropriate
forms setting forth the privileges granted. If a person is convicted of, pleads
guilty to, or is adjudicated in juvenile court of having committed a second or
subsequent moving violation, the court with jurisdiction over the violation may
terminate any driving privileges previously granted under this division.
      (3)   No person shall violate any operating restriction imposed under
division (E)(1) or (E)(2) of this section.
   (F)   No holder of a probationary license shall operate a motor vehicle upon
a highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking unless the total number of occupants of the vehicle
does not exceed the total number of occupant restraining devices originally
installed in the motor vehicle by its manufacturer, and each occupant of the
vehicle is wearing all of the available elements of a properly adjusted
occupant restraining device.
   (G)   A restricted license may be issued to a person who is 14 or 15 years
of age under proof of hardship satisfactory to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles.
   (H)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether each occupant of the motor vehicle is wearing all of the
available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device as
required by division (F) of this section, or for the sole purpose of issuing a
ticket, citation or summons if that requirement has been or is being violated,
or for causing the arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for a
violation of that requirement.
   (I)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of division (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) this section
has been or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket,
citation or summons for such a violation or for causing the arrest or
commencing a prosecution of a person for such a violation.
   (J)   As used in this section:
      FAMILY MEMBER of a probationary license holder includes any of the
following:
         (a)   A spouse;
         (b)   A child or stepchild;
         (c)   A parent, stepparent, grandparent, or parent-in-law;
         (d)   An aunt or uncle;
         (e)   A sibling, whether of the whole or half blood or by adoption, a
brother-in-law, or a sister-in-law;
         (f)   A son or daughter of the probationary license holder’s
stepparent if the stepparent has not adopted the probationary license holder;
         (g)   An eligible adult, as defined in R.C. § 4507.05.
      MOVING VIOLATION means any violation of any statute or ordinance that
regulates the operation of vehicles on the highways or streets. MOVING
VIOLATION does not include a violation of R.C. § 4513.263 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, or a violation of any statute or ordinance
regulating pedestrians or the parking of vehicles, vehicle size or load
limitations, vehicle fitness requirements, or vehicle registration.
      OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICE has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4513.263.
(R.C. § 4507.071(B) - (I)
   (K)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.31(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates divisions (B), (C)(1), (C)(4), (E)(3), or (F)(D)
of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. §§ 4507.05(I), 4507.071(J))
§ 71.06 (RESERVED).
§ 71.07 EMPLOYMENT OF A MINOR TO OPERATE A TAXICAB.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the definition of CHAUFFEUR in R.C. § 4501.01, no
person shall employ any minor for the purpose of operating a taxicab.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4507.321)
§ 71.08 RESTRICTION AGAINST OWNER LENDING VEHICLE FOR USE OF ANOTHER.
   (A)   No person shall permit a motor vehicle owned by the person or under
the person’s control to be driven by another if any of the following apply:
      (1)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person does not have a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit or valid nonresident driving privileges;
      (2)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privileges have been suspended or canceled under R.C. Chapter 4510 or
any other provision of the Revised Code.
      (3)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s act of driving the motor vehicle would violate any prohibition
contained in R.C. Chapter 4509.
      (4)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s act of driving would violate R.C. § 4511.19 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (5)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
vehicle is the subject of an immobilization waiver order issued under R.C. §
4503.235 and the other person is prohibited from operating the vehicle under
that order.
   (B)   Without limiting or precluding the consideration of any other evidence
in determining whether a violation of division (A)(1), (2), (3), (4), or (5) of
this section has occurred, it shall be prima-facie evidence that the offender
knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the operator of the motor vehicle
owned by the offender or under the offender’s control is in a category
described in division (A)(1), (2), (3), (4), or (5) of this section if any of
the following applies:
      (1)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (A)(1), (3), or (5) of this section, the offender and the operator of
the motor vehicle reside in the same household and are related by consanguinity
or affinity.
      (2)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (A)(2) of this section, the offender and the operator of the motor
vehicle reside in the same household, and the offender knows or has reasonable
cause to believe that the operator has been charged with or convicted of any
violation of law or ordinance, or has committed any other act or omission, that
would or could result in the suspension or cancellation of the operator’s
license, permit, or privilege.
      (3)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (A)(4) of this section, the offender and the operator of the motor
vehicle occupied the motor vehicle together at the time of the offense.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of wrongful entrustment of a
motor vehicle, and shall be punished as provided in divisions (C) to (H) of
this section.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, whoever
violates division (A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)(3) of this section is guilty of an
unclassified misdemeanor. When the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the
offender shall be sentenced pursuant to §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   (a)   If, within three years of a violation of division (A)(1), (A)
(2), or (A)(3) of this section, the offender previously has pleaded guilty to
or been convicted of two or more violations of division (A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)
(3) of this section, R.C. § 4511.203(A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)(3), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) or (A)(5) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   For any violation of this section, in addition to the penalties
imposed under this Code or R.C. Chapter 2929, the court may impose a class
seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7), and, if
the vehicle involved in the offense is registered in the name of the offender,
the court may order one of the following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3)(b) or (C)(3)(c)
of this section, the court may order, for 30 days, the immobilization of the
vehicle involved in the offense and the impoundment of that vehicle’s license
plates. If issued, the order shall be issued and enforced under R.C. §
4503.233.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one violation of this section, R.C. § 4511.203, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the court may order, for 60 days, the
immobilization of the vehicle involved in the offense and the impoundment of
that vehicle’s license plates. If issued, the order shall be issued and
enforced under R.C. § 4503.233.
         (c)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section, R.C. § 4511.203, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court may order the criminal
forfeiture to the state of the vehicle involved in the offense. If issued, the
order shall be issued and enforced under R.C. § 4503.234.
      (4)   If title to a motor vehicle that is subject to an order for
criminal forfeiture under division (C)(3)(c) of this section is assigned or
transferred and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, in addition to or
independent of any other penalty established by law, the court may fine the
offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of the National
Automobile Dealers Association. The proceeds from any fine imposed under this
division shall be distributed in accordance with R.C. § 4503.234(C)(2).
   (D)   If a court orders the criminal forfeiture of a vehicle under division
(C)(3)(a) or (C)(3)(b) of this section, the court shall not release the vehicle
from the immobilization before the termination of the period of immobilization
ordered unless the court is presented with current proof of financial
responsibility with respect to that vehicle.
   (E)   If a court orders the criminal forfeiture of a vehicle under division
(C)(3)(c) of this section, upon receipt of the order from the court, neither
the Registrar of Motor Vehicles nor any deputy registrar shall accept any
application for the registration or transfer of registration of any motor
vehicle owned or leased by the person named in the order. The period of denial
shall be five years after the date the order is issued, unless, during that
five-year period, the court with jurisdiction of the offense that resulted in
the order terminates the forfeiture and notifies the Registrar of the
termination. If the court terminates the forfeiture and notifies the Registrar,
the Registrar shall take all necessary measures to permit the person to
register a vehicle owned or leased by the person or to transfer the
registration of the vehicle.
   (F)   This section does not apply to motor vehicle rental dealers or motor
vehicle leasing dealers, as defined in R.C. § 4549.65.
   (G)   Evidence of a conviction of, plea of guilty to, or adjudication as a
delinquent child for a violation of this section shall not be admissible as
evidence in any civil action that involves the offender or delinquent child who
is the subject of the conviction, plea, or adjudication and that arises from
the wrongful entrustment of a motor vehicle.
   (H)   For purposes of this section, a vehicle is owned by a person if, at
the time of a violation of this section, the vehicle is registered in the
person’s name.
(R.C. § 4511.203)
SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION
§ 71.10 LICENSE SUSPENDED OR REVOKED BY COURT OF RECORD.
   (A)   Whenever a person is found guilty under the laws of this state or any
ordinance of any political subdivision of this state, of operating a motor
vehicle in violation of such laws or ordinances relating to reckless operation,
the trial court of any court of record, in addition to or independent of all
other penalties provided by law, may impose a class five suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(5).
   (B)   Suspension of a commercial driver’s license under this section shall
be concurrent with any period of suspension disqualification under R.C. §§
3123.58 or 4506.16. No person who is disqualified for life from holding a
commercial driver’s license under R.C. § 4506.16 shall be issued a driver’s
license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period for which the commercial
driver’s license was suspended under this section, and no person whose
commercial driver’s license is suspended under this section shall be issued a
driver’s license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period of the suspension.
(R.C. § 4510.15)
§ 71.101 DRIVING UNDER SUSPENSION OR IN VIOLATION OF LICENSE RESTRICTION.
   (A)   Driving under suspension or in violation of license restriction.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2) of this section, division (B)
of this section, §
71.104 and in R.C. §§ 4510.111 and 4510.16, no person whose driver's or
commercial driver's license or permit or nonresident operating privilege has
been suspended under any provision of the Revised Code, other than R.C. Chapter
4509, or under any applicable law in any other jurisdiction in which the
person's license or permit was issued shall operate any motor vehicle upon the
public roads and highways or upon any public or private property used by the
public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking within this municipality
during the period of suspension unless the person is granted limited driving
privileges and is operating the vehicle in accordance with the terms of the
limited driving privileges.
      (2)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking in this municipality in violation of any restriction of the person's
driver's or commercial driver's license or permit imposed under R.C. § 4506.10
(D) or 4507.14.
      (3)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and Social Security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section may be admitted into
evidence as prima facie evidence that the license of the person was under
suspension at the time of the alleged violation of division (A)(1) of this
section or the person operated a motor vehicle in violation of a restriction at
the time of the alleged violation of division (A)(2) of this section. The
person charged with a violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section
may offer evidence to rebut this prima facie evidence.
      (4)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. The court may impose upon the
offender a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary
license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. §
4510.02(A)(7).
         (b)   1.   Except as provided in division (A)(4)(b)2. or (A)(4)(b)3.
of this section, the court, in addition to any other penalty that it imposes on
the offender and if the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to one violation of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111
or 4510.16, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court, in
addition to or independent of any other sentence that it imposes upon the
offender, may order the immobilization of the vehicle involved in the offense
for 30 days and the impoundment of that vehicle’s license plates for 30 days in
accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
            2.   If the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to two violations of this section, or any combination of
two violations of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111 or 4510.16, or of a
substantially similar municipal ordinance, the court, in addition to any other
sentence that it imposes on the offender, may order the immobilization of the
vehicle involved in the offense for 60 days and the impoundment of that
vehicle’s license plates for 60 days in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
            3.   If the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of this section, or any
combination of three or more violations of this section or R.C. § 4510.11,
4510.111 or 4510.16, or of a substantially similar municipal ordinance, the
court, in addition to any other sentence that it imposes on the offender, may
order the criminal forfeiture of the vehicle involved in the offense to the
state.
      (5)   Any order for immobilization and impoundment under this section
shall be issued and enforced under R.C. §§ 4503.233 and 4507.02, as applicable.
The court shall not release a vehicle from immobilization ordered under this
section unless the court is presented with current proof of financial
responsibility with respect to that vehicle.
      (6)   Any order of criminal forfeiture under this section shall be issued
and enforced under R.C. § 4503.234. Upon receipt of the copy of the order from
the court, neither the Registrar of Motor Vehicles nor a deputy registrar shall
accept any application for the registration or transfer of registration of any
motor vehicle owned or leased by the person named in the declaration of
forfeiture. The period of registration denial shall be five years after the
date of the order, unless, during that period, the court having jurisdiction of
the offense that led to the order terminates the forfeiture and notifies the
Registrar of the termination. The Registrar then shall take necessary measures
to permit the person to register a vehicle owned or leased by the person or to
transfer registration of the vehicle.
      (7)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to § 130.99
(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss
arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result
of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after committing
the offense for which the offender is sentenced under this section.
(R.C. § 4510.11)
   (B)   Driving under suspension in violation of other provisions.
      (1)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking in this municipality whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license
has been suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2151.354, 2151.87, 2935.27, 3123.58,
4301.99, 4510.032, 4510.22, or 4510.33, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
      (2)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and Social Security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (B)(1) of this section may be admitted into evidence as
prima facie evidence that the license of the person was under suspension at the
time of the alleged violation of division (B)(1) of this section. The person
charged with a violation of division (B)(1) of this section may offer evidence
to rebut this prima facie evidence.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section is guilty of
driving under suspension and shall be punished as provided in division (B)(3)
(a) or division (B)(3)(b) of this section.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(3)(b) of this
section, the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. The offender shall be
sentenced pursuant to §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
         (b)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously
was convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of division (B)(1)
of this section, or any combination of two or more violations of division (B)
(1) of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111 or 4510.16, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree, and the offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. § 2929.28 in
an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss arising from an accident
or collision that was the direct and proximate result of the offender’s
operation of the vehicle before, during, or after committing the offense for
which the offender is sentenced under this section.
(R.C. § 4510.111)
   (C)   Repeat traffic offender; point system suspension. Any person whose
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating
privileges are suspended as a repeat traffic offender under R.C. § 4510.037 and
who, during the suspension, operates any motor vehicle upon any public roads
and highways is guilty of driving under a twelve-point suspension, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. The court shall sentence the offender to a
minimum term of three days in jail. No court shall suspend the first three days
of jail time imposed pursuant to this division.
(R.C. § 4510.037(J))
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver's or commercial driver's license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
§ 71.102 OPERATING MOTOR VEHICLE OR MOTORCYCLE WITHOUT VALID LICENSE.
   (A)   (1)   No person, except those expressly exempted under R.C. §§
4507.03, 4507.04, and 4507.05, shall operate any motor vehicle upon a public
road or highway or any public or private property used by the public for
purposes of vehicular travel or parking in this municipality unless the person
has a valid driver's license issued under R.C. Chapter 4507 or a commercial
driver's license issued under R.C. Chapter 4506.
      (2)   No person, except a person expressly exempted under R.C. §§
4507.03, 4507.04, and 4507.05, shall operate any motorcycle upon a public road
or highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking in this municipality unless the person has a valid
license as a motorcycle operator that was issued upon application by the
registrar of motor vehicles under R.C. Chapter 4507. The license shall be in
the form of an endorsement, as determined by the registrar, upon a driver's or
commercial driver's license, if the person has a valid license to operate a
motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle, or in the form of a restricted
license as provided in R.C. § 4507.14, if the person does not have a valid
license to operate a motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle.
   (B)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and Social Security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section may be admitted into
evidence as prima facie evidence that the person did not have either a valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license at the time of the alleged violation of
division (A)(1) of this section or a valid license as a motorcycle operator
either in the form of an endorsement upon a driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or a restricted license at the time of the alleged violation of
division (A)(2) of this section. The person charged with a violation of
division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section may offer evidence to rebut this
prima facie evidence.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of operating a motor vehicle
or motorcycle without a valid license and shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   If the trier of fact finds that the offender never has held a valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license issued by this state or any other
jurisdiction, or, in a case involving the operation of a motorcycle by the
offender, if the offender has never held a valid license as a motorcycle
operator, either in the form of an endorsement upon a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or in the form of a restricted license, except as otherwise
provided in this division, the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case. If the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation of this section or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
      (2)   If the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit
or, in a case involving the operation of a motorcycle by the offender, the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license bearing the motorcycle
endorsement or the offender’s restricted license was expired at the time of the
offense, except as otherwise provided in this division, the offense is a minor
misdemeanor. If within three years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
   (D)   The court shall not impose a license suspension for a first violation
of this section or if more than three years have passed since the offender's
last violation of R.C. § 4510.12, this section, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
   (E)   If the offender was convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more
violations of R.C. § 4510.12, this section, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance within the past three years, and if the offender's license
was expired for more than six months at the time of the offense, the court may
impose a class seven suspension of the offender's driver license, commercial
driver's license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or
nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)
(7).
(R.C. § 4510.12)
§ 71.103 DRIVING UNDER OVI SUSPENSION.
   (A)   No person whose driver's or commercial driver's license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege has been suspended under R.C. § 4511.19,
4511.191, or 4511.196 or under R.C. § 4510.07 for a conviction of a violation
of a municipal OVI ordinance shall operate any motor vehicle upon the public
roads or highways within this municipality during the period of the suspension.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of driving under OVI
suspension. The court shall sentence the offender under R.C. Chapter 2929,
subject to the differences authorized or required by this section.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this
section, driving under OVI suspension is a misdemeanor of the first degree. The
court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         (a)   A mandatory jail term of three consecutive days. The three-day
term shall be imposed, unless, subject to division (C) of this section, the
court instead imposes a sentence of not less than 30 consecutive days of house
arrest with electronic monitoring. A period of house arrest with electronic
monitoring imposed under this division shall not exceed six months. If the
court imposes a mandatory three-day jail term under this division, the court
may impose a jail term in addition to that term, provided that in no case shall
the cumulative jail term imposed for the offense exceed six months;
         (b)   A fine of not less than $250 and not more than $1,000;
         (c)   A license suspension under division (E) of this section;
         (d)   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender's name, immobilization for 30 days of the
offender's vehicle and impoundment for 30 days of the identification license
plates of that vehicle. The order for immobilization and impoundment shall be
issued and enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
      (2)   If, within six years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one violation of this section or one
equivalent offense, driving under OVI suspension is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         (a)   A mandatory jail term of 10 consecutive days. Notwithstanding
the jail terms provided in R.C. §§ 2929.21 through 2929.28, the court may
sentence the offender to a longer jail term of not more than one year. The 10-
day mandatory jail term shall be imposed unless, subject to division (C) of
this section, the court instead imposes a sentence of not less than 90
consecutive days of house arrest with electronic monitoring. The period of
house arrest with electronic monitoring shall not exceed one year;
         (b)   Notwithstanding the fines provided for in R.C. Chapter 2929, a
fine of not less than $500 and not more than $2,500;
         (c)   A license suspension under division (E) of this section;
         (d)   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender's name, immobilization of the offender's
vehicle for 60 days and the impoundment for 60 days of the identification
license plates of that vehicle. The order for immobilization and impoundment
shall be issued and enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
      (3)   If, within six years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section
or two or more equivalent offenses, driving under OVI suspension is a
misdemeanor. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         (a)   A mandatory jail term of 30 consecutive days. Notwithstanding
the jail terms provided in R.C. §§ 2929.21 through 2929.28, the court may
sentence the offender to a longer jail term of not more than one year. The
court shall not sentence the offender to a term of house arrest with electronic
monitoring in lieu of the mandatory portion of the jail term;
         (b)   Notwithstanding the fines set forth in R.C. Chapter 2929, a fine
of not less than $500 and not more than $2,500;
         (c)   A license suspension under division (E) of this section;
         (d)   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender's name, criminal forfeiture to the state
of the offender's vehicle. The order of criminal forfeiture shall be issued and
enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.234. If title to a motor vehicle that
is subject to an order for criminal forfeiture under this division is assigned
or transferred and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, the court may fine
the offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of the
national automobile dealers association. The proceeds from any fine so imposed
shall be distributed in accordance with division R.C. § 4503.234(C)(2).
   (C)   (1)   No court shall impose an alternative sentence of house arrest
with electronic monitoring under division (B)(1) or (B)(2) of this section
unless, within 60 days of the date of sentencing, the court issues a written
finding on the record that, due to the unavailability of space at the jail
where the offender is required to serve the jail term imposed, the offender
will not be able to begin serving that term within the 60-day period following
the date of sentencing.
      (2)   An offender sentenced under this section to a period of house
arrest with electronic monitoring shall be permitted work release during that
period.
   (D)   Fifty percent of any fine imposed by a court under division (B)(1),
(B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section shall be deposited into the municipal
indigent drivers alcohol treatment fund under the control of that court, as
created by the municipality pursuant to R.C. § 4511.191(H).
   (E)   In addition to or independent of all other penalties provided by law
or ordinance, the trial judge of any court of record or the mayor of a mayor's
court shall impose on an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
violation of this section a class seven suspension of the offender's driver's
or commercial driver's license or permit or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
      (1)   When permitted as specified in R.C. § 4510.021, if the court grants
limited driving privileges during a suspension imposed under this section, the
privileges shall be granted on the additional condition that the offender must
display restricted license plates, issued under R.C. § 4503.231, on the vehicle
driven subject to the privileges, except as provided in R.C. § 4503.231(B).
      (2)   A suspension of a commercial driver's license under this section
shall be concurrent with any period of suspension or disqualification under
R.C. § 3123.58 or 4506.16. No person who is disqualified for life from holding
a commercial driver's license under R.C. § 4506.16 shall be issued a driver's
license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period for which the commercial
driver's license was suspended under this section, and no person whose
commercial driver's license is suspended under this section shall be issued a
driver's license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period of the suspension.
   (F)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense that is a misdemeanor of the first degree under this
section for which the offender is sentenced.
   (G)   As used in this section:
      ELECTRONIC MONITORING has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      EQUIVALENT OFFENSE means any of the following:
         (a)   A violation of a municipal ordinance, law of another state, or
law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to division (A) of
this section;
         (b)   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to division (A) of this section.
      JAIL has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      MANDATORY JAIL TERM means the mandatory term in jail of 3, 10, or 30
consecutive days that must be imposed under division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3)
of this section upon an offender convicted of a violation of division (A) of
this section and in relation to which all of the following apply:
         (a)   Except as specifically authorized under this section, the term
must be served in a jail.
         (b)   Except as specifically authorized under this section, the term
cannot be suspended, reduced, or otherwise modified pursuant to any provision
of the Ohio Revised Code.
(R.C. § 4510.14)
   (H)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver's or commercial driver's license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
Statutory reference:
   Immobilization of vehicle; impoundment of license plates; criminal
forfeiture of vehicle, see R.C. § 4510.161
§ 71.104 DRIVING UNDER FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY LAW SUSPENSION OR CANCELLATION;
DRIVING UNDER A NONPAYMENT OF JUDGMENT SUSPENSION.
   (A)   No person, whose driver's or commercial driver's license or temporary
instruction permit or nonresident's operating privilege has been suspended or
canceled pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4509, shall operate any motor vehicle within
this municipality, or knowingly permit any motor vehicle owned by the person to
be operated by another person in the municipality, during the period of the
suspension or cancellation, except as specifically authorized by R.C. Chapter
4509. No person shall operate a motor vehicle within this municipality, or
knowingly permit any motor vehicle owned by the person to be operated by
another person in the municipality, during the period in which the person is
required by R.C. § 4509.45 to file and maintain proof of financial
responsibility for a violation of R.C. § 4509.101, unless proof of financial
responsibility is maintained with respect to that vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any public
or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking in this municipality if the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or temporary instruction permit or nonresident operating privilege has
been suspended pursuant to R.C. § 4509.37 or 4509.40 for nonpayment of a
judgment.
   (C)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and Social Security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A) or (B) of this section may be admitted into evidence
as prima facie evidence that the license of the person was under either a
financial responsibility law suspension at the time of the alleged violation of
division (A) of this section or a nonpayment of judgment suspension at the time
of the alleged violation of division (B) of this section. The person charged
with a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section may offer evidence to
rebut this prima facie evidence.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of driving
under financial responsibility law suspension or cancellation and shall be
punished as provided in this division (D). Whoever violates division (B) of
this section is guilty of driving under a nonpayment of judgment suspension and
shall be punished as provided in this division (D).
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (D)(2) of this
section, the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. When the offense is an
unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced pursuant to §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously was
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section, or
any combination of two violations of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111 or
4510.16, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. § 2929.28 in
an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss arising from an accident
or collision that was the direct and proximate result of the offender’s
operation of the vehicle before, during, or after committing the offense for
which the offender is sentenced under this section.
(R.C. § 4510.16)
   (E)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver's or commercial driver's license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
Statutory reference:
   Immobilization of vehicle; impoundment of license plates; criminal
forfeiture of vehicle, see R.C. § 4510.161
§ 71.105 FAILURE TO REINSTATE LICENSE.
   (A)   No person whose driver's license, commercial driver's license,
temporary instruction permit, or nonresident's operating privilege has been
suspended shall operate any motor vehicle upon a public road or highway or any
public or private property after the suspension has expired unless the person
has complied with all license reinstatement requirements imposed by the court,
the bureau of motor vehicles, or another provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
   (B)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and Social Security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A) of this section may be admitted into evidence as
prima facie evidence that the license of the person had not been reinstated by
the person at the time of the alleged violation of division (A) of this
section. The person charged with a violation of division (A) of this section
may offer evidence to rebut this prima facie evidence.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to reinstate a
license, and shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, whoever
violates this section is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to § 130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender
shall not be sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a
community residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of a violation of division (A) of this
section, the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted of two
or more violations of this section, R.C. § 4510.21 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (3)   In all cases, the court may impose upon the offender a class seven
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary driver’s license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
(R.C. § 4510.21)
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver's or commercial driver's license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
VEHICLE LICENSE REGULATIONS
§ 71.15 DISPLAY OF LICENSE PLATES OR VALIDATION STICKERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person who is the owner or operator of a motor vehicle shall fail
to display in plain view on the rear of the motor vehicle a license plate that
displays the distinctive number and registration mark assigned to the motor
vehicle by the Ohio Director of Public Safety, including any county
identification sticker and any validation sticker when required by and issued
under R.C. §§ 4503.19 and 4503.191. However, a commercial tractor shall display
the license plate on the front of the commercial tractor.
   (B)   The license plate shall be securely fastened so as not to swing, and
shall not be covered by any material that obstructs its visibility.
   (C)   No person to whom a temporary motor vehicle license registration has
been issued for the use of a motor vehicle under R.C. § 4503.182, and no
operator of that motor vehicle, shall fail to display the temporary motor
vehicle license registration in plain view from the rear of the vehicle either
in the rear window or on an external rear surface of the motor vehicle.
   (D)   No person shall cover a temporary motor vehicle license registration
by any material that obstructs its visibility.
(R.C. § 4503.21(A)) ('56 Code, § 8-8)
§ 71.16 USE OF UNAUTHORIZED PLATES.
   (A)   No person shall operate or drive a motor vehicle upon the public roads
and highways in this municipality if it displays a license plate or a
distinctive number or identification mark that meets any of the following
criteria:
      (1)   It is fictitious;
      (2)   It is a counterfeit or an unlawfully made copy of any distinctive
number or identification mark;
      (3)   It belongs to another motor vehicle, provided that this section
does not apply to a motor vehicle that is operated on the public roads and
highways in this municipality when the motor vehicle displays license plates
that originally were issued for a motor vehicle that previously was owned by
the same person who owns the motor vehicle that is operated on the public roads
and highways in this municipality during the 30-day period described in R.C.§
4503.12(A)(4).
   (B)   A person who fails to comply with the transfer of registration
provisions of R.C. § 4503.12 and is charged with a violation of that section
shall not be charged with a violation of this section.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A)(1), (2), or (3) of this section is
guilty of operating a motor vehicle bearing an invalid license plate or
identification mark, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and
a misdemeanor of the third degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.08) ('56 Code, § 8-9)
§ 71.17 OPERATING WITHOUT LICENSE PLATES.
   (A)   No person shall operate or cause to be operated upon a public road or
highway a motor vehicle of a manufacturer or dealer unless the vehicle carries
and displays a placard, except as provided in R.C. § 4503.21, issued by the
Director of Public Safety that displays the registration number of its
manufacturer or dealer.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of illegal
operation of a manufacturer’s or dealer’s motor vehicle, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4549.10)
§ 71.18 OPERATING WITH NUMBER OF FORMER OWNER.
   (A)   No person shall operate or drive upon the highways of this
municipality a motor vehicle acquired from a former owner who has registered
the motor vehicle, while the motor vehicle displays the distinctive number or
identification mark assigned to it upon its original registration.
   (B)   Whoever violates division this section is guilty of operation of a
motor vehicle bearing license plates or an identification mark issued to
another, a minor misdemeanor on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.11)
§ 71.19 RESIDENT OPERATING WITH NUMBER ISSUED BY FOREIGN STATE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner of a motor vehicle and a resident of this
state shall operate or drive the motor vehicle upon the highways of this
municipality while it displays a distinctive number or identification mark
issued by or under the authority of another state, without complying with the
laws of this state relating to the registration and identification of motor
vehicles.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal operation by a
resident of this state of a motor vehicle bearing the distinctive number or
identification mark issued by a foreign jurisdiction, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4549.12)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty
otherwise is provided in the section that contains the provision violated is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. §§ 4506.99, 4507.99)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
Operation Generally
   
72.01   Lanes of travel on roadways
   
72.02   Rules for driving in marked lanes
   
72.03   Vehicles traveling in opposite directions
   
72.04   Rules governing overtaking and passing of vehicles
   
72.05   Permission to overtake and pass on the right
   
72.06   Driving to left of center line
   
72.07   Prohibition against driving on left side of roadway
   
72.08   Hazardous zones
   
72.09   One-way highways and rotary traffic islands
   
72.10   Divided roadways
   
72.11   Space between moving vehicles
   
72.12   Rules for turns at intersections
   
72.13   Turning in roadway prohibited
   
72.14   Rules for starting and backing vehicles
   
72.15   Turn and stop signals
   
72.16   Hand and arm signals
Right-of-way
   
72.20   Right-of-way at intersections
   
72.21   Right-of-way when turning left
   
72.22   Right-of-way at through highways; stop signs; yield signs
   
72.23   Stop at sidewalk area
   
72.24   Right-of-way on public highway
   
72.25   Right-of-way of public safety vehicles
   
72.26   Funeral procession has right-of-way
Through Highways
   
72.28   Through highways
Grade Crossings
   
72.30   Stop signs at grade crossings
   
72.31   Driving vehicle across railroad grade crossing
   
72.32   Vehicles required to stop at grade crossings
   
72.33   Slow-moving vehicles or equipment crossing railroad tracks
Prohibited Acts
   
72.35   Obstruction and interference affecting view and control of driver
   
72.36   Occupying travel trailer, fifth wheel vehicle, or manufactured or
mobile home while in motion
   
72.37   Driving on closed highway
   
72.38   Driving on sidewalk area
   
72.39   Obstructing passage of other vehicles
   
72.40   Following an emergency or public vehicle prohibited; approaching
stationary public safety vehicle and certain other vehicles with caution
   
72.41   Driving over unprotected fire hose
   
72.42   Placing injurious material on highway
   
72.43   Driving on play street
   
72.44   Transporting child not in child-restraint system prohibited
   
72.45   Depositing litter from motor vehicle
   
72.46   Operating motor vehicle while wearing earphones or earplugs
   
72.47   Unnecessary noise
   
72.48   Texting while driving prohibited
   
72.49   Use of electronic wireless communication devices by minors or
probationary drivers while driving prohibited
Railroads
   
72.50   Speed
   
72.51   Blocking public way
OPERATION GENERALLY
§ 72.01 LANES OF TRAVEL ON ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction, or when making a left turn under the rules governing such movements;
      (2)   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left
of the center of the highway; provided, any person so doing shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the
unobstructed portion of the highway within such distance as to constitute an
immediate hazard;
      (3)   When driving upon a roadway divided into three or more marked lanes
for traffic under the rules applicable thereon;
      (4)   When driving upon a roadway designated and posted with signs for
one-way traffic;
      (5)   When otherwise directed by a police officer or traffic-control
device.
   (B)   (1)   Upon all roadways any vehicle proceeding at less than the
prevailing and lawful speed of traffic at the time and place and under the
conditions then existing shall be driven in the right-hand lane then available
for traffic, and far enough to the right to allow passing by faster vehicles if
such passing is safe and reasonable, except under any of the following
circumstances:
         (a)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction;
         (b)   When preparing for a left turn;
         (c)   When the driver must necessarily drive in a lane other than the
right-hand lane to continue on the driver’s intended route.
      (2)   Nothing in division (B)(1) of this section requires a driver of a
slower vehicle to compromise the driver’s safety to allow overtaking by a
faster vehicle.
   (C)   Upon any roadway having four or more lanes for moving traffic and
providing for two-way movement of traffic, no vehicle shall be driven to the
left of the center line of the roadway, except when authorized by official
traffic-control devices designating certain lanes to the left of the center of
the roadway for use by traffic not otherwise permitted to use the lanes, or
except as permitted under division (A)(2) of this section. This division shall
not be construed as prohibiting the crossing of the center line in making a
left turn into or from an alley, private road, or driveway.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.25)
§ 72.02 RULES FOR DRIVING IN MARKED LANES.
   (A)   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for traffic, or wherever within the municipality traffic is lawfully
moving in two or more substantially continuous lines in the same direction, the
following rules apply:
      (1)   A vehicle shall be driven, as nearly as is practicable, entirely
within a single lane or line of traffic and shall not be moved from the lane or
line until the driver has first ascertained that the movement can be made with
safety.
      (2)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes and provides for
the two-way movement of traffic, a vehicle shall not be driven in the center
lane, except when overtaking and passing another vehicle where the roadway is
clearly visible and the center lane is clear of traffic within a safe distance,
or when preparing for a left turn, or where the center lane is at the time
allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the direction the vehicle is
proceeding, and is posted with signs to give notice of such allocation.
      (3)   Official signs may be erected directing specified traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction, regardless of the center of the roadway, or restricting
the use of a particular lane to only buses during certain hours or during all
hours, and drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of such signs.
      (4)   Official traffic-control devices may be installed prohibiting the
changing of lanes on sections of roadway, and drivers of vehicles shall obey
the directions of every such device.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.33)
§ 72.03 VEHICLES TRAVELING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   Operators of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass
each other to the right, and upon roadways having width for not more than one
line of traffic in each direction, each operator shall give to the other one-
half of the main traveled portion of the roadway or as nearly one-half as is
reasonably possible.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.26)
§ 72.04 RULES GOVERNING OVERTAKING AND PASSING OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   The following rules govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles
proceeding in the same direction:
      (1)   The operator of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in
the same direction shall, except as provided in division (A)(3) of this
section, signal to the vehicle to be overtaken, shall pass to the left thereof
at a safe distance, and shall not again drive to the right side of the roadway
until safely clear of the overtaken vehicle. When a motor vehicle overtakes and
passes a bicycle or electric bicycle, three feet or greater is considered a
safe passing distance.
      (2)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
operator of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle at the latter’s audible signal, and the operator shall not
increase the speed of the operator’s vehicle until completely passed by the
overtaking vehicle.
      (3)   The operator of a vehicle overtaking and passing another vehicle
proceeding in the same direction on a divided highway as defined in R.C. §
4511.35, a limited access highway as defined in R.C. § 5511.02, or a highway
with four or more traffic lanes is not required to signal audibly to the
vehicle being overtaken and passed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.27) ('56 Code, § 8-11)
§ 72.05 PERMISSION TO OVERTAKE AND PASS ON THE RIGHT.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass on the right of another
vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
or
      (2)   Upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width for
two or more lines of vehicles moving lawfully in the direction being traveled
by the overtaking vehicle.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle only
under conditions permitting the movement in safety. The movement shall not be
made by driving off the roadway.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.28) ('56 Code, § 8-11)
§ 72.06 DRIVING TO LEFT OF CENTER LINE.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven to the left of the center of the roadway in
overtaking and passing traffic proceeding in the same direction, unless the
left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a sufficient
distance ahead to permit the overtaking and passing to be completely made
without interfering with the safe operation of any traffic approaching from the
opposite direction or any traffic overtaken. In every event, the overtaking
vehicle must return to an authorized lane of travel as soon as practicable, and
in the event the passing movement involves the use of a lane authorized for the
traffic approaching from the opposite direction, before coming within 200 feet
of any approaching vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.29) ('56 Code, § 8-10)
§ 72.07 PROHIBITION AGAINST DRIVING ON LEFT SIDE OF ROADWAY.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven upon the left side of the roadway under the
following conditions:
      (1)   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the
highway, where the operator's view is obstructed within such a distance as to
create a hazard in the event traffic might approach from the opposite
direction;
      (2)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within 100 feet of any
bridge, viaduct, or tunnel; or
      (3)   When approaching within 100 feet of or traversing any intersection
or railroad grade crossing.
   (B)   This section does not apply to vehicles upon a one-way roadway, upon a
roadway where traffic is lawfully directed to be driven to the left side, or
under the conditions described in R.C. § 4511.25(A)(2) or a substantially
similar municipal ordinance.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.30)
§ 72.08 HAZARDOUS ZONES.
   (A)   The Department of Transportation may determine those portions of any
state highway where overtaking and passing other traffic or driving to the left
of the center or center line of the roadway would be especially hazardous, and
may, by appropriate signs or markings on the highway, indicate the beginning
and end of such zones. When signs or markings are in place and clearly visible,
every operator of a vehicle shall obey the directions of the signs or markings,
notwithstanding the distances set out in R.C. § 4511.30.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply when all of the following
apply:
      (1)   The slower vehicle is proceeding at less than half the speed of the
speed limit applicable to that location.
      (2)   The faster vehicle is capable of overtaking and passing the slower
vehicle without exceeding the speed limit.
      (3)   There is sufficient clear sight distance to the left of the center
or center line of the roadway to meet the overtaking and passing provisions of
R.C. § 4511.29, considering the speed of the slower vehicle.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.31)
§ 72.09 ONE-WAY HIGHWAYS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS.
   (A)   (1)   Upon a roadway designated and posted with signs for one-way
traffic, a vehicle shall be driven only in the direction designated.
      (2)   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island shall be driven
only to the right of the rotary traffic island.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.32)
§ 72.10 DIVIDED ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Whenever any highway has been divided into two roadways by an
intervening space, or by a physical barrier, or a clearly indicated dividing
section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle shall be
driven only upon the right-hand roadway, and no vehicle shall be driven over,
across, or within any dividing space, barrier, or section, except through an
opening, crossover, or intersection established by public authority. This
section does not prohibit the occupancy of the dividing space, barrier, or
section for the purpose of an emergency stop, or in compliance with an order of
a police officer.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.35)
§ 72.11 SPACE BETWEEN MOVING VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   The operator of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle
more closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of
the vehicle and the traffic upon and the condition of the highway.
      (2)   The driver of any truck, or motor vehicle drawing another vehicle,
when traveling upon a roadway outside a business or residence district, shall
maintain a sufficient space, whenever conditions permit, between the vehicle
and another vehicle ahead so an overtaking motor vehicle may enter and occupy
the space without danger. This division (B) does not prevent overtaking and
passing nor does it apply to any lane specially designated for use by trucks.
      (3)   Motor vehicles being driven upon any roadway outside of a business
or residence district in a caravan or motorcade shall maintain a sufficient
space between the vehicles so an overtaking vehicle may enter and occupy the
space without danger. This division (C) shall not apply to funeral processions.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.34)
§ 72.12 RULES FOR TURNS AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall be
governed by the following rules:
      (1)   Approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close
as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
      (2)   At any intersection where traffic is permitted to move in both
directions on each roadway entering the intersection, an approach for a left
turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
center line thereof and by passing to the right of the center line where it
enters the intersection, and, after entering the intersection, the left turn
shall be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the center line
of the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable, the left turn shall be made
in that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the
intersection.
      (3)   At any intersection where traffic is restricted to one direction on
one or more of the roadways, the driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at
any such intersection shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand
lane lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of the
vehicle, and, after entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so
as to leave the intersection, as nearly as practicable, in the left hand lane
of the roadway being entered lawfully available to traffic moving in that lane.
   (B)   The Department of Transportation and local authorities may cause
markers, buttons, or signs to be placed within or adjacent to intersections,
and thereby require and direct that a different course from that specified in
this section be traveled by vehicles turning at an intersection, and when
markers, buttons, or signs are so placed, no operator of a vehicle shall turn
the vehicle at an intersection other than as directed and required by the
markers, buttons, or signs.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.36)
§ 72.13 TURNING IN ROADWAY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except as provided in R.C. § 4511.13 and division (B) of this section,
no vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction upon any
curve, or upon the approach to or near the crest of a grade, if such vehicle
cannot be seen within 500 feet by the driver of any other vehicle approaching
from either direction.
   (B)   The driver of an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when
responding to an emergency call, may turn the vehicle so as to proceed in the
opposite direction. This division applies only when the emergency vehicle or
public safety vehicle is responding to an emergency call, is equipped with and
displaying at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating light visible under
normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
vehicle, and when the driver of the vehicle is giving an audible signal by
siren, exhaust whistle, or bell. This division does not relieve the driver of
an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section zis guilty of
a misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.37)
§ 72.14 RULES FOR STARTING AND BACKING VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing, or
parked until the movement can be made with reasonable safety.
      (2)   Before backing, operators of vehicles shall give ample warning, and
while backing they shall exercise vigilance not to injure person or property on
the street or highway.
      (3)   No person shall back a motor vehicle on a freeway, except:
         (a)   In a rest area;
         (b)   In the performance of public works or official duties;
         (c)   As a result of an emergency caused by an accident or breakdown
of a motor vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.38) ('56 Code, § 8-7-I)
§ 72.15 TURN AND STOP SIGNALS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall turn a vehicle or move right or left upon a
highway unless and until the person has exercised due care to ascertain that
the movement can be made with reasonable safety, nor without giving an
appropriate signal in the manner hereinafter provided.
      (2)   When required, a signal of intention to turn or move right or left
shall be given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by
the vehicle before turning, except that in the case of a person operating a
bicycle or electric bicycle, the signal shall be made not less than one time
but is not required to be continuous. A bicycle or electric bicycle operator is
not required to make a signal if the bicycle is in a designated turn lane, and
a signal shall not be given when the operator’s hands are needed for the safe
operation of the bicycle or electric bicycle.
      (3)   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein to the
driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear, when there is opportunity to
give a signal.
      (4)   Any stop or turn signal required by this section shall be given
either by means of the hand and arm, or by signal lights that clearly indicate
to both approaching and following traffic the intention to turn or move right
or left, except that any motor vehicle in use on a highway shall be equipped
with, and the required signal shall be given by, signal lights when the
distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the left outside
limit of the body, cab or load of such motor vehicle exceeds 24 inches, or when
the distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the rear limit
of the body or load thereof exceeds 14 feet, whether a single vehicle or a
combination of vehicles.
      (5)   The signal lights required by this section shall not be flashed on
one side only on a disabled vehicle, flashed as a courtesy or “do pass” signal
to operators of other vehicles approaching from the rear, nor be flashed on one
side only of a parked vehicle except as may be necessary for compliance with
this section.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.39)
§ 72.16 HAND AND ARM SIGNALS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, all signals
required by the provisions of this traffic code, when given by hand and arm,
shall be given from the left side of the vehicle in the following manner, and
the signals shall indicate as follows:
      (1)   Left turn, hand and arm extended horizontally;
      (2)   Right turn, hand and arm extended upward;
      (3)   Stop or decrease speed, hand and arm extended downward.
   (B)   As an alternative to division (A)(2) of this section, a person
operating a bicycle or electric bicycle may give a right turn signal by
extending the right hand and arm horizontally and to the right side of the
bicycle or electric bicycle.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.40)
RIGHT-OF-WAY
§ 72.20 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   When two vehicles approach or enter an intersection from different
streets or highways at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle
on the left shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right.
   (B)   The right-of-way rule declared in division (A) of this section is
modified at through highways and otherwise as stated in this traffic code or
R.C. Chapter 4511.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under § 70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.41)
§ 72.21 RIGHT-OF-WAY WHEN TURNING LEFT.
   (A)   The operator of a vehicle intending to turn to the left within an
intersection or into an alley, private road, or driveway shall yield the right-
of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is within
the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.42)
§ 72.22 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT THROUGH HIGHWAYS; STOP SIGNS; YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   Except when directed to proceed by a law enforcement officer, every
driver of a vehicle approaching a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or, if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway
before entering it. After having stopped, the driver shall yield the right-of-
way to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another roadway so
closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the time the driver is
moving across or within the intersection or junction of roadways.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall slow down to a
speed reasonable for the existing conditions, and if required for safety to
stop, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, before entering
the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if none, then at the
point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering it. After
slowing, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the
intersection or junction of roadways. Whenever a driver is involved in a
collision with a vehicle in the intersection or junction of roadways, after
driving past a yield sign without stopping, the collision shall be prima facie
evidence of the driver's failure to yield the right-of-way.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.43)
§ 72.23 STOP AT SIDEWALK AREA.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, building, private
road, or driveway within a business or residence district shall stop the
vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area
extending across the alley, building entrance, road, or driveway, or in the
event there is no sidewalk area, shall stop at the point nearest the street to
be entered where the driver has a view of approaching traffic thereon.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender violates division (A) of this section while distracted
and the distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the
offense, the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.431)
§ 72.24 RIGHT-OF-WAY ON PUBLIC HIGHWAY.
   (A)   The operator of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from any
place other than another roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all traffic
approaching on the roadway to be entered or crossed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender violates division (A) of this section while distracted
and the distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the
offense, the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.44)
§ 72.25 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Upon the approach of a public safety vehicle or coroner's vehicle,
equipped with at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating light visible
under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of
the vehicle, and the driver is giving an audible signal by siren, exhaust
whistle, or bell, no driver of any other vehicle shall fail to yield the right-
of-way, immediately drive if practical to a position parallel to, and as close
as possible to, the right edge or curb of the highway clear of any
intersection, and stop and remain in that position until the public safety
vehicle or coroner's vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a
police officer.
   (B)   This section does not relieve the driver of a public safety vehicle or
coroner's vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons and property upon the highway.
   (C)   This section applies to a coroner's vehicle only when the vehicle is
operated in accordance with R.C. § 4513.171, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance. As used in this section, CORONER'S VEHICLE means a vehicle
used by a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner's investigator that is equipped
with a flashing, oscillating or rotating red or blue light and a siren, exhaust
whistle or bell capable of giving an audible signal.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division or division (E), whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree on a first offense. On a second offense within one year after the first
offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree, and, on
each subsequent offense within one year after the first offense, the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 4511.45)
   (E)   (1)   When the failure of a motor vehicle operator to yield the right-
of-way to a public safety vehicle as required by division (A) of this section
impedes the ability of the public safety vehicle to respond to an emergency,
any emergency personnel in the public safety vehicle may report the license
plate number and a general description of the vehicle and the operator of the
vehicle to the law enforcement agency exercising jurisdiction over the area
where the alleged violation occurred.
      (2)   (a)   Upon receipt of a report under division (E)(1) of this
section, the law enforcement agency may conduct an investigation to attempt to
determine or confirm the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time of
the alleged violation.
         (b)   If the identity of the operator at the time of an alleged
violation of division (A) of this section is established, the law enforcement
agency has probable cause to issue either a written warning or a citation for
that violation, and the agency shall issue a written warning or a citation to
the operator.
         (c)   If the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time of
the alleged violation cannot be established, the law enforcement agency may
issue a written warning to the person who owned the vehicle at the time of the
alleged violation. However, in the case of a leased or rented vehicle, the law
enforcement agency shall issue the written warning to the person who leased or
rented the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation.
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section based on a
report filed under division (E)(1) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor and shall be fined $150.
         (b)   If a person who is issued a citation for a violation of division
(A) of this section based on a report filed under division (E)(1) of this
section does not enter a written plea of guilty and does not waive the person’s
right to contest the citation but instead appears in person in the proper court
to answer the charge, the trier of fact cannot find beyond a reasonable doubt
that the person committed that violation unless the emergency personnel who
filed the report appears in person in the court and testifies.
      (4)   As used in this division (E):
         LICENSE PLATE. Includes any temporary motor vehicle license
registration issued under R.C. § 4503.182 or similar law of another
jurisdiction.
         PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE. Does not include an unmarked public safety
vehicle or a vehicle used by a public law enforcement officer or other person
sworn to enforce the criminal and  traffic laws of the state or a vehicle used
by the motor carrier enforcement unit for the enforcement of orders and rules
of the public utilities commission.
(R.C. § 4511.454)
§ 72.26 FUNERAL PROCESSION HAS RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   As used in this section, FUNERAL PROCESSION means two or more vehicles
accompanying the cremated remains or the body of a deceased person in the
daytime when each of the vehicles has its headlights lighted and is displaying
a purple and white or an orange and white pennant attached to each vehicle in
such a manner as to be clearly visible to traffic approaching from any
direction.
   (B)   Excepting public safety vehicles proceeding in accordance with R.C. §
4511.45 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or when directed
otherwise by a police officer, pedestrians and the operators of all vehicles
shall yield the right-of-way to each vehicle that is a part of a funeral
procession. Whenever the lead vehicle in a funeral procession lawfully enters
an intersection, the remainder of the vehicles in the procession may continue
to follow the lead vehicle through the intersection, notwithstanding any
traffic-control devices or right-of-way provisions of the Revised Code,
provided that the operator of each vehicle exercises due care to avoid
colliding with any other vehicle or pedestrian.
   (C)   No person shall operate any vehicle as a part of a funeral procession
having the headlights of the vehicle lighted and without displaying a purple
and white or an orange and white pennant in such a manner as to be clearly
visible to traffic approaching from any direction.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.451)
THROUGH HIGHWAYS
§ 72.28 THROUGH HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   All state routes are hereby designated as through highways, provided
that stop signs, yield signs, or traffic-control signals shall be erected at
all intersections with such through highways by the Department of
Transportation as to highways under its jurisdiction and by local authorities
as to highways under their jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this
section. Where two or more state routes that are through highways intersect,
and no traffic-control signal is in operation, stop signs or yield signs shall
be erected at one or more entrances thereto by the Department or by local
authorities having jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this section.
Whenever the Director of Transportation determines on the basis of an
engineering and traffic investigation that stop signs are necessary to stop
traffic on a through highway for safe and efficient operation, nothing in this
section shall be construed to prevent such installations. When circumstances
warrant, the Director also may omit stop signs on roadways intersecting through
highways under his or her jurisdiction. Before the Director either installs or
removes a stop sign under this division, he or she shall give notice, in
writing, of that proposed action to the affected local authority at least 30
days before installing or removing the stop sign.
   (B)   Other streets or highways, or portions thereof, are hereby designated
as through highways if they are within the municipality, if they have a
continuous length of more than one mile between the limits of the street or
highway or portion thereof, and if they have stop or yield signs or traffic-
control signals at the entrances of the majority of intersecting streets or
highways. For purposes of this section, the limits of the street or highway, or
portion thereof, shall be the municipal corporation line, the physical terminus
of the street or highway, or any point on the streets or highway at which
vehicular traffic thereon is required by regulatory signs to stop or yield to
traffic on the intersecting street, provided, that in residence districts, the
municipality may by ordinance designate such street or highway, or portion
thereof, not to be a through highway and thereafter the affected residence
district shall be indicated by official traffic-control devices. Where two or
more through highways designated under this division intersect and no traffic-
control signal is in operation, stop signs or yield signs shall be erected at
one or more entrances thereto by the Department or by local authorities having
jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this section.
   (C)   The Department or local authorities having jurisdiction need not erect
stop signs at intersections they find to be so constructed as to permit traffic
to safely enter a through highway without coming to a stop. Signs shall be
erected at such intersections indicating that the operator of a vehicle shall
yield the right-of-way to or merge with all traffic proceeding on the through
highway.
   (D)   Local authorities, with reference to highways under their
jurisdiction, may designate additional through highways, and shall erect stop
signs, yield signs, or traffic-control signals at all streets and highways
intersecting such through highways, or may designate any intersection as a stop
or yield intersection, and shall erect like signs at one or more entrances to
the intersection.
(R.C. § 4511.65)
Penalty, see § 70.99
Cross-reference:
   Stop streets, see
Ch. 79, Sch. II
GRADE CROSSINGS
§ 72.30 STOP SIGNS AT GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   As used in this section, ACTIVE GRADE CROSSING WARNING DEVICE means
signs, signals, gates, or other protective devices erected or installed at a
public highway-railway crossing at common grade and activated by an electrical
circuit.
   (B)   The Department of Transportation and local authorities, with the
approval of the Department, may designate dangerous highway crossings over
railroad tracks and erect stop signs thereat.
   (C)   (1)   The Department and local authorities shall erect stop signs at a
railroad highway grade crossing in either of the following circumstances:
         (a)   New warning devices that are not active grade crossing warning
devices are being installed at the grade crossing, and railroad crossbucks were
the only warning devices at the grade crossing prior to the installation of the
new warning devices.
         (b)   The grade crossing is constructed after July 1, 2013, and only
warning devices that are not active grade crossing warning devices are
installed at the grade crossing.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to a railroad
highway grade crossing that the Director of Transportation has exempted from
that division because of traffic flow or other considerations or factors.
   (D)   When stop signs are erected pursuant to division (B) or (C) of this
section, the operator of any vehicle shall stop within 50, but not less than
15, feet from the nearest rail of the railroad tracks and shall exercise due
care before proceeding across such grade crossing.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (D) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (F)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.61)
§ 72.31 DRIVING VEHICLE ACROSS RAILROAD GRADE CROSSING.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad
grade crossing, the person shall stop within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet
from the nearest rail of the railroad if any of the following circumstances
exist at the crossing:
         (a)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a train.
         (b)   A crossing gate is lowered.
         (c)   A flagperson gives or continues to give a signal of the approach
or passage of a train.
         (d)   There is insufficient space on the other side of the railroad
grade crossing to accommodate the vehicle the person is operating without
obstructing the passage of other vehicles, pedestrians or railroad trains,
notwithstanding any traffic control signal indication to proceed.
         (e)   An approaching train is emitting an audible signal or is plainly
visible, and is in hazardous proximity to the crossing.
         (f)   There is insufficient undercarriage clearance to safely
negotiate the crossing.
      (2)   A person who is driving a vehicle and who approaches a railroad
grade crossing shall not proceed as long as any of the circumstances described
in divisions (A)(1)(a) through (A)(1)(f) of this section exist at the crossing.
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around, or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while the gate or barrier is
closed, or is being opened or closed unless the person is signaled by a law
enforcement officer or flagperson that it is permissible to do so.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 4511.62)
§ 72.32 VEHICLES REQUIRED TO STOP AT GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, the operator of
any bus, any school vehicle, or any vehicle transporting material required to
be placarded under 49 C.F.R. Parts 100 through 185, before crossing at grade
any track of a railroad, shall stop the vehicle, and while so stopped, shall
listen through an open door or open window, and look in both directions along
the track for any approaching train and for signals indicating the approach of
a train, and shall proceed only upon exercising due care after stopping,
looking, and listening as required by this section. Upon proceeding, the
operator of such a vehicle shall cross only in a gear that will ensure there
will be no necessity for changing gears while traversing the crossing, and
shall not shift gears while crossing the tracks.
   (B)   This section does not apply at grade crossings when any local
authority has filed an application with the Public Utilities Commission
requesting the approval of an exempt crossing, and the Public Utilities
Commission has authorized and approved an exempt crossing as provided in R.C. §
4511.63(B).
   (C)   As used in this section:
      BUS. Means any vehicle originally designed by its manufacturer to
transport 16 or more passengers, including the driver, or carries 16 or more
passengers, including the driver.
      EXEMPT CROSSING. Means a highway rail grade crossing authorized and
approved by the Public Utilities Commission under R.C. § 4511.63(B) at which
vehicles may cross without making the stop otherwise required by this section.
      SCHOOL VEHICLE. Means any vehicle used for the transportation of pupils
to and from a school or school-related function if the vehicle is owned or
operated by, or operated under contract with, a public or nonpublic school.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, 4511.77, or 4511.79, or
a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of those
sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.63)
§ 72.33 SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES OR EQUIPMENT CROSSING RAILROAD TRACKS.
   (A)   No person shall operate or move any crawler-type tractor, steam
shovel, derrick, roller, or any equipment or structure having a normal
operating speed of six or less miles per hour or a vertical body or load
clearance of less than nine inches above the level surface of a roadway, upon
or across any tracks at a railroad grade crossing without first complying with
divisions (A)(1) and (2) of this section.
      (1)   Before making any such crossing, the person operating or moving any
such vehicle or equipment shall first stop the same, and while stopped, the
person shall listen and look in both directions along the track for any
approaching train and for signals indicating the approach of a train, and shall
proceed only upon exercising due care.
      (2)   No such crossing shall be made when warning is given by automatic
signal, crossing gates, or a flagperson, or otherwise of the immediate approach
of a railroad train or car.
   (B)   If the normal sustained speed of the vehicle, equipment, or structure
is not more than three miles per hour, the person owning, operating, or moving
the same shall also give notice of the intended crossing to a station agent or
superintendent of the railroad, and a reasonable time shall be given to the
railroad to provide proper protection for the crossing. Where the vehicles or
equipment are being used in constructing or repairing a section of highway
lying on both sides of a railroad grade crossing, and in this construction or
repair it is necessary to repeatedly move the vehicles or equipment over the
crossing, one daily notice specifying when the work will start and stating the
hours during which it will be prosecuted is sufficient.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.64)
PROHIBITED ACTS
§ 72.35 OBSTRUCTION AND INTERFERENCE AFFECTING VIEW AND CONTROL OF DRIVER.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there
are in the front seat such number of persons, as to obstruct the view of the
driver to the front or sides of the vehicle, or to interfere with the driver's
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (B)   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in a position as to interfere
with the driver's view ahead or to the sides, or to interfere with his or her
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (C)   No person shall open the door of a vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, and can be done
without interfering with the movement of other traffic, nor shall any person
leave a door open on the side of a vehicle available to moving traffic for a
period of time longer than necessary to load or unload passengers.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.70) ('56 Code, § 8-7-H)
§ 72.36 OCCUPYING TRAVEL TRAILER, FIFTH WHEEL VEHICLE, OR MANUFACTURED OR
MOBILE HOME WHILE IN MOTION.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no person shall
occupy any travel trailer, fifth wheel trailer, or manufactured or mobile home
while it is being used as a conveyance upon a street or highway.
   (B)   (1)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to a fifth wheel
trailer when both of the following apply:
         (a)   Any child riding in the fifth wheel trailer is properly secured
in the manner provided in R.C. § 4511.81.
         (b)   The operator of the vehicle towing the fifth wheel trailer has
some means of viable communication with the passengers riding in the trailer.
      (2)   As used in this division, "viable communication" includes a
cellular or satellite telephone, a radio, or any other similar electronic
wireless communications device.
   (C)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   The offense established under this section is a strict liability
offense and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of this offense as a
strict liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other
offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict
liability offense.
(R.C. § 4511.701)
§ 72.37 DRIVING ON CLOSED HIGHWAY.
   (A)   No person shall drive upon, along, or across a street or highway, or
any part of a street or highway that has been closed in the process of its
construction, reconstruction, or repair, and posted with appropriate signs by
the authority having jurisdiction to close the highway.
(R.C. § 4511.71(A))
   (B)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle on or onto a public street or
highway that is temporarily covered by a rise in water level, including
groundwater or an overflow of water, and that is clearly marked by a sign that
specifies that the road is closed due to the rise in water level and that any
person who uses the closed portion of the road may be fined up to $2,000.
      (2)   A person who is issued a citation for a violation of division (B)
(1) of this section is not permitted to enter a written plea of guilty and
waive the person’s right to contest the citation in court, but instead must
appear in person in the proper court to answer the charge.
(R.C. § 4511.714(A), (B))
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If,
within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of
or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
         (b)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.71(B))
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   In addition to the financial sanctions authorized or required
under R.C. § 2929.28 and to any costs otherwise authorized or required under
any provision of law, the court imposing the sentence upon an offender who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of division (B) of this section
shall order the offender to reimburse one or more rescuers for the cost any
such rescuer incurred in rescuing the person, excluding any cost of
transporting the rescued person to a hospital or other facility for treatment
of injuries, up to a cumulative maximum of $2,000. If more than one rescuer was
involved in the emergency response, the court shall allocate the reimbursement
proportionately, according to the cost each rescuer incurred. A financial
sanction imposed under this section is a judgment in favor of the rescuer and,
subject to a determination of indigency under R.C. § 2929.28(B), a rescuer may
collect the financial sanction in the same manner as provided in R.C. §
2929.28.
(R.C. § 4511.714(C))
   (D)   As used in this section:
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICE ORGANIZATION. Has the same meanings as in R.C.
§ 9.60.
      FIREFIGHTING AGENCY. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 9.60.
      PRIVATE FIRE COMPANY. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 9.60.
      RESCUER. Means a state agency, political subdivision, firefighting
agency, private fire company, or emergency medical service organization.
(R.C. § 4511.714(D))
§ 72.38 DRIVING ON SIDEWALK AREA.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall drive any vehicle, other than a bicycle or an
electric bicycle if the motor is not engaged, upon a sidewalk or sidewalk area,
except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary driveway.
      (2)   This prohibition does not apply to a law enforcement officer, or
other person sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state, using
an electric bicycle with the motor engaged while in the performance of the
officer's duties.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting local
authorities from regulating the operation of bicycles or electric bicycles,
except that no local authority may require that bicycles or electric bicycles
be operated on sidewalks.
(R.C. § 4511.711(A))
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. §§ 4511.711(B))
Cross-reference:
   Bicycle regulations generally, see
Ch. 75
§ 72.39 OBSTRUCTING PASSAGE OF OTHER VEHICLES.
   (A)   No driver shall enter an intersection or marked crosswalk, or drive
onto any railroad grade crossing, unless there is sufficient space on the other
side of the intersection, crosswalk, or grade crossing to accommodate the
vehicle the driver is operating without obstructing the passage of other
vehicles, pedestrians, or railroad trains, notwithstanding any traffic-control
signal indication to proceed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.712)
§ 72.40 FOLLOWING AN EMERGENCY OR PUBLIC VEHICLE PROHIBITED; APPROACHING
STATIONARY PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE AND CERTAIN OTHER VEHICLES WITH CAUTION.
   (A)   Following an emergency or public vehicle prohibited. The driver of any
vehicle, other than an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle on official
business, shall not follow any emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle
traveling in response to an alarm closer than 500 feet, or drive into or park
the vehicle within the block where the fire apparatus has stopped in answer to
a fire alarm, unless directed to do so by a police officer or a firefighter.
(R.C. § 4511.72(A))
   (B)   Approaching stationary public safety vehicle with caution.
      (1)   The driver of a motor vehicle, upon approaching a stationary public
safety vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle, waste collection
vehicle, vehicle used by the Public Utilities Commission to conduct motor
vehicle inspections in accordance with R.C. §§ 4923.04 and 4923.06, or a
highway maintenance vehicle that is displaying the appropriate visual signals
by means of flashing, oscillating, or rotating lights, as prescribed in R.C. §
4513.17, shall do either of the following:
         (a)   If the driver of the motor vehicle is traveling on a highway
that consists of at least two lanes that carry traffic in the same direction of
travel as that of the driver's motor vehicle, the driver shall proceed with due
caution and, if possible and with due regard to the road, weather, and traffic
conditions, shall change lanes into a lane this is not adjacent to that of the
stationary public safety vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle,
waste collection vehicle, vehicle used by the Public Utilities Commission to
conduct motor vehicle inspections in accordance with R.C. §§ 4923.04 and
4923.06, or a highway maintenance vehicle.
         (b)   If the driver is not traveling on a highway of a type described
in division (B)(1)(a) of this section, or if the driver is traveling on a
highway of that type but it is not possible to change lanes or if to do so
would be unsafe, the driver shall proceed with due caution, reduce the speed of
the motor vehicle, and maintain a safe speed for the road, weather, and traffic
conditions.
      (2)   This division (B) does not relieve the driver of a public safety
vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle, waste collection vehicle,
vehicle used by the Public Utilities Commission to conduct motor vehicle
inspections in accordance with R.C. §§ 4923.04 and 4923.06, or a highway
maintenance vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of
all persons and property upon the highway.
      (3)   No person shall fail to drive a motor vehicle in compliance with
divisions (B)(1)(a) or (B)(1)(b) of this section when so required by division
(B) of this section.
(R.C. § 4511.213(A) - (C))
   (C)   Penalty.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Notwithstanding §
130.99 or R.C. § 2929.28, upon a finding that a person operated a motor vehicle
in violation of division (B)(3) of this section, the court, in addition to all
other penalties provided by law, shall impose a fine of two times the usual
amount imposed for the violation.
      (3)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. §§ 4511.213(D), 4511.72(B))
   (D)   The offense established under division (B) of this section is a strict
liability offense and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of this
offense as a strict liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any
other offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a
strict liability offense.
(R.C. § 4511.213(E))
§ 72.41 DRIVING OVER UNPROTECTED FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   No vehicle shall, without the consent of the fire department official
in command, be driven over any unprotected hose of a fire department that is
laid down on any street or private driveway to be used at any fire or alarm of
fire.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.73)
§ 72.42 PLACING INJURIOUS MATERIAL ON HIGHWAY.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a
highway, lane, road, street, or alley any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails,
or other articles which may damage or injure any person, vehicle, or animal
traveling along or upon the highway, except such substances that may be placed
upon the roadway by proper authority for the repair or construction thereof.
      (2)   Any person who drops or permits to be dropped or thrown upon any
highway any destructive or injurious material shall immediately remove the
same.
      (3)   Any person authorized to remove a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a
highway shall remove any glass or other injurious substance dropped upon the
highway from such vehicle.
      (4)   No person shall place any obstruction in or upon a highway without
proper authority.
   (B)   No person, with intent to cause physical harm to a person or a
vehicle, shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a highway, lane, road,
street, or alley any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails, or other articles
which may damage or injure any person, vehicle, or animal traveling along or
upon such highway, except such substances that may be placed upon the roadway
by proper authority for the repair or construction thereof.
(R.C. § 4511.74(A), (B))
   (C)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4511.74(C))
§ 72.43 DRIVING ON PLAY STREET.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that any street or part
thereof is set apart as a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle upon
such street or portion thereof, except that persons having business or residing
within these closed areas shall be permitted to drive within such play streets,
using, however, the greatest care in driving.
('56 Code, § 8-7-B)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.44 TRANSPORTING CHILD NOT IN CHILD RESTRAINT SYSTEM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   When any child who is in either or both of the following categories is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety
vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4511.01, that is required by the United States
Department of Transportation to be equipped with seat belts at the time of
manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child
properly secured in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions in a child
restraint system that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards:
      (1)   A child who is less than four years of age;
      (2)   A child who weighs less than 40 pounds.
   (B)   When any child who is in either or both of the following categories is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab, that is owned,
leased, or otherwise under the control of a nursery school, or day-care center,
the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child properly secured in
accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions in a child restraint system
that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards:
      (1)   A child who is less than four years of age;
      (2)   A child who weighs less than 40 pounds.
   (C)   When any child who is less than eight years of age and less than four
feet nine inches in height, who is not required by division (A) or (B) of this
section to be secured in a child restraint system, is being transported in a
motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 4511.01 or a vehicle that is regulated under R.C. § 5104.015, that is
required by the United States Department of Transportation to be equipped with
seat belts at the time of manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor
vehicle shall have the child properly secured in accordance with the
manufacturer’s instructions on a booster seat that meets federal motor vehicle
safety standards.
   (D)   When any child who is at least eight years of age but not older than
15 years of age, and who is not otherwise required by division (A), (B), or (C)
of this section to be secured in a child restraint system or booster seat, is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety
vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4511.01, that is required by the United States
Department of Transportation to be equipped with seat belts at the time of
manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child
properly restrained either in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions
in a child restraint system that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards
or in an occupant restraining device as defined in R.C. § 4513.263.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause an operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of division (C) or (D) of this section has been
or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or
summons for a violation of division (C) or (D) of this section or causing the
arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for a violation of division
(C) or (D) of this section, and absent another violation of law, a law
enforcement officer’s view of the interior or visual inspection of a motor
vehicle being operated on any street or highway may not be used for the purpose
of determining whether a violation of division (C) or (D) of this section has
been or is being committed.
   (F)   The Director of Public Safety shall adopt such rules as are necessary
to carry out this section.
   (G)   The failure of an operator of a motor vehicle to secure a child in a
child restraint system, a booster seat, or an occupant restraining device as
required in this section is not negligence imputable to the child, is not
admissible as evidence in any civil action involving the rights of the child
against any other person allegedly liable for injuries to the child, is not to
be used as a basis for a criminal prosecution of the operator of the motor
vehicle other than a prosecution for a violation of this section, and is not
admissible as evidence in any criminal action involving the operator of the
motor vehicle other than a prosecution for a violation of this section.
   (H)   This section does not apply when an emergency exists that threatens
the life of any person operating or occupying a motor vehicle that is being
used to transport a child who otherwise would be required to be restrained
under this section. This section does not apply to a person operating a motor
vehicle who has an affidavit signed by a physician licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4731 or a chiropractor licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4734 that states that the child who otherwise would be
required to be restrained under this section has a physical impairment that
makes use of a child restraint system, booster seat, or an occupant restraining
device impossible or impractical, provided that the person operating the
vehicle has safely and appropriately restrained the child in accordance with
any recommendations of the physician or chiropractor as noted on the affidavit.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any person to
carry with the person the birth certificate of a child to prove the age of the
child, but the production of a valid birth certificate for a child showing that
the child was not of an age to which this section applies is a defense against
any ticket, citation, or summons issued for violating this section.
   (J)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A), (B), (C), or (D) of this section
shall be punished as follows, provided that the failure of an operator of a
motor vehicle to secure more than one child in a child restraint system,
booster seat, or occupant restraining device as required by this section that
occurred at the same time, on the same day, and at the same location is deemed
to be a single violation of this section:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (J)(1)(b) of this
section, the offender is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined not
less than $25 nor more than $75.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (A), (B), (C), or (D) of this section or of a
state law or municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent any of those
divisions, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   All fines imposed pursuant to division (J)(1) of this section shall
be forwarded to the State Treasurer for deposit in the Child Highway Safety
Fund created by R.C. § 4511.81(I).
(R.C. § 4511.81(A)-(H), (K), (L))
§ 72.45 DEPOSITING LITTER FROM MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   No operator or occupant of a motor vehicle shall, regardless of
intent, throw, drop, discard, or deposit litter from any motor vehicle in
operation upon any street, road, or highway, except into a litter receptacle in
a manner that prevents its being carried away or deposited by the elements.
   (B)   No operator of a motor vehicle in operation upon any street, road, or
highway shall allow litter to be thrown, dropped, discarded, or deposited from
the motor vehicle, except into a litter receptacle in a manner that prevents
its being carried away or deposited by the elements.
   (C)   As used in this section, LITTER means garbage, trash, waste, rubbish,
ashes, cans, bottles, wire, paper, cartons, boxes, automobile parts, furniture,
glass, or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature.
(R.C. § 4511.82(A), (B), (D))
   (D) Whoever violates division (A) or (B) above is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the third degree.
(Am. Ord. 2000-34, passed 8-7-00)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.46 OPERATING MOTOR VEHICLE WHILE WEARING EARPHONES OR EARPLUGS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      EARPHONES. Any device that covers all or a portion of both ears and that
does either of the following:
         (a)   Through either a physical connection to another device or a
wireless connection, provides the listener with radio programs, music, or other
information;
         (b)   Provides hearing protection.
      EARPHONES does not include speakers or other listening devices that are
built into protective headgear.
      EARPLUGS. Any device that can be inserted into one or both ears and that
does either of the following:
         (a)   Through either a physical connection to another device or a
wireless connection, provides the listener with radio programs, music, or other
information;
         (b)   Provides hearing protection.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle while wearing earphones over,
or earplugs in, both ears.
   (C)   This section does not apply to:
      (1)   Any person wearing a hearing aid;
      (2)   Law enforcement personnel while on duty;
      (3)   Fire Department personnel and emergency medical service personnel
while on duty;
      (4)   Any person engaged in the operation of equipment for use in the
maintenance or repair of any highway;
      (5)   Any person engaged in the operation of refuse collection equipment;
      (6)   Any person wearing earphones or earplugs for hearing protection
while operating a motorcycle.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.84)
§ 72.47 UNNECESSARY NOISE.
   (A)   No person shall sound any signaling device in the operation of a
vehicle on any street or highway except when and to the extent reasonably
necessary for the prevention of an accident and except other reasonable use for
purposes of lawful operation in traffic or of reasonable warning or notice of
presence or approach.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly create unnecessary noise in the operation of
a vehicle on any street or highway so as to disturb the peace and quiet of a
neighborhood or of any ordinary pursuit. Without prejudice to the generality of
the foregoing any noise produced by a cutout, bypass, gutted muffler, straight
pipe, pinched tail pipe, whistle, or the retarding of the timing of the spark
shall be deemed unnecessary.
   (C)   No person shall place a vehicle in motion from rest or accelerate a
moving vehicle in such a manner as to create excessive and unnecessary noise or
so as to deposit portions of the tires thereof on the surface of the street or
highway whether from spinning of the tires against the surface of materials
thereon or from the high number of revolutions of the moving parts of its
engine while the vehicle is in low or intermediate gear range or from any other
cause whatever.
(Ord. 2000-27, passed 6-5-00)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.48 TEXTING WHILE DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on any street, highway, or
property open to the public for vehicular traffic while using, holding, or
physically supporting with any part of the person's body an electronic wireless
communications device.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device to make
contact, for emergency purposes, with a law enforcement agency, hospital or
health care provider, fire department, or other similar emergency agency or
entity;
      (2)   A person driving a public safety vehicle while using an electronic
wireless communications device in the course of the person's duties;
      (3)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device when
the person's motor vehicle is in a stationary position and is outside a lane of
travel, at a traffic control signal that is currently directing traffic to
stop, or parked on a road or highway due to an emergency or road closure;
      (4)   A person using and holding an electronic wireless communications
device directly near the person's ear for the purpose of making, receiving, or
conducting a telephone call, provided that the person does not manually enter
letters, numbers, or symbols into the device;
      (5)   A person receiving wireless messages on an electronic wireless
communications device regarding the operation or navigation of a motor vehicle;
safety-related information, including emergency, traffic, or weather alerts; or
data used primarily by the motor vehicle, provided that the person does not
hold or support the device with any part of the person's body;
      (6)   A person using the speaker phone function of the electronic
wireless communications device, provided that the person does not hold or
support the device with any part of the person's body;
      (7)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device for
navigation purposes, provided that the person does not do either of the
following during the use:
         (a)   Manually enter letters, numbers, or symbols into the device;
         (b)   Hold or support the device with any part of the person's body;
      (8)   A person using a feature or function of the electronic wireless
communications device with a single touch or single swipe, provided that the
person does not do either of the following during the use:
         (a)   Manually enter letters, numbers, or symbols into the device;
         (b)   Hold or support the device with any part of the person's body;
      (9)   A person operating a commercial truck while using a mobile data
terminal that transmits and receives data;
      (10)   A person operating a utility service vehicle or a vehicle for or
on behalf of a utility, if the person is acting in response to an emergency,
power outage, or circumstance that affects the health or safety of individuals;
      (11)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device in
conjunction with a voice-operated or hands-free feature or function of the
vehicle or of the device without the use of either hand except to activate,
deactivate, or initiate the feature or function with a single touch or swipe,
provided the person does not hold or support the device with any part of the
person's body;
      (12)   A person using technology that physically or electronically
integrates the device into the motor vehicle, provided that the person does not
do either of the following during the use:
         (a)   Manually enter letters, numbers, or symbols into the device;
         (b)   Hold or support the device with any part of the person's body.
      (13)   A person storing an electronic wireless communications device in a
holster, harness, or article of clothing on the person's body.
   (C)   If a law enforcement officer issues an offender a ticket, citation, or
summons for a violation of division (A) of this section, the officer shall do
both of the following:
      (1)   Report the issuance of the ticket, citation, or summons to the
officer's law enforcement agency;
      (2)   Ensure that such report indicates the offender's race.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
operating a motor vehicle while using an electronic wireless communication
device, an unclassified misdemeanor.
         (a)   Except as provided in divisions (D)(1)(b), (D)(1)(c), (D)(1)(d),
and (D)(2) of this section, the court shall impose upon the offender a fine of
not more than $150.
         (b)   If, within two years of the violation, the offender has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one prior violation of this section, R.C. §
4511.204, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court shall
impose upon the offender a fine of not more than $250.
         (c)   If, within two years of the violation, the offender has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more prior violations of this section,
R.C. § 4511.204, or a substantially equivalent or municipal ordinance, the
court shall impose upon the offender a fine of not more than $500. The court
also may impose a suspension of the offender's driver's license, commercial
driver's license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or
nonresident operating privilege for 90 days.
         (d)   Notwithstanding divisions (D)(1)(a) to (D)(1)(c) of this
section, if the offender was operating the motor vehicle at the time of the
violation in a construction zone where a sign was posted in accordance with
R.C. § 4511.98, the court, in addition to all other penalties provided by law,
shall impose upon the offender a fine of two times the amount imposed for the
violation under division (D)(1)(a), (D)(1)(b), or (D)(1)(c) of this section, as
applicable.
      (2)   In lieu of payment of the fine of $150 under division (D)(1)(a) of
this section and the assessment of points under division (D)(4) of this
section, the offender instead may elect to attend the distracted driving safety
course, as described in R.C. § 4511.991. If the offender attends and
successfully completes the course, the offender shall be issued written
evidence that the offender successfully completed the course. The offender
shall not be required to pay the fine and shall not have the points assessed
against that offender's driver's license if the offender submits the written
evidence to the court.
      (3)   The court may impose any other penalty authorized under R.C. §§
2929.21 to 2929.28. However, the court shall not impose a fine or a suspension
not otherwise specified in division (D)(1) of this section. The court also
shall not impose a jail term or community residential sanction.
      (4)   Except as provided in division (D)(2) of this section, points shall
be assessed for a violation of division (A) of this section in accordance with
R.C. § 4510.036.
      (5)   The offense established under this section is a strict liability
offense and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of this offense as a
strict liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other
offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict
liability offense.
   (E)   A prosecution for an offense in violation of this section does not
preclude a prosecution for an offense in violation of R.C. § 4511.204 based on
the same conduct. However, the two offenses are allied offenses of similar
import under R.C. § 2941.25.
   (F)   (1)   A law enforcement officer does not have probable cause and shall
not stop the operator of a motor vehicle for purposes of enforcing this section
unless the officer visually observes the operator using, holding, or physically
supporting with any part of the person's body the electronic wireless
communications device.
      (2)   A law enforcement officer who stops the operator of a motor vehicle
for a violation of division (A) of this section shall inform the operator that
the operator may decline a search of the operator's electronic wireless
communications device. The officer shall not do any of the following:
         (a)   Access the device without a warrant, unless the operator
voluntarily and unequivocally gives consent for the officer to access the
device;
         (b)   Confiscate the device while awaiting the issuance of a warrant
to access the device;
         (c)   Obtain consent from the operator to access the device through
coercion or any other improper means. Any consent by the operator to access the
device shall be voluntary and unequivocal before the officer may access the
device without a warrant.
   (G)   As used in this section:
      ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Includes any of the following:
         (a)   A wireless telephone;
         (b)   A text-messaging device;
         (c)   A personal digital assistant;
         (d)   A computer, including a laptop computer and a computer tablet;
         (e)   Any device capable of displaying a video, movie, broadcast
television image, or visual image;
         (f)   Any other substantially similar wireless device that is designed
or used to communicate text, initiate or receive communication, or exchange
information or data.
      An ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE does not include a two-way
radio transmitter or receiver used by a person who is licensed by the federal
communications commission to participate in the amateur radio service.
      UTILITY. An entity specified in R.C. § 4905.03(A), (C), (D), (E), or (G).
      UTILITY SERVICE VEHICLE. A vehicle owned or operated by a utility.
      VOICE-OPERATED OR HANDS-FREE FEATURE OR FUNCTION. A feature or function
that allows a person to use an electronic wireless communications device
without the use of either hand, except to activate, deactivate, or initiate the
feature or function with a single touch or single swipe.
(R.C. § 4511.204)
Statutory reference:
       No preemption for local regulations imposing greater penalties, see R.C.
§ 4511.204(E)
§ 72.49 USE OF ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATION DEVICES BY MINORS OR
PROBATIONARY DRIVERS WHILE DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No holder of a temporary instruction permit who has not attained the
age of 18 years and no holder of a probationary driver’s license shall drive a
motor vehicle on any street, highway, or property used by the public for
purposes of vehicular traffic or parking while using in any manner an
electronic wireless communications device.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to either of the
following:
      (1)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device for
emergency purposes, including an emergency contact with a law enforcement
agency, hospital or health care provider, fire department, or other similar
emergency agency or entity;
      (2)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device whose
motor vehicle is in a stationary position and the motor vehicle is outside a
lane of travel;
      (3)   A person using a navigation device in a voice-operated or hands-
free manner who does not manipulate the device while driving.
   (C)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, whoever
violates division (A) of this section shall be fined $150. In addition, the
court shall impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license
or permit for a definite period of 60 days.
      (2)   If the person previously has been adjudicated a delinquent child or
a juvenile traffic offender for a violation of this section, whoever violates
this section shall be fined $300. In addition, the court shall impose a class
seven suspension of the person’s driver’s license or permit for a definite
period of one year.
   (D)   The filing of a sworn complaint against a person for a violation of
this section does not preclude the filing of a sworn complaint for a violation
of R.C. § 4511.205 for the same conduct. However, if a person is adjudicated a
delinquent child or a juvenile traffic offender for a violation of this section
and is also adjudicated a delinquent child or a juvenile traffic offender for a
violation of R.C. § 4511.205 for the same conduct, the two offenses are allied
offenses of similar import under R.C. § 2941.25.
   (E)   As used in this section, ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE
includes any of the following:
      (1)   A wireless telephone;
      (2)   A personal digital assistant;
      (3)   A computer, including a laptop computer and a computer tablet;
      (4)   A text-messaging device;
      (5)   Any other substantially similar electronic wireless device that is
designed or used to communicate via voice, image, or written word.
(R.C. § 4511.205)
RAILROADS
§ 72.50 SPEED.
   It shall be unlawful within the corporate limits of the village for any
person or corporation to operate or run any locomotive or railroad car on or
across any street, lane, road, or alley intersecting any railroad track at the
grade thereof at a rate of speed greater than 35 mph.
('56 Code, §§ 14, 14-1)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.51 BLOCKING PUBLIC WAY.
   (A)   No person having in any way the charge, command, or control of any
railroad locomotives, engines, or cars shall permit the same to remain across
any public road, street, or alley within the limits of the village for a period
longer than five minutes to the hindrance or inconvenience of travel thereon.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall be so construed as to affect or
interfere with the arrival or departure of regular railroad trains moving
across such street or public highway, without stopping, at a legal rate of
speed; or with such regular railroad trains while stopping at a station or
depot to permit passengers to board or leave such trains.
('56 Code, § 8-13)
Penalty, see § 70.99
Cross-reference:
   Grade crossings, see §§
72.30 -
72.33
CHAPTER 73: MOTOR VEHICLE CRIMES
Section
Impaired Operation
   
73.01   Driving or physical control while under the influence of alcohol or
drugs
   
73.011   Implied consent
   
73.012   Physical control of vehicle while under the influence
   
73.02   Driving with impaired alertness or ability; use of drugs
Reckless Operation
   
73.04   Operation without reasonable control
   
73.05   Operation in willful or wanton disregard of safety on highways
   
73.06   Operation in willful or wanton disregard of safety elsewhere; exception
Speed Regulations
   
73.10   Speed limits
   
73.11   Slow speed or stopping
   
73.12   Emergency vehicles excepted from speed limitation
   
73.13   Street racing prohibited on public highways
   
73.14   Crossing, entering, or exiting
Stopping After Accident
   
73.20   Failure to stop after accident
   
73.21   Stopping after accident on other than public roads or highways
   
73.22   Stopping after accident involving damage to realty
Miscellaneous
   
73.25   Operation restricted for mini-trucks and low-speed, under-speed, or
utility vehicles
   
73.26   Officer may remove ignition key
   
73.27   Immobilizing or disabling device violation
   
73.98   Driving under influence; driver's license suspension
 
   
73.99   Penalty
IMPAIRED OPERATION
§ 73.01 DRIVING OR PHYSICAL CONTROL WHILE UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOL OR
DRUGS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate any vehicle within this municipality,
if, at the time of the operation, any of the following apply:
         (a)   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse,
or a combination of them.
         (b)   The person has a concentration of 0.08% or more but less than
0.17% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood.
         (c)   The person has a concentration of 0.096% or more but less than
0.204% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or
plasma.
         (d)   The person has a concentration of 0.08 grams or more but less
than 0.17 grams by weight of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath.
         (e)   The person has a concentration of 0.11 grams or more but less
than 0.238 grams by weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s
urine.
         (f)   The person has a concentration of 0.17% or more by weight per
unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood.
         (g)   The person has a concentration of 0.204% or more by weight per
unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or plasma.
         (h)   The person has a concentration of 0.17 grams or more by weight
of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath.
         (i)   The person has a concentration of 0.238 grams or more by weight
of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s urine.
         (j)   Except as provided in division (K) of this section, the person
has a concentration of any of the following controlled substances or
metabolites of a controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum
or plasma, or urine that equals or exceeds any of the following:
            1.   The person has a concentration of amphetamine in the person’s
urine of at least 500 nanograms of amphetamine per milliliter of the person’s
urine or has a concentration of amphetamine in the person’s whole blood or
blood serum or plasma of at least 100 nanograms of amphetamine per milliliter
of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            2.   The person has a concentration of cocaine in the person’s
urine of at least 150 nanograms of cocaine per milliliter of the person’s urine
or has a concentration of cocaine in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma of at least 50 nanograms of cocaine per milliliter of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma.
            3.   The person has a concentration of cocaine metabolite in the
person’s urine of at least 150 nanograms of cocaine metabolite per milliliter
of the person’s urine or has a concentration of cocaine metabolite in the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 50 nanograms of
cocaine metabolite per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma.
            4.   The person has a concentration of heroin in the person’s urine
of at least 2,000 nanograms of heroin per milliliter of the person’s urine or
has a concentration of heroin in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma of at least 50 nanograms of heroin per milliliter of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma.
            5.   The person has a concentration of heroin metabolite (6-
monoacetyl morphine) in the person’s urine of at least 10 nanograms of heroin
metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) per milliliter of the person’s urine or has
a concentration of heroin metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) in the person’s
whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 10 nanograms of heroin
metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) per milliliter of the person’s whole blood
or blood serum or plasma.
            6.   The person has a concentration of L.S.D. in the person’s urine
of at least 25 nanograms of L.S.D. per milliliter of the person’s urine or a
concentration of L.S.D. in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of
at least 10 nanograms of L.S.D. per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or
blood serum or plasma.
            7.   The person has a concentration of marihuana in the person’s
urine of at least 10 nanograms of marihuana per milliliter of the person’s
urine or has a concentration of marihuana in the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma of at least 2 nanograms of marihuana per milliliter of the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            8.   Either of the following applies:
               A.   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of
abuse, or a combination of them, and, as measured by gas chromatography mass
spectrometry, the person has a concentration of marihuana metabolite in the
person’s urine of at least 15 nanograms of marihuana metabolite per milliliter
of the person’s urine or has a concentration of marihuana metabolite in the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 5 nanograms of
marihuana metabolite per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum
or plasma.
               B.   The person has a concentration of marihuana metabolite in
the person’s urine of at least 35 nanograms of marihuana metabolite per
milliliter of the person’s urine or has a concentration of marihuana metabolite
in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 50 nanograms
of marihuana metabolite per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma.
            9.   The person has a concentration of methamphetamine in the
person’s urine of at least 500 nanograms of methamphetamine per milliliter of
the person’s urine or has a concentration of methamphetamine in the person’s
whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 100 nanograms of
methamphetamine per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma.
            10.   The person has a concentration of phencyclidine in the
person’s urine of at least 25 nanograms of phencyclidine per milliliter of the
person’s urine or has a concentration of phencyclidine in the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 10 nanograms of phencyclidine per
milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            11.   The State Board of Pharmacy has adopted a rule pursuant to
R.C. § 4729.041 that specifies the amount of salvia divinorum and the amount of
salvinorin A that constitute concentrations of salvia divinorum and salvinorin
A in a person’s urine, in a person’s whole blood, or in a person’s blood serum
or plasma at or above which the person is impaired for purposes of operating
any vehicle, streetcar, or trackless trolley within this state, the rule is in
effect, and the person has a concentration of salvia divinorum or salvinorin A
of at least that amount so specified by rule in the person’s urine, in the
person’s whole blood, or in the person’s blood serum or plasma.
      (2)   No person who, within 20 years of the conduct described in division
(A)(2)(a) of this section, previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of this division or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(1) of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or any other
equivalent offense shall do both of the following:
         (a)   Operate any vehicle within this municipality while under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them;
         (b)   Subsequent to being arrested for operating the vehicle as
described in division (A)(2)(a) of this section, being asked by a law
enforcement officer to submit to a chemical test or tests under R.C. § 4511.191
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and being advised by the
officer in accordance with R.C. § 4511.192 or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance of the consequences of the person’s refusal or submission
to the test or tests, refuse to submit to the test or tests.
   (B)   No person under 21 years of age shall operate any vehicle within this
municipality, if, at the time of the operation, any of the following apply:
      (1)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.02% but less than
0.08% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood.
      (2)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.03% but less than
0.096% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or
plasma.
      (3)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.02 grams but less than
0.08 grams by weight of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath.
      (4)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.028 grams but less
than 0.11 grams by weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s urine.
   (C)   In any proceeding arising out of one incident, a person may be charged
with a violation of division (A)(1)(a) or (A)(2) and a violation of division
(B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section, but the person may not be convicted
of more than one violation of these divisions.
   (D)   (1)   (a)   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding
for a violation of division (A)(1)(a) of this section or for an equivalent
offense that is vehicle-related, the result of any test of any blood or urine
withdrawn and analyzed at any health care provider, as defined in R.C. §
2317.02, may be admitted with expert testimony to be considered with any other
relevant and competent evidence in determining the guilt or innocence of the
defendant.
         (b)   In any criminal prosecution for a violation of division (A) or
(B) of this section or for an equivalent offense that is vehicle-related, the
court may admit evidence on the concentration of alcohol, drugs of abuse,
controlled substances, metabolites of a controlled substance, or a combination
of them in the defendant’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, urine,
or other bodily substance at the time of the alleged violation as shown by
chemical analysis of the substance withdrawn within three hours of the time of
the alleged violation. The three-hour time limit specified in this division
regarding the admission of evidence does not extend or affect the two-hour time
limit specified in R.C. § 4511.192(A) as the maximum period of time during
which a person may consent to a chemical test or tests as described in that
section. The court may admit evidence on the concentration of alcohol, drugs of
abuse, or a combination of them as described in this division when a person
submits to a blood test at the request of a law enforcement officer under R.C.
§ 4511.191 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or a blood or
urine sample is obtained pursuant to a search warrant. Only a physician, a
registered nurse, an emergency medical technician-intermediate, an emergency
medical technician-paramedic, or a qualified technician, chemist, or
phlebotomist shall withdraw a blood sample for the purpose of determining the
alcohol, drug, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance, or
combination content of the whole blood, blood serum, or blood plasma. This
limitation does not apply to the taking of breath or urine specimens. A person
authorized to withdraw blood under this division may refuse to withdraw blood
under this division, if in that person’s opinion, the physical welfare of the
person would be endangered by the withdrawing of blood. The bodily substance
withdrawn under this division (D)(1)(b) shall be analyzed in accordance with
methods approved by the Director of Health by an individual possessing a valid
permit issued by the Director pursuant to R.C. § 3701.143.
         (c)   As used in division (D)(1)(b) of this section, EMERGENCY MEDICAL
TECHNICIAN-INTERMEDIATE and EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-PARAMEDIC have the
same meanings as in R.C. § 4765.01.
      (2)   In a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (A) of this
section or for an equivalent offense that is vehicle-related, if there was at
the time the bodily substance was withdrawn a concentration of less than the
applicable concentration of alcohol specified in divisions (A)(1)(b), (A)(1)
(c), (A)(1)(d) and (A)(1)(e) of this section or less than the applicable
concentration of a listed controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a
controlled substance specified for a violation of division (A)(1)(j) of this
section, that fact may be considered with other competent evidence in
determining the guilt or innocence of the defendant. This division does not
limit or affect a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (B) of this
section.
      (3)   Upon the request of the person who was tested, the results of the
chemical test shall be made available to the person or the person’s attorney,
immediately upon the completion of the chemical test analysis. If the chemical
test was obtained pursuant to division (D)(1)(b) of this section, the person
tested may have a physician, a registered nurse, or a qualified technician,
chemist, or phlebotomist of the person’s own choosing administer a chemical
test or tests, at the person’s expense, in addition to any administered at the
request of a law enforcement officer. If the person was under arrest as
described in R.C. § 4511.191(A)(5), the arresting officer shall advise the
person at the time of the arrest that the person may have an independent
chemical test taken at the person’s own expense. If the person was under arrest
other than described in R.C. § 4511.191(A)(5), the form to be read to the
person to be tested, as required under §
73.011, shall state that the person may have an independent test performed at
the person’s expense. The failure or inability to obtain an additional chemical
test by a person shall not preclude the admission of evidence relating to the
chemical test or tests taken at the request of a law enforcement officer.
      (4)   (a)   As used in division (D)(4)(b) and (D)(4)(c) of this section,
NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION means the National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration established as an administration of the United
States Department of Transportation under 96 Stat. 2415 (1983), 49 U.S.C. §
105.
         (b)   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a
violation of division (A) or (B) of this section, of a municipal ordinance
relating to operating a vehicle while under the influence of alcohol, a drug of
abuse, or alcohol and a drug of abuse, or of a municipal ordinance relating to
operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a controlled
substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, breath, or urine, if a law enforcement officer has
administered a field sobriety test to the operator of the vehicle involved in
the violation and if it is shown by clear and convincing evidence that the
officer administered the test in substantial compliance with the testing
standards for any reliable, credible, and generally accepted field sobriety
tests that were in effect at the time the tests were administered, including,
but not limited to, any testing standards then in effect that were set by the
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, all of the following apply:
            1.   The officer may testify concerning the results of the field
sobriety test so administered.
            2.   The prosecution may introduce the results of the field
sobriety test so administered as evidence in any proceedings in the criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding.
            3.   If testimony is presented or evidence is introduced under
division (D)(4)(b)1. or (D)(4)(b)2. of this section and if the testimony or
evidence is admissible under the Rules of Evidence, the court shall admit the
testimony or evidence and the trier of fact shall give it whatever weight the
trier of fact considers to be appropriate.
         (c)   Division (D)(4)(b) of this section does not limit or preclude a
court, in its determination of whether the arrest of a person was supported by
probable cause or its determination of any other matter in a criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding of a type described in that division,
from considering evidence or testimony that is not otherwise disallowed by
division (D)(4)(b) of this section.
   (E)   (1)   Subject to division (E)(3) of this section, in any criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a violation of division (A)(1)(b),
(A)(1)(c), (A)(1)(d), (A)(1)(e), (A)(1)(f), (A)(1)(g), (A)(1)(h), or (A)(1)(i),
or (A)(1)(j) or (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3), or (B)(4) of this section or for an
equivalent offense that is substantially equivalent to any of those divisions,
a laboratory report from any laboratory personnel issued a permit by the
Department of Health authorizing an analysis as described in this division that
contains an analysis of the whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, urine,
or other bodily substance tested and that contains all of the information
specified in this division shall be admitted as prima facie evidence of the
information and statements that the report contains. The laboratory report
shall contain all of the following:
         (a)   The signature, under oath, of any person who performed the
analysis;
         (b)   Any findings as to the identity and quantity of alcohol, a drug
of abuse, a controlled substance, a metabolite of a controlled substance, or a
combination of them that was found;
         (c)   A copy of a notarized statement by the laboratory director of a
designee of the director that contains the name of each certified analyst or
test performer involved with the report, the analyst’s or test performer’s
employment relationship with the laboratory that issued the report, and a
notation that performing an analysis of the type involved is part of the
analyst’s or test performer’s regular duties;
         (d)   An outline of the analyst’s or test performer’s education,
training, and experience in performing the type of analysis involved and a
certification that the laboratory satisfies appropriate quality control
standards in general and, in this particular analysis, under rules of the
Department of Health.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law regarding the admission
of evidence, a report of the type described in division (E)(1) of this section
is not admissible against the defendant to whom it pertains in any proceeding,
other than a preliminary hearing or a grand jury proceeding, unless the
prosecutor has served a copy of the report on the defendant’s attorney or, if
the defendant has no attorney, on the defendant.
      (3)   A report of the type described in division (E)(1) of this section
shall not be prima facie evidence of the contents, identity, or amount of any
substance if, within seven days after the defendant to whom the report pertains
or the defendant’s attorney receives a copy of the report, the defendant or the
defendant’s attorney demands the testimony of the person who signed the report.
The judge in the case may extend the seven-day time limit in the interest of
justice.
   (F)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, any physician,
registered nurse, emergency medical technician-intermediate, emergency medical
technician-paramedic, or qualified technician, chemist, or phlebotomist who
withdraws blood from a person pursuant to this section or R.C. § 4511.19,
4511.191 or 4511.192, and any hospital, first-aid station, or clinic at which
blood is withdrawn from a person pursuant to this section or R.C. § 4511.19,
4511.191 or 4511.192, is immune from criminal liability and civil liability
based upon a claim of assault and battery or any other claim that is not a
claim of malpractice, for any act performed in withdrawing blood from the
person. The immunity provided in this division also extends to an emergency
medical service organization that employs an emergency medical technician-
intermediate or emergency medical technician-paramedic who withdraws blood
under this section. The immunity provided in this division is not available to
a person who withdraws blood if the person engages in willful or wanton
misconduct.
      (2)   As used in division (F)(1), EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-
INTERMEDIATE and EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-PARAMEDIC have the same meanings
as in R.C. § 4765.01.
   (G)   (1)   Whoever violates any provisions of divisions (A)(1)(a) through
(A)(1)(i) or (A)(2) of this section is guilty of operating a vehicle under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them. Whoever
violates division (A)(1)(j) of this section is guilty of operating a vehicle
while under the influence of a listed controlled substance or a listed
metabolite of a controlled substance. The court shall sentence the offender for
either offense under R.C. Chapter 2929, except as otherwise authorized or
required by divisions (G)(1)(a) through (G)(1)(e) of this section:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(b), (G)(1)(c),
(G)(1)(d), or (G)(1)(e) of this section, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree, and the court shall sentence the offender to
all of the penalties and sanctions provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(a)(i)
through (G)(1)(a)(iv).
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(e) of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one violation of division (A) of this section
or one other equivalent offense is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
The court shall sentence the offender to all of the penalties and sanctions
provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(b)(i) through (G)(1)(b)(v).
         (c)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(e) of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of division (A) of this
section or other equivalent offenses is guilty of a misdemeanor. The court
shall sentence the offender to all of the penalties and sanctions provided in
R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(c)(i) through (G)(1)(c)(vi).
         (d)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(e) of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of division (A) of
this section or other equivalent offenses or an offender who, within 20 years
of the offense, previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to five or
more violations of that nature, or an offender who previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to a specification of the type described in R.C.
§ 2941.1413, is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
         (e)   An offender who previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) that was a felony, regardless of
when the violation and the conviction or guilty plea occurred, is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   An offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (A) of this section and who subsequently seeks reinstatement of the
driver’s or occupational driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating
privilege suspended under this section or R.C. § 4511.19 as a result of the
conviction or guilty plea shall pay a reinstatement fee as provided in R.C. §
4511.191(F)(2).
      (3)   (a)   If an offender is sentenced to a jail term under R.C. §
4511.19(G)(1)(b)(i) or (G)(1)(b)(ii) or (G)(1)(c)(i) or (G)(1)(c)(ii) and if,
within 60 days of sentencing of the offender, the court issues a written
finding on the record that, due to the unavailability of space at the jail
where the offender is required to serve the term, the offender will not be able
to begin serving that term within the 60-day period following the date of
sentencing, the court may impose an alternative sentence as specified in R.C. §
4511.19(G)(3) that includes a term of house arrest with electronic monitoring,
with continuous alcohol monitoring, or with both electronic monitoring and
continuous alcohol monitoring.
         (b)   As an alternative to the mandatory jail terms as required by
R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1), the court may sentence the offender as provided in R.C. §
4511.19(G)(3).
      (4)   If an offender’s driver’s or occupational driver’s license or
permit or nonresident operating privilege is suspended under division (G) of
this section or R.C. § 4511.19(G) and if R.C. § 4510.13 permits the court to
grant limited driving privileges, the court may grant the limited driving
privileges in accordance with that section. If division (A)(7) of that section
requires the court impose as a condition of the privileges that the offender
must display on the vehicle that is driven subject to the privileges restricted
license plates that are issued under R.C. § 4503.231, except as provided in
division (B) of that section, the court shall impose that condition as one of
the conditions of the limited driving privileges granted to the offender,
except as provided in R.C. § 4503.231(B).
      (5)   Fines imposed under this section for a violation of division (A) of
this section shall be distributed as provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(5).
      (6)   If title to a motor vehicle that is subject to an order of criminal
forfeiture under division (G)(1)(c), (G)(1)(d), or (G)(1)(e) of this section is
assigned or transferred and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, in
addition to or independent of any other penalty established by law, the court
may fine the offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of
the National Auto Dealers Association. The proceeds of any fine so imposed
shall be distributed in accordance with division (C)(2) of that section.
      (7)   In all cases in which an offender is sentenced under division (G)
of this section, the offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, the court, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for
any economic loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and
proximate result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or
after committing the offense for which the offender is sentenced under division
(G) of this section.
      (8)   A court may order an offender to reimburse a law enforcement agency
for any costs incurred by the agency with respect to a chemical test or tests
administered to the offender if all of the following apply:
         (a)   The offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (A) of this section.
         (b)   The test or tests were of the offender's whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, or urine.
         (c)   The test or tests indicated that the offender had a prohibited
concentration of a controlled substance or a metabolite of a controlled
substance in the offender's whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or urine at the
time of the offense.
      (9)   As used in division (G) of this section, ELECTRONIC MONITORING has
the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   (H)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of operating a
motor vehicle after underage alcohol consumption and shall be punished as
follows:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (H)(2) of this section,
the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. In addition to
any other sanction imposed for the offense, the court shall impose a class six
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(6). The court may grant
limited driving privileges relative to the suspension under R.C. §§ 4510.021
and 4510.13. The court may grant unlimited driving privileges with an ignition
interlock device relative to the suspension and may reduce the period of
suspension as authorized under R.C. § 4510.022. If the court grants unlimited
driving privileges under R.C. § 4510.022, the court shall suspend any jail term
imposed under division (H)(1) of this section as required under that section.
      (2)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of division (A)
of this section or other equivalent offenses, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. In addition to any other sanction imposed for
the offense, the court shall impose a class four suspension of the offender's
driver's license, commercial driver's license, temporary instruction permit,
probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4). The court may grant limited driving
privileges relative to the suspension under R.C. §§ 4510.021 and 4510.13.
      (3)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to § 130.99
(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss
arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result
of the offender's operation of the vehicle before, during, or after committing
the violation of division (B) of this section.
   (I)   (1)   No court shall sentence an offender to an alcohol treatment
program under this section unless the treatment program complies with the
minimum standards for alcohol treatment programs adopted under R.C. Chapter
5119 by the Director of Mental Health and Addiction Services.
      (2)   An offender who stays in a drivers’ intervention program or in an
alcohol treatment program under an order issued under this section shall pay
the cost of the stay in the program. However, if the court determines that an
offender who stays in an alcohol treatment program under an order issued under
this section is unable to pay the cost of the stay in the program, the court
may order that the cost be paid from the court’s indigent drivers’ alcohol
treatment fund.
   (J)   If a person whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege is suspended under this section or R.C. §
4511.19 files an appeal regarding any aspect of the person’s trial or sentence,
the appeal itself does not stay the operation of the suspension.
   (K)   Division (A)(1)(j) of this section does not apply to a person who
operates a vehicle while the person has a concentration of a listed controlled
substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance in the person’s
whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or urine that equals or exceeds the amount
specified in that division, if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs.
      (2)   The person injected, ingested, or inhaled the controlled substance
in accordance with the health professional’s directions.
   (L)   The prohibited concentrations of a controlled substance or a
metabolite of a controlled substance listed in division (A)(1)(j) of this
section also apply in a prosecution of a violation of R.C. § 2923.16(D) in the
same manner as if the offender is being prosecuted for a prohibited
concentration of alcohol.
   (M)   All terms defined in R.C. § 4510.01 apply to this section. If the
meaning of a term defined in R.C. § 4510.01 conflicts with the meaning of the
same term as defined in R.C. § 4501.01 or 4511.01, the term as defined in R.C.
§ 4510.01 applies to this section.
(R.C. § 4511.19(A) - (M))
   (N)   As used in this section, §
73.011 and §
73.012:
      COMMUNITY RESIDENTIAL SANCTION, CONTINUOUS ALCOHOL MONITORING, JAIL,
MANDATORY PRISON TERM, MANDATORY TERM OF LOCAL INCARCERATION, PRISON TERM, and
SANCTION have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      DRUG OF ABUSE has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4506.01.
      EQUIVALENT OFFENSE means any of the following:
         (a)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A);
         (b)   A violation of a municipal OVI ordinance;
         (c)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.04 in a case in which the offender
was subject to the sanctions described in division (D) of that section;
         (d)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.06(A)(1) or R.C. § 2903.08 or a
municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to either of those
divisions;
         (e)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.06(A)(2), (A)(3), or (A)(4), R.C. §
2903.08(A)(2), or former R.C. § 2903.07, or a municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to any of those divisions or that former section, in a
case in which a judge or jury as the trier of fact found that the offender was
under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them;
         (f)   A violation of R.C. § 1547.11(A);
         (g)   A violation of a municipal ordinance prohibiting a person from
operating or being in physical control of any vessel underway or from
manipulating any water skis, aquaplane, or similar device on the waters of this
state while under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination
of them or prohibiting a person from operating or being in physical control of
any vessel underway or from manipulating any water skis, aquaplane, or similar
device on the waters of this state with a prohibited concentration of alcohol,
a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine;
         (h)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance, law of
another state, or law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to
R.C. § 4511.19(A) or R.C. § 1547.11(A);
         (i)   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to R.C. § 4511.19(A) or R.C. § 1547.11(A).
      EQUIVALENT OFFENSE THAT IS VEHICLE-RELATED. Means an equivalent offense
that is any of the following:
         (a)   A violation described in division (a), (b), (c), (d), or (e) of
the definition for “equivalent offense” provided in this division (N);
         (b)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance, law of
another state, or law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to
R.C. § 4511.19(A);
         (c)   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to R.C. § 4511.19(A).
      JAIL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      MANDATORY JAIL TERM means the mandatory term in jail of 3, 6, 10, 20, 30,
or 60 days that must be imposed under R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(a), (G)(1)(b), or
(G)(1)(c) upon an offender convicted of a violation of division (A) of that
section and in relation to which all of the following apply:
         (a)   Except as specifically authorized under R.C. § 4511.19, the term
must be served in a jail.
         (b)   Except as specifically authorized under R.C. § 4511.19, the term
cannot be suspended, reduced, or otherwise modified pursuant to R.C. §§ 2929.21
through 2929.28 or any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
      MUNICIPAL OVI ORDINANCE and MUNICIPAL OVI OFFENSE mean any municipal
ordinance prohibiting a person from operating a vehicle while under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them or prohibiting
a person from operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a
controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine.
(R.C. § 4511.181)
Statutory reference:
   Mayor's Court to suspend driver's license, see R.C. § 1905.201
   Mandatory suspension periods; immobilizing or disabling device; restricted
license, see R.C. § 4510.13
   Trial judge to suspend driver's license, see R.C. § 4510.05
§ 73.011 IMPLIED CONSENT.
   (A)   (1)   As used in this section:
         ALCOHOL MONITORING DEVICE. Means any device that provides for
continuous alcohol monitoring, any ignition interlock device, any immobilizing
or disabling device other than an  ignition interlock device that is constantly
available to monitor the concentration of alcohol in a person’s system, or any
other device that provides for the automatic testing and periodic reporting of
alcohol consumption by a person and that a court orders a person to use as a
sanction imposed as a result of the person’s conviction of or plea of guilty to
an offense.
         COMMUNITY ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 5119.01.
         PHYSICAL CONTROL has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.194.
      (2)   Any person who operates a vehicle upon a highway or any public or
private property used by the public for vehicular travel or parking within this
municipality or who is in physical control of a vehicle shall be deemed to have
given consent to a chemical test or tests of the person’s whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, breath, or urine to determine the alcohol, drug, of abuse,
controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance, or combination
content of the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine if
arrested for a violation of §
73.01(A) or (B), §
73.012, R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or any other municipal OVI ordinance.
      (3)   The chemical test or tests under division (A)(2) of this section
shall be administered at the request of a law enforcement officer having
reasonable grounds to believe the person was operating or in physical control
of a vehicle in violation of a division, section, or ordinance identified in
division (A)(2) of this section. The law enforcement agency by which the
officer is employed shall designate which of the tests shall be administered.
      (4)   Any person who is dead or unconscious, or who otherwise is in a
condition rendering the person incapable of refusal, shall be deemed to have
consented as provided in division (A)(2) of this section, and the test or tests
may be administered, subject to R.C. §§ 313.12 through 313.16.
      (5)   (a)   If a law enforcement officer arrests a person for a violation
of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or a municipal OVI ordinance and if the person if
convicted would be required to be sentenced under R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(c), (d),
or (e), the law enforcement officer shall request the person to submit, and the
person shall submit, to a chemical test or tests of the person’s whole blood,
blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine for the purpose of determining the
alcohol, drug of abuse, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled
substance, or combination content of the person’s whole blood, blood serum or
plasma, breath, or urine. A law enforcement officer who makes a request
pursuant to this division that a person submit to a chemical test or tests is
not required to advise the person of the consequences of submitting to, or
refusing to submit to, the test or tests and is not required to give the person
the form described in division (C) of this section, but the officer shall
advise the person at the time of the arrest that if the person refuses to take
a chemical test the officer may employ whatever reasonable means are necessary
to ensure that the person submits to a chemical test of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma. The officer shall also advise the person at the
time of the arrest that the person may have an independent chemical test taken
at the person’s own expense. Divisions (A)(3) and (A)(4) of this section apply
to the administration of a chemical test or tests pursuant to this division.
         (b)   If a person refuses to submit to a chemical test upon a request
made pursuant to division (A)(5)(a) of this section, the law enforcement
officer who made the request may employ whatever reasonable means are necessary
to ensure that the person submits to a chemical test of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma. A law enforcement officer who acts pursuant to
this division to ensure that a person submits to a chemical test of the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma is immune from criminal and civil
liability based upon a claim for assault and battery or any other claim for the
acts, unless the officer so acted with malicious purpose, in bad faith, or in a
wanton or reckless manner.
(R.C. § 4511.191(A))
   (B)   Except as provided in division (A)(5) of this section, the arresting
law enforcement officer shall give advice in accordance with this section to
any person under arrest for a violation of §
73.01(A) or (B), §
73.012, R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or any other municipal OVI ordinance. The officer shall
give that advice in a written form that contains the information described in
division (C) of this section and shall read the advice to the person. The form
shall contain a statement that the form was shown to the person under arrest
and read to the person by the arresting officer. One or more persons shall
witness the arresting officer’s reading of the form, and the witnesses shall
certify to this fact by signing the form. The person must submit to the
chemical test or tests, subsequent to the request of the arresting officer,
within two hours of the time of the alleged violation and, if the person does
not submit to the test or tests within that two-hour time limit, the failure to
submit automatically constitutes a refusal to submit to the test or tests.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (A)(5) of this section, if a person is
under arrest as described in division (B) of this section, before the person
may be requested to submit to a chemical test or tests to determine the
alcohol, drug of abuse, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled
substance, or combination content of the person's whole blood, blood serum or
plasma, breath, or urine, the arresting officer shall read the following form
to the person:
   “You now are under arrest for (specifically state the offense under state
law or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance for which the person was
arrested – operating a vehicle under the influence of alcohol, a drug, or a
combination of them; operating a vehicle while under the influence of a listed
controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance;
operating a vehicle after underage alcohol consumption; or having physical
control of a vehicle while under the influence).
   If you refuse to take any chemical test required by law, your Ohio driving
privileges will be suspended immediately, and you will have to pay a fee to
have the privileges reinstated. If you have a prior conviction of OVI or
operating a vehicle while under the influence of a listed controlled substance
or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance under state or municipal law
within the preceding 20 years, you are now under arrest for state OVI, and, if
you refuse to take a chemical test, you will face increased penalties if you
subsequently are convicted of the state OVI.
   “(Read this part unless the person is under arrest for solely having
physical control of a vehicle while under the influence.) If you take any
chemical test required by law and are found to be at or over the prohibited
amount of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled
substance in your whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine as set
by law, your Ohio driving privileges will be suspended immediately, and you
will have to pay a fee to have the privileges reinstated.
      “If you take a chemical test, you may have an independent chemical test
taken at your own expense.”
   (D)   If the arresting law enforcement officer does not ask a person under
arrest as described in division (B) of this section or division (A)(5) of this
section to submit to a chemical test or tests under R.C. § 4511.191 or this
section, the arresting officer shall seize the Ohio or out-of-state driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit of the person and immediately forward it
to the court in which the arrested person is to appear on the charge. If the
arrested person is not in possession of the person’s license or permit or it is
not in the person’s vehicle, the officer shall order the person to surrender it
to the law enforcement agency that employs the officer within 24 hours after
the arrest, and, upon the surrender, the agency immediately shall forward the
license or permit to the court in which the person is to appear on the charge.
Upon receipt of the license or permit, the court shall retain it pending the
arrested person’s initial appearance and any action taken under R.C. §
4511.196.
   (E)   (1)   If a law enforcement officer asks a person under arrest as
described in division (A)(5) of this section to submit to a chemical test or
tests under that division and the test results indicate a prohibited
concentration of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a
controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma,
breath, or urine at the time of the alleged offense, or if a law enforcement
officer asks a person under arrest as described in division (B) of this section
to submit to a chemical test or tests under R.C. § 4511.191 or this section, if
the officer advises the person in accordance with this section of the
consequences of the person’s refusal or submission, and if either the person
refuses to submit to the test or tests or, unless the arrest was for a
violation of §
73.012, R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the
person submits to the test or tests and the test results indicate a prohibited
concentration of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a
controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma,
breath, or urine at the time of the alleged offense, the arresting officer
shall do all of the following:
         (a)   On behalf of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, notify the person
that, independent of any penalties or sanctions imposed upon the person, the
person’s Ohio driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privilege is suspended immediately, that the suspension will last at
least until the person’s initial appearance on the charge, which will be held
within five days after the date of the person’s arrest or the issuance of a
citation to the person, and that the person may appeal the suspension at the
initial appearance or during the period of time ending 30 days after that
initial appearance;
         (b)   Seize the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit of
the person and immediately forward it to the Registrar. If the arrested person
is not in possession of the person’s license or permit or it is not in the
person’s vehicle, the officer shall order the person to surrender it to the law
enforcement agency that employs the officer within 24 hours after the person is
given notice of the suspension, and, upon the surrender, the officer’s
employing agency immediately shall forward the license or permit to the
Registrar;
         (c)   Verify the person’s current residence and, if it differs from
that on the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit, notify
the Registrar of the change;
         (d)   Send to the Registrar, within 48 hours after the arrest of the
person, a sworn report that includes all of the following statements:
            1.   That the officer had reasonable grounds to believe that, at
the time of the arrest, the arrested person was operating a vehicle in
violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B) or a municipal OVI ordinance or for being
in physical control of a stationary vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4511.194 or
a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
            2.   That the person was arrested and charged with a violation of
R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or a municipal OVI ordinance;
            3.   Unless division (E)(1)(d)5. of this section applies, that the
officer asked the person to take the designated chemical test or tests, advised
the person in accordance with this section of the consequences of submitting
to, or refusing to take, the test or tests, and gave the person the form
described in division (C) of this section;
            4.   Unless division (E)(1)(d)5. of this section applies, that
either the person refused to submit to the chemical test or tests or, unless
the arrest was for a violation of R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, the person submitted to the chemical test or tests and the
test results indicate a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a controlled
substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the person’s whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine at the time of the alleged
offense.
            5.   If the person was under arrest as described in division (A)(5)
of this section and the chemical test or tests were performed in accordance
with that division, that the person was under arrest as described in that
division, that the chemical test or tests were performed in accordance with
that division, and that test results indicated a prohibited concentration of
alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in
the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine at the time
of the alleged offense.
      (2)   Division (E)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
arrested for a violation of §
73.012, R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, who
is asked by a law enforcement officer to submit to a chemical test or tests
under this section, and who submits to the test or tests, regardless of the
amount of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled
substance that the test results indicate is present in the person’s whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine.
   (F)   The arresting officer shall give the officer’s sworn report that is
completed under this section to the arrested person at the time of the arrest,
or the Registrar of Motor Vehicles shall send the report to the person by
regular first class mail as soon as possible after receipt of the report, but
not later than 14 days after receipt of it. An arresting officer may give an
unsworn report to the arrested person at the time of the arrest provided the
report is complete when given to the arrested person and subsequently is sworn
to by the arresting officer. As soon as possible, but not later than 48 hours
after the arrest of the person, the arresting officer shall send a copy of the
sworn report to the court in which the arrested person is to appear on the
charge for which the person was arrested.
   (G)   The sworn report of an arresting officer completed under this section
is prima facie proof of the information and statements that it contains. It
shall be admitted and considered as prima facie proof of the information and
statements that it contains in any appeal under R.C. § 4511.197 relative to any
suspension of a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege that results from the arrest covered by the
report.
(R.C. § 4511.192)
   (H)   (1)   A suspension of a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or permit or nonresident operating privilege under this section for the
time described in R.C. § 4511.191(B) or (C) is effective immediately from the
time at which the arresting officer serves the notice of suspension upon the
arrested person. Any subsequent finding that the person is not guilty of the
charge that resulted in the person’s being requested to take the chemical test
or tests under division (A) of this section does not affect the suspension.
      (2)   If a person arrested for operating a vehicle in violation of §
73.01(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), or any other municipal OVI
ordinance, or for being in physical control of a vehicle in violation of §
73.012 or R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
regardless of whether the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit or nonresident operating privilege is or is not suspended under R.C. §
4511.191(B) or (C) or R.C. Chapter 4510, the person’s initial appearance on the
charge resulting from the arrest shall be held within five days of the person's
arrest or the issuance of the citation to him or her, subject to any
continuance granted by the court pursuant to R.C. § 4511.197 regarding the
issues specified in that section.
(R.C. § 4511.191(D))
Statutory reference:
   Disposition of fines, immobilization of vehicle and impoundment of license
plates, criminal forfeiture for municipal ordinance conviction, see R.C. §
4511.193
   Effect of refusal to submit to test, seizure of license, suspension periods,
appeal procedures, occupational driving privileges, and indigent drivers
alcohol treatment funds, see R.C. § 4511.191(C) - (N)
   Mandatory suspension periods; immobilizing or disabling device; restricted
license, see R.C. § 4510.13
   Judicial pretrial suspension, initial appearance, see R.C. § 4511.196
   Seizure of vehicles upon arrest, see R.C. § 4511.195
§ 73.012 PHYSICAL CONTROL OF VEHICLE WHILE UNDER THE INFLUENCE.
   (A)   As used in this section, PHYSICAL CONTROL means being in the driver’s
position of the front seat of a vehicle and having possession of the vehicle’s
ignition key or other ignition device.
   (B)   No person shall be in physical control of a vehicle if, at the time of
the physical control, any of the following apply:
      (1)   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a
combination of them.
      (2)   The person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine
contains at least the concentration of alcohol specified in §
73.01(A)(1)(b), (A)(1)(c), (A)(1)(d), or (A)(1)(e).
      (3)   Except as provided in division (E) of this section, the person has
a concentration of a listed controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a
controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or
urine that equals or exceeds the concentration specified in §
73.01(A)(1)(j).
   (C)   (1)   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a
violation of this section, if a law enforcement officer has administered a
field sobriety test to the person in physical control of the vehicle involved
in the violation and if it is shown by clear and convincing evidence that the
officer administered the test in substantial compliance with the testing
standards for any reliable, credible, and generally acceptable field sobriety
tests that were in effect at the time the tests were administered, including
but not limited to any testing standards then in effect what were set by the
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, all of the following apply:
         (a)   The officer may testify concerning the results of the field
sobriety test so administered.
         (b)   The prosecution may introduce the results of the field sobriety
test so administered as evidence in any proceedings in the criminal prosecution
or juvenile court proceeding.
         (c)   If testimony is presented or evidence is introduced under
division (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) of this section and if the testimony or
evidence is admissible under the Rules of Evidence, the court shall admit the
testimony or evidence, and the trier of fact shall give it whatever weight the
trier of fact considers to be appropriate.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not limit or preclude a court,
in its determination of whether the arrest of a person was supported by
probable cause or its determination of any other matter in a criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding of a type described in that division,
from considering evidence or testimony that is not otherwise disallowed by
division (C)(1) of this section.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of having physical control of
a vehicle while under the influence, a misdemeanor of the first degree. In
addition to other sanctions imposed, the court may impose on the offender a
class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
   (E)   Division (B)(3) of this section does not apply to a person who is in
physical control of a vehicle while the person has a concentration of a listed
controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance in the
person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or urine that equals or exceeds
the amount specified in §
73.01(A)(1)(j) if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs.
      (2)   The person injected, ingested, or inhaled the controlled substance
in accordance with the health professional’s directions.
(R.C. § 4511.194)
§ 73.02 DRIVING WITH IMPAIRED ALERTNESS OR ABILITY; USE OF DRUGS.
   (A)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle, as defined in R.C. §
4506.01, or a commercial car or commercial tractor, as defined in R.C. §
4501.01, while the person’s ability or alertness is so impaired by fatigue,
illness, or other causes that it is unsafe for the person to drive such
vehicle. No driver shall use any drug which would adversely affect the driver’s
ability or alertness.
   (B)   No owner, as defined in R.C. § 4501.01, of a commercial motor vehicle,
commercial car or commercial tractor, or a person employing or otherwise
directing the driver of such vehicle, shall require or knowingly permit a
driver in any such condition described in division (A) of this section to drive
such vehicle upon any street or highway.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.79, or R.C. §§ 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, or
4511.77 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.79)
RECKLESS OPERATION
§ 73.04 OPERATION WITHOUT REASONABLE CONTROL.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle, agricultural tractor, or
agricultural tractor that is towing, pulling, or otherwise drawing a unit of
farm machinery on any street, highway, or property open to the public for
vehicular traffic without being in reasonable control of the vehicle,
agricultural tractor, or unit of farm machinery.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of operating a motor vehicle
or agricultural tractor without being in control of it, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.202)
§ 73.05 OPERATION IN WILLFUL OR WANTON DISREGARD OF SAFETY ON HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a vehicle on any street or highway in willful
or wanton disregard of the safety of persons or property.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.20)
§ 73.06 OPERATION IN WILLFUL OR WANTON DISREGARD OF SAFETY ELSEWHERE;
EXCEPTION.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle on any public or private
property other than streets or highways in willful or wanton disregard of the
safety of persons or property.
      (2)   This section does not apply to the competitive operation of
vehicles on public or private property when the owner of such property
knowingly permits such operation thereon.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.201)
SPEED REGULATIONS
§ 73.10 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle at a speed greater or less
than is reasonable or proper, having due regard for the traffic, surface, and
width of the street or highway and any other conditions, and no person shall
drive any motor vehicle in and upon any street or highway at a greater speed
than will permit him or her to bring it to a stop within the assured clear
distance ahead.
   (B)   It is prima facie lawful, in the absence of a lower limit declared or
established pursuant to this section by the Director of Transportation or local
authorities, for the operator of a motor vehicle to operate the same at a speed
not exceeding the following:
      (1)   (a)   Twenty miles per hour in school zones during school recess
and while children are going to or leaving school during the opening or closing
hours, and when 20 miles per hour school speed limit signs are erected, except
that on controlled-access highways and expressways, if the right-of-way line
fence has been erected without pedestrian opening, the speed shall be governed
by division (B)(4) of this section, and on freeways, if the right-of-way line
fence has been erected without pedestrian opening, the speed shall be governed
by divisions (B)(10) and (B)(11) of this section. The end of every school zone
may be marked by a sign indicating the end of the zone. Nothing in this section
or in the Manual and Specifications for a Uniform System of Traffic-Control
Devices shall be construed to require school zones to be indicated by signs
equipped with flashing or other lights, or giving other special notice of the
hours in which the school zone speed limit is in effect.
         (b)   As used in this section, SCHOOL means all of the following:
            1.   Any school chartered under R.C. § 3301.16;
            2.   Any nonchartered school that during the preceding year filed
with the Department of Education in compliance with O.A.C. § 3301-35-08, a copy
of the school's report for the parents of the school's pupils certifying that
the school meets state minimum standards for nonchartered, nontax-supported
schools and presents evidence of this filing to the jurisdiction from which it
is requesting the establishment of a school zone;
            3.   Any special elementary school that in writing requests the
County Engineer to create a school zone at the location of the school. Upon
receipt of such written request, the County Engineer shall create a school zone
at that location by erecting appropriate signs;
            4.   Any preschool education program operated by an educational
service center that is located on a street or highway with a speed limit of 45
miles per hour or more, when the educational service center in writing requests
that the County Engineer create a school zone at the location of that program.
Upon receipt of such a written request, the County Engineer shall create a
school zone at that location by erecting the appropriate signs.
         (c)   As used in this section, SCHOOL ZONE means that portion of a
street or highway passing a school fronting upon the street or highway that is
encompassed by projecting the school property lines to the fronting street or
highway, and also includes that portion of a state highway. Upon request from
local authorities for streets and highways under their jurisdiction and that
portion of a state highway under the jurisdiction of the Director of
Transportation or a request from a County Engineer in the case of a school zone
for a special elementary school, the Director may extend the traditional school
zone boundaries. The distances in divisions (B)(1)(c)1. through 3. below shall
not exceed 300 feet per approach per direction, and are bounded by whichever of
the following distances or combination thereof the Director approves as most
appropriate:
            1.   The distance encompassed by projecting the school building
lines normal to the fronting highway and extending a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction;
            2.   The distance encompassed by projecting the school property
lines intersecting the fronting highway and extending a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction;
            3.   The distance encompassed by the special marking of the
pavement for a principal school pupil crosswalk plus a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction of the highway.
         (d)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to invalidate the
Director's initial action on August 9, 1976, establishing all school zones at
the traditional school zone boundaries defined by projecting school property
lines, except when those boundaries are extended as provided in divisions (B)
(1)(a) and (B)(1)(c) of this section.
         (e)   As used in this division, CROSSWALK has the meaning given that
term in R.C. § 4511.01(11)(2).
         (f)   The Director may, upon request by resolution of the Legislative
Authority and upon submission by the municipality of such engineering, traffic,
and other information as the Director considers necessary, designate a school
zone on any portion of a state route lying within the municipality that
includes a crosswalk customarily used by children going to or leaving a school
during recess and opening and closing hours, whenever the distance, as measured
in a straight line, from the school property line nearest the crosswalk to the
nearest point of a crosswalk is no more than 1,320 feet. Such a school zone
shall include the distance encompassed by the crosswalk and extending 300 feet
in each appropriate direction of the state route.
         (g)   As used in this section, SPECIAL ELEMENTARY SCHOOL means a
school that meets all of the following:
            1.   It is not chartered and does not receive tax revenue from any
source.
            2.   It does not educate children beyond the eighth grade.
            3.   It is located outside the limits of a municipal corporation.
            4.   A majority of the total number of students enrolled at the
school are not related by blood.
            5.   The principal or other person in charge of the special
elementary school annually sends a report to the superintendent of the school
district in which the special elementary school is located indicating the total
number of students enrolled at the school, but otherwise the principal or other
person in charge does not report any other information or data to the
superintendent.
      (2)   Twenty-five miles per hour in all other portions of the
municipality, except on state routes outside business districts, through
highways outside business districts, and alleys;
      (3)   Thirty-five miles per hour on all state routes or through highways
within the municipality outside business districts, except as provided in
divisions (B)(4) and (B)(6) of this section;
      (4)   Fifty miles per hour on controlled-access highways and expressways
within the municipality, except as provided in divisions (B)(12), (B)(13), (B)
(14), (B)(15), and (B)(16) of this section;
      (5)   Fifty-five miles per hour on highways outside the municipality,
other than highways within island jurisdictions as provided in division (B)(8)
of this section, highways as provided in divisions (B)(9) and (B)(10) of this
section, and highways, expressways and freeways as provided in divisions (B)
(12), (B)(13), (B)(14), and (B)(16) of this section;
      (6)   Fifty miles per hour on state routes within the municipality
outside urban districts unless a lower prima facie speed is established as
further provided in this section;
      (7)   Fifteen miles per hour on all alleys within the municipality;
      (8)   Thirty-five miles per hour on highways outside the municipality
that are within an island jurisdiction;
      (9)   Thirty-five miles per hour on through highways, except state
routes, that are outside municipal corporations and that are within a national
park with boundaries extending through two or more counties;
      (10)   Sixty miles per hour on two-lane state routes outside municipal
corporations as established by the Director under R.C. § 4511.21(H)(2);
      (11)   Fifty-five miles per hour on freeways with paved shoulders inside
the municipality, other than freeways as provided in divisions (B)(14) and (B)
(16) of this section;
      (12)   Sixty miles per hour on rural expressways with traffic control
signals and on all portions of rural divided highways, except as provided in
divisions (B)(13) and (B)(14) of this section;
      (13)   Sixty-five miles per hour on all rural expressways without traffic
control signals;
      (14)   Seventy miles per hour on all rural freeways;
      (15)   Fifty-five miles per hour on all portions of freeways or
expressways in congested areas as determined by the Director and that are
located within a municipal corporation or within an interstate freeway
outerbelt, except as provided in division (B)(16) of this section;
      (16)   Sixty-five miles per hour on all portions of freeways or
expressways without traffic control signals in urbanized areas.
   (C)   It is prima facie unlawful for any person to exceed any of the speed
limitations in divisions (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)
(8) and (B)(9) of this section or any declared or established pursuant to this
section by the Director or local authorities and it is unlawful for any person
to exceed any of the speed limitations in division (D) of this section. No
person shall be convicted of more than one violation of this section for the
same conduct, although violations of more than one provision of this section
may be charged in the alternative in a single affidavit.
   (D)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon a street or highway as
follows:
      (1)   At a speed exceeding 55 miles per hour, except upon a two-lane
state route as provided in division (B)(10) of this section and upon a highway,
expressway or freeway as provided in divisions (B)(12), (B)(13), (B)(14), and
(B)(16) of this section;
      (2)   At a speed exceeding 60 miles per hour upon a two-lane state route
as provided in division (B)(10) of this section and upon a highway as provided
in division (B)(12) of this section;
      (3)   At a speed exceeding 65 miles per hour upon an expressway as
provided in division (B)(13) of this section or upon a freeway as provided in
division (B)(16) of this section, except upon a freeway as provided in division
(B)(14) of this section;
      (4)   At a speed exceeding 70 miles per hour upon a freeway as provided
in division (B)(14) of this section;
      (5)   At a speed exceeding the posted speed limit upon a highway,
expressway or freeway for which the Director has determined and declared a
speed limit pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(I)(2) or (L)(2).
   (E)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(E), in every charge of violating this
section, the affidavit and warrant shall specify the time, place and speed at
which the defendant is alleged to have driven, and in charges made in reliance
upon division (C) of this section also the speed which division (B)(1)(a), (B)
(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of, or a limit declared
or established pursuant to, this section or R.C. § 4511.21 declares is prima
facie lawful at the time and place of such alleged violation, except that in
affidavits where a person is alleged to have driven at a greater speed than
will permit the person to bring the vehicle to stop within the assured clear
distance ahead, the affidavit and warrant need not specify the speed at which
the defendant is alleged to have driven.
   (F)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(F), when a speed in excess of both a prima
facie limitation and a limitation in division (D) of this section is alleged,
the defendant shall be charged in a single affidavit, alleging a single act,
with a violation indicated of both division (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4),
(B)(6), (B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of this section, or of a limit declared or
established pursuant to this section or R.C. § 4511.21 by the Director or local
authorities, and of the limitation in division (D) of this section. If the
court finds a violation of division (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6),
(B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of this section, or a limit declared or established
pursuant to, this section or R.C. § 4511.21 has occurred, it shall enter a
judgment of conviction under such division and dismiss the charge under
division (D) of this section. If it finds no violation of division (B)(1)(a),
(B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of this section, or a
limit declared or established pursuant to, this section or R.C. § 4511.21, it
shall then consider whether the evidence supports a conviction under division
(D) of this section.
   (G)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(G), points shall be assessed for a
violation of a limitation under division (D) of this section in accordance with
R.C. § 4510.036.
(R.C. § 4511.21(A) - (G))
   (H)   Whenever, in accordance with R.C. § 4511.21(H) through (N), the
maximum prima facie speed limitations as established herein have been altered,
either higher or lower, and the appropriate signs giving notice have been
erected as required, operators of motor vehicles shall be governed by the speed
limitations set forth on such signs. It is prima facie unlawful for any person
to exceed the speed limits posted upon such signs.
   (I)   As used in this section:
      COMMERCIAL BUS means a motor vehicle designed for carrying more than nine
passengers and used for the transportation of persons for compensation.
      DIVIDED. Means a roadway having two or more travel lanes for vehicles
moving in opposite directions and that is separated by a median of more than
four feet, excluding turn lanes.
      INTERSTATE SYSTEM has the same meaning as in 23 U.S.C. 101.
      NONCOMMERCIAL BUS includes but is not limited to a school bus, or a motor
vehicle operated solely for the transportation of persons associated with a
charitable or nonprofit organization.
      OUTERBELT. A portion of a freeway that is part of the interstate system
and is located in the outer vicinity of a major municipal corporation or group
of municipal corporations, as designated by the Director.
      RURAL. Means an area outside urbanized areas and outside of a business or
urban district, and areas that extend within urbanized areas where the roadway
characteristics remain mostly unchanged from those outside the urbanized areas.
      URBANIZED AREA. Has the same meaning as in 23 U.S.C. § 101.
(R.C. § 4511.21(O))
   (J)   Speed limits for private roads and driveways.
      (1)   The owner of a private road or driveway located in a private
residential area containing 20 or more dwelling units may establish a speed
limit on the road or driveway by complying with all of the following
requirements:
         (a)   The speed limit is not less than 25 miles per hour and is
indicated by a sign that is in a proper position, is sufficiently legible to be
seen by an ordinarily observant person, and meets the specifications for the
basic speed limit sign included in the manual adopted by the Department of
Transportation pursuant to R.C. § 4511.09;
         (b)   The owner has posted a sign at the entrance of the private road
or driveway that is in plain view and clearly informs persons entering the road
or driveway that they are entering private property, a speed limit has been
established for the road or driveway, and the speed limit is enforceable by law
enforcement officers under state law.
      (2)   No person shall operate a vehicle upon a private road or driveway
as provided in division (J)(1) of this section at a speed exceeding any speed
limit established and posted pursuant to division (J)(1).
      (3)   When a speed limit is established and posted in accordance with
division (J)(1) of this section, a law enforcement officer may apprehend a
person violating the speed limit of the residential area by utilizing any of
the means described in R.C. § 4511.091 or by any other accepted method of
determining the speed of a motor vehicle and may stop and charge the person
with exceeding the speed limit.
      (4)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.211(D), points shall be assessed for
violation of a speed limit established and posted in accordance with division
(J)(1) of this section in accordance with R.C. § 4510.036.
      (5)   As used in this division (J):
         OWNER. Includes but is not limited to a person who holds title to the
real property in fee simple, a condominium owners’ association, a property
owners’ association, a board of directors or trustees of a private community,
and a nonprofit corporation governing a private community.
         PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL AREA CONTAINING 20 OR MORE DWELLING UNITS. Does
not include a Chautauqua assembly as defined in R.C. § 4511.90.
   (K)   Penalties.
      (1)   Divisions (A) through (I).
         (a)   A violation of any provision of divisions (A) through (I) of
this section is one of the following:
            1.   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (K)(1)(a)2., (a)3.,
(b), and (c) of this section, a minor misdemeanor;
            2.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of any provision of
divisions (A) through (I) of this section, R.C. § 4511.21, or any provision of
any other municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any provision
of that section, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
            3.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of any
provision of divisions (A) through (I) of this section, R.C. § 4511.21, or any
provision of any other municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to
any provision of that section, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
         (b)   If the offender operated a motor vehicle faster than 35 miles an
hour in a business district of the municipality, faster than 50 miles an hour
in other portions of the municipality, or faster than 35 miles an hour in a
school zone during recess or while children are going to or leaving school
during the school's opening or closing hours, a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. This division does not apply if penalties may be imposed under division
(K)(1)(a)2. or (K)(1)(a)3. of this section.
(R.C. § 4511.211(F))
         (c)   Notwithstanding division (K)(1)(a) of this section, if the
offender operated a motor vehicle in a construction zone where a sign was then
posted in accordance with R.C. § 4511.98, the court, in addition to all other
penalties provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a fine of two times
the usual amount imposed for the violation. No court shall impose a fine of two
times the usual amount imposed for the violation upon an offender if the
offender alleges, in an affidavit filed with the court prior to the offender’s
sentencing, that the offender is indigent and is unable to pay the fine imposed
pursuant to this division and if the court determines that the offender is an
indigent person and unable to pay the fine.
         (d)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.21(P))
      (2)   Division (J).
         (a)   A violation of division (J)(2) of this section is one of the
following:
            1.   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (K)(2)(a)2. and (K)
(2)(a)3. of this section, a minor misdemeanor;
            2.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of division (J)(2) of
this section, R.C. § 4511.211(B), or any other municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to that division, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
            3.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of division
(J)(2) of this section, R.C. § 4511.211(B), or any other municipal ordinance
that is substantially equivalent to that division, a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
         (b)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.211(F))
Statutory reference:
   Alteration of speed limits with approval of Director, see R.C. § 4511.21(H)
- (N)
   Arrest pending warrant when radar, electrical or mechanical timing device
used to determine violation, see R.C. § 4511.091
§ 73.11 SLOW SPEED OR STOPPING.
   (A)   No person shall stop or operate a vehicle at such an unreasonably slow
speed as to impede or block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic,
except when stopping or reduced speed is necessary for safe operation or to
comply with law.
   (B)   Whenever the Director of Transportation or local authorities determine
on the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation that slow speeds on
any part of a controlled-access highway, expressway, or freeway consistently
impede the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, the Director or such
local authority may declare a minimum speed limit below which no person shall
operate a motor vehicle, except when necessary for safe operation or in
compliance with the law. No minimum speed limit established hereunder shall be
less than 30 miles per hour, greater than 50 miles per hour, nor effective
until the provisions of R.C. § 4511.21 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, relating to appropriate signs, have been fulfilled and local
authorities have obtained the approval of the Director.
   (C)   In a case involving a violation of this section, the trier of fact, in
determining whether the vehicle was being operated at an unreasonably slow
speed, shall consider the capabilities of the vehicle and its operator.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.22)
§ 73.12 EMERGENCY VEHICLES EXCEPTED FROM SPEED LIMITATION.
   The prima facie speed limitations set forth in R.C. § 4511.21 or a
substantially similar municipal ordinance do not apply to emergency vehicles or
public safety vehicles when they are responding to emergency calls and are
equipped with and displaying at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating
light visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet
to the front of the vehicle, and when the drivers thereof sound audible signals
by bell, siren, or exhaust whistle. This section does not relieve the driver of
an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons using the street or highway.
(R.C. § 4511.24)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 73.13 STREET RACING PROHIBITED ON PUBLIC HIGHWAYS.
   (A)    As used in this section, STREET RACING means the operation of two or
more vehicles from a point side by side at accelerating speeds in a competitive
attempt to outdistance each other, or the operation of one or more vehicles
over a common selected course, from the same point to the same point, wherein
timing is made of the participating vehicles involving competitive
accelerations or speeds. Persons rendering assistance in any manner to such
competitive use of vehicles shall be equally charged as the participants. The
operation of two or more vehicles side by side either at speeds in excess of
prima facie lawful speeds established by R.C. § 4511.21(B)(1)(a) through (B)(9)
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or rapidly accelerating from
a common starting point to a speed in excess of such prima facie lawful speeds
shall be prima facie evidence of street racing.
   (B)   No person shall participate in street racing upon any public road,
street, or highway in this municipality.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of street racing, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. In addition to any other sanctions, the court
shall suspend the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privileges for not less than 30 days or more than three years. No judge shall
suspend the first 30 days of any suspension of an offender’s license, permit,
or privilege imposed under this division.
(R.C. § 4511.251)
§ 73.14 CROSSING, ENTERING, OR EXITING.
   No person operating a motor vehicle, motorcycle, or other vehicle shall
cross any public street, alley, or roadway in the village, or emerge from or
enter into any alley, stable, garage, areaway, building, or driveway abutting
upon a public street, alley, roadway, or sidewalk in the village at a speed
greater than one-half the legal rate of speed provided in §
73.10.
('56 Code, § 8-6)
Penalty, see § 70.99
STOPPING AFTER ACCIDENT
§ 73.20 FAILURE TO STOP AFTER ACCIDENT.
   (A)   (1)   In the case of a motor vehicle accident or collision with
persons or property on a public road or highway, the operator of the motor
vehicle, having knowledge of the accident or collision, immediately shall stop
the operator’s motor vehicle at the scene of the accident or collision. The
operator shall remain at the scene of the accident or collision until the
operator has given the operator’s name and address and, if the operator is not
the owner, the name and address of the owner of that motor vehicle, together
with the registered number of that motor vehicle, to all of the following:
         (a)   Any person injured in the accident or collision;
         (b)   The operator, occupant, owner, or attendant of any motor vehicle
damaged in the accident or collision;
         (c)   The police officer at the scene of the accident or collision.
      (2)   In the event an injured person is unable to comprehend and record
the information required to be given under division (A)(1) of this section, the
other operator involved in the accident or collision shall notify the nearest
police authority concerning the location of the accident or collision, and the
operator’s name, address, and the registered number of the motor vehicle the
operator was operating. The operator shall remain at the scene of the accident
or collision until a police officer arrives, unless removed from the scene by
an emergency vehicle operated by a political subdivision or an ambulance.
      (3)   If the accident or collision is with an unoccupied or unattended
motor vehicle, the operator who collides with the motor vehicle shall securely
attach the information required to be given in this section, in writing, to a
conspicuous place in or on the unoccupied or unattended motor vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after an accident. Except as otherwise provided in division (B)
(2) or (B)(3) of this section, failure to stop after an accident is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the accident or collision results in serious physical harm to a
person, failure to stop after an accident is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the accident or collision results in the death of a person,
failure to stop after an accident is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (4)   In all cases, the court, in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a class five suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(5). No judge shall suspend the first six months
of suspension of an offender’s license, permit, or privilege required by this
division.
      (5)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. §
2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss
arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result
of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.02) ('56 Code, §§ 8-7-F, 8-7-G)
§ 73.21 STOPPING AFTER ACCIDENT ON OTHER THAN PUBLIC ROADS OR HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   (1)   In the case of a motor vehicle accident or collision resulting
in injury or damage to persons or property on any public or private property
other than a public road or highway, the operator of the motor vehicle, having
knowledge of the accident or collision, shall stop at the scene of the accident
or collision. Upon request of any person who is injured or damaged, or any
other person, the operator shall give that person the operator’s name and
address, and, if the operator is not the owner, the name and address of the
owner of that motor vehicle, together with the registered number of that motor
vehicle, and, if available, exhibit the operator’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license.
      (2)   If the operator of the motor vehicle involved in the accident or
collision does not provide the information specified in division (A)(1) of this
section, the operator shall give that information, within 24 hours after the
accident or collision, to the police department of the city or village in which
the accident or collision occurred, or if it occurred outside the corporate
limits of a city or village, to the sheriff of the county in which the accident
or collision occurred.
      (3)   If the accident or collision is with an unoccupied or unattended
motor vehicle, the operator who collides with the motor vehicle shall securely
attach the information required under division (A)(1) of this section, in
writing, to a conspicuous place in or on the unoccupied or unattended motor
vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident. Except as otherwise provided
in division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this section, failure to stop after a nonpublic
road accident is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the accident or collision results in serious physical harm to a
person, failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the accident or collision results in the death of a person,
failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (4)   In all cases, the court, in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a class five suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(5). No judge shall suspend the first six months
of suspension of an offender’s license, permit, or privilege required by this
division.
      (5)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. §
2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss
arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result
of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.021) ('56 Code, §§ 8-7-F, 8-7-G)
§ 73.22 STOPPING AFTER ACCIDENT INVOLVING DAMAGE TO REALTY.
   (A)   (1)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in
damage to real property, or personal property attached to real property,
legally upon or adjacent to a public road or highway immediately shall stop and
take reasonable steps to locate and notify the owner or person in charge of the
property of that fact, of the driver’s name and address, and of the
registration number of vehicle the driver is driving and, upon request and if
available, shall exhibit the driver’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license.
      (2)   If the owner or person in charge of the property cannot be located
after reasonable search, the driver of the vehicle involved in the accident
resulting in damage to the property, within 24 hours after accident, shall
forward to the police department of the municipality the same information
required to be given to the owner or person in control of the property and give
the location of the accident and a description of the damage insofar as it is
known.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after an accident involving the property of others, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during, or
after committing the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.03) ('56 Code, §§ 8-7-F, 8-7-G)
MISCELLANEOUS
§ 73.25 OPERATION RESTRICTED FOR MINI-TRUCKS AND LOW-SPEED, UNDER-SPEED, OR
UTILITY VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a low-speed vehicle upon any street or
highway having an established speed limit greater than 35 miles per hour.
      (2)   No person shall operate an under-speed or utility vehicle or a
mini-truck upon any street or highway except as follows:
         (a)   Upon a street or highway having an established speed limit not
greater than 35 miles per hour and only upon such streets or highways where the
municipality has granted permission for such operation in accordance with
division (E) of this section;
         (b)   A state park or political subdivision employee or volunteer
operating a utility vehicle exclusively within the boundaries of state parks or
political subdivision parks for the operation or maintenance of state or
political subdivision park facilities.
      (3)   No person shall operate a motor-driven cycle or motor scooter upon
any street or highway having an established speed limit greater than 45 miles
per hour.
   (B)   This section does not prohibit either of the following:
      (1)   A person operating a low-speed, under-speed, or utility vehicle or
a mini-truck from proceeding across an intersection of a street or highway
having a speed limit greater than 35 miles per hour;
      (2)   A person operating a motor-driven cycle or motor scooter from
proceeding across an intersection of a street or highway having a speed limit
greater than 45 miles per hour.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the municipality from adopting
more stringent local ordinances, resolutions, or regulations governing the
operation of a low-speed vehicle or a mini-truck, or a motor-driven cycle or
motor scooter.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.214)
   (E)   By ordinance or resolution, the municipality may authorize the
operation of under-speed or utility vehicles or mini-trucks on a public street
or highway under its jurisdiction. The municipality shall do all of the
following:
      (1)   Limit the operation of those vehicles to streets and highways
having an established speed limit not greater than 35 miles per hour;
      (2)   Require the vehicle owner who wishes to operate an under-speed or
utility vehicle or a mini-truck on the public streets or highways to submit the
vehicle to an inspection conducted by a local law enforcement agency that
complies with inspection requirements established by the Department of Public
Safety under R.C. § 4513.02;
      (3)   Permit the operation on public streets or highways of only those
vehicles that successfully pass the required vehicle inspection, are registered
in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4503, and are titled in accordance with R.C.
Chapter 4505;
      (4)   Notify the Director of Public Safety, in a manner the Director
determines, of the authorization for the operation of under-speed or utility
vehicles or mini-trucks.
   (F)   The municipality may establish additional requirements for the
operation of under-speed or utility vehicles or mini-trucks on its streets and
highways.
(R.C. § 4511.215)
   (G)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) through (F) of this section, a person
may operate a utility vehicle on any public roads or right-of-way, other than a
freeway, when traveling from one farm field to another for agricultural
purposes if the vehicle is displaying a triangular slow-moving vehicle emblem
as described in R.C. § 4513.112.
(R.C. § 4511.216)
   (H)   (1)   Except as provided in this division (H) and divisions (E) and
(F) of this section, no person shall operate a mini-truck within this
municipality.
      (2)   A person may operate a mini-truck on a farm for agricultural
purposes only when the owner of the farm qualifies for the current agricultural
use valuation tax credit. A mini-truck may be operated by or on behalf of such
a farm owner on public roads and rights-of-way only when traveling from one
farm field to another.
      (3)   A person may operate a mini-truck on property owned or leased by a
dealer who sells mini-trucks at retail.
      (4)   Whoever violates this division (H) shall be penalized as provided
in division (D) of this section.
(R.C. § 4519.401)
§ 73.26 OFFICER MAY REMOVE IGNITION KEY.
   A law enforcement officer may remove the ignition key left in the ignition
switch of an unlocked and unattended motor vehicle parked on a street or
highway. The officer removing the key shall place notification upon the vehicle
detailing his or her name and badge number, the place where the key may be
reclaimed, and the procedure for reclaiming the key. The key shall be returned
to the owner of the motor vehicle upon presentation of proof of ownership.
(R.C. § 4549.05)
§ 73.27 IMMOBILIZING OR DISABLING DEVICE VIOLATION.
   (A)   (1)   No offender who has been granted limited or unlimited driving
privileges, during any period that the offender is required to operate only a
motor vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device, shall request
or permit any other person to breathe into the device if it is an ignition
interlock device or another type of device that monitors the concentration of
alcohol in a person’s breath or to otherwise start the motor vehicle equipped
with the device, for the purpose of providing the offender with an operable
motor vehicle.
      (2)   No person shall breathe into an immobilizing or disabling device
that is an ignition interlock device or another type of device that monitors
the concentration of alcohol in a person’s breath or otherwise start a motor
vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device, for the purpose of
providing an operable motor vehicle to another person who has been granted
limited or unlimited driving privileges under the condition that the person
operate only a motor vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device.
      (3)   No unauthorized person shall tamper with or circumvent the
operation of an immobilizing or disabling device.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of an immobilizing or
disabling device violation, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4510.44)
§ 73.98 DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE; DRIVER'S LICENSE SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, the Mayor's Court or the
trial judge of a court of record, in addition to any penalty imposed pursuant
to § 73.99(A), shall suspend or revoke the driver's or commercial driver's
license or permit or nonresident operating privilege of any person who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of §
73.01 of the Glendale Code, as follows:
      (1)   If the offender has not been convicted within five years of the
offense of a violation of §
73.01, or R.C. § 4511.19, or another municipal ordinance relating to operating
a vehicle while under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or alcohol and
a drug of abuse, or a municipal ordinance relating to operating a vehicle with
a prohibited concentration of alcohol in the blood, breath, or urine, or of
R.C. §§ 2903.06 or 2903.07, or a municipal ordinance substantially similar to
R.C. § 2903.07 in a case where the judge or jury found that the offender was
under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or alcohol and a drug of
abuse, the Mayor's Court or the judge of a court of record shall suspend the
offender's driver's or commercial driver's license or permit or nonresident
operating privileges for not less than 60 days nor more than three years.
      (2)   If the offender has been convicted, within five years of the
offense, of a violation of §
73.01 or any one of the other violations set forth in division (A)(1) above,
the Mayor's Court or the trial judge of a court of record shall suspend the
offender's driver's or commercial driver's license or permit or nonresident
operating privileges for not less than 120 days nor more than five years.
      (3)   If the offender has been convicted, within five years of the
offense, of more than one violation of §
73.01 or the other violations set forth in division (A)(1) above, the Mayor's
Court or the trial judge of a court of record shall suspend the offender's
driver's or commercial driver's license or permit or nonresident operating
privileges for not less than 180 days nor more than ten years.
   (B)   Any person whose driver's or commercial driver's license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege has been suspended pursuant to division (A)
above may petition the court for occupational driving privileges, alleging that
the suspension would seriously affect the person's ability to continue his
employment. Upon satisfactory proof that there is reasonable cause to believe
that the suspension would seriously affect the person's ability to continue his
employment, the court may grant the person occupational driving privileges
during the period during which the suspension would otherwise be imposed,
except that no court shall grant occupational driving privileges during the
first 180 days of any suspension imposed pursuant to division (A)(3) above.
   (C)   After a driver's or commercial driver's license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege has been suspended or revoked pursuant to this
section, the court that suspended or revoked the license, permit, or privilege
shall cause the offender to deliver to the court the license or permit which,
together with notice of the action of the court, shall be forwarded by the
court or the clerk of the court to the Ohio Registrar of Motor Vehicles.
(Ord. 1987-37, passed 10-14-87)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates §
73.01 is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree, and in addition to the
suspension or revocation of the offender's driver's license which the court may
otherwise impose according to law, the offender shall be imprisoned for not
less than three days nor more than six months, and fined not less than $150 nor
more than $1,000.
   (B)   Whoever violates any other provisions of this chapter for which
another penalty is not provided is guilty of a minor misdemeanor for a first
offense; for a second offense within one year after the first offense, the
person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; for each subsequent
offense within one year of the first offense, the person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(Ord. 1984-20, passed 5-7-84; Am. Ord. 1987-33, passed 9-14-87)
CHAPTER 74: EQUIPMENT AND LOADS
Section
Lights
   
74.01   Lighted lights required
   
74.02   Headlights required
   
74.03   Two headlights displayed
   
74.04   Headlights; intensity
   
74.05   Lights of less intensity
   
74.06   Focus and aim of headlights
   
74.07   Taillights and illumination of rear license plate
   
74.08   Red reflectors required
   
74.09   Stoplight regulations
   
74.10   Lights on parked vehicles
   
74.11   Cowl, fender, and backup lights
   
74.12   Spotlight and auxiliary driving lights
   
74.13   Number of lights permitted; red and flashing lights
   
74.14   Obscured lights on vehicles
   
74.15   Red light or flag required
   
74.16   Lights, emblems, and reflectors on slow-moving vehicles, farm
machinery, agricultural tractors, and animal-drawn vehicles
   
74.17   Safety lights on commercial vehicles
   
74.18   Lights on snow removal equipment and oversize vehicles
   
74.19   Flashing lights permitted for certain types of vehicles
   
74.20   Lights and sign on transportation for preschool children
Brakes
   
74.25   Brake equipment; specifications
   
74.26   Brake fluid
   
74.27   Minimum standards for brakes and components
Signals
   
74.30   Horns, sirens, and warning devices
   
74.31   Directional signals
   
74.32   Requirements for extra signal equipment
   
74.33   Display of warning devices on disabled vehicles
Glass
   
74.35   Windshields and wipers
   
74.36   Safety glass requirements; use of tinted glass or reflectorized
material
   
74.37   Rearview mirrors
Other Equipment
   
74.40   Bumpers on motor vehicles
   
74.41   Mufflers; excessive smoke or gas
   
74.42   Solid tire requirements
   
74.43   (Reserved)
   
74.44   Requirements for vehicles transporting explosives
   
74.45   Wheel protectors required on heavy commercial vehicles
   
74.46   Maximum width, height, and length
   
74.47   Occupant restraining devices
   
74.48   Window tinting, sunscreening, nontransparent and reflectorized
materials
   
74.49   Air bags
Loads
   
74.50   Definitions
   
74.51   All loads shall be properly secured
   
74.52   Towing requirements; exception to size and weight restrictions
   
74.53   Excess weights prohibited
   
74.54   Permit required to exceed load limits
   
74.55   Weight of load; width of tire
   
74.56   Restrictions for pneumatic-tired vehicles
   
74.57   Limitation of load extension on left side of vehicle
   
74.58   Trucks prohibited on residential streets; exception
LIGHTS
§ 74.01 LIGHTED LIGHTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every vehicle, other than a motorized bicycle, operated upon a street
or highway within this state shall display lighted lights and illuminating
devices as required by R.C. §§ 4513.04 to 4513.37 during all of the following
times:
      (1)   The time from sunset to sunrise;
      (2)   At any other time when, due to insufficient natural light or
unfavorable atmospheric conditions, persons, vehicles, and substantial objects
on the highway are not discernible at a distance of 1,000 feet ahead;
      (3)   At any time when the windshield wipers of the vehicle are in use
because of precipitation on the windshield.
   (B)   Every motorized bicycle shall display at such times lighted lights
meeting the rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety under R.C. §
4511.521. No motor vehicle, during any time specified in this section, shall be
operated upon a street or highway within this state using only parking lights
as illumination.
   (C)   Whenever in such sections a requirement is declared as to the distance
from which certain lamps and devices shall render objects visible, or within
which such lamps or devices shall be visible, such distance shall be measured
upon a straight level unlighted highway under normal atmospheric conditions
unless a different condition is expressly stated.
   (D)   Whenever in such sections a requirement is declared as to the mounted
height of lights or devices, it shall mean from the center of such light or
device to the level ground upon which the vehicle stands.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a vehicle being operated upon a
street or highway within this state to stop the vehicle solely because the
officer observes that a violation of division (A)(3) of this section has been
or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or
summons for a violation of that division, or causing the arrest of or
commencing a prosecution of a person for a violation of that division.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.03)
§ 74.02 HEADLIGHTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, shall be equipped
with at least two headlights with at least one near each side of the front of
the motor vehicle.
      (2)   Every motorcycle shall be equipped with at least one and not more
than two headlights.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.04)
§ 74.03 TWO HEADLIGHTS DISPLAYED.
   (A)   At all times mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, at least two lighted lights shall be displayed, one near
each side of the front of every motor vehicle, except when such vehicle is
parked subject to the regulations governing lights on parked vehicles.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.14)
§ 74.04 HEADLIGHTS; INTENSITY.
   (A)   Whenever a motor vehicle is being operated on a roadway or shoulder
adjacent thereto during the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially similar municipal ordinance, the driver shall use a distribution
of light, or composite beam, directed high enough and of sufficient intensity
to reveal persons, vehicles and substantial objects at a safe distance in
advance of the vehicle, subject to the following requirements:
      (1)   Whenever the driver of a vehicle approaches an oncoming vehicle,
such driver shall use a distribution of light, or composite beam, so aimed that
the glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of the oncoming driver.
      (2)   Every new motor vehicle registered in this state which has
multiple-beam road lighting equipment shall be equipped with a beam indicator,
which shall be lighted whenever the uppermost distribution of light from the
headlights is in use, and shall not otherwise be lighted. This indicator shall
be so designed and located that, when lighted, it will be readily visible
without glare to the driver of the vehicle.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.15)
§ 74.05 LIGHTS OF LESS INTENSITY.
   (A)   Any motor vehicle may be operated under the conditions specified in
R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially similar municipal ordinance when it is
equipped with two lighted lights upon the front thereof capable of revealing
persons and substantial objects 75 feet ahead, in lieu of lights required in
R.C. § 4513.14 or a substantially similar municipal ordinance, provided that
such vehicle shall not be operated at a speed in excess of 20 miles per hour.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.16)
§ 74.06 FOCUS AND AIM OF HEADLIGHTS.
   (A)   No person shall use any lights mentioned in R.C. §§ 4513.03 through
4513.18, or any substantially similar municipal ordinances, upon any motor
vehicle, trailer or semitrailer unless these lights are equipped, mounted and
adjusted as to focus and aim in accordance with regulations which are
prescribed by the Director of Public Safety.
   (B)   The headlights on any motor vehicle shall comply with the headlamp
color requirements contained in Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number
108, 49 C.F.R. § 571.108. No person shall operate a motor vehicle in violation
of this division.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.19)
§ 74.07 TAILLIGHTS AND ILLUMINATION OF REAR LICENSE PLATE.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, pole trailer or
vehicle which is being drawn at the end of a train of vehicles shall be
equipped with at least one tail light mounted on the rear which, when lighted,
shall emit a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear,
provided that in the case of a train of vehicles only the tail light on the
rearmost vehicle need be visible from the distance specified.
      (2)   Either a tail light or a separate light shall be so constructed and
placed as to illuminate with a white light the rear registration plate, when
such registration plate is required, and render it legible from a distance of
50 feet to the rear. Any tail light, together with any separate light for
illuminating the rear registration plate, shall be so wired as to be lighted
whenever the headlights or auxiliary driving lights are lighted, except where
separate lighting systems are provided for trailers for the purpose of
illuminating such registration plate.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.05)
§ 74.08 RED REFLECTORS REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   Every new motor vehicle sold after September 6, 1941, and
operated on a highway, other than a commercial tractor to which a trailer or
semitrailer is attached shall carry at the rear, either as a part of the tail
lamps or separately, two red reflectors meeting the requirements of this
section, except that vehicles of the type mentioned in R.C. § 4513.07 or a
substantially similar municipal ordinance shall be equipped with reflectors as
required by the regulations provided for in that section.
      (2)   Every such reflector shall be of such size and characteristics and
so maintained as to be visible at night from all distances within 300 feet to
50 feet from such vehicle.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.06)
§ 74.09 STOPLIGHT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, and pole trailer when
operated upon a highway shall be equipped with two or more stop lights, except
that passenger cars manufactured or assembled prior to January 1, 1967,
motorcycles, and motor-driven cycles shall be equipped with at least one stop
light. Stop lights shall be mounted on the rear of the vehicle, actuated upon
application of the service brake, and may be incorporated with other rear
lights. Such stop lights when actuated shall emit a red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear; provided that in the case of a train of
vehicles only the stop lights on the rearmost vehicle need be visible from the
distance specified.
      (2)   Such stop lights when actuated shall give a steady warning light to
the rear of a vehicle or train of vehicles to indicate the intention of the
operator to diminish the speed of or stop a vehicle or train of vehicles.
      (3)   When stop lights are used as required by this section, they shall
be constructed or installed so as to provide adequate and reliable illumination
and shall conform to the appropriate rules and regulations established under
R.C. § 4513.19.
      (4)   Historical motor vehicles as defined in R.C. § 4503.181, not
originally manufactured with stop lights, are not subject to this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.071)
§ 74.10 LIGHTS ON PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Except in case of an emergency, whenever a vehicle is parked or
stopped upon a roadway open to traffic or a shoulder adjacent thereto, whether
attended or unattended, during the times mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially similar municipal ordinance, such vehicle shall be equipped with
one or more lights which shall exhibit a white or amber light on the roadway
side visible from a distance of 500 feet to the front of such vehicle, and a
red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear. No lights need be
displayed upon any such vehicle when it is stopped or parked within the
municipality where there is sufficient light to reveal any person or
substantial object within a distance of 500 feet upon such highway. Any lighted
headlights upon a parked vehicle shall be depressed or dimmed.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.11 COWL, FENDER, AND BACKUP LIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with side cowl or fender
lights which shall emit a white or amber light without glare.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with lights on each side thereof
which shall emit a white or amber light without glare.
      (3)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with back-up lights, either
separately or in combination with another light. No back-up lights shall be
continuously lighted when the motor vehicle is in forward motion.
(R.C. § 4513.13)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.13)
§ 74.12 SPOTLIGHT AND AUXILIARY DRIVING LIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than one
spotlight and every lighted spotlight shall be so aimed and used upon
approaching another vehicle that no part of the high-intensity portion of the
beam will be directed to the left of the prolongation of the extreme left side
of the vehicle, nor more than 100 feet ahead of the vehicle.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than three
auxiliary driving lights mounted on the front of the vehicle. Any such lights
which do not conform to the specifications for auxiliary driving lights and the
regulations for their use prescribed by the Director of Public Safety shall not
be used.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.12)
§ 74.13 NUMBER OF LIGHTS PERMITTED; RED AND FLASHING LIGHTS.
   (A)   Whenever a motor vehicle equipped with headlights is also equipped
with any auxiliary lights or spotlight or any other light on the front thereof
projecting a beam of an intensity greater than 300 candlepower, not more than a
total of five of any such lights on the front of a vehicle shall be lighted at
any one time when the vehicle is upon a highway.
   (B)   Any lighted light or illuminating device upon a motor vehicle, other
than headlights, spotlights, signal lights, or auxiliary driving lights, that
projects a beam of light of an intensity greater than 300 candlepower shall be
so directed that no part of the beam will strike the level of the roadway on
which the vehicle stands at a distance of more than 75 feet from the vehicle.
   (C)   (1)   Flashing lights are prohibited on motor vehicles, except as a
means for indicating a right or a left turn, or in the presence of a vehicular
traffic hazard requiring unusual care in approaching, or overtaking or passing.
      (2)   The prohibition in division (C)(1) of this section does not apply
to any of the following:
         (a)   Emergency vehicles, road service vehicles servicing or towing a
disabled vehicle, stationary waste collection vehicles actively collecting
garbage, refuse, trash, or recyclable materials on the roadside, rural mail
delivery vehicles, vehicles as provided in R.C. § 4513.182, highway maintenance
vehicles, and similar equipment operated by state or local authorities,
provided such vehicles are equipped with and display, when used on a street or
highway for the special purpose necessitating such lights, a flashing,
oscillating, or rotating amber light;
         (b)   Vehicles or machinery permitted by R.C. § 4513.111 to have a
flashing red light;
         (c)   Farm machinery and vehicles escorting farm machinery, provided
such machinery and vehicles are equipped with and display, when used on a
street or highway, a flashing, oscillating, or rotating amber light. Farm
machinery also may display the lights described in R.C. § 4513.111.
         (d)   A funeral hearse or funeral escort vehicle, provided that the
funeral hearse or funeral escort vehicle is equipped with and displays, when
used on a street or highway for the special purpose necessitating such lights,
a flashing, oscillating, or rotating purple or amber light.
      (3)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to animal-drawn
vehicles subject to R.C. § 4513.114.
   (D)   (1)   Except a person operating a public safety vehicle, as defined in
R.C. § 4511.01(E), or a school bus, no person shall operate, move, or park
upon, or permit to stand within the right-of-way of any public street or
highway any vehicle or equipment that is equipped with and displaying a
flashing red or a flashing combination red and white light, or an oscillating
or rotating red light, or a combination red and white oscillating or rotating
light.
      (2)   Except a public law enforcement officer, or other person sworn to
enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state, operating a public safety
vehicle when on duty, no person shall operate, move, or park upon, or permit to
stand within the right-of-way of any street or highway any vehicle or equipment
that is equipped with, or upon which is mounted, and displaying a flashing blue
or a flashing combination blue and white light, or an oscillating or rotating
blue light, or a combination blue and white oscillating or rotating light.
   (E)   This section does not prohibit the use of warning lights required by
law or the simultaneous flashing of turn signals on disabled vehicles or on
vehicles being operated in unfavorable atmospheric conditions in order to
enhance their visibility. This section also does not prohibit the simultaneous
flashing of turn signals or warning lights whether on farm machinery or
vehicles escorting farm machinery when used on a street or highway.
(R.C. § 4513.17)
   (F)   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a motor vehicle
operated by a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner's investigator may be equipped
with a flashing, oscillating or rotating red or blue light and siren, whistle
or bell capable of emitting sound audible under normal conditions from a
distance of not less than 500 feet. Such a vehicle may display the flashing,
oscillating or rotating red or blue light and may give the audible signal of
the siren, whistle or bell only when responding to a fatality or a fatal motor
vehicle accident on a street or highway and only at those locations where the
stoppage of traffic impedes the ability of the coroner, deputy coroner or
coroner's investigator to arrive at the site of the fatality.
      (2)   This division (F) does not relieve the coroner, deputy coroner or
coroner's investigator operating a motor vehicle from the duty to drive with
due regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(R.C. § 4513.171)
   (G)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. §§ 4513.17(F), 4513.171(B))
§ 74.14 OBSCURED LIGHTS ON VEHICLES.
   Whenever motor and other vehicles are operated in combination during the
time that lights are required, any light, except tail lights, which by reason
of its location on a vehicle of the combination would be obscured by another
vehicle of the combination, need not be lighted, but this section does not
affect the requirement that lighted clearance lights be displayed on the front
of the foremost vehicle required to have clearance lights or that all lights
required on the rear of the rearmost vehicle of any combination shall be
lighted.
(R.C. § 4513.08)
§ 74.15 RED LIGHT OR FLAG REQUIRED.
   (A)   Whenever the load upon any vehicle extends to the rear four feet or
more beyond the bed or body of this vehicle, there shall be displayed at the
extreme rear end of the load, at the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, a red light or lantern plainly
visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to the sides and rear. The red
light or lantern required by this section is in addition to the red rear light
required upon every vehicle. At any other time there shall be displayed at the
extreme rear end of such load a red flag or cloth not less than 16 inches
square.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.09)
§ 74.16 LIGHTS, EMBLEMS, AND REFLECTORS ON SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES, FARM
MACHINERY, AGRICULTURAL TRACTORS, AND ANIMAL-DRAWN VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      BOAT TRAILER. Means any vehicle designed and used exclusively to
transport a boat between a place of storage and a marina, or in and around a
marina, when drawn or towed on a street or highway for a distance of no more
than ten miles and at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less.
      SLOW-MOVING VEHICLE and SMV. Mean a boat trailer, unit of farm machinery,
road construction machinery, or other machinery designed by the manufacturer to
operate at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less. The term does not include a
bicycle, motorized bicycle, electric bicycle, or animal-drawn vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.11)
   (B)   Generally.
      (1)   At the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03, no person shall operate
either of the following vehicles unless it is equipped with and displays the
lamps described in division (B)(2) of this section:
         (a)   A vehicle not specifically required to be equipped with lamps or
other lighting devices by R.C. §§ 4513.03 to 4513.10;
         (b)   A vehicle referred to in R.C. § 4513.02(G).
      (2)   Vehicles described in division (B)(1) of this section shall be
equipped with both of the following:
         (a)   At least one lamp displaying a white light visible from a
distance of not less than 1,000 feet to the front of the vehicle;
         (b)   Two lamps displaying red light visible from a distance of not
less than 1,000 feet to the rear of the vehicle, or as an alternative, one lamp
displaying a red light visible from a distance of not less than 1,000 feet to
the rear and two red reflectors visible from all distances of 600 feet to 100
feet to the rear when illuminated by the lawful lower beams of headlamps.
      (3)   (a)   At the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03, no person shall
operate a multi-wheel agricultural tractor model year 2001 or earlier on a
street or highway unless it is equipped with and displays reflectors and
illuminated amber lamps so that the extreme left and right projections of the
tractor are indicated by all of the following:
            1.   Flashing lamps displaying amber light, visible to the front
and the rear. The lamps need not flash simultaneously and need not flash in
conjunction with any directional signals of the tractor.
            2.   Amber reflectors, all visible to the front;
            3.   Red reflectors, all visible to the rear.
         (b)   Rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety under R.C. §
4513.111 governing the lamps and reflectors described in division (B)(3)(a) of
this section and their placement correlate with and, as far as possible,
conform with paragraphs 4.1.4.1, 4.1.7.1, and 4.1.7.2 respectively of the
American Society of Agricultural Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE S279.10 OCT 98,
Lighting and Marking of Agricultural Equipment on Highways.
      (4)   At the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03, no person shall operate a
unit of farm machinery model year 2002 or later on a street or highway unless
it is equipped with and displays markings and illuminated lamps that meet or
exceed the lighting, illumination, and marking standards and specifications
that are applicable to that type of farm machinery for the unit's model year
specified in the American society of agricultural engineers standard ANSI/ASAE
S279.10 OCT 98, lighting and marking of agricultural equipment on highways.
      (5)   Any unit of farm machinery designed by its manufacturer to operate
at a speed of 25 miles per hour or greater or any SMV may be equipped with and
display a red flashing light that is visible from a distance of not less than
1,000 feet to the rear at all times specified in R.C. § 4513.03. When a double-
faced light is used, it shall display amber light to the front and red light to
the rear.
      (6)   Lights and reflectors required under divisions (B)(3) and (B)(4) of
this section and authorized under division (B)(5) of this section are in
addition to other lights required or permitted by this division (B) or R.C. §
4513.17.
      (7)   The Ohio Director of Public Safety shall adopt rules in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 119 that establish standards and specifications for lamps and
reflectors required or authorized by this section. Lamps and reflectors
required or authorized by this section shall meet those standards and
specifications.
      (8)   This division (B) does not apply to a bicycle, motorized bicycle,
electric bicycle, or animal-drawn vehicle.
      (9)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.111)
   (C)   Slow-moving vehicles.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, no person shall
operate an SMV on a street or highway as follows:
         (a)   At a speed exceeding 25 miles per hour;
         (b)   Without displaying the triangular SMV emblem mounted in
accordance with division (C)(2) of this section.
      (2)   The SMV emblem shall be mounted so as to be visible from a distance
of not less than 500 feet to the rear. In accordance with R.C. Chapter 119, the
Ohio Director of Public Safety shall adopt standards and specifications for the
design and position of mounting the SMV emblem. The standards and
specifications for the SMV emblem correlate with and, so far as possible,
conform with those approved by the American Society of Agricultural Engineers.
      (3)   A person may operate an SMV on a street or highway without
displaying the triangular SMV emblem when any of the following apply:
         (a)   The SMV is being used in actual construction and maintenance
work in an area guarded by a flagperson, or where flares are used.
         (b)   The SMV is operating or traveling within the limits of a
construction area designated by the Ohio Director of Transportation, a city
engineer, or the county engineer of the several counties, when such
construction area is marked in accordance with requirements of the Ohio
Director of Transportation and the Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices,
as set forth in R.C. § 4511.09.
      (4)   No person shall display an SMV emblem on any of the following:
         (a)   Any vehicle not required to use the SMV emblem by this division
(C) or R.C. § 4513.113 or 4513.114;
         (b)   An SMV being transported upon any other vehicle;
         (c)   Any stationary object on the highway.
      (5)   No person shall sell, lease, rent, or operate an SMV, except a unit
designed to be completely mounted on a primary power unit that is manufactured
or assembled on or after April 1, 1966, unless it is equipped with an SMV
emblem mounting device.
      (6)   Whoever violates this division (C) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.112)
   (D)   Farm machinery and agricultural tractors.
      (1)   No person shall sell, lease, rent, or operate on a street or
highway any unit of farm machinery that is designed by its manufacturer to
operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour unless the unit displays both
of the following:
         (a)   The SMV emblem mounted in accordance with R.C. § 4513.112(B);
         (b)   A speed identification symbol that does both of the following:
            1.   Meets the specifications contained in the American Society of
Agricultural Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE S584 JAN2005, Agricultural Equipment:
Speed Identification Symbol (SIS);
            2.   Indicates the maximum speed in miles per hour at which the
unit of farm machinery is designed by its manufacturer to operate.
      (2)   No person operating a tractor on a street or highway that is
designed by its manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per
hour and that is towing, pulling, or otherwise drawing a unit of farm machinery
while operating at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour shall fail to display
both of the following on the unit of farm machinery:
         (a)   The SMV emblem;
         (b)   The speed identification symbol that matches the speed
identification symbol required to be displayed on the agricultural tractor.
      (3)   No person shall operate an agricultural tractor that is designed by
its manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour unless
the person possesses documentation published or provided by the manufacturer
indicating the maximum speed in miles per hour at which the manufacturer
designed the agricultural tractor to operate.
      (4)   Whoever violates this division (D) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.113)
   (E)   Animal-drawn vehicles.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (E)(4) of this section, no
person shall operate an animal-drawn vehicle on a street or highway unless it
is equipped with and displays, at the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03, both
of the following:
         (a)   At least one lamp displaying a white light visible from a
distance of not less than 1,000 feet to the front of the animal-drawn vehicle;
         (b)   Two lamps displaying red light visible from a distance of not
less than 1,000 feet to the rear of the animal-drawn vehicle, or as an
alternative, one lamp displaying a red light visible from a distance of not
less than 1,000 feet to the rear and two red reflectors visible from all
distances of 600 feet to one hundred feet to the rear when illuminated by the
lawful lower beams of headlamps.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (E)(4) of this section, no
person shall operate an animal-drawn vehicle on a street or highway unless it
is equipped with and displays, at all times, all of the following:
         (a)   One yellow flashing lamp displaying yellow light that is visible
from a distance of not less than 1,000 feet and that is mounted in either of
the following positions:
            1.   On the top most portion of the rear of the animal-drawn
vehicle;
            2.   On the top of the animal-drawn vehicle.
         (b)   At least one of the following:
            1.   An SMV emblem mounted in accordance with R.C. § 4513.112(B);
            2.   Micro-prism reflective tape that is visible from a distance of
not less than 500 feet to the rear when illuminated by the lawful lower beams
of headlamps;
            3.   Both an SMV emblem and micro-prism reflective tape, as
specified in this division.
         (c)   Lamps and micro-prism reflective tape required by this section
shall meet standards and specifications adopted by the Ohio Director of Public
Safety under R.C. § 4513.114.
      (3)   The Ohio Director of Public Safety, in accordance with R.C. Chapter
119, shall adopt rules establishing standards and specifications for the
position and mounting of the lamps and micro-prism reflective tape required by
R.C. § 4513.114. The rules permit the micro-prism reflective tape to be red,
amber, white, or silver in color.
      (4)   (a)   Divisions (E)(1) and (E)(2) of this section do not apply to
the operator of animal-drawn agricultural equipment who is not transporting any
livestock or a person other than the operator.
         (b)   No operator described in division (E)(4)(a) of this section
shall operate animal-drawn agricultural equipment unless it is equipped with
and displays, at all times, the SMV emblem mounted in accordance with R.C. §
4513.112(B).
         (c)   As used in division (E)(4) of this section, "animal-drawn
agricultural equipment" means equipment drawn by the muscular power of an
animal that is used solely for agricultural purposes. "Animal-drawn
agricultural equipment" includes any of the following:
            1.   A plow;
            2.   A manure spreader;
            3.   A thresher.
      (5)   Whoever violates this division (E) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.114)
   (F)   Strict liability offenses. The offenses established under this section
are strict liability offenses, and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The
designation of these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be
construed to imply that any other offense, for which there is no specified
degree of culpability, is not a strict liability offense.
(R.C. § 4513.115)
§ 74.17 SAFETY LIGHTS ON COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   When the Director of Public Safety prescribes and promulgates
regulations relating to clearance lights, marker lights, reflectors and stop
lights on buses, trucks, commercial tractors, trailers, semitrailers and pole
trailers, when operated upon any highway, these vehicles shall be equipped as
required by such regulations, and such equipment shall be lighted at all times
mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially similar municipal ordinance,
except that clearance lights and side marker lights need not be lighted on any
such vehicle when it is operated within the municipality where there is
sufficient light to reveal any person or substantial object on the highway at a
distance of 500 feet.
      (2)   Such equipment shall be in addition to all other lights
specifically required by R.C. §§ 4513.03 through 4513.16, or any substantially
similar municipal ordinances.
      (3)   Vehicles operated under the jurisdiction of the Public Utilities
Commission are not subject to this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.07)
§ 74.18 LIGHTS ON SNOW REMOVAL EQUIPMENT AND OVERSIZE VEHICLES.
   (A)   It is unlawful to operate snow removal equipment on a highway unless
the lights thereon comply with and are lighted when and as required by the
standards and specifications adopted by the Director of Transportation pursuant
to R.C. § 4513.18.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.18)
§ 74.19 FLASHING LIGHTS PERMITTED FOR CERTAIN TYPES OF VEHICLES.
   Rural mail delivery vehicles, state highway survey vehicles, and funeral
escort vehicles are permitted to use flashing lights.
(R.C. § 4513.181)
§ 74.20 LIGHTS AND SIGN ON TRANSPORTATION FOR PRESCHOOL CHILDREN.
   (A)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle owned, leased, or hired by a
nursery school, kindergarten, or day-care center, while transporting preschool
children to or from such an institution unless the motor vehicle is equipped
with and displaying two amber flashing lights mounted on a bar attached to the
top of the vehicle, and a sign bearing the designation “caution — children,”
which shall be attached to the bar carrying the amber flashing lights in such a
manner as to be legible to persons both in front of and behind the vehicle. The
lights and sign shall meet standards and specifications adopted by the Director
of Public Safety.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle displaying the lights and sign
required by this section for any purpose other than the transportation of
preschool children as provided in this section.
(R.C. § 4513.182)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
BRAKES
§ 74.25 BRAKE EQUIPMENT; SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The following requirements govern as to brake equipment on vehicles:
      (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, when operated upon a
highway shall be equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of and
to stop and hold the motor vehicle, including two separate means of applying
the brakes, each of which means shall be effective to apply the brakes to at
least two wheels. If these two separate means of applying the brakes are
connected in any way, then on such motor vehicles, manufactured or assembled
after January 1, 1942, they shall be so constructed that failure of any one
part of the operating mechanism shall not leave the motor vehicle without
brakes on at least two wheels.
      (2)   Every motorcycle, when operated upon a highway shall be equipped
with at least one adequate brake, which may be operated by hand or by foot.
      (3)   Every motorized bicycle shall be equipped with brakes meeting the
rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety under R.C. § 4511.521.
      (4)   When operated upon the highways, the following vehicles shall be
equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and to
hold the vehicle, designed to be applied by the driver of the towing motor
vehicle from its cab, and also designed and connected so that, in case of a
breakaway of the towed vehicle, the brakes shall be automatically applied:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, trailer or
semitrailer, except a pole trailer, with an empty weight of 2,000 pounds or
more, manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1942;
         (b)   Every manufactured home or travel trailer with an empty weight
of 2,000 pounds or more, manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 2001.
      (5)   Every watercraft trailer with a gross weight or manufacturer’s
gross vehicle weight rating of 3,000 pounds or more that is manufactured or
assembled on or after January 1, 2008, shall have separate brakes equipped with
hydraulic surge or electrically operated brakes on two wheels.
      (6)   In any combination of motor-drawn trailers or semitrailers equipped
with brakes, means shall be provided for applying the rearmost brakes in
approximate synchronism with the brakes on the towing vehicle, and developing
the required braking effort on the rearmost wheels at the fastest rate; or
means shall be provided for applying braking effort first on the rearmost
brakes; or both of the above means, capable of being used alternatively, may be
employed.
      (7)   Every vehicle and combination of vehicles, except motorcycles and
motorized bicycles, and except trailers and semitrailers of a gross weight of
less than 2,000 pounds, and pole trailers, shall be equipped with parking
brakes adequate to hold the vehicle on any grade on which it is operated, under
all conditions of loading, on a surface free from snow, ice, or loose material.
The parking brakes shall be capable of being applied in conformance with the
foregoing requirements by the driver’s muscular effort or by spring action or
by equivalent means. Their operation may be assisted by the service brakes or
other source of power provided that failure of the service brake actuation
system or other power assisting mechanism will not prevent the parking brakes
from being applied in conformance with the foregoing requirements. The parking
brakes shall be so designed that when once applied they shall remain applied
with the required effectiveness despite exhaustion of any source of energy or
leakage of any kind.
      (8)   The same brake drums, brake shoes and lining assemblies, brake shoe
anchors, and mechanical brake shoe actuation mechanism normally associated with
the wheel brake assemblies may be used for both the service brakes and the
parking brakes. If the means of applying the parking brakes and the service
brakes are connected in any way, they shall be so constructed that failure of
any one part shall not leave the vehicle without operative brakes.
      (9)   Every motor vehicle or combination of motor-drawn vehicles shall,
at all times and under all conditions of loading, be capable of being stopped
on a dry, smooth, level road free from loose material, upon application of the
service or foot brake, within the following specified distances, or shall be
capable of being decelerated at a sustained rate corresponding to these
distances:
         (a)   Vehicles or combinations of vehicles having brakes on all wheels
shall come to a stop in 30 feet or less from a speed of 20 miles per hour.
         (b)   Vehicles or combinations of vehicles not having brakes on all
wheels shall come to a stop in 40 feet or less from a speed of 20 miles per
hour.
      (10)   All brakes shall be maintained in good working order and shall be
so adjusted as to operate as equally as practicable with respect to the wheels
on opposite sides of the vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.20)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.26 BRAKE FLUID.
   (A)   No hydraulic brake fluid for use in motor vehicles shall be sold in
this municipality if the brake fluid is below the minimum standard of
specifications for heavy duty type brake fluid established by the society of
automotive engineers and the standard of specifications established by 49
C.F.R. 571.116, as amended.
   (B)   All manufacturers, packers, or distributors of brake fluid selling
such fluid in this municipality shall state on the containers that the brake
fluid meets or exceeds the applicable minimum SAE standard of specifications,
and the standard of specifications established in 49 C.F.R. 571.116, as
amended.
(R.C. § 4513.201)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.27 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR BRAKES AND COMPONENTS.
   (A)   No brake lining, brake lining material, or brake lining assemblies for
use as repair and replacement parts in motor vehicles shall be sold in this
municipality if these items do not meet or exceed the minimum standard of
specifications established by the Society of Automotive Engineers and the
standard of specifications established in 49 C.F.R. 571.105, as amended, and 49
C.F.R. 571.135, as amended.
   (B)   All manufacturers or distributors of brake lining, brake lining
material, or brake lining assemblies selling these items for use as repair and
replacement parts in motor vehicles shall state that the items meet or exceed
the applicable minimum standard of specifications.
   (C)   As used in this section, MINIMUM STANDARD OF SPECIFICATIONS means a
minimum standard for brake system or brake component performance that meets the
need for motor vehicle safety and complies with the applicable SAE standards
and recommended practices, and the federal motor vehicle safety standards that
cover the same aspect of performance for any brake lining, brake lining
material, or brake lining assemblies.
(R.C. § 4513.202)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
SIGNALS
§ 74.30 HORNS, SIRENS, AND WARNING DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle when operated upon a highway shall be
equipped with a horn which is in good working order and capable of emitting
sound audible, under normal conditions, from a distance of not less than 200
feet.
      (2)   No motor vehicle shall be equipped with, nor shall any person use
upon a vehicle, any siren, whistle, or bell. Any vehicle may be equipped with a
theft alarm signal device which shall be so arranged that it cannot be used as
an ordinary warning signal. Every emergency vehicle shall be equipped with a
siren, whistle or bell, capable of emitting sound audible under normal
conditions from a distance of not less than 500 feet and of a type approved by
the Director of Public Safety. Such equipment shall not be used except when
such vehicle is operated in response to an emergency call or is in the
immediate pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law, in which case
the driver of the emergency vehicle shall sound such equipment when it is
necessary to warn pedestrians and other drivers of the approach thereof.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.21)
§ 74.31 DIRECTIONAL SIGNALS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle manufactured or
assembled on or after January 1, 1954, unless the vehicle is equipped with
electrical or mechanical directional signals.
      (2)   No person shall operate any motorcycle or motor-driven cycle
manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1968, unless the vehicle is
equipped with electrical or mechanical directional signals.
   (B)    DIRECTIONAL SIGNALS means an electrical or mechanical signal device
capable of clearly indicating an intention to turn either to the right or to
the left and which shall be visible from both the front and rear.
   (C)   All mechanical signal devices shall be self-illuminating devices when
in use at the times mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially similar
municipal ordinance.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.261)
§ 74.32 REQUIREMENTS FOR EXTRA SIGNAL EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   No person shall operate any motor truck, bus, or commercial tractor
upon any highway at any time from sunset to sunrise unless there is carried in
such vehicle, except as provided in division (B) of this section, the following
equipment which shall be of the types approved by the Director of
Transportation.
      (1)   At least three flares or three red reflectors or three red electric
lanterns, each of which is capable of being seen and distinguished at a
distance of 500 feet under normal atmospheric conditions at nighttime;
      (2)   At least three red-burning fusees, unless red reflectors or red
electric lanterns are carried;
      (3)   At least two red cloth flags, not less than two inches square, with
standards to support them;
      (4)   The type of red reflectors shall comply with such standards and
specifications in effect on September 16, 1963, or later established by the
Interstate Commerce Commission and must be certified as meeting such standards
by Underwriters Laboratories.
   (B)   No person shall operate at the time and under the conditions stated in
this section any motor vehicle used in transporting flammable liquids in bulk,
or in transporting compressed flammable gases, unless there is carried in such
vehicle three red electric lanterns or three red reflectors meeting the
requirements stated in division (A) of this section. There shall not be carried
in any such vehicle any flare, fusee, or signal produced by a flame.
   (C)   This section does not apply to any person who operates any motor
vehicle in a work area designated by protection equipment devices that are
displayed and used in accordance with the manual adopted by the Department of
Transportation under R.C. § 4511.09.
(R.C. § 4513.27)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.33 DISPLAY OF WARNING DEVICES ON DISABLED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever any motor truck, bus, commercial tractor, trailer,
semitrailer, or pole trailer is disabled upon any freeway, expressway, thruway
and connecting, entering, or exiting ramps within the municipality, at any time
when lighted lamps are required on vehicles, the operator of such vehicle shall
display the following warning devices upon the highway during the time the
vehicle is so disabled on the highway except as provided in division (B) of
this section:
      (1)   A lighted fusee shall be immediately placed on the roadway at the
traffic side of such vehicle, unless red electric lanterns or red reflectors
are displayed.
      (2)   Within the burning period of the fusee and as promptly as possible,
three lighted flares or pot torches, or three red reflectors or three red
electric lanterns shall be placed on the roadway as follows:
         (a)   One at a distance of 40 paces or approximately 100 feet in
advance of the vehicle;
         (b)   One at a distance of 40 paces or approximately 100 feet to the
rear of the vehicle, except as provided in this section, each in the center of
the lane of traffic occupied by the disabled vehicle;
         (c)   One at the traffic side of the vehicle.
   (B)   Whenever any vehicle used in transporting flammable liquids in bulk,
or in transporting compressed flammable gases, is disabled upon a highway at
any time or place mentioned in division (A) of this section, the driver of such
vehicle shall display upon the roadway the following warning devices:
      (1)   One red electric lantern or one red reflector shall be immediately
placed on the roadway at the traffic side of the vehicle;
      (2)   Two other red electric lanterns or two other red reflectors shall
be placed to the front and rear of the vehicle in the same manner prescribed
for flares in division (A) of this section.
   (C)   When a vehicle of a type specified in division (B) of this section is
disabled, the use of flares, fusees, or any signal produced by flame as warning
signals is prohibited.
   (D)   Whenever any vehicle of a type referred to in this section is disabled
upon any freeway, expressway, thruway, and connecting, entering, or exiting
ramps within the municipality, at any time when the display of fusees, flares,
red reflectors, or electric lanterns is not required, the operator of such
vehicle shall display two red flags upon the roadway in the lane of traffic
occupied by the disabled vehicle, one at a distance of 40 paces or
approximately 100 feet in advance of the vehicle, and one at a distance of 40
paces or approximately 100 feet to the rear of the vehicle, except as provided
in this section.
   (E)   The flares, fusees, lanterns, red reflectors, and flags to be
displayed as required in this section shall conform with the applicable
requirements of R.C. § 4513.27 or a substantially similar municipal ordinance.
   (F)   In the event the vehicle is disabled near a curve, crest of a hill, or
other obstruction of view, the flare, flag, reflector, or lantern in that
direction shall be placed as to afford ample warning to other users of the
highway, but in no case shall it be placed less than 40 paces or approximately
100 feet nor more than 120 paces or approximately 300 feet from the disabled
vehicle.
   (G)   This section does not apply to the operator of any vehicle in a work
area designated by protection equipment devices that are displayed and used in
accordance with the manual adopted by the Department of Transportation under
R.C. § 4511.09.
   (H)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.28)
GLASS
§ 74.35 WINDSHIELDS AND WIPERS.
   (A)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle on a street or highway in this
municipality, other than a motorcycle or motorized bicycle, that is not
equipped with a windshield.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle, other than a bus, with
any sign, poster, or other nontransparent material upon the front windshield,
sidewings, side, or rear windows of such vehicle other than a certificate or
other paper required to be displayed by law, except that there may be in the
lower left-hand or right-hand corner of the windshield a sign, poster, or decal
not to exceed four inches in height by six inches in width. No sign, poster, or
decal shall be displayed in the front windshield in such a manner as to conceal
the vehicle identification number for the motor vehicle when, in accordance
with federal law, that number is located inside the vehicle passenger
compartment and so placed as to be readable through the vehicle glazing without
moving any part of the vehicle.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
driving a passenger car with an electronic device, including an antenna,
electronic tolling or other transponder, camera, directional navigation device,
or other similar electronic device located in the front windshield if either of
the following apply to the device:
         (a)   It is a "vehicle safety technology" as defined in 49 C.F.R. §
393.5 and complies with 49 C.F.R. § 393.60(e)(1)(ii).
         (b)   It does not restrict the vehicle operator's sight lines to the
road and highway signs and signals, and it does not conceal the vehicle
identification number.
      (3)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
driving a commercial car with an electronic device, including an antenna,
electronic tolling or other transponder, camera, directional navigation device,
or other similar electronic device located in the front windshield if either of
the following apply to the device:
         (a)   It is a "vehicle safety technology" as defined in 49 C.F.R. §
393.5 and complies with 49 C.F.R. § 393.60(e)(1)(ii).
         (b)   It does not restrict the vehicle operator's sight lines to the
road and highway signs and signals, and it is mounted not more than 8.5 inches
below the upper edge of the windshield.
   (C)   The windshield on every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a device
for cleaning rain, snow, or other moisture from the windshield. The device
shall be maintained in good working order and so constructed as to be
controlled or operated by the operator of the vehicle.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.24)
§ 74.36 SAFETY GLASS REQUIREMENTS; USE OF TINTED GLASS OR REFLECTORIZED
MATERIAL.
   (A)   Safety glass.
      (1)   No person shall sell any new motor vehicle nor shall any new motor
vehicle be registered, and no person shall operate any motor vehicle, which is
registered in this state and which has been manufactured or assembled on or
after January 1, 1936, unless the motor vehicle is equipped with safety glass,
wherever glass is used in the windshields, doors, partitions, rear windows, and
windows on each side immediately adjacent to the rear window.
      (2)    SAFETY GLASS means any product composed of glass so manufactured,
fabricated, or treated as substantially to prevent shattering and flying of the
glass when it is struck or broken, or such other or similar product as may be
approved by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles.
      (3)   Glass other than safety glass shall not be offered for sale, or
sold for use in, or installed in any door, window, partition, or windshield
that is required by this section to be equipped with safety glass.
(R.C. § 4513.26)
   (B)   Tinted or reflectorized material.
      (1)   No person shall operate, on any highway or other public or private
property open to the public for vehicular travel or parking, lease, or rent any
motor vehicle that is registered in this state unless the motor vehicle
conforms to the requirements concerning tinted glass and reflectorized material
of R.C. § 4513.241 and of any applicable rule adopted under that section.
      (2)   No person shall install in or on any motor vehicle, any glass or
other material that fails to conform to the requirements of R.C. § 4513.241 or
of any rule adopted under that section.
      (3)   (a)   No used motor vehicle dealer or new motor vehicle dealer, as
defined in R.C. § 4517.01, shall sell any motor vehicle that fails to conform
to the requirements of R.C. § 4513.241 or of any rule adopted under that
section.
         (b)   No manufacturer, remanufacturer, or distributor, as defined in
R.C. § 4517.01, shall provide to a motor vehicle dealer licensed under R.C.
Chapter 4517 or to any other person, a motor vehicle that fails to conform to
the requirements of R.C. § 4513.241 or of any rule adopted under that section.
      (4)   No reflectorized materials shall be permitted upon or in any front
windshield, side windows, sidewings, or rear window.
      (5)   This division (B) does not apply to the manufacturer's tinting or
glazing of motor vehicle windows or windshields that is otherwise in compliance
with or permitted by Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard #205.
      (6)   With regard to any side window behind a driver's seat or any rear
window other than any window on an emergency door, this division (B) does not
apply to any school bus used to transport a child with disabilities pursuant to
R.C. Chapter 3323, whom it is impossible or impractical to transport by regular
school bus in the course of regular route transportation provided by a school
district. As used in this subdivision, CHILD WITH DISABILITIES has the same
meaning as in R.C. § 3323.01.
      (7)   This division (B) does not apply to any school bus that is to be
sold and operated outside the municipality.
      (8)   (a)   This division (B) does not apply to a motor vehicle used by a
law enforcement agency under either of the following circumstances:
            1.   The vehicle does not have distinctive markings of a law
enforcement vehicle but is operated by or on behalf of the law enforcement
agency in an authorized investigation or other activity requiring that the
presence and identity of the vehicle occupants be undisclosed.
            2.   The vehicle primarily is used by the law enforcement canine
unit for transporting a police dog.
         (b)   As used in this division, LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY means a police
department, the office of a sheriff, the State Highway Patrol, a county
prosecuting attorney, or a federal, state, or local governmental body that
enforces criminal laws and that has employees who have a statutory power of
arrest.
(R.C. § 4513.241(C) - (J))
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(1), (3)(b) or (4) of this section is
guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (B)(3)(a) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor if the dealer or the dealer’s agent knew of the nonconformity
at the time of sale.
      (4)   (a)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, except that an organization may not be
convicted unless the act of installation was authorized by the board of
directors, trustees, partners, or by a high managerial officer acting on behalf
of the organization, and installation was performed by an employee of the
organization acting within the scope of the person’s employment.
         (b)   In addition to any other penalty imposed under this section,
whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section is liable in a civil action to
the owner of a motor vehicle on which was installed the nonconforming glass or
material for any damages incurred by that person as a result of the
installation of the nonconforming glass or material, costs of maintaining the
civil action, and attorney fees.
         (c)   In addition to any other penalty imposed under this section, if
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation
of division (B)(2) of this section and the offender is a motor vehicle repair
operator registered under R.C. Chapter 4775 or a motor vehicle dealer licensed
under R.C. Chapter 4517, whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section is
subject to a registration or license suspension, as applicable, for a period of
not more than 180 days.
(R.C. § 4513.241(K))
§ 74.37 REARVIEW MIRRORS.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle and motorcycle shall be equipped with a mirror so
located as to reflect to the operator a view of the highway to the rear of such
vehicle or motorcycle. Operators of vehicles and motorcycles shall have a clear
and unobstructed view to the front and to both sides of their vehicles and
motorcycles and shall have a clear view to the rear of their vehicles and
motorcycles by mirror.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.23)
OTHER EQUIPMENT
§ 74.40 BUMPERS ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT RATING means the manufacturer's gross vehicle weight
rating established for that vehicle.
   MANUFACTURER has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   MULTIPURPOSE PASSENGER VEHICLE means a motor vehicle with motive power,
except a motorcycle, designed to carry ten persons or less, that is constructed
either on a truck chassis or with special features for occasional off-road
operation.
   PASSENGER CAR means any motor vehicle with motive power, designed for
carrying ten persons or less, except a multipurpose passenger vehicle or
motorcycle.
   TRUCK means every motor vehicle, except trailers and semitrailers, designed
and used to carry property and having a gross vehicle weight rating of 10,000
pounds or less.
   (B)   Rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety, in accordance with
R.C. Chapter 119, shall govern the maximum bumper height or, in the absence of
bumpers and in cases where bumper height have been lowered or modified, the
maximum height to the bottom of the frame rail of any passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle or truck.
   (C)   No person shall operate upon a street or highway any passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle or truck registered in this state that does not
conform to the requirements of this section or any applicable rule adopted
pursuant to R.C. § 4513.021.
   (D)   No person shall modify any motor vehicle registered in this state in
such a manner as to cause the vehicle body or chassis to come in contact with
the ground, expose the fuel tank to damage from collision, or cause the wheels
to come in contact with the body under normal operation, and no person shall
disconnect any part of the original suspension system of the vehicle to defeat
the safe operation of that system.
   (E)   Nothing contained in this section or in the rules adopted pursuant to
R.C. § 4513.021 shall be construed to prohibit either of the following:
      (1)   The installation upon a passenger car, multipurpose passenger
vehicle or truck registered in this state of heavy duty equipment, including
shock absorbers and overload springs:
      (2)   The operation on a street or highway of a passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle, or truck registered in this state with normal
wear to the suspension system if the normal wear does not adversely affect the
control of the vehicle.
   (F)   This section and the rules adopted pursuant to R.C. § 4513.021 do not
apply to any specially designed or modified passenger car, multipurpose
passenger vehicle, or truck when operated off a street or highway in races and
similar events.
(R.C. § 4513.021)
   (G)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.021)
§ 74.41 MUFFLERS; EXCESSIVE SMOKE OR GAS.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle and motorcycle with an internal combustion
engine shall at all times be equipped with a muffler which is in good working
order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise, and no
person shall use a muffler cutout, bypass or similar device upon a motor
vehicle on a highway. Every motorcycle muffler shall be equipped with baffle
plates.
      (2)   No person shall own, operate or have in the person’s possession any
motor vehicle or motorcycle equipped with a device for producing excessive
smoke or gas, or so equipped as to permit oil or any other chemical to flow
into or upon the exhaust pipe or muffler of such vehicle, or equipped in any
way to produce or emit smoke or dangerous or annoying gases from any portion of
such vehicle, other than the ordinary gases emitted by the exhaust of an
internal combustion engine under normal operation.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.22) ('56 Code, § 3-1)
§ 74.42 SOLID TIRE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every solid tire, as defined in R.C. § 4501.01, on a vehicle shall
have rubber or other resilient material on its entire traction surface at least
one inch thick above the edge of the flange of the entire periphery.
(R.C. § 4513.25)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.43 (RESERVED).
§ 74.44 REQUIREMENTS FOR VEHICLES TRANSPORTING EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   Any person operating any vehicle transporting explosives upon a
highway shall at all times comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   The vehicle shall be marked or placarded on each side and on the
rear with the word “EXPLOSIVES” in letters not less than eight inches high, or
there shall be displayed on the rear of such vehicle a red flag not less than
24 inches square marked with the word “DANGER” in white letters six inches
high, or shall be marked or placarded in accordance with Section 177.823 of the
United States Department of Transportation regulations.
      (2)   The vehicle shall be equipped with not less than two fire
extinguishers, filled and ready for immediate use, and placed at convenient
points on such vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.29(A), (B))
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.45 WHEEL PROTECTORS REQUIRED ON HEAVY COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall drive or operate, or cause to be driven or operated,
any commercial car, trailer, or semitrailer, used for the transportation of
goods or property, the gross weight of which, with load, exceeds three tons,
upon the public highways, streets, bridges, and culverts within the
municipality, unless such vehicle is equipped with suitable metal protectors or
substantial flexible flaps on the rearmost wheels of such vehicle or
combination of vehicles to prevent, as far as practicable, the wheels from
throwing dirt, water, or other materials on the windshields of following
vehicles. Such protectors or flaps shall have a ground clearance of not more
than one-third of the distance from the center of the rearmost axle to the
center of the flaps under any conditions of loading of the vehicle, and they
shall be at least as wide as the tires they are protecting. If the vehicle is
so designed and constructed that such requirements are accomplished by means of
fenders, body construction, or other means of enclosure, then no such
protectors or flaps are required. Rear wheels not covered at the top by
fenders, bodies, or other parts of the vehicle shall be covered at the top by
protective means extending at least to the center line of the rearmost axle.
(R.C. § 5577.11)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $25.
(R.C. § 5577.99 (E))
§ 74.46 MAXIMUM WIDTH, HEIGHT, AND LENGTH.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be operated upon the public highways, streets,
bridges, and culverts within this municipality whose dimensions exceed those
specified in this section.
   (B)   No such vehicle shall have a width in excess of:
      (1)   104 inches for passenger bus type vehicles operated exclusively
within the municipality.
      (2)   102 inches, excluding such safety devices as are required by law,
for passenger bus type vehicles operated over freeways, and such other state
roads with minimum pavement widths of 22 feet, except those roads or portions
of roads over which operation of 102-inch buses is prohibited by order of the
Director of Transportation.
      (3)   132 inches for traction engines.
      (4)   102 inches for recreational vehicles, excluding safety devices and
retracted awnings and other appurtenances of six inches or less in width and
except that the Director may prohibit the operation of 102-inch recreational
vehicles on designated state highways or portions of highways.
      (5)   102 inches, including load, for all other vehicles, except that the
Director may prohibit the operation of 102-inch vehicles on such state highways
or portions of state highways as the Director designates.
   (C)   No such vehicle shall have a length in excess of:
      (1)   66 feet for passenger bus type vehicles and articulated passenger
bus type vehicles operated by a regional transit authority pursuant to R.C. §§
306.30 to 306.54.
      (2)   45 feet for all other passenger bus type vehicles.
      (3)   53 feet for any semitrailer when operated in a commercial tractor-
semitrailer combination, with or without load, except that the Director may
prohibit the operation of any such commercial tractor-semitrailer combination
on such state highways or portions of state highways as the Director
designates.
      (4)   28½ feet for any semitrailer or trailer when operated in a
commercial tractor-semitrailer-trailer or commercial tractor-semitrailer-
semitrailer combination, except that the Director may prohibit the operation of
any such commercial tractor-semitrailer-trailer or commercial tractor-
semitrailer-semitrailer combination on such state highways or portions of state
highways as the Director designates.
      (5)   (a)   97 feet for drive-away saddlemount vehicle transporter
combinations and drive-away saddlemount with fullmount vehicle transporter
combinations when operated on any interstate, United States route, or state
route, including reasonable access travel on all other roadways for a distance
not to exceed one road mile from any interstate, United States route, or state
route, not to exceed three saddlemounted vehicles, but which may include one
fullmount;
         (b)   75 feet for drive-away saddlemount vehicle transporter
combinations and drive-away saddlemount with fullmount vehicle transporter
combinations when operated on any roadway not designated as an interstate,
United States route, or state route, not to exceed three saddlemounted
vehicles, but which may include one fullmount.
      (6)   65 feet for any other combination of vehicles coupled together,
with or without load, except as provided in division (C)(3) and (4), and in
division (E) below.
      (7)   45 feet for recreational vehicles.
      (8)   50 feet for all other vehicles, except trailers and semitrailers,
with or without load.
   (D)   No such vehicle shall have a height in excess of 13½ feet, with or
without load.
   (E)   An automobile transporter or boat transporter shall be allowed a
length of 65 feet, and a stinger-steered automobile transporter or stinger-
steered boat transporter shall be allowed a length of 75 feet, except that the
load thereon may extend no more than four feet beyond the rear of such vehicles
and may extend no more than three feet beyond the front of such vehicles, and
except further that the Director may prohibit the operation of a stinger-
steered automobile transporter, stinger-steered boat transporter, or a B-train
assembly on any state highway or portion of any state highway that the Director
designates.
   (F)   (1)   The widths prescribed in division (B) of this section shall not
include side mirrors, turn signal lamps, marker lamps, handholds for cab entry
and egress, flexible fender extensions, mud flaps, splash and spray suppressant
devices, and load-induced tire bulge.
      (2)   The widths prescribed in division (B)(5) of this section shall not
include automatic covering devices, tarp and tarp hardware, and tiedown
assemblies, provided these safety devices do not extend more than three inches
from either side of the vehicle.
      (3)   The lengths prescribed in divisions (C)(2) to (C)(7) shall not
include safety devices, bumpers attached to the front or rear of such bus or
combination, non-property carrying devices or components that do not extend
more than 24 inches beyond the rear of the vehicle and are needed for loading
or unloading, B-train assembly used between the first and second semitrailer of
a commercial tractor-semitrailer-semitrailer combination, energy conservation
devices as provided in any regulations adopted by the Secretary of the United
States Department of Transportation, or any noncargo-carrying refrigerator
equipment attached to the front of trailers and semitrailers. In special cases,
vehicles that dimensions exceed those prescribed by this section may operate in
accordance with rules adopted by the Director.
   (G)   (1)   This section does not apply to fire engines, fire trucks, or
other vehicles or apparatus belonging to the municipality or to the volunteer
fire department thereof or used by such department in the discharge of its
functions. This section does not apply to vehicles and pole trailers used in
the transportation of wooden and metal poles, nor to the transportation of
pipes or well-drilling equipment, nor to farm machinery and equipment.
      (2)   The owner or operator of any vehicle, machinery, or equipment not
specifically enumerated in this section but the dimensions of which exceed the
dimensions provided by this section, when operating the same on the highways
and streets of the municipality, shall comply with the rules of the Director
governing such movement. Any person adversely affected shall have the same
right of appeal as provided in R.C. Chapter 119.
      (3)   This section does not require the municipality or any railroad or
other private corporation to provide sufficient vertical clearance to permit
the operation of such vehicle, or to make any changes in or about existing
structures now crossing streets, roads, and other public thoroughfares.
   (H)   As used in this section, RECREATIONAL VEHICLE has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 4501.01.
(R.C. § 5577.05)
   (I)   No person shall violate any rule or regulation promulgated by the
Director of Transportation in accordance with R.C. § 5577.05.
(R.C. § 5577.06)
   (J)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second or subsequent offense, such person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 5577.99(C))
§ 74.47 OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AUTOMOBILE. Any commercial tractor, passenger car, commercial car, or
truck that is required to be factory equipped with an occupant restraining
device for the operator or any passenger by regulations adopted by United
States secretary of transportation pursuant to the National Traffic and Motor
Vehicle Safety Act of 1966.
      COMMERCIAL TRACTOR PASSENGER CAR and COMMERCIAL CAR have the same
meanings as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICE. A safety belt, shoulder belt, harness, or
other safety device for restraining a person who is an operator of or passenger
in an automobile and that satisfies the minimum federal vehicle standards
established by the United States Department of Transportation.
      PASSENGER. Any person in an automobile, other than it's operator, who is
occupying a seating position for which an occupant restraining device is
provided.
      TORT ACTION. A civil action for damages for injury, death, or loss to a
person or property. It includes a product liability claim but does not include
a civil action for damages for a breach of contract or another agreement
between persons.
      VEHICLE and MOTOR VEHICLE. As used in the definitions of the terms set
forth in division (A)(2) above, VEHICLE and MOTOR VEHICLE have the same
meanings as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   (B)   Prohibited acts. No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate an automobile on any street or highway unless he/she is
wearing all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant
restraining device, or operate a school bus that has an occupant restraining
device installed for use in it's operator's seat unless he/she is wearing all
of the available elements of the device, as properly adjusted;
      (2)   Operate an automobile on any street or highway unless each
passenger in the automobile who is subject to the requirements set forth in
division (B)(3) of this section is wearing all of the available elements of a
properly adjusted occupant restraining device;
      (3)   Occupy, as a passenger, a seating position on the front seat of an
automobile being operated on any street or highway unless he is wearing all of
the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device.
      (4)   Operate a taxicab on any street or highway unless all factory-
equipped occupant restraining devices in the taxicab are maintained in usable
form.
   (C)   Exceptions. Division (B)(3) of this section does not apply to a person
who is required by §
72.64 to be secured in a child restraint device. Division (B)(1) of this
section does not apply to a person who is an employee of the United States
Postal Service or of a newspaper home delivery service, during any period in
which the person is engaged in the operation of automobile to deliver mail or
newspapers to addressees. Divisions (B)(1) and (3) of this section do not apply
to a person who has an affidavit signed by a physician licensed to practice in
this state under R.C. Ch. 4731 or a chiropractor licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Ch. 4734 that states that the person has a physical impairment
that makes use of an occupant restraining device impossible or impractical.
   (D)   Officers not permitted to stop cars to determine violation.
Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law enforcement
officer shall cause an operator of an automobile being operated on any street
or highway to stop the automobile for the sole purpose of determining whether a
violation of division (B) of this section has been or is being committed or for
the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or summons for the violation or
for causing the arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for the
violation. No law enforcement officer shall view the interior or visually any
automobile being operated on any street or highway for the sole purpose of
determining whether the violation has been or is being committed.
   (E)   Use of fines for educational program. All fines collected for
violations of division (B) of this section, or for violations of any municipal
ordinance that is substantively comparable to that division shall be forwarded
to the Treasurer of State for deposit in the seat belt education fund and
emergency medical services fund as set forth in R.C. § 4513.263(E).
   (F)   A violation of division (B)(1) through (3) shall be considered by a
trier of fact in a tort action as contributory negligence or other tortious
conduct or considered for any other relevant purpose if the failure contributed
to the harm alleged in a tort action and may diminish, pursuant to R.C. §§
2315.19 or 2315.20, a recovery of compensatory damages in a tort action.
   (G)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) shall be fined $25.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(3) shall be fined $15.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (B)(4) is guilty of a minor misdemeanor
on a first offense; on a second or subsequent offense the person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(Ord. 2000-24, passed 6-5-00)
Penalty, see § 70.99
Cross-reference:
   Child restraint systems, see §
72.44
Statutory reference:
   Evidentiary use of failure to use occupant restraining devices, see R.C. §
4513.263(F)
   Similar provisions regarding occupant restraining devices, see R.C. §
4513.263
§ 74.48 WINDOW TINTING, SUNSCREENING, NONTRANSPARENT AND REFLECTORIZED
MATERIALS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LIMOUSINE. Any vehicle of the type generally described as an extended
length, chauffeur driven luxury vehicle, or van body type, or any other vehicle
employed as a public or private livery, designed to transport seven or more
people.
      MANUFACTURER. Unless otherwise specified in the section, means any person
who engages in the manufacturing or assembling of sunscreening products or
materials or any person who fabricates, laminates or tempers a safety glazing
material, incorporating, during the manufacturing process, the capacity to
reflect or reduce the transmission of light.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as specified in §
70.01 of this code.
      SUNSCREENING MATERIALS. Products or materials, including film, glazing
and perforated tinting or light filter which, when applied to the windshield or
windows of the motor vehicle, reduce the effects of the sun with respect to the
light reflectance or transmittance.
      TRANSMITTANCE. The ratio of the amount or total light, expressed in
percentages, which is allowed to pass through the product or material,
including glazing, to the amount of total light falling on the product or
materials and the glazing.
      WINDOW. Any device designed for exterior viewing from a motor vehicle,
except the windshield or any roof-mounted viewing device.
      WINDSHIELD. The front exterior viewing device of a motor vehicle.
(O.A.C. 4501-41-02).
   (B)   No person shall operate on any street, highway or other public or
private property open to the public for vehicular travel or parking, nor lease,
or rent any motor vehicle that is required to be registered in this state with
any sunscreening materials, or other product or materials, which has the effect
of making the windshield or windows nontransparent or would alter the window's
color, increase its reflectivity, or reduce its light transmittance, except as
herein specified:
      (1)   Any manufacturer's tinting or glazing of motor vehicle windows or
windshields that is otherwise in compliance with or permitted by "Federal Motor
Vehicle Safety Standard Number 205", MANUFACTURER means any person engaged in
the manufacturing or assembling of motor vehicles or motor vehicle equipment,
including any person importing motor vehicles or motor vehicle equipment for
resale.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle with a strip of sunscreening applied along the
top of the windshield so long as such material when used in conjunction with
the windshield is transparent and is in compliance with "Federal Motor Vehicle
Safety Standard Number 205" or other applicable federal standards, and does not
exceed downward beyond the AS-1 line or five inches from the top of the
windshield, whichever is closer to the top.
      (3)   Any motor vehicle with sunscreening materials applied to the side
windows near the driver and passenger in the front seat of such vehicles and/or
the rear windows, so long as such materials, when used in conjunction with the
safety glazing materials of such windows, has a light transmittance of not less
than 50% plus or minus 3% and is not red or yellow in color.
   (C)   No person shall install in any motor vehicle any glass or other
material that fails to conform to the specifications of this section.
   (D)   No used motor vehicle dealer or new motor vehicle dealer, as defined
in R.C. § 4517.01, shall sell any motor vehicle that fails to conform with the
specifications of this section.
   (E)   No reflectorized materials shall be permitted upon or in any front
windshield, side windows, sidewings or rear window.
   (F)   No person shall operate on any street, highway or other public or
private property open to the public for vehicular travel or parking, nor lease,
or rent any motor vehicle that is required to be registered in this state that
is equipped with privacy drapes, louvers, curtains or blinds unless the drapes,
louvers, curtains or blinds are opened and secured during the vehicle
operation.
   (G)   All motor vehicles, beginning with the 2000 model year, shall be
equipped with labels identifying sunscreening material. All sunscreening
material shall indicate the manufacturer's name and the percentage level of
light transmission of the materials permanently installed between the material
and the surface to which the material is applied or affixed. Such labels shall
be legible and shall be placed in the lower left-hand corner of the vehicle
window when viewed from the outside. (O.A.C. 4501-41-03)
   (H)   The provisions of this section do not apply to:
      (1)   A motor vehicle registered in this state in the name of a person,
or the person's parent, legal guardian or spouse who has an affidavit signed by
a physician licensed to practice in this state or an affidavit signed by an
optometrist licensed to practice in this state that states that the person has
a physical condition that makes it necessary to equip such motor vehicle with
sunscreening material which would otherwise be of a light transmittance and/or
luminous reflectance in violation of this section. Such affidavit shall be in
the possession of the person so afflicted or the driver at all times while in
the motor vehicle.
      (2)   The windows to the rear of the driver in limousines if the
limousines are operated for hire.
      (3)   The windows to the rear of the driver in those vehicles designed
and used to transport corpses, which include hearses and other vehicles adapted
for such use.
      (4)   The manufacturer's tinting or glazing of motor vehicle windows or
windshields that is otherwise in compliance with or permitted by "Federal Motor
Vehicle Safety Standard Number 205".
   (I)   The penalties for a violation of this section shall be in accordance
with §
70.99 of this code.
(Ord. 2000-25, passed 6-5-00)
§ 74.49 AIR BAGS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      AIR BAG. Has the same meaning as in 49 C.F.R. 579.4, as amended.
      COUNTERFEIT AIR BAG. An air bag displaying a mark identical or similar to
the genuine mark of a motor vehicle manufacturer, without the authorization of
the motor vehicle manufacturer.
      NONFUNCTIONAL AIR BAG. Any of the following:
         (a)   A replacement air bag that has been previously deployed or
damaged;
         (b)   A replacement air bag that has an electrical fault that is
detected by the air bag diagnostic system of a vehicle after the air bag is
installed;
         (c)   A counterfeit air bag, air bag cover, or some other object that
is installed in a vehicle to deceive an owner or operator of the vehicle into
believing that a functional air bag has been installed.
   (B)   No person shall install or reinstall in any motor vehicle a
counterfeit or nonfunctional air bag or any object intended to fulfill the
function of an air bag other than an air bag that was designed in conformance
with or that is regulated by Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number 208
for the make, model, and model year of the vehicle, knowing that the object is
not in accordance with that standard.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly manufacture, import, sell, or offer for sale
any of the following:
      (1)   A counterfeit air bag;
      (2)   A nonfunctional air bag;
      (3)   Any other object that is intended to be installed in a motor
vehicle to fulfill the function of an air bag and that is not in conformance
with Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number 208 for the make, model, and
model year of the vehicle in which the object is intended to be installed.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly sell, install, or reinstall a device in a
motor vehicle that causes the diagnostic system of a vehicle to inaccurately
indicate that the vehicle is equipped with a functional air bag.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) or (D) of this section is guilty
of improper replacement of a motor vehicle air bag, a misdemeanor of the first
degree on a first offense. On each subsequent offense, or if the violation
results in serious physical harm to an individual, the person is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (C) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Each manufacture, importation, installation, reinstallation, sale,
or offer for sale in violation of this section shall constitute a separate and
distinct violation.
(R.C. § 4549.20)
LOADS
§ 74.50 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSEMBLED. In regard to motor vehicles, capable of being driven.
   AUTOMOBILE TRANSPORTER. Any vehicle combination designed and used expressly
for the transport of assembled motor vehicles.
   AXLE. One or more load-carrying wheels mounted in a single transverse
vertical plane.
   B-TRAIN ASSEMBLY. Any rigid frame extension that is attached to the rear
frame of one semitrailer and provides a fifth wheel connection point for a
second semitrailer.
   BOAT TRANSPORTER. Any vehicle combination, including a straight truck towing
a trailer typically using a ball and socket connection, designed and used
specifically for the transport of boat hulls and boats, whether the hulls or
boats are assembled or partially disassembled to facilitate transportation.
   MAXIMUM AXLE LOAD. The gross weight of vehicle and load imposed by any axle
on the road surface.
   MAXIMUM WHEEL LOAD. The proportionate gross weight of vehicle and load
imposed by any wheel on the road surface.
   SPACING BETWEEN AXLES. The distance between any two successive transverse
vertical planes.
   STINGER-STEERED AUTOMOBILE TRANSPORTER. Any automobile transporter
configured as a semitrailer combination in which the fifth wheel is located on
a drop frame located behind and below the rearmost axle of the power unit.
   STINGER-STEERED BOAT TRANSPORTER. A boat transporter configured as a
semitrailer combination in which the fifth wheel is located on a drop frame
located behind and below the rearmost axle of the power unit.
(R.C. § 5577.01)
§ 74.51 ALL LOADS SHALL BE PROPERLY SECURED.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any highway unless the vehicle
is so constructed, loaded, or covered as to prevent any of its load from
dropping, sifting, leaking, or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand
or other substances may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or
water or other substances may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or
maintaining the roadway.
   (B)   Except for a farm vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or
agricultural production materials or a rubbish vehicle in the process of
acquiring its load, no vehicle loaded with garbage, swill, cans, bottles, waste
paper, ashes, refuse, trash, rubbish, waste, wire, paper, cartons, boxes,
glass, solid waste, or any other material of an unsanitary nature that is
susceptible to blowing or bouncing from a moving vehicle shall be driven or
moved on any highway unless the load is covered with a sufficient cover to
prevent the load or any part of the load from spilling onto the highway.
(R.C. § 4513.31)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.52 TOWING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   When one vehicle is towing another vehicle, the drawbar or other
connection shall be of sufficient strength to pull all the weight towed
thereby, and the drawbar or other connection shall not exceed 15 feet from one
vehicle to the other, except the connection between any two vehicles
transporting poles, pipe, machinery, or other objects of structural nature
which cannot readily be dismembered.
      (2)   When one vehicle is towing another and the connection consists only
of a chain, rope, or cable, there shall be displayed upon such connection a
white flag or cloth not less than 12 inches square.
      (3)   In addition to such drawbar or other connection, each trailer and
each semitrailer which is not connected to a commercial tractor by means of a
fifth wheel shall be coupled with stay chains or cables to the vehicle by which
it is being drawn. These chains or cables shall be of sufficient size and
strength to prevent the towed vehicle's parting from the drawing vehicle in
case the drawbar or other connection should break or become disengaged. In case
of a loaded pole trailer, the connecting pole to the drawing vehicle shall be
coupled to the drawing vehicle with stay chains or cables of sufficient size
and strength to prevent the towed vehicle's parting from the drawing vehicle.
      (4)   Every trailer or semitrailer, except pole and cable trailers and
pole and cable dollies operated by a public utility as defined in R.C. §
5727.01, shall be equipped with a coupling device which shall be so designed
and constructed that the trailer will follow substantially in the path of the
vehicle drawing it, without whipping or swerving from side to side. Vehicles
used to transport agricultural produce or agricultural production materials
between a local place of storage and supply and the farm, when drawn or towed
on a street or highway at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less, and vehicles
designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage
and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or
highway for a distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of 25 miles per
hour or less, shall have a drawbar or other connection, including the hitch
mounted on the towing vehicle, which shall be of sufficient strength to pull
all the weight towed thereby. Only one such vehicle used to transport
agricultural produce or agricultural production materials as provided in this
section may be towed or drawn at one time except as follows:
         (a)   An agricultural tractor may tow or draw more than one such
vehicle;
         (b)   A pickup truck or straight truck designed by the manufacturer to
carry a load of not less than one-half ton and not more than two tons may tow
or draw not more than two such vehicles that are being used to transport
agricultural produce from the farm to a local place of storage. No vehicle
being so towed by such a pickup truck or straight truck shall be considered to
be a motor vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.32)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
   (C)   Exception to size and weight restrictions.
      (1)   The size and weight provisions of this chapter and R.C. Chapter
5577 do not apply to a any of the following:
         (a)   A person who is engaged in the initial towing or removal of a
wrecked or disabled motor vehicle from the site of an emergency on a public
highway where the vehicle became wrecked or disabled to the nearest site where
the vehicle can be brought into conformance with the requirements of this
chapter and R.C. Chapter 5577, to the nearest storage facility, or to the
nearest qualified repair facility;
         (b)   A person who is en route to the site of an emergency on a public
highway to remove a wrecked or disabled motor vehicle;
         (c)   A person who is returning from delivering a wrecked or disabled
motor vehicle to a site, storage facility, or repair facility as specified in
division (C)(1)(a) of this section.
      (2)   Any subsequent towing of a wrecked or disabled vehicle shall comply
with the size and weight provisions of this chapter and R.C. Chapter 5577.
      (3)   No court shall impose any penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99 or
the civil liability established in R.C. § 5577.12 upon a person who is
operating a vehicle in the manner described in division (C)(1) of this section.
(R.C. § 5577.15)
§ 74.53 EXCESS WEIGHTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall operate or move a traction engine, steam roller, or
other vehicle, load, object or structure, whether propelled by muscular or
motor power, over or upon the improved public streets, highways, bridges, or
culverts in this municipality, that weighs in excess of the weights prescribed
in this subchapter or R.C. §§ 5577.01 et seq., unless the person has been
issued a permit under R.C. § 4513.34, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance. The prohibition in this section applies regardless of whether the
weight is moved upon wheels, rollers, or otherwise. Any weight determination
shall include the weight of the vehicle, object, structure, contrivance, and
load.
(R.C. § 5577.02)
   (B)   Whoever violates the weight provisions of this section shall be fined
$80 for the first 2,000 pounds, or fraction thereof, of overload; for overloads
in excess of 2,000 pounds, but not in excess of 5,000 pounds, such person shall
be fined $100, and in addition thereto $1 per 100 pounds of overload; for
overloads in excess of 5,000 pounds but not in excess of 10,000 pounds, such
person shall be fined $130, and in addition thereto $2 per 100 pounds of
overload, or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both. For all overloads in
excess of 10,000 pounds, such person shall be fined $160, and in addition
thereto $3 per 100 pounds of overload, or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or
both. Whoever violates the weight provisions of vehicle and load relating to
gross load limits shall be fined not less than $100. No penalty prescribed in
this division (B)(2) shall be imposed on any vehicle combination if the
overload on any one axle does not exceed 1,000 pounds, and if the immediately
preceding or following axle, excepting the front axle of the vehicle
combination, is underloaded by the same or greater amount. For purposes of this
division (B)(2), two axles on one vehicle less than eight feet apart shall be
considered as one axle.
(R.C. § 5577.99 (A))
§ 74.54 PERMIT REQUIRED TO EXCEED LOAD LIMITS.
   (A)   (1)   The municipality, with respect to highways under their
jurisdiction, upon application in writing, shall issue a special regional heavy
hauling permit authorizing the applicant to operate or move a vehicle or
combination of vehicles as follows:
         (a)   At a size or weight of vehicle or load exceeding the maximum
specified in R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or otherwise not in conformity with
R.C. §§ 4513.01 to 4513.37.
         (b)   Upon any highway under the jurisdiction of municipality except
those highways with a condition insufficient to bear the weight of the vehicle
or combination of vehicles as stated in the application.
         (c)   Issuance of a special regional heavy hauling permit is subject
to the payment of a fee established by the municipality in accordance with this
section.
      (2)   In circumstances where a person is not eligible to receive a permit
under division (A)(1) of this section, the municipality, with respect to
highways under its jurisdiction, upon application in writing and for good cause
shown, may issue a special permit in writing authorizing the applicant to
operate or move a vehicle or combination of vehicles of a size or weight of
vehicle or load exceeding the maximum specified in R.C. §§ 5577.01 through
5577.09, or otherwise not in conformity with R.C. §§ 4513.01 through 4513.37,
upon any highway under its jurisdiction.
   (B)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 715.22 and 723.01, the holder of a permit
issued by the Director of Transportation under R.C. § 4513.34 may move the
vehicle or combination of vehicles described in the permit on any highway that
is a part of the state highway system when the movement is partly within and
partly without the corporate limits of the municipality. No local authority
shall require any other permit or license or charge any license fee or other
charge against the holder of a permit for the movement of a vehicle or
combination of vehicles on any highway which is a part of the state highway
system. The Ohio Director of Transportation shall not require the holder of a
permit issued by the municipality to obtain a special permit for the movement
of vehicles or combination of vehicles on highways within the jurisdiction of
the municipality. Permits may be issued for any period of time not to exceed
one year, as the local authority in its discretion determines advisable or for
the duration of any public construction project.
   (C)   (1)   The application for a permit issued under this section shall be
in the form that the municipality prescribes. The municipality may prescribe a
permit fee to be imposed and collected when any permit described in this
section is issued. The permit fee may be in an amount sufficient to reimburse
the municipality for the administrative costs incurred in issuing the permit,
and also to cover the cost of normal and expected damage caused to the roadway
or a street or highway structure as the result of the operation of the
nonconforming vehicle or combination of vehicles.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section and of rules adopted by the
Director under R.C. § 4513.34, milk transported in bulk by vehicle is deemed a
nondivisible load.
      (3)   For purposes of this section and of rules adopted by the Director
under R.C. § 4513.34, three or fewer aluminum coils, transported by a vehicle,
are deemed a nondivisible load. The Director shall adopt rules establishing
requirements for an aluminum coil permit that are substantially similar to the
requirements for a steel coil permit under O.A.C. Chapter 5501:2-1.
   (D)   The municipality shall issue a special regional heavy hauling permit
under division (A)(1) of this section upon application and payment of the
applicable fee. However, the municipality may issue or withhold a special
permit specified in division (A)(2) of this section. If a permit is to be
issued, the municipality may limit or prescribe conditions of operation for the
vehicle and may require the posting of a bond or other security conditioned
upon the sufficiency of the permit fee to compensate for damage caused to the
roadway or a street or highway structure. In addition, the municipality, as a
condition of issuance of an overweight permit, may require the applicant to
develop and enter into a mutual agreement with the municipality to compensate
for or to repair excess damage caused to the roadway by travel under the
permit.
   (E)   Every permit issued under this section shall be carried in the vehicle
or combination of vehicles to which it refers and shall be open to inspection
by any police officer or authorized agent of any authority granting the permit.
No person shall violate any of the terms of a permit.
   (F)   The Director of Transportation may debar an applicant from applying
for a special permit under this section upon a finding based on a reasonable
belief that the applicant has done any of the actions specified in R.C. §
4513.34(F).
   (G)   Notice and procedures for debarment shall be as provided in R.C. §
4513.34(G).
   (H)   (1)   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to gross load limits.
      (2)   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to axle load by more than 2,000 pounds per axle or group of
axles.
      (3)   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to an approved route except upon order of a law enforcement
officer or authorized agent of the issuing authority.
   (I)   A permit issued by the municipality under this section for the
operation of a vehicle or combination of vehicles is valid for the purposes of
the vehicle operation in accordance with the conditions and limitations
specified on the permit. Such a permit is voidable by law enforcement only for
operation of a vehicle or combination of vehicles in violation of the weight,
dimension, or route provisions of the permit. However, a permit is not voidable
for operation in violation of a route provision of a permit if the operation is
upon the order of a law enforcement officer.
(R.C. § 4513.34)
   (J)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.55 WEIGHT OF LOAD; WIDTH OF TIRE.
   (A)   Weight of load; width of tire. No person, firm or corporation shall
transport over the improved public streets, alleys, intercounty highways, state
highways, bridges or culverts in this municipality, in any vehicle propelled by
muscular, motor or other power, any burden, including weight of vehicle and
load, greater than the following:
      (1)   (a)   In vehicles having metal tires three inches or less in width,
a load of 500 pounds for each inch of the total width of the tire on all
wheels;
         (b)   When the tires on such vehicles exceed three inches in width, an
additional load of 800 pounds shall be permitted for each inch by which the
total width of the tires on all wheels exceeds 12 inches.
      (2)   In vehicles having tires of rubber or other similar substance, for
each inch of the total width of tires on all wheels, as follows:
            Tire Width               Load Limit
            (in inches)               (in pounds)
            3                     450
            3½                     450
            4                     500
            5                     600
            6 and over                  650
      (3)   The total width of tires on all wheels shall be, in the case of
solid tires of rubber or other similar substance, the actual width in inches of
all such tires between the flanges at the base of the tires, but in no event
shall that portion of tire coming in contact with the road surface be less than
two-thirds the width so measured between the flanges.
      (4)   In the case of pneumatic tires, of rubber or other similar
substance, the total width of tires on all wheels shall be the actual width of
all such tires, measured at the widest portion thereof when inflated and not
bearing a load.
      (5)   In no event shall the load, including the proportionate weight of
vehicle that can be concentrated on any wheel, exceed 650 pounds to each inch
in width of the tread as defined in this division (A) for solid tires, for each
inch in the actual diameter of pneumatic tires measured when inflated and not
bearing a load.
(R.C. § 5577.03)
   (B)   Whoever violates the weight provisions of this section shall be fined
$80 for the first 2,000 pounds, or fraction thereof, of overload; for overloads
in excess of 2,000 pounds, but not in excess of 5,000 pounds, such person shall
be fined $100, and in addition thereto $1 per 100 pounds of overload; for
overloads in excess of 5,000 pounds but not in excess of 10,000 pounds, such
person shall be fined $130, and in addition thereto $2 per 100 pounds of
overload, or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both. For all overloads in
excess of 10,000 pounds, such person shall be fined $160, and in addition
thereto $3 per 100 pounds of overload, or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or
both. Whoever violates the weight provisions of vehicle and load relating to
gross load limits shall be fined not less than $100. No penalty prescribed in
this division (B)(2) shall be imposed on any vehicle combination if the
overload on any one axle does not exceed 1,000 pounds, and if the immediately
preceding or following axle, excepting the front axle of the vehicle
combination, is underloaded by the same or greater amount. For purposes of this
division (B)(2), two axles on one vehicle less than eight feet apart shall be
considered as one axle.
(R.C. § 5577.99(A))
   (C)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $25 for a
first offense; for a second offense within one year thereafter, such person
shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $100, or imprisoned not more
than ten days, or both; for a third or subsequent offense within one year after
the first offense, such person shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than
$200 or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
(R.C. § 5577.99(C))
§ 74.56 RESTRICTIONS FOR PNEUMATIC-TIRED VEHICLES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   VEHICLE. Any single vehicle when not in combination, or any combination of
vehicles, as defined in R.C. § 4501.01.
(R.C. § 5577.01)
   (B)   Vehicles with pneumatic tires, load limits.  
      (1)   The maximum wheel load of any one wheel of any vehicle, load,
object or structure operated or moved upon improved public highways, streets,
bridges or culverts shall not exceed 650 pounds per inch width of pneumatic
tire, measured as prescribed by division (A) of this section.
      (2)   The weight of the vehicle and load imposed upon a road surface that
is part of the interstate system by vehicles with pneumatic tires shall not
exceed any of the following weight limitations:
         (a)   On any one axle, 20,000 pounds;
         (b)   On any tandem axle, 34,000 pounds;
         (c)   On any two or more consecutive axles, the maximum weight as
determined by application of the formula provided in division (B)(3) of this
section.
      (3)   (a)   For purposes of division (B)(2)(c) of this section, the
maximum gross weight on any two or more consecutive axles shall be determined
by application of the following formula:
            W = 500[(LN/N-1) + 12N + 36]
         (b)   In this formula, W equals the overall gross weight on any group
of two or more consecutive axles to the nearest 500 pounds, 1 equals the
distance in rounded whole feet between the extreme of any group of two or more
consecutive axles, and N equals the number of axles in the group under
consideration. However, two consecutive sets of tandem axles may carry a gross
load of 34,000 pounds each, provided the overall distance between the first and
last axles of such consecutive sets of tandem axles is 36 feet or more.
      (4)   Except as provided in division (B)(9) of this section, the weight
of vehicle and load imposed upon a road surface that is not part of the
interstate system by vehicles with pneumatic tires shall not exceed any of the
following weight limitations:
         (a)   On any one axle, 20,000 pounds.
         (b)   On any two successive axles:
            1.   Spaced four feet or less apart, and weighed simultaneously,
24,000 pounds;
            2.   Spaced more than four feet apart, and weighed simultaneously,
34,000 pounds, plus 1,000 pounds per foot or fraction thereof, over four feet,
not to exceed 40,000 pounds.
         (c)   On any three successive load-bearing axles designed to equalize
the load between such axles and spaced so that each such axle of the three-axle
group is more than four feet from the next axle in the three-axle group and so
that the spacing between the first axle and the third axle in the three-axle
group is no more than nine feet, and with such load-bearing three-axle group
weighed simultaneously as a unit:
            1.   48,000 pounds, with the total weight of the vehicle and load
not exceeding 38,000 pounds plus an additional 900 pounds for each foot of
spacing between the front axle and the rearmost axle of the vehicle;
            2.   As an alternative to division (B)(4)(c)1. of this section,
42,500 pounds, if part of a six-axle vehicle combination with at least 20 feet
of spacing between the front axle and rearmost axle, with the total weight of
the vehicle and load not exceeding 54,000 pounds plus an additional 600 pounds
per each foot of spacing between the front axle and the rearmost axle of the
vehicle.
         (d)   The total weight of the vehicle and load utilizing any
combination of axles, other than as provided for three-axle groups in division
(B)(4) of this section, shall not exceed 38,000 pounds plus an additional 900
pounds for each foot of spacing between the front axle and the rearmost axle of
the vehicle.
      (5)   Notwithstanding divisions (B)(2) and (B)(4) of this section, the
maximum overall gross weight of a vehicle and load imposed upon the road
surface shall not exceed 80,000 pounds.
      (6)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, when a vehicle is
towing another vehicle, such drawbar or other connection shall be of a length
such as will limit the spacing between nearest axles of the respective vehicles
to a distance not in excess of 12½ feet.
      (7)   As used in division (B)(2) of this section, TANDEM AXLE means two
or more consecutive axles whose centers may be included between parallel
transverse vertical planes spaced more than 40 inches but not more than 96
inches apart, extending across the full width of the vehicle.
      (8)   This division (B) does not apply to passenger bus type vehicles
operated by a regional transit authority pursuant to R.C. §§ 306.30 through
306.54.
      (9)   Either division (B)(2) or (B)(4) of this section applies to the
weight of a vehicle and its load imposed upon any road surface that is not a
part of the interstate system by vehicles with pneumatic tires. As between
divisions (B)(2) and (B)(4) of this section, only the division that yields the
highest total gross vehicle weight limit shall be applied to any such vehicle.
Once that division has been determined, only the limits contained in the
subdivisions of that division shall apply to that vehicle.
(R.C. § 5577.04)
   (C)   Axle and wheel load, gross weights and towing connection length for
solid rubber tires.
      (1)   No vehicle, load, object or structure having a maximum axle load
greater than 16,000 pounds when such vehicle is equipped with solid rubber
tires shall be operated or moved upon the improved public highways, streets,
bridges or culverts. The maximum wheel load of any one wheel of such vehicle
shall not exceed 650 pounds per inch width of tire, measured as prescribed by
division (A) of this section, nor shall any solid tire or rubber or other
resilient material, on any wheel of any such vehicle, be less than one inch
thick when measure from the top of the flanges of the tire channel.
      (2)   The weight of vehicle and load imposed upon the road surface by any
two successive axles, spaces four feet or less apart, shall not exceed 19,000
pounds for solid tires; or by any two successive axles spaced more than four
feet but less than eight feet apart, shall not exceed 24,000 pounds for solid
tires; or by any two successive axles, spaced eight feet or more apart, shall
not exceed 28,000 pounds for solid tires; nor shall the total weight of vehicle
and load exceed, for solid rubber tires, 28,000 pounds plus an additional 600
pounds for each foot or fraction thereof of spacing between the front axle and
the rear-most axle of the vehicle; nor shall the weight of the vehicle and load
imposed upon the road surface by any vehicle equipped with solid rubber tires
exceed 80% of the permissible weight of vehicle and load as provided for
pneumatic tires.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, when a vehicle is
towing another vehicle, such drawbar or other connection shall be of a length
such as will limit the spacing between the nearest axles of the respective
vehicles to a distance not in excess of 12½ feet. If the provisions of this
division (C) are held to exceed the weight limitations or other provisions set
forth in the “Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1958,” 72 Stat. 902, 23 U.S.C. 127,
this division (C) shall become null and void to the extent of such
inconsistency.
(R.C. § 5577.041)
   (D)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $25 for
a first offense; for a second offense within one year thereafter, such person
shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $100, or imprisoned not more
than ten days, or both; for a third or subsequent offense within one year after
the first offense, such person shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than
$200 or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
(R.C. § 5577.99(C))
      (2)   Whoever violates the weight provisions of this section shall be
punished as set forth in §
74.55(B).
   (E)   Modification of load limits. The load limits established in this
section may be modified or waived upon special permission granted as provided
in R.C. § 4513.34 or a substantially similar municipal ordinance.
§ 74.57 LIMITATION OF LOAD EXTENSION ON LEFT SIDE OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   No passenger type vehicle shall be operated on a highway with any load
carried on the vehicle which extends more than six inches beyond the line of
the fenders on the vehicle's left side.
(R.C. § 4513.30)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.58 TRUCKS PROHIBITED ON RESIDENTIAL STREETS; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, RESIDENTIAL STREET means all streets
except those specifically designated as main thoroughfares and arterial
highways in Ch. 79, Schedule I.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a vehicle licensed in
this state or any other state as a truck or a noncommercial vehicle on a
residential street within the village except when the vehicle is making a
delivery or picking up property on that street.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park, or allow to be parked,
any vehicle licensed in this state or any other state licensed as a truck or
noncommercial vehicle on a residential street within the village for a period
of time longer than two hours.
Penalty, see § 70.99
CHAPTER 75: BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
Section
   
75.01   Bicycles
   
75.02   Operation of motorized bicycle
   
75.03   Rules for bicycles, motorcycles, and snowmobiles
   
75.04   Prohibition against attaching bicycles and sleds to vehicles
   
75.05   Bicycles on roadway; riding abreast
   
75.06   Signal devices on bicycle
   
75.07   Riding bicycles on sidewalks
   
75.08   Bicycle, scooter, roller skate, roller blade and skateboard safety
equipment required
   
75.09   Electric bicycles
§ 75.01 BICYCLES.
   (A)   The provisions of this title that are applicable to bicycles and
electric bicycles apply whenever a bicycle or electric bicycle is operated upon
any highway or upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (D) of this section, a bicycle operator
or electric bicycle operator who violates any provisions of this title
described in division (A) of this section that is applicable to bicycles or
electric bicycles may be issued a ticket, citation, or summons by a law
enforcement officer for the violation in the same manner as the operator of a
motor vehicle would be cited for the same violation. A person who commits any
such violation while operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall not have any
points assessed against the person’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, or probationary license under R.C. §
4510.036.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (D) of this section, in the case of a
violation of any provision of this title described in division (A) of this
section by a bicycle operator, electric bicycle operator, or motor vehicle
operator when the trier of fact finds that the violation by the motor vehicle
operator endangered the lives of bicycle riders or electric bicycle riders at
the time of the violation, the court, notwithstanding any provision of the Ohio
Revised Code to the contrary, may require the bicycle operator, electric
bicycle operator, or motor vehicle operator to take and successfully complete a
bicycling skills course approved by the court in addition to or in lieu of any
penalty otherwise prescribed by this Traffic Code or the Ohio Revised Code for
that violation.
   (D)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to violations of
R.C. § 4511.19, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 4511.52)
§ 75.02 OPERATION OF MOTORIZED BICYCLE.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motorized bicycle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking, unless all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The person is 14 or 15 years of age and holds a valid probationary
motorized bicycle license issued after the person has passed the test provided
for in this section, or the person is 16 years of age or older and holds either
a valid commercial driver's license issued under R.C. Chapter 4506 or a
driver's license issued under R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid motorized bicycle
license issued after the person has passed the test provided for in this
section, except that if a person is 16 years of age, has a valid probationary
motorized bicycle license and desires a motorized bicycle license, the person
is not required to comply with the testing requirements provided for in this
section.
      (2)   The motorized bicycle is equipped in accordance with the rules
adopted under division (B) of this section and is in proper working order.
      (3)   The person, if under 18 years of age, is wearing a protective
helmet on the person’s head with the chin strap properly fastened and the
motorized bicycle is equipped with a rearview mirror.
      (4)   The person operates the motorized bicycle when practicable within
three feet of the right edge of the roadway obeying all traffic rules
applicable to vehicles.
   (B)   The Director of Public Safety, subject to R.C. Chapter 119, shall
adopt and promulgate rules concerning protective helmets, the equipment of
motorized bicycles, and the testing and qualifications of persons who do not
hold a valid driver's or commercial driver's license. The test shall be as near
as practicable to the examination required for a motorcycle operator's
endorsement under R.C. § 4507.11. The test shall also require the operator to
give an actual demonstration of the operator’s ability to operate and control a
motorized bicycle by driving one under the supervision of an examining officer.
   (C)   Every motorized bicycle license expires on the birthday of the
applicant in the fourth or eighth year after the date it is issued, based on
the period of renewal requested by the applicant. No motorized bicycle license
shall be issued for a period longer than eight years. A person who is 65 years
of age or older may only apply for a motorized bicycle license that expires on
the birthday of the applicant in the fourth year after the date it is issued.
   (D)   No person operating a motorized bicycle shall carry another person
upon the motorized bicycle.
   (E)   The protective helmet and rearview mirror required by division (A)(3)
of this section shall, on and after January 1, 1985, conform with rules adopted
by the Director under division (B) of this section.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (A), (D), or (E) of this section is guilty
of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.521)
§ 75.03 RULES FOR BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES, AND SNOWMOBILES.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, SNOWMOBILE has the same meaning as given
that term in R.C. § 4519.01.
   (B)   (1)   No person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall ride
other than upon or astride the permanent and regular seat attached thereto or
carry any other person upon such bicycle or electric bicycle other than upon a
firmly attached and regular seat thereon, and no person shall ride upon a
bicycle or electric bicycle other than upon such a firmly attached and regular
seat.
      (2)   No person operating a motorcycle shall ride other than upon or
astride the permanent and regular seat or saddle attached thereto, or carry any
other person upon such motorcycle other than upon a firmly attached and regular
seat or saddle thereon, and no person shall ride upon a motorcycle other than
upon such a firmly attached and regular seat or saddle.
      (3)   No person shall ride upon a motorcycle that is equipped with a
saddle other than while sitting astride the saddle, facing forward, with one
leg on each side of the motorcycle.
      (4)   No person shall ride upon a motorcycle that is equipped with a seat
other than while sitting upon the seat.
      (5)   No person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall carry any
package, bundle, or article that prevents the driver from keeping at least one
hand upon the handlebars.
      (6)   No bicycle, electric bicycle, or motorcycle shall be used to carry
more persons at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
No motorcycle shall be operated on a highway when the handlebars rise higher
than the shoulders of the operator when the operator is seated in the
operator’s seat or saddle.
   (C)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(3) of this section, no person
shall operate or be a passenger on a snowmobile or motorcycle without using
safety glasses or other protective eye device. Except as provided in division
(C)(3) of this section, no person who is under the age of 18 years, or who
holds a motorcycle operator’s endorsement or license bearing a “novice”
designation that is currently in effect as provided in R.C. § 4507.13, shall
operate a motorcycle on a highway, or be a passenger on a motorcycle, unless
wearing a protective helmet on the person’s head, and no other person shall be
a passenger on a motorcycle operated by such a person unless similarly wearing
a protective helmet. The helmet, safety glasses, or other protective eye device
shall conform with rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety. The
provisions of this paragraph or a violation thereof shall not be used in the
trial of any civil action.
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (C)(3) of this section, no
person shall operate a motorcycle with a valid temporary instruction permit and
temporary instruction permit identification card issued by the Registrar of
Motor Vehicles pursuant to R.C. § 4507.05 unless the person, at the time of
such operation, is wearing on the person’s head a protective helmet that
conforms with rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety.
         (b)   No person shall operate a motorcycle with a valid temporary
instruction permit and temporary instruction permit identification card issued
by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles pursuant to R.C. § 4507.05 in any of the
following circumstances:
            1.   At any time when lighted lights are required by R.C. § 4513.03
(A)(1);
            2.   While carrying a passenger;
            3.   On any limited access highway.
      (3)   Divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2)(a) of this section do not apply to a
person who operates or is a passenger in an autocycle or cab-enclosed
motorcycle when the occupant compartment top is in place enclosing the
occupants.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting the carrying
of a child in a seat or trailer that is designed for carrying children and is
firmly attached to the bicycle or electric bicycle.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (B) or (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates division (B) or (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates division (B) or (C)(1) or
(C)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.53)
§ 75.04 PROHIBITION AGAINST ATTACHING BICYCLES AND SLEDS TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person riding upon any bicycle, electric bicycle, coaster,
roller skates, sled, skateboard, or toy vehicle shall attach the same or self
to any vehicle upon a roadway.
      (2)   No operator shall knowingly permit any person riding upon any
bicycle, electric bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, skateboard, or toy
vehicle to attach the same or self to any vehicle while it is moving upon a
roadway.
      (3)   This section does not apply to towing a disabled vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.54) ('56 Code, § 8-7-D)
§ 75.05 BICYCLES ON ROADWAY; RIDING ABREAST.
   (A)   Every person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle upon a roadway
shall ride as near to the right side of the roadway as practicable obeying all
traffic rules applicable to vehicles and exercising due care when passing a
standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (B)   Persons riding bicycles, electric bicycles, or motorcycles upon a
roadway shall ride not more than two abreast in a single lane, except on paths
or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, electric
bicycles, or motorcycles.
   (C)   This section does not require a person operating a bicycle or electric
bicycle to ride at the edge of the roadway when it is unreasonable or unsafe to
do so. Conditions that may require riding away from the edge of the roadway
include when necessary to avoid fixed or moving objects, parked or moving
vehicles, surface hazards, or if it otherwise is unsafe or impracticable to do
so, including if the lane is too narrow for the bicycle or electric bicycle and
an overtaking vehicle to travel safely side by side within the lane.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.55)
§ 75.06 SIGNAL DEVICES ON BICYCLE.
   (A)   Every bicycle or electric bicycle when in use at the times specified
in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance shall be
equipped with the following:
      (1)   A lamp mounted on the front of either the bicycle or electric
bicycle or the operator that shall emit a white light visible from a distance
of at least 500 feet to the front and 300 feet to the sides. A generator-
powered lamp that emits light only when the bicycle or electric bicycle is
moving may be used to meet this requirement.
      (2)   A red reflector on the rear that shall be visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet to the rear when directly in front of
lawful lower beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle;
      (3)   A lamp emitting either flashing or steady red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear shall be used in addition to the red
reflector. If the red lamp performs as a reflector in that it is visible as
specified in division (A)(2) of this section, the red lamp may serve as the
reflector and a separate reflector is not required.
   (B)   Additional lamps and reflectors may be used in addition to those
required under division (A) of this section, except that red lamps and red
reflectors shall not be used on the front of the bicycle or electric bicycle
and white lamps and white reflectors shall not be used on the rear of the
bicycle or electric bicycle.
   (C)   A bicycle or electric bicycle may be equipped with a device capable of
giving an audible signal, except that a bicycle or electric bicycle shall not
be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a bicycle or electric bicycle
any siren or whistle.
   (D)   Every bicycle and electric bicycle shall be equipped with an adequate
brake when used on a street or highway.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty
of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the offense, the
offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle
or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor
of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.56)
§ 75.07 RIDING BICYCLES ON SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except children under ten years of age,
to ride or drive any bicycle, tricycle, velocipede, or any other similar
vehicle along any footwalk in any street, avenue, or other highway in the
village.
('56 Code, § 7-9)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 75.08 BICYCLE, SCOOTER, ROLLER SKATE, ROLLER BLADE AND SKATEBOARD SAFETY
EQUIPMENT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any parent, or any person in loco parentis,
after being served with a written warning by a police officer, to allow a minor
child to operate a bicycle, scooter, roller skate, roller blade, skateboard or
any other wheeled vehicle propelled by human power, within the village unless
such person is wearing a protective helmet on his or her head, with the chin
strap fastened under the chin. Such helmet shall be appropriately fitted to the
size of the operator, and shall meet or exceed the standards set by ANSI
(American National Standards Institute)or SNELL (Snell Memorial Foundation).
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any parent or person in loco parentis after
being served with a written warning by a police officer, to allow a minor child
to be a passenger on a bicycle, scooter or any other wheeled vehicle propelled
by human power, within the village unless such person is wearing a protective
helmet on his or her head, with the chin strap fastened under the chin. Such
helmet shall be appropriately fitted to the size of the operator, and shall
meet or exceed the standards set by ANSI (American National Standards
Institute) or SNELL (Snell Memorial Foundation). This requirement shall also
apply to a person who rides upon a bicycle while in a restraining seat, which
is attached to the bicycle, or in a trailer towed by the bicycle.
   (C)   This section shall not be applicable to the operation of a bicycle,
scooter, roller blading or using a skateboard on private residential property.
   (D)   Penalties.
      (1)   First offense: A written warning will be served upon the violator
and the parent or person in loco parentis, with applicable information attached
advising of the dangers of failure to wear a protective helmet. The warning
will be signed by the parent or person in loco parentis of the minor, and a
copy filed at the police department.
      (2)   Second offense: A citation will be issued to the parent, legal
guardian or custodian of the violator, with a fine not to exceed $50. The case
may be dismissed upon the parent or person in loco parentis and the violator
viewing a NHTSA (National Highway Traffic Safety Administration) approved
safety video on protective helmet use and proof of obtaining an approved
helmet.
      (3)   Third offense: Fine not to exceed $100.
      (4)   Fourth and subsequent offenses: Up to $250 fine (fourth degree
misdemeanor).
(Ord. 2000-51, passed 12-4-00)
§ 75.09 ELECTRIC BICYCLES.
   (A)   (1)   On and after January 1, 2020, manufacturers and distributors of
electric bicycles shall permanently affix a label, in a prominent location, to
each electric bicycle. The label shall specify whether the electric bicycle is
a class 1, class 2, or class 3 electric bicycle, the top assisted speed that
the electric bicycle is capable of reaching, and the motor wattage of the
electric bicycle.
      (2)   No person shall modify an electric bicycle in a manner that changes
the top assisted speed that the electric bicycle is capable of reaching unless
the person also modifies the label required under division (A)(1) of this
section to reflect the modification.
   (B)   (1)   The manufacturer of an electric bicycle shall ensure that the
electric bicycle complies with the equipment and manufacturing requirements for
bicycles established by the consumer product safety commission under 16 C.F.R.
§§ 1512 et seq.
      (2)   The manufacturer shall manufacture all class 1 electric bicycles
and class 3 electric bicycles so that when the rider ceases pedaling the
electric motor ceases to provide assistance. The manufacturer shall manufacture
all class 2 electric bicycles so that when the rider applies the brakes or
releases or activates a switch or similar mechanism the electric motor ceases
to provide assistance.
      (3)   All class 3 electric bicycles shall be equipped with a speedometer
that displays the speed of the electric bicycle in miles per hour.
   (C)   (1)   The operation of a class 1 electric bicycle and a class 2
electric bicycle is permitted on a path set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles or on a shared-use path, unless the county, township, municipal
corporation, other local authority, or state agency as defined in R.C. § 1.60
with control over the path by resolution, ordinance, or rule prohibits the use
of a class 1 electric bicycle or class 2 electric bicycle on such a path.
      (2)   No person shall operate a class 3 electric bicycle on a path set
aside for the exclusive use of bicycles or a shared-use path unless that path
is within or adjacent to a highway or the county, township, municipal
corporation, or local authority, or state agency as defined in R.C. § 1.60 with
control over the path by resolution, ordinance, or rule authorizes the use of a
class 3 electric bicycle on such a path.
      (3)   No person shall operate a class 1 electric bicycle, a class 2
electric bicycle, or a class 3 electric bicycle on a path that is intended to
be used primarily for mountain biking, hiking, equestrian use, or other similar
uses, or any other single track or natural surface trail that has historically
been reserved for non-motorized use, unless the county, township, municipal
corporation, other local authority, or state agency as defined in R.C. § 1.60
with control over the path by resolution, ordinance, or rule authorizes the use
of a class 1 electric bicycle, a class 2 electric bicycle, or a class 3
electric bicycle on such a path.
      (4)   Divisions (C)(2) and (C)(3) of this section do not apply to a law
enforcement officer, or other person sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic
laws of the state, using an electric bicycle while in the performance of the
officer's duties.
   (D)   (1)   No person under 16 years of age shall operate a class 3 electric
bicycle; however, a person under 16 years of age may ride as a passenger on a
class 3 electric bicycle that is designed to accommodate passengers.
      (2)   No person shall operate or be a passenger on a class 3 electric
bicycle unless the person is wearing a protective helmet that meets the
standards established by the Consumer Product Safety Commission or the American
Society for Testing and Materials.
   (E)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever operates
an electric bicycle in a manner that is prohibited under division (C) of this
section and whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   The offenses established under division (E)(1) of this section are
strict liability offenses and strict liability is a culpable mental state for
purposes of R.C. § 2901.20. The designation of these offenses as strict
liability offenses shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
(R.C. § 4511.522)
CHAPTER 76: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
76.01   Prohibition against parking on highways
   
76.02   Condition when motor vehicle left unattended
   
76.03   Police may remove illegally parked vehicle
   
76.04   Parking prohibitions
   
76.05   Parking near curb; privileges for persons with disabilities
   
76.06   Washing or repairing vehicles
   
76.07   Truck/trailer/semi-trailer parking prohibitions
   
76.08   Portable storage units (PSUs) and dumpster parking prohibitions
   
76.09   Seventy-two hour parking limitation
   
76.10   Permits required for temporary parking of moving vans, trailers, semi-
trailers, dumpsters, and portable storage units (PSUs)
§ 76.01 PROHIBITION AGAINST PARKING ON HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   (1)   Upon any highway, no person shall stop, park, or leave standing
any vehicle, whether attended or unattended, upon the paved or main traveled
part of the highway if it is practicable to stop, park, or so leave such
vehicle off the paved or main traveled part of the highway. In every event a
clear and unobstructed portion of the highway opposite such standing vehicle
shall be left for the free passage of other vehicles, and a clear view of such
stopped vehicle shall be available from a distance of 200 feet in each
direction upon such highway.
      (2)   This section does not apply to the driver of any vehicle which is
disabled while on the paved or improved or main traveled portion of a highway
in such manner and to such extent that it is impossible to avoid stopping and
temporarily leaving the disabled vehicle in such position.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.66)
§ 76.02 CONDITION WHEN MOTOR VEHICLE LEFT UNATTENDED.
   (A)   (1)   No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit
it to stand unattended without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition,
removing the key from the ignition, effectively setting the parking brake, and,
when the motor vehicle is standing upon any grade, turning the front wheels to
the curb or side of the highway.
      (2)   The requirements of this section relating to the stopping of the
engine, locking of the ignition, and removing the key from the ignition of a
motor vehicle do not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   A motor vehicle that is parked on residential property;
         (b)   A motor vehicle that is locked, regardless of where it is
parked;
         (c)   An emergency vehicle ;
         (d)   A public safety vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.661)
§ 76.03 POLICE MAY REMOVE ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLE.
   (A)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a highway in
violation of R.C. § 4511.66 or a substantially similar municipal ordinance,
such officer may move such vehicle, or require the driver or other person in
charge of the vehicle to move the same, to a position off the paved or improved
or main traveled part of such highway.
   (B)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any
highway, bridge, or causeway, or in any tunnel, where such vehicles constitutes
an obstruction to traffic, such officer may provide for the removal of such
vehicle to the nearest garage or other place of safety.
(R.C. § 4511.67)
§ 76.04 PARKING PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or to comply with the provisions of this
title, or while obeying the directions of a police officer or a traffic-control
device, in any of the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk, except as provided in division (B) of this section;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within ten feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (7)   Within 30 feet of, and upon the approach to, any flashing beacon,
stop sign, or traffic- control device;
      (8)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by a traffic-control device;
      (9)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (10)   Within 20 feet of a driveway entrance to any fire station and, on
the side of the street opposite the entrance to any fire station, within 75
feet of the entrance when it is properly posted with signs;
      (11)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
such standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (12)   Alongside any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street;
      (13)   Upon any bridge or elevated structure upon a highway, or within a
highway tunnel;
      (14)   At any place where signs prohibit stopping or parking;
      (15)   Within one foot of another parked vehicle;
      (16)   On the roadway portion of a freeway, expressway, or thruway.
   (B)   A person is permitted, without charge or restriction, to stand or park
on a sidewalk a motor-driven cycle or motor scooter that has an engine not
larger than 150 cubic centimeters, a low-speed micromobility device, or a
bicycle or electric bicycle, provided that the motor-driven cycle, motor
scooter, low-speed micromobility device, bicycle, or electric bicycle does not
impede the normal flow of pedestrian traffic. This division does not authorize
any person to operate a vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4511.711, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.68) ('56 Code, § 8-7-E) (Ord. 1994-40, passed 7-5-94; Am. Ord.
2006-45, passed 10-2-06)
§ 76.05 PARKING NEAR CURB; PRIVILEGES FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES.
   (A)   Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway where there is an
adjacent curb shall be stopped or parked with the right-hand wheels of the
vehicle parallel with and not more than 12 inches from the right-hand curb,
unless it is impossible to approach so close to the curb; in such case the stop
shall be made as close to the curb as possible and only for the time necessary
to discharge and receive passengers or to load or unload merchandise. Local
authorities by ordinance may permit angle parking on any roadway under their
jurisdiction, except that angle parking shall not be permitted on a state route
within the municipality unless an unoccupied roadway width of not less than 25
feet is available for free-moving traffic.
   (B)   Local authorities by ordinance may permit parking of vehicles with the
left-hand wheels adjacent to and within 12 inches of the left-hand curb of a
one-way roadway.
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Except as provided in division (C)(1)(b) of this section,
no vehicle shall be stopped or parked on a road or highway with the vehicle
facing in a direction other than the direction of travel on that side of the
road or highway.
         (b)   The operator of a motorcycle may back the motorcycle into an
angled parking space so that when the motorcycle is parked it is facing in a
direction other than the direction of travel on the side of the road or
highway.
      (2)   The operator of a motorcycle may back the motorcycle into a parking
space that is located on the side of, and parallel to, a road or highway. The
motorcycle may face any direction when so parked. Not more than two motorcycles
at a time shall be parked in a parking space as described in division (C)(2) of
this section irrespective of whether or not the space is metered.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any statute or any rule, regulation, resolution, or
ordinance, air compressors, tractors, trucks, and other equipment, while being
used in the construction, reconstruction, installation, repair, or removal of
facilities near, on, over, or under a street or highway, may stop, stand, or
park where necessary in order to perform such work, provided a flagperson is on
duty or warning signs or lights are displayed as may be prescribed by the
Director of Transportation.
   (E)   Accessible parking locations and privileges for persons with
disabilities that limit or impair the ability to walk shall be provided and
designated by all political subdivisions and by the state and all agencies and
instrumentalities thereof at all offices and facilities where parking is
provided, whether owned, rented, or leased, and at all publicly owned parking
garages. The locations shall be designated through the posting of an elevated
sign, whether permanently affixed or movable, imprinted with the international
symbol of access and shall be reasonably close to exits, entrances, elevators,
and ramps. All elevated signs posted in accordance with this division and R.C.
§ 3781.111(C) shall be mounted on a fixed or movable post, and the distance
from the ground to the bottom edge of the sign shall measure not less than five
feet. If a new sign or a replacement sign designating an accessible parking
location is posted on or after October 14, 1999, there also shall be affixed
upon the surface of that sign or affixed next to the designating sign a notice
that states the fine applicable for the offense of parking a motor vehicle in
the designated accessible parking location if the motor vehicle is not legally
entitled to be parked in that location.
   (F)   (1)   (a)   No person shall stop, stand, or park any motor vehicle at
accessible parking locations provided under division (E) of this section, or at
accessible clearly marked parking locations provided in or on privately owned
parking lots, parking garages, or other parking areas and designated in
accordance with that division, unless one of the following applies:
            1.   The motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of
a person with a disability that limits or impairs the ability to walk and is
displaying a valid removable windshield placard or accessible license plates;
or
            2.   The motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of
a person with a disability and is displaying a parking card or accessible
license plates.
         (b)   Any motor vehicle that is parked in an accessible marked parking
location in violation of division (F)(1)(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section
may be towed or otherwise removed from the parking location by the law
enforcement agency of the municipality. A motor vehicle that is so towed or
removed shall not be released to its owner until the owner presents proof of
ownership of the motor vehicle and pays all towing and storage fees normally
imposed by the municipality for towing and storing motor vehicles. If the motor
vehicle is a leased vehicle, it shall not be released to the lessee until the
lessee presents proof that that person is the lessee of the motor vehicle and
pays all towing and storage fees normally imposed by the municipality for
towing and storing motor vehicles.
         (c)   If a person is charged with a violation of division (F)(1)(a)1.
or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section, it is an affirmative defense to the charge that
the person suffered an injury not more than 72 hours prior to the time the
person was issued the ticket or citation and that, because of the injury, the
person meets at least one of the criteria contained in R.C. § 4503.44(A)(1).
      (2)    No person shall stop, stand, or park any motor vehicle in an area
that is commonly known as an access aisle, which area is marked by diagonal
stripes and is located immediately adjacent to an accessible parking location
provided under division (E) of this section or at an accessible clearly marked
parking location provided in or on a privately owned parking lot, parking
garage, or other parking area and designated in accordance with that division.
   (G)   When a motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of a
person with a disability that limits or impairs the ability to walk and is
displaying a removable windshield placard or a temporary removable windshield
placard or accessible license plates, or when a motor vehicle is being operated
by or for the transport of a person with a disability and is displaying a
parking card or accessible license plates, the motor vehicle is permitted to
park for a period of two hours in excess of the legal parking period permitted
by local authorities, except where local ordinances or police rules provide
otherwise or where the vehicle is parked in such a manner as to be clearly a
traffic hazard.
   (H)   No owner of an office, facility, or parking garage where accessible
parking locations are required to be designated in accordance with division (E)
of this section shall fail to properly mark the accessible parking locations in
accordance with that division or fail to maintain the markings of the
accessible locations, including the erection and maintenance of the fixed or
movable signs.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require a person or
organization to apply for a removable windshield placard or accessible license
plates if the parking card or accessible license plates issued to the person or
organization under prior law have not expired or been surrendered or revoked.
   (J)   As used in this section:
      ACCESSIBLE LICENSE PLATES and REMOVABLE WINDSHIELD PLACARD. Mean any
license plates or removable windshield placard or temporary removable
windshield placard issued under R.C. § 4503.41 or 4503.44, and also mean any
substantially equivalent license plates or removable windshield placard or
temporary removable windshield placard issued by a state, district, country, or
sovereignty.
      PERSON WITH A DISABILITY. Means any person who has lost the use of one or
both legs or one or both arms, who is blind, deaf, or unable to move without
the aid of crutches or a wheelchair, or whose mobility is restricted by a
permanent cardiovascular, pulmonary, or other disabling condition.
      PERSON WITH A DISABILITY THAT LIMITS OR IMPAIRS THE ABILITY TO WALK. Has
the same meaning as in R.C. § 4503.44.
   (K)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (A) or (C) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (F)(1)(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in
division (K)(2)(a) and (b) of this section. Except as otherwise provided in
division (K)(2)(a) of this section, an offender who violates division (F)(1)
(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section shall be fined not less than $250 nor more
than $500. An offender who violates division (F)(1)(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this
section shall be fined not more than $100 if the offender, prior to sentencing,
proves either of the following to the satisfaction of the court:
            1.   At the time of the violation of division (F)(1)(a)1. of this
section, the offender or the person for whose transport the motor vehicle was
being operated had been issued a removable windshield placard that then was
valid or accessible license plates that then were valid but the offender or the
person neglected to display the placard or license plates as described in
division (F)(1)(a)1. of this section.
            2.   At the time of the violation of division (F)(1)(a)2. of this
section, the offender or the person for whose transport the motor vehicle was
being operated had been issued a parking card that then was valid or accessible
license plates that then were valid but the offender or the person neglected to
display the card or license plates as described in division (F)(1)(a)2. of this
section.
         (b)   In no case shall an offender who violates division (F)(1)(a)1.
or (F)(1)(a)2. be sentenced to any term of imprisonment.
         (c)   An arrest or conviction for a violation of division (F)(1)(a)1.
or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section does not constitute a criminal record and need
not be reported by the person so arrested or convicted in response to any
inquiries contained in any application for employment, license, or other right
or privilege, or made in connection with the person’s appearance as a witness.
         (d)   The clerk of the court shall pay every fine collected under
divisions (K)(2) and (K)(3) of this section to the municipality. Except as
provided in division (K)(2) of this section, the municipality shall use the
fine moneys it receives under divisions (K)(2) and (K)(3) of this section to
pay the expenses it incurs in complying with the signage and notice
requirements contained in division (E) of this section. The municipality may
use up to 50% of each fine it receives under divisions (K)(2) and (K)(3) of
this section to pay the costs of educational, advocacy, support, and assistive
technology programs for persons with disabilities, and for public improvements
within the municipality that benefit or assist persons with disabilities, if
governmental agencies or nonprofit organizations offer the programs.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (F)(2) of this section shall be fined not
less than $250 nor more than $500. In no case shall an offender who violates
division (F)(2) of this section be sentenced to any term of imprisonment. An
arrest or conviction for a violation of division (F)(2) of this section does
not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the person so
arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries contained in any application
for employment, license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection
with the person’s appearance as a witness.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (H) of this section shall be punished as
follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (K)(4) of this section,
the offender shall be issued a warning.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (H) of this section or of a municipal
ordinance that is substantially equivalent to that division, the offender shall
not be issued a warning but shall be fined not more than $25 for each parking
location that is not properly marked or whose markings are not properly
maintained.
(R.C. § 4511.69)
Statutory reference:
   Buildings, access for disabled persons, see R.C. § 3781.111
§ 76.06 WASHING OR REPAIRING VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stand or park any vehicle, motorized
or towed, upon any public or private street, road, or highway within the
village or upon any unimproved privately owned area within the village for the
purpose of:
   (A)   Washing, maintaining or repairing such vehicle except repairs
necessitated by an emergency.
('56 Code, § 8-7-C) (Am. Ord. 2000-45, passed 10-2-00; Am. Ord. 2009-26, passed
5-4-09)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 76.07 TRUCK/TRAILER/SEMITRAILER PARKING PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Except as authorized by permit in §
76.10 of this chapter, and with the exception of vehicles which have been
registered and licensed as a passenger vehicle or a non-commercial truck and/or
unless otherwise posted, no moving van, truck, trailer, or semi-trailer shall
be permitted to park along any village street other than to load or unload.
Moving vans, trailers and/or semi-trailers so parked for loading or unloading
must be connected to a towing vehicle at all times.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(Ord. 2019-39, passed 12-2-19)
§ 76.08 PORTABLE STORAGE UNITS (PSUS) AND DUMPSTER PARKING PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Except as authorized by permit in §
76.10 of this chapter, no portable storage unit (PSU) or dumpster shall be
permitted to park along any village street other than to load or unload.
Portable storage units (PSUs) and dumpsters so parked for loading or unloading
must be connected to a towing vehicle at all times.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(Ord. 2019-39, passed 12-2-19)
§ 76.09 SEVENTY-TWO (72) HOUR PARKING LIMITATION.
   (A)   Parking is prohibited for longer than 72 hours on any street or other
property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel, or upon or within
the right-of-way of any street unless the owner of the vehicle notifies the
Chief of Police of the need to leave the vehicle parked in such areas for
longer than 72 hours and receives permission to so park the vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(Ord. 2019-39, passed 12-2-19)
§ 76.10 PERMITS REQUIRED FOR TEMPORARY PARKING OF MOVING VANS, TRAILERS, SEMI-
TRAILERS, DUMPSTERS, AND PORTABLE STORAGE UNITS (PSUS).
   (A)   The parking prohibitions/permitting structure set forth in this
section have been established due to specific traffic hazards and safety
concerns which occur when large vehicles are parked on village streets,
especially for extended periods of time.
   (B)   As is established in §§
76.07 to
76.09 of this chapter, the parking of moving vans, trailers, semi-trailers,
dumpsters, and portable storage units (PSUs) is generally prohibited on any
village street except to load or unload. In addition, such vehicles and
containers so parked for loading or unloading must be connected to a towing
vehicle at all times.
   (C)   A temporary parking permit may be issued to allow for the parking of
moving vans, trailers, semi-trailers, dumpsters and portable storage units
(PSUs) beyond the short loading/unloading period permitted by §§
76.07 to
76.09 of this chapter.
   (D)   Temporary parking permits issued pursuant to this section shall be for
the shortest duration possible to fulfill the purposes for which the temporary
parking permit was requested. Unless extraordinary circumstances are
established by the person requesting the permit, no temporary parking permit
shall be issued for longer than seven days and no more than four temporary
parking permits shall be issued to the same person or address in any calendar
year.
   (E)   Application process. In order to obtain a temporary parking permit,
persons must provide the village with a completed application which includes
the following information:
      (1)   Name, address, and telephone number of the applicant;
      (2)   Address and proposed location of the moving van, trailer, semi-
trailer, dumpster or portable storage unit (PSU);
      (3)   Type of vehicle or container for which the application is filed;
      (4)   Size of the moving van, trailer, semi-trailer, dumpster, or
portable storage unit (PSU) for which the application is filed;
      (5)   Name, contact person (including his/her direct telephone/mobile
telephone number), address, and general telephone number of the company
providing the moving van, trailer, semi-trailer, dumpster, or portable storage
unit (PSU);
      (6)   Beginning and ending date for which a temporary parking permit is
being requested; and
      (7)   Statement of extraordinary circumstances warranting the granting of
a temporary parking permit for longer than seven days or more than four such
permits in one calendar year.
   (F)   Criteria for granting a temporary parking permit. Temporary parking
permits for moving vans, trailers, semi-trailers, dumpsters, and portable
storage units (PSUs) will be issued to persons:
      (1)   Who cannot reasonably locate the moving van, trailer, semi-trailer,
portable storage unit (PSU), or dumpster on an impervious surface other than on
the village street or in the village right-of-way; and
      (2)   Who are utilizing the moving van, trailer, semi-trailer, dumpster,
or portable storage unit (PSU) for bona fide moving, rehabilitation and/or
construction purposes.
   (G)   Extension of temporary parking permit period. Persons who have been
issued a temporary parking permit may have the time period for which parking is
permitted extended by requesting an extension of the permit period in writing
prior to the expiration of the issued temporary parking permit. The extension
of any temporary parking permit period is within the sole discretion of the
Village of Glendale.
   (H)   Revocation of temporary parking permit. The Village of Glendale
reserves the right to revoke any temporary parking permit issued if it
determines, in its sole discretion, that the moving van, trailer, semi-trailer,
dumpster, or portable storage unit (PSU) creates a hazard or danger to the
traveling public or pedestrians. If the Village Administrator determines the
hazard or danger to be significant or if the moving van, trailer, semi-trailer,
dumpster, or portable storage unit (PSU) can be reasonably and quickly moved to
another, safer location, the village will require the immediate relocation of
the moving van, trailer, semi-trailer, dumpster, or portable storage unit
(PSU). In all other cases, the village will require that the moving van,
trailer, semi-trailer, dumpster, or portable storage unit (PSU) is moved within
24 hours of the notification that it must be relocated.
(Ord. 2019-39, passed 12-2-19)
CHAPTER 77: SCHOOL BUSES
Section
   
77.01   Regulations concerning school buses
   
77.02   Violation of regulations; report; investigation; citation; warning
   
77.03   Restrictions on the operation of school buses
   
77.04   School bus inspection
   
77.05   School bus not used for school purposes
   
77.06   Licensing by Department of Public Safety
   
77.07   Registration and identification of school buses
   
77.08   School bus marking
   
77.09   Flashing light signal lamps
§ 77.01 REGULATIONS CONCERNING SCHOOL BUSES.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle, upon meeting or overtaking from either
direction any school bus stopped for the purpose of receiving or discharging
any school child, person attending programs offered by community boards of
mental health and county boards of developmental disabilities, or child
attending a program offered by a head start agency, shall stop at least ten
feet from the front or rear of the school bus and shall not proceed until such
school bus resumes motion, or until signaled by the school bus driver to
proceed. It is no defense to a charge under this division that the school bus
involved failed to display or be equipped with an automatically extended stop
warning sign as required by division (B) of this section.
   (B)   Every school bus shall be equipped with amber and red visual signals
meeting the requirements of R.C. § 4511.771 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, and an automatically extended stop warning sign of a type
approved by the state Board of Education, which shall be actuated by the driver
of the bus whenever but only whenever the bus is stopped or stopping on the
roadway for the purpose of receiving or discharging school children, persons
attending programs offered by community boards of mental health and county
boards of developmental disabilities, or children attending programs offered by
head start agencies. A school bus driver shall not actuate the visual signals
or the stop warning sign in designated school bus loading areas where the bus
is entirely off the roadway or at school buildings when children or persons
attending programs offered by community boards of mental health and county
boards of developmental disabilities are loading or unloading at curbside or at
buildings when children attending programs offered by head start agencies are
loading or unloading at curbside. The visual signals and stop warning sign
shall be synchronized or otherwise operated as required by rule of the Board.
   (C)   Where a highway has been divided into four or more traffic lanes, a
driver of a vehicle need not stop for a school bus approaching from the
opposite direction which has stopped for the purpose of receiving or
discharging any school child, persons attending programs offered by community
boards of mental health and county boards of developmental disabilities, or
children attending programs offered by head start agencies. The driver of any
vehicle overtaking the school bus shall comply with division (A) above.
   (D)   School buses operating on divided highways or on highways with four or
more traffic lanes shall receive and discharge all school children, persons
attending programs offered by community boards of mental health and county
boards of developmental disabilities, and children attending programs offered
by head start agencies on their residence side of the highway.
   (E)   No school bus driver shall start the driver's bus until after any
child, person attending programs offered by community boards of mental health
and county boards of developmental disabilities, or child attending a program
offered by a head start agency who may have alighted therefrom has reached a
place of safety on the child's or person's residence side of the road.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section may be fined an
amount not to exceed $500. A person who is issued a citation for a violation of
division (A) of this section is not permitted to enter a written plea of guilty
and waive the person’s right to contest the citation in a trial but instead
must appear in person in the proper court to answer the charge.
      (2)   In addition to and independent of any other penalty provided by
law, the court or mayor may impose upon an offender who violates this section a
class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7). When a
license is suspended under this section, the court or mayor shall cause the
offender to deliver the license to the court, and the court or clerk of the
court immediately shall forward the license to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles,
together with notice of the court’s action.
   (G)   As used in this section:
      HEAD START AGENCY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3301.32.
      SCHOOL BUS. As used in relation to children who attend a program offered
by a head start agency, means a bus that is owned and operated by a head start
agency, is equipped with an automatically extended stop warning sign of a type
approved by the State Board of Education, is painted the color and displays the
markings described in R.C. § 4511.77, and is equipped with amber and red visual
signals meeting the requirements of R.C. § 4511.77, irrespective of whether or
not the bus has 15 or more children aboard at any time. The term does not
include a van owned and operated by a head start agency, irrespective of its
color, lights or markings.
(R.C. § 4511.75)
§ 77.02 VIOLATION OF REGULATIONS; REPORT; INVESTIGATION; CITATION; WARNING.
   (A)   As used in this section, LICENSE PLATE includes but is not limited to
any temporary motor vehicle license registration issued under R.C. § 4503.182
or substantially equivalent law of another jurisdiction.
   (B)   When the operator of a school bus believes that a motorist has
violated R.C. § 4511.75(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
the operator shall report the license plate number and general description of
the vehicle and of the operator of the vehicle to the law enforcement agency
exercising jurisdiction over the area where the alleged violation occurred. The
information contained in the report relating to the license plate number and to
the general description of the vehicle and the operator of the vehicle at the
time of the alleged violation may be supplied by any person with first-hand
knowledge of the information. Information of which the operator of the school
bus has first-hand knowledge also may be corroborated by any other person.
   (C)   Upon receipt of the report of the alleged violation of R.C. § 4511.75
(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the law enforcement
agency shall conduct an investigation to attempt to determine the identity of
the operator of the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation. If the
identity of the operator at the time of the alleged violation is established,
the reporting of the license plate number of the vehicle shall establish
probable cause for the law enforcement agency to issue a citation for the
violation of R.C. § 4511.75(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance. However, if the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time
of the alleged violation cannot be established, the law enforcement agency
shall issue a warning to the owner of the vehicle at the time of the alleged
violation, except in the case of a leased or rented vehicle when the warning
shall be issued to the lessee at the time of the alleged violation.
(R.C. § 4511.751)
§ 77.03 RESTRICTIONS ON THE OPERATION OF SCHOOL BUSES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a vehicle used for pupil transportation within
this municipality in violation of the rules of the Department of Education of
the Department of Public Safety. No person, being the owner thereof, or having
the supervisory responsibility therefor, shall permit the operation of a
vehicle used for pupil transportation within this municipality in violation of
the rules of the Department of Education or the Department of Public Safety.
   (B)   As used in this section, VEHICLE USED FOR PUPIL TRANSPORTATION means
any vehicle that is identified as such by the Department of Education by rule
and that is subject to O.A.C. Chapter 3301-83.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.76, or R.C. §§ 4511.63, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, 4511.77, or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.76(C), (F), (G))
§ 77.04 SCHOOL BUS INSPECTION.
   (A)   No person shall operate, nor shall any person being the owner thereof,
or having supervisory responsibility therefor, permit the operation of, a
school bus within this municipality, unless there is displayed thereon the
decals issued by the state highway patrol bearing the proper date of inspection
for the calendar year for which the inspection decals were issued.
(R.C. § 4511.761)
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.761, or R.C. §§ 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.762, 4511.764, 4511.77, or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (C)   Whenever a person is found guilty in a court of record of a violation
of this section, the trial judge, in addition to or independent of all other
penalties provided by law, may suspend for any period of time not exceeding
three years, or cancel the license of any person, partnership, association, or
corporation, issued under R.C. § 4511.763.
(R.C. § 4511.761)
§ 77.05 SCHOOL BUS NOT USED FOR SCHOOL PURPOSES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no person who is
the owner of a bus that previously was registered as a school bus that is used
or is to be used exclusively for purposes other than the transportation of
children shall operate the bus or permit it to be operated within this
municipality unless the bus has been painted a color different from that
prescribed for school buses by R.C. § 4511.77 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance and painted in such a way that the words “stop” and “school
bus” are obliterated.
   (B)   Any church bus that previously was registered as a school bus and is
registered under R.C. § 4503.07 may retain the paint color prescribed for
school buses by R.C. § 4511.77 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance if the bus complies with all of the following:
      (1)   The words “school bus” required by R.C. § 4511.77 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance are covered or obliterated and the
bus is marked on the front and rear with the words “church bus” painted in
black lettering not less than ten inches in height.
      (2)   The automatically extending stop warning sign required by R.C. §
4511.75 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance is removed and the
word “stop” required by R.C. § 4511.77 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance is covered or obliterated.
      (3)   The flashing red and amber lights required by R.C. § 4511.771 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance are covered or removed.
      (4)   The inspection decal required by R.C. § 4511.761 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance is covered or removed.
      (5)   The identification number assigned under R.C. § 4511.764 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance and marked in black lettering on
the front and rear of the bus is covered or obliterated.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.762, or R.C. §§ 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.764, 4511.77, or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (D)   Whenever a person is found guilty in a court of record of a violation
of this section, the trial judge, in addition to or independent of all other
penalties provided by law, may suspend for any period of time not exceeding
three years, or cancel the license of any person, partnership, association, or
corporation, issued under R.C. § 4511.763.
(R.C. § 4511.762)
§ 77.06 LICENSING BY DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY.
   (A)   No person, partnership, association, or corporation shall transport
pupils to or from school on a school bus or enter into a contract with a board
of education of any school district for the transportation of pupils on a
school bus without being licensed by the Department of Public Safety.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.763)
§ 77.07 REGISTRATION AND IDENTIFICATION OF SCHOOL BUSES.
   (A)   No person shall operate, nor shall any person being the owner thereof
or having supervisory responsibility therefor, permit the operation of a school
bus within this municipality unless there is displayed thereon an identifying
number in accordance with R.C. § 4511.764.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of R.C. §§ 4511.63,
4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.77, or 4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that
is substantially equivalent to any of those sections, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.764)
§ 77.08 SCHOOL BUS MARKING.
   (A)   No person shall operate, nor shall any person being the owner thereof
or having supervisory responsibility therefor permit the operation of, a school
bus within this municipality unless it is painted national school bus yellow
and is marked on both front and rear with the words “school bus” in black
lettering not less than eight inches in height and on the rear of the bus with
the word “stop” in black lettering not less than ten inches in height.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.77, or R.C. §§ 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (C)   Whenever a person is found guilty in a court of record of a violation
of this section, the trial judge, in addition to or independent of all other
penalties provided by law, may suspend, for any period of time not exceeding
three years, or cancel the license of any person, partnership, association, or
corporation issued under R.C. § 4511.763.
(R.C. § 4511.77)
§ 77.09 FLASHING LIGHT SIGNAL LAMPS.
   (A)   Every school bus shall, in addition to any other equipment and
distinctive markings required pursuant to R.C. §§ 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.764
and 4511.77, and any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, be equipped
with signal lamps mounted as high as practicable, which shall display to the
front two alternately flashing red lights and two alternately flashing amber
lights located at the same level and to the rear two alternately flashing red
lights and alternately flashing amber lights located at the same level, and
these lights shall be visible at 500 feet in normal sunlight. The alternately
flashing red lights shall be spaced as widely as practicable, and the
alternately flashing amber lights shall be located next to them.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.771)
CHAPTER 78: PEDESTRIANS
Section
   
78.01   Pedestrian walking along highway
   
78.02   Pedestrian on sidewalk has right-of-way
   
78.03   Pedestrians on crosswalks
   
78.04   Pedestrian on crosswalk has right-of-way
   
78.05   Right-of-way yielded by pedestrian
   
78.06   Pedestrians to yield right-of-way to public safety vehicle
   
78.07   Right-of-way yielded to blind pedestrian
   
78.08   Pedestrian on bridge or railroad crossing
   
78.09   Pedestrian soliciting rides or riding on outside of vehicle prohibited
   
78.10   Intoxicated or drugged pedestrian hazard on highway
   
78.11   Boarding and exiting trains
   
78.12   Persons operating motorized wheelchairs
   
78.13   Operation of electric personal assistive mobility devices
   
78.14   Operation of personal delivery device on sidewalks and crosswalks
   
78.15   Low-speed micromobility devices
§ 78.01 PEDESTRIAN WALKING ALONG HIGHWAY.
   (A)   Where a sidewalk is provided and its use is practicable, it shall be
unlawful for any pedestrian to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   (B)   Where a sidewalk is not available, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a highway shall walk only on a shoulder, as far as practicable from the
edge of the roadway.
   (C)   Where neither a sidewalk nor a shoulder is available, any pedestrian
walking along and upon a highway shall walk as near as practicable to an
outside edge of the roadway, and, if on a two-way roadway, shall walk only on
the left side of the roadway.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. §§ 4511.13 and 4511.46, or any
substantially similar municipal ordinances, any pedestrian upon a roadway shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.50)
§ 78.02 PEDESTRIAN ON SIDEWALK HAS RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian
on a sidewalk.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.441)
§ 78.03 PEDESTRIANS ON CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.49)
§ 78.04 PEDESTRIAN ON CROSSWALK HAS RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   When traffic-control signals are not in place, not in operation, or
are not clearly assigning the right-of-way, the driver of a vehicle shall yield
the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping if need be to so yield, or if
required by R.C. § 4511.132 or a substantially similar municipal ordinance, to
a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk when the pedestrian is
upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is traveling, or when the
pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite half of the roadway as
to be in danger.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety and
walk or run into the path of a vehicle which is so close as to constitute an
immediate hazard.
   (C)   Division (A) of this section does not apply under the conditions
stated in R.C. § 4511.48(B), or a substantially similar municipal ordinance.
   (D)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass the stopped vehicle.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (F)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.46)
§ 78.05 RIGHT-OF-WAY YIELDED BY PEDESTRIAN.
   (A)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all traffic upon the roadway.
   (C)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a marked
crosswalk.
   (D)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway intersection diagonally unless
authorized by official traffic-control devices; and when authorized to cross
diagonally, pedestrians shall cross only in accordance with the official
traffic-control devices pertaining to such crossing movements.
   (E)   This section does not relieve the operator of a vehicle from
exercising due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any roadway.
   (F)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.48)
§ 78.06 PEDESTRIANS TO YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY TO PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE.
   (A)   Upon the immediate approach of a public safety vehicle, as stated in
R.C. § 4511.45 or a substantially similar municipal ordinance, every pedestrian
shall yield the right-of-way to the public safety vehicle.
   (B)   This section shall not relieve the driver of a public safety vehicle
from the duty to exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.452)
§ 78.07 RIGHT-OF-WAY YIELDED TO BLIND PEDESTRIAN.
   (A)   (1)   As used in this section BLIND PERSON or BLIND PEDESTRIAN means a
person having not more than 20/200 visual acuity in the better eye with
correcting lenses, or visual acuity greater than 20/200, but with a limitation
in the fields of vision such that the widest diameter of the visual field
subtends an angle no greater than 20°.
      (2)   The driver of every vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to every
blind pedestrian guided by a guide dog, or carrying a cane which is
predominantly white or metallic in color, with or without a red tip.
   (B)   No person, other than a blind person, while on any public highway,
street, alley, or other public thoroughfare, shall carry a white or metallic
cane, with or without a red tip.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.47)
§ 78.08 PEDESTRIAN ON BRIDGE OR RAILROAD CROSSING.
   (A)   No pedestrian shall enter or remain upon any bridge or approach
thereto beyond the bridge signal, gate, or barrier after a bridge operation
signal indication has been given.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over, or under any crossing
gate or barrier at a railroad grade crossing or bridge while the gate or
barrier is closed or is being opened or closed.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.511)
§ 78.09 PEDESTRIAN SOLICITING RIDES OR RIDING ON OUTSIDE OF VEHICLE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person while on a roadway outside a safety zone shall solicit a
ride from the driver of any vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in subsection (2) of this division, no person
shall stand on a highway for the purpose of soliciting employment, business, or
contributions from the occupant of any vehicle.
      (2)   The Legislative Authority, by ordinance, may authorize the issuance
of a permit to a charitable organization to allow a person acting on behalf of
the organization to solicit charitable contributions from the occupant of a
vehicle by standing on a highway, other than a freeway as provided in R.C. §
4511.051(A)(1), that is under the jurisdiction of the municipality. The permit
shall be valid for only one period of time, which shall be specified in the
permit, in any calendar year. The Legislative Authority also may specify the
locations where contributions may be solicited and may impose any other
restrictions on or requirements regarding the manner in which the solicitations
are to be conducted that the Legislative Authority considers advisable.
      (3)   As used in subsection (2) of this division, CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION
means an organization that has received from the Internal Revenue Service a
currently valid ruling or determination letter recognizing the tax-exempt
status of the organizations pursuant to Internal Revenue Code § 501(c)(3).
   (C)   No person shall hang onto or ride on the outside of any motor vehicle
while it is moving upon a roadway, except mechanics or test engineers making
repairs or adjustments, or workers performing specialized highway or street
maintenance or construction under authority of a public agency.
   (D)   No operator shall knowingly permit any person to hang onto or ride on
the outside of any motor vehicle while it is moving upon a roadway, except
mechanics or test engineers making repairs or adjustments, or workers
performing specialized highway or street maintenance or construction under
authority of a public agency.
   (E)   No driver of a truck, trailer, or semitrailer shall knowingly permit
any person who has not attained the age of 16 years to ride in the unenclosed
or unroofed cargo storage area of the driver's vehicle if the vehicle is
traveling faster than 25 miles per hour, unless either of the following
applies:
      (1)   The cargo storage area of the vehicle is equipped with a properly
secured seat to which is attached a seat safety belt that is in compliance with
federal standards for an occupant restraining device as defined in R.C. §
4513.263(A)(2), the seat and seat safety belt were installed at the time the
vehicle was originally assembled, and the person riding in the cargo storage
area is in the seat and is wearing the seat safety belt; or
      (2)   An emergency exists that threatens the life of the driver or the
person being transported in the cargo storage area of the truck, trailer, or
semitrailer.
   (F)   No driver of a truck, trailer, or semitrailer shall permit any person,
except for those workers performing specialized highway or street maintenance
or construction under authority of a public agency, to ride in the cargo
storage area or on a tailgate of the driver's vehicle while the tailgate is
unlatched.
   (G)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
any provision of divisions (A) to (D) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates any provision of divisions (A) to (D) of this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates any provision of divisions
(A) to (D) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (E) or (F) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.51) ('56 Code, § 8-7-D)
§ 78.10 INTOXICATED OR DRUGGED PEDESTRIAN HAZARD ON HIGHWAY.
   (A)   A pedestrian who is under the influence of alcohol, any drug of abuse,
or any combination of them to a degree that renders the pedestrian a hazard
shall not walk or be upon a highway.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.481)
§ 78.11 BOARDING AND EXITING TRAINS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, not employed by a railroad company, and
not being a passenger going to or coming from a station outside of the village,
to get on or off, or to attempt to get on or off, any railroad car or
locomotive engine, when such car or engine is in motion anywhere in the
village.
('56 Code, § 1-5)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 78.12 PERSONS OPERATING MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIRS.
   Every person operating a motorized wheelchair shall have all of the rights
and duties applicable to a pedestrian that are contained in this chapter,
except those provisions which by their nature can have no application.
(R.C. § 4511.491)
§ 78.13 OPERATION OF ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   Electric personal assistive mobility devices may be operated on
the public streets, highways, sidewalks, and paths and portions of roadways set
aside for the exclusive use of bicycles in accordance with this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, those sections of
this Traffic Code that by their nature are applicable to an electric personal
assistive mobility device apply to the device and the person operating it
whenever it is operated upon any public street, highway, sidewalk, or path or
upon any portion of a roadway set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
      (3)   The municipality may regulate or prohibit the operation of electric
personal assistive mobility devices on public streets, highways, sidewalks, and
paths, or portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles,
under its jurisdiction.
   (B)   No operator of an electric personal assistive mobility device shall do
any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians and human-powered
vehicles at all times;
      (2)   Fail to give an audible signal before overtaking and passing a
pedestrian;
      (3)   Operate the device at night unless the device or its operator is
equipped with or wearing both of the following:
         (a)   A lamp pointing to the front that emits a white light visible
from a distance of not less than 500 feet;
         (b)   A red reflector facing the rear that is visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet when directly in front of lawful lower
beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle;
      (4)   Operate the device on any portion of a street or highway that has
an established speed limit of 55 miles per hour or more;
      (5)   Operate the device upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of
pedestrians or other specialized use when an appropriate sign giving notice of
the specialized use is posted on the path;
      (6)   If under 18 years of age, operate the device unless wearing a
protective helmet on the person's head with the chin strap properly fastened;
      (7)   If under 16 years of age, operate the device unless, during the
operation, the person is under the direct visual and audible supervision of
another person who is 18 years of age or older and is responsible for the
immediate care of the person under 16 years of age.
   (C)   No person who is under 14 years of age shall operate an electric
personal assistive mobility device.
   (D)   No person shall distribute or sell an electric personal assistive
mobility device unless the device is accompanied by a written statement that is
substantially equivalent to the following: "WARNING: TO REDUCE THE RISK OF
SERIOUS INJURY, USE ONLY WHILE WEARING FULL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT – HELMET,
WRIST GUARDS, ELBOW PADS, AND KNEE PADS."
   (E)   Nothing in this section affects or shall be construed to affect any
rule of the Director of Natural Resources or a board of park district
commissioners governing the operation of vehicles on lands under the control of
the Director or board, as applicable.
   (F)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (B) or (C) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor and shall be punished as follows:
         (a)   The offender shall be fined $10;
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (B) or (C) of this section, or any
substantially similar state law or municipal ordinance, the court, in addition
to imposing the fine required under division (F)(1)(a) of this section, shall
do one of the following:
            1.   Order the impoundment for not less than one day but no more
than 30 days of the electric personal assistive mobility device that was
involved in the current violation of that division. The court shall order the
device to be impounded at a safe indoor location designated by the court and
may assess storage fees of not more than $5 per day; provided the total
storage, processing, and release fees assessed against the offender or the
device in connection with the device's impoundment or subsequent release shall
not exceed $50.
            2.    If the court does not issue an impoundment order pursuant to
division (F)(1)(b)1. of this section, issue an order prohibiting the offender
from operating any electric personal assistive mobility device on the public
streets, highways, sidewalks, and paths and portions of roadways set aside for
the exclusive use of bicycles for not less than one day but not more than 30
days.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.512)
   (G)   As used in this Code, ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE
means a self-balancing two non-tandem wheeled device that is designed to
transport only one person, has an electric propulsion system of an average of
750 watts, and when ridden on a paved level surface by an operator who weighs
170 pounds has a maximum speed of less than 20 miles per hour.
(R.C. § 4501.01(TT))
§ 78.14 OPERATION OF PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE ON SIDEWALKS AND CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ELIGIBLE ENTITY. Means a corporation, partnership, association, firm,
sole proprietorship, or other entity engaged in business.
      PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE. Means an electrically powered device to which
all of the following apply:
         (a)   The device is intended primarily to transport property and cargo
on sidewalks and crosswalks.
         (b)   The device weighs less than 250 pounds excluding any property or
cargo being carried in the device.
         (c)   The device has a maximum speed of ten miles per hour.
         (d)   The device is equipped with technology that enables the
operation of the device with active control or monitoring by a person, without
active control or monitoring by a person, or both with or without active
control or monitoring by a person.
      PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE OPERATOR. Means an agent of an eligible entity
who exercises direct physical control over, or monitoring of, the navigation
and operation of a personal delivery device. The phrase does not include, with
respect to a delivery or other service rendered by a personal delivery device,
the person who requests the delivery or service. The phrase also does not
include a person who only arranges for and dispatches a personal delivery
device for a delivery or other service.
   (B)   An eligible entity may operate a personal delivery device on sidewalks
and crosswalks so long as all of the following requirements are met:
      (1)   The personal delivery device is operated in accordance with all
regulations, if any, established by each local authority within which the
personal delivery device is operated.
      (2)   A personal delivery device operator is actively controlling or
monitoring the navigation and operation of the personal delivery device.
      (3)   The eligible entity maintains an insurance policy that includes
general liability coverage of not less than $100,000 for damages arising from
the operation of the personal delivery device by the eligible entity and any
agent of the eligible entity.
      (4)   The device is equipped with all of the following:
         (a)   A marker that clearly identifies the name and contact
information of the eligible entity operating the personal delivery device and a
unique identification number;
         (b)   A braking system that enables the personal delivery device to
come to a controlled stop;
         (c)   If the personal delivery device is being operated between sunset
and sunrise, a light on both the front and rear of the personal delivery device
that is visible in clear weather from a distance of at least 500 feet to the
front and rear of the personal delivery device when directly in front of low
beams of headlights on a motor vehicle.
   (C)   No personal delivery device operator shall allow a personal delivery
device to do any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to comply with traffic or pedestrian control devices and
signals;
      (2)   Unreasonably interfere with pedestrians or traffic;
      (3)   Transport any hazardous material that would require a permit issued
by the Public Utilities Commission;
      (4)   Operate on a street or highway, except when crossing the street or
highway within a crosswalk.
   (D)   A personal delivery device has all of the rights and obligations
applicable to a pedestrian under the same circumstances, except that a personal
delivery device shall yield the right-of-way to human pedestrians on sidewalks
and crosswalks.
   (E)   (1)   No person shall operate a personal delivery device unless the
person is authorized to do so under this section and complies with the
requirements of this section.
      (2)   An eligible entity is responsible for both of the following:
         (a)   Any violation of this section that is committed by a personal
delivery device operator; and
         (b)   Any other circumstance, including a technological malfunction,
in which a personal delivery device operates in a manner prohibited by
divisions (C)(1) to (C)(4) of this section.
(R.C. § 4511.513) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 78.15 LOW-SPEED MICROMOBILITY DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   A low-speed micromobility device may be operated on the public
streets, highways, sidewalks, and shared-use paths, and may be operated on any
portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles in accordance
with this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, those sections of
this title that by their nature could apply to a low-speed micromobility device
do apply to the device and the person operating it whenever it is operated upon
any public street, highway, sidewalk, or shared-use path, or upon any portion
of a roadway set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (B)   No operator of a low-speed micromobility device shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Fail to yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians at all times;
      (2)   Fail to give an audible signal before overtaking and passing a
pedestrian;
      (3)   Operate the device at night unless the device or its operator is
equipped with or wearing both of the following:
         (a)   A lamp pointing to the front that emits a white light visible
from a distance of not less than 500 feet;
         (b)   A red reflector facing the rear that is visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet when directly in front of lawful lower
beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle.
   (C)   (1)   No person who is under 16 years of age shall rent a low-speed
micromobility device.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly rent a low-speed micromobility device to
a person who is under 16 years of age.
      (3)   No person shall knowingly rent a low-speed micromobility device on
behalf of a person who is under 16 years of age.
   (D)   No person shall operate a low-speed micromobility device at a speed
greater than 20 miles per hour.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Unless a mens rea is otherwise specified in this section, an
offense established under this section is a strict liability offense and R.C. §
2901.20 does not apply. The designation of that offense as a strict liability
offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for which there
is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability offense.
   (F)   Notwithstanding division (A)(1) of this section, the municipality,
county, township, metropolitan park district, township park district,
recreation district, or any division of the Ohio Department of Natural
Resources if the division has the approval of the Ohio Director of Natural
Resources may do any of the following:
      (1)   Regulate or prohibit the operation of low-speed micromobility
devices on public streets, highways, sidewalks, and shared-use paths, and
portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, under its
jurisdiction;
      (2)   Include low-speed micromobility devices that are adapted to expand
access for people with various physical limitations into a shared bicycle,
shared electric bicycle, or similar vehicle sharing program, under its
jurisdiction;
      (3)   Require the owner or operator of a low-speed micromobility device
rental service or low-speed micromobility device sharing program to maintain
commercial general liability insurance related to the operation of the devices,
with limits of up to $1,000,000 per occurrence and $2,000,000 per aggregate.
(R.C. § 4511.514) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 79: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Main thoroughfares and arterial highways
   
II.   Stop streets
   
III.   Turns
   
IV.   Parking
   
V.   Fire lanes
   
VI.   One-way streets
   
VII.   No through traffic
SCHEDULE I. MAIN THOROUGHFARES AND ARTERIAL HIGHWAYS.
   The following are declared to be main thoroughfares and arterial highways.
 
STREET           DESCRIPTION
Congress Ave.    Entire length
Sharon Ave.      Entire length
Springfield Pike Entire length
 
('56 Code, § 8)
SCHEDULE II. STOP STREETS.
   (A)   Vehicles proceeding on "Stop Streets" shall have the right-of-way over
those vehicles going on intersecting or abutting streets or highways, except
where traffic signs designate otherwise.
   (B)   Main thoroughfares and arterial highways herein or here-after declared
or established, and such streets as are herein or hereafter declared to be
"Stop Streets" shall be marked by appropriate signs. The Mayor or Chief of
Police may have placed at or in the approach to any intersection of two or more
streets a stop sign and any street in the approach to which such stop sign is
placed is declared to be a "Stop Street."
   (C)   Drivers of vehicles proceeding on intersecting or abutting streets or
highways, upon reaching any main thoroughfare or arterial highway or "Stop
Street," shall bring their vehicle to a complete stop before entering upon or
crossing such main thoroughfare or arterial highway.
   (D)   The following are designated as "Stop Streets":
 
STREET                                      DESCRIPTION
Albion Ave.                                 Entire length
Coral Ave.                                  Between Congress and Greenville
Greenville Ave.                             Entire length
Oak Ave.                                    Entire length
Main thoroughfares and arterial highways as
designated in Sch. I
 
('56 Code, §§ 8-1, 8-3, 8-4)
Penalty, see § 70.99
Cross-reference:
Through highways, see §
72.28
SCHEDULE III. TURNS.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to make a turn as
follows:
STREET           DIRECTION  DESCRIPTION
West Oak Ave.    Westbound  Left hand turn prohibited southwardly into
                            Springfield Pike.
Congress Ave.    Northbound Left turn prohibited onto westbound West Fountain
                            Ave.
Congress Ave.    Southbound Left turn prohibited onto eastbound Oak St. 6:00
                            a.m. to 9:00 a.m. on weekdays
Congress Ave.    Northbound Right turn on red to eastbound Sharon prohibited
                            during school hours
Congress Ave.    Southbound Right turn on red to west bound Sharon prohibited
                            during school hours
Oak St.          Westbound  Left turn prohibited onto southbound Congress 3:00
                            p.m. to 6:00 p.m. on weekdays
Springfield Pike Southbound Left turn prohibited onto eastbound West Fountain
                            Ave.
Greenville Ave.  Southbound Left turn prohibited onto eastbound Sharon Ave.
Sharon Ave.      Westbound  Right turn on red to northbound Congress, 7:30 a.m.
                            and 3:30 p.m.
W. Sharon Ave.   Eastbound  Right turn on red to southbound Congress prohibited
                            during school hours
Sharon Ave.      Westbound  Right turn on red to northbound St. Rt. 4 and all
                            times
W. Sharon Ave.   Westbound  Right turn on red to northbound Springfield Pike
                            (St. Rte. 4) prohibited
 
('56 Code, § 8-4-1) (Am. Ord. 1992-7, passed 1-6-92; Am. Ord. 2000-35, passed
6-5-00; Am. Ord. 2000-07, passed 2-7-00; Am. Ord. 2003-07, passed 2-3-03)
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE IV. PARKING.
   (A) No parking. It shall be unlawful to stop, stand, or park any motor
vehicle in the following locations:
STREET SIDE LOCATION ORD. NO.
STREET               SIDE  LOCATION                             ORD. NO.
Jefferson Ave.       West  Sharon Ave. to Washington Ave.       1970-7
Washington Ave.      South Congress Ave. west to the            1970-7
                           corporation line
Washington Ave.      North Congress Ave. to Church St.          1989-20
South Troy Ave.      East  Cleveland Ave. to East Sharon Ave.   1987-9; 2000-35
South Troy Ave.      Both  Cleveland Ave. to Sharon Ave.        1999-28
Erie Ave.            North North of Glendale School             1987-9
                           West of the west side of the east
Sharon Ave.                driveway of the Harry Whiting Brown  1990-34
                           Community Center
East Fountain        North Intersection of East Willow, 90 feet 2000-35
                           to the west
                           From the west bus entrance to
Oak Ave.             North Bethany School west to the rear      2003-16
                           entrance to 765 Hedgerow
                           Between the west school bus entrance
Oak Ave., north side       to Bethany School, eastward to the   2005-12
                           intersection of Albion Ave.
 
    (B) (1) Two-hour parking. It shall be unlawful to stop, stand, or park any
motor vehicle for more than two hours in the following locations:
 
STREET      SIDE  LOCATION                         ORD. NO.
Sharon Ave. North Congress Ave. west to Church St. 1970-7
Sharon Ave. South Congress Ave. west to Church St. 1970-7
 
(2) Two-hour parking. It shall be unlawful to stop, stand, or park any motor
vehicle for more than two hours in the following location between 7:00 a.m. and
7:00 p.m.
 
STREET     SIDE  LOCATION                                ORD. NO.
Coral Ave. South Parking area north of Glendale Marathon 1987-9
 
   (C)   Commercial and business districts. It shall be unlawful to stop,
stand, or park any motor vehicle for more than two hours between the hours of
7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. in any street within the limits of any commercial
district or business district as shown on the District Map of the village. The
municipal parking lot, located adjacent to the village square and across from
the depot building, shall be available for a maximum of 24-hour parking and not
subject to the 2-hour restriction.
   (D)   The E and or D business districts may provide, by order of the Police
Chief, a combined maximum of six 15-minute parking spaces when properly posted
by signage.
   (E)   “No truck or van parking” restrictions are authorized, when posted by
signage, along the west side of Congress between Sharon and Grove Avenues (in
front of 985 Congress).
(Ord. 1978-24, passed 11-6-78; Am. Ord. 1997-06, passed 3-4-97; Am. Ord. 1998-
12b, passed 7-7-98; Am. Ord. 2003-16, passed 4-7-03; Am. Ord. 2009-23, passed
5-4-09)
Penalty, see § 70.99
Cross-reference:
   Parking prohibitions, see §
76.04
SCHEDULE V. FIRE LANES.
   (A) No person shall park or permit to stand any motor vehicle or otherwise
block the following, which are designated as fire-lane streets:
STREET SIDE
STREET                           SIDE
Cole Ave.                        West
Summit Ave.                      West
East Willow Ave.                 South
Warwick Place                    Both sides in boulevard section
Oak Drive                        Both
Albion Avenue                    South
Hedgerow Lane                    West
Erie Avenue                      North side from Congress to 45 feet east
                                 of hydrant
                                 Both, except the first 212 feet of the
Van Nes Drive                    south side from the intersection of
                                 Congress Avenue
Glendale Elementary School south Entire south side and north side between
driveway                         the front parking lot and the rear
                                 parking lot
                                 South of Sharon Ave. west side 60 feet
Greenville Avenue                from intersection into Village Square.
                                 North of Sharon Ave. west side from
                                 intersection to 20 feet south of hydrant
Garfield Avenue                  North side from Jefferson Avenue to end
                                 of Garfield Avenue
 
   (B) On all residential streets which have been designated as requiring fire
lanes on both sides of the street, a special parking permit may be obtained
from the village to allow short-term parking on one side of the street by
making written application at least 24 hours prior to the need for such permit,
and providing that both the Fire Department and Police Department have no
objections to the issuance of the permit.
(Ord. 1973-2, passed 5-7-73; Am. Ord. 1992-10, passed 2-3-92; Am. Ord. 1993-59,
passed 1-3-94; Am. Ord. 1998-12b, passed 7-7-98; Am. Ord. 2012-27, passed 6-4-
12)
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE VI. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A) No person shall operate a vehicle in a direction other than the
direction designated by signs for regulation of traffic on one-way streets.
   (B) The following are designated as “One-Way Streets”:
 
STREET                DESCRIPTION
Greenville Ave.       One way south from Sharon Ave. to Village Square
West Oak St.          One way west from Congress Ave. to Springfield Pike
East Willow Ave.      One way east from Troy Ave. to end of street
Lake Ave.             One way entering from the Congress Ave. side and exiting
                      onto East Sharon Ave.
North Greenville Ave. One way south from Coral Ave. to Sharon Ave. with no left
                      turn onto Sharon Ave.
 
(Ord. 1985-24, passed 7-1-85; Am. Ord. 1993-38, passed 10-4-93; Am. Ord. 2019-
29, passed 8-27-19) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE VII. NO THROUGH TRAFFIC.
   (A)   No person shall operate a vehicle on a posted no through traffic
street unless they have a departure or destination within the corporate limits
of Glendale and or a departure or destination of a residence or business with
frontage on said restricted street.
   (B)   The following are designated as “No Through Traffic Streets”:
 
STREET         DESCRIPTION
Morris Ave.    No through traffic from Sharon Ave. to Glendale Ave.
Glendale Ave.  No through traffic from Morris Ave. to Walnut Ave.
Walnut Ave.    No through traffic from Glendale Ave. to Greenwood Ave.
Greenwood Ave. No through traffic from Glendale Ave. to the intersection of
               Lippelman Rd.
 
(Ord. 1998-37, passed 11-2-98)
Penalty, see § 70.99
CHAPTER 80: OPERATION, PARKING OF VEHICLES IN VILLAGE PARKS
Section
   
80.01   Overnight parking prohibited
   
80.02   Operation limited to vehicular areas
   
80.03   Vehicles impeding or interfering with work
   
80.04   Working on motor vehicles prohibited
§ 80.01 OVERNIGHT PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)    No person shall park a vehicle in any village park between the hours
of 11:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.
   (B)    Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 1988-10, passed 2-1-88)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 80.02 OPERATION LIMITED TO VEHICULAR AREAS.
   (A)    No person shall operate a motor vehicle in any area of a village park
other than those areas intended or designated for vehicular traffic and
parking.
   (B)    Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 1988-10, passed 2-1-88)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 80.03 VEHICLES IMPEDING OR INTERFERING WITH WORK.
   (A)    Whenever any vehicle is standing or parked in any village park in
such manner or location, whether in an area intended or designated for
vehicular traffic or parking, or otherwise, so as to impede or interfere with
any maintenance or repair work being performed or about to be performed, any
police officer may notify the owner, driver, or other person in charge of such
vehicle to move the vehicle to another location, or to remove it from the park
when reasonably necessary.
   (B)    Whenever the police officer is unable to locate or notify the owner,
driver, or other person in charge of a vehicle which is standing or parked so
as to impede or interfere with such maintenance or repair work, such officer
may provide for moving the vehicle, or for removal of the vehicle from the park
to a nearby garage or other place of safety when reasonably necessary. The
police officer shall attempt to make notification at least 24 hours prior to
the scheduled work.
   (C)    No owner, driver, or other person in charge of such vehicle, when
notified to move such vehicle to another location or to remove it from the
park, shall fail to comply with such notice.
   (D)    Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 1988-10, passed 2-1-88)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 80.04 WORKING ON MOTOR VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   (A)    No person shall repair, wash, wax, or do any type of work on a motor
vehicle in any village park.
   (B)    Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 1988-10, passed 2-1-88)
Penalty, see § 70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
         
91.   ANIMALS
         
92.   FIRE PREVENTION
         
93.   HEALTH, SANITATION AND NUISANCES
         
94.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
         
95.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
         
96.   PARKS
         
97.   FIREWORKS
CHAPTER 90: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
90.01   Intoxicating liquor
   
90.02   Beer or alcoholic beverages on public property
   
90.03   Open container prohibited
   
90.04   Consumption of liquor in motor vehicle prohibited
   
90.05   Obstructing search of premises prohibited
   
90.06   Alcohol vaporizing devices prohibited
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 INTOXICATING LIQUOR.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, manager, employee, or other agent of any
restaurant, hotel, club, or other establishment where beer, wine, spirituous
liquor, or other liquid containing .5% or more alcohol by weight is sold
regularly for beverage purposes, to sell or permit the sale of beer, wine,
spirituous liquor, or other liquid containing .5% or more alcohol by weight,
between the hours of l:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m., or to permit beer, wine,
spirituous liquor, or other liquid containing .5% or more alcohol by weight to
be consumed on the premises under his control during these hours. Every room or
compartment of the restaurant, hotel, club, or other establishment in which
beer, wine, spirituous liquor, or other liquid containing .5% or more alcohol
by weight are kept for sale, shall be securely locked each night at not later
than l:00 a.m. and shall not be reopened earlier than 6:00 a.m. It shall be
unlawful for any owner, manager, employee, or other agent of any restaurant,
hotel, club, or other establishment, to permit any room or compartment
containing beer, wine, spirituous liquor, or other liquid containing .5% or
more alcohol by weight to be unlocked between the hours of l:00 a.m. and 6:00
a.m.
('56 Code, § 13)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.02 BEER OR ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   No person shall consume any beer or alcoholic beverages on public property
within the village unless it is with written permission of the village or an
agency having control of such public property. For the purposes of this
section, all property owned by the village, church, or school property located
within the village shall be deemed public property.
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.03 OPEN CONTAINER PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section:
   CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINE means a vehicle registered under R.C. § 4503.24.
   STREET, HIGHWAY, and MOTOR VEHICLE have the same meanings as in R.C. §
4511.01.
   (B)   No person shall have in the person's possession an opened container of
beer or intoxicating liquor in any of the following circumstances:
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(1)(e) of this section, in a
state liquor store;
      (2)   Except as provided in division (C) or (J) of this section, on the
premises of the holder of any permit issued by the Division of Liquor Control;
      (3)   In any other public place;
      (4)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) of this section, while
operating or being a passenger in or on a motor vehicle on any street, highway,
or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking;
      (5)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) of this section, while
being in or on a stationary motor vehicle on any street, highway, or other
public or private property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking.
   (C)   (1)   A person may have in the person's possession an opened container
of any of the following:
         (a)   Beer or intoxicating liquor that has been lawfully purchased for
consumption on the premises where bought from the holder of an A-1-A, A-2, A-
2f, A-3a, D-1, D-2, D-3, D-3a, D-4, D-4a, D-5, D-5a, D-5b, D-5c, D-5d, D-5e, D-
5f, D-5g, D-5h, D-5i, D-5j, D-5k, D-5l, D-5m, D-5n, D-5o, D-7, D-8, D-9, E, F,
F-2, F-5, F- 7, or F-8 permit;
         (b)   Beer, wine, or mixed beverages served for consumption on the
premises by the holder of an F-3 permit, wine served as a tasting sample by an
A-2, A-2f, S-1, or S-2 permit holder for consumption on the premises of a
farmers market for which an F-10 permit has been issued, or wine served for
consumption on the premises by the holder of an F-4 or F-6 permit;
         (c)   Beer or intoxicating liquor consumed on the premises of a
convention facility as provided in R.C. § 4303.201;
         (d)   Beer or intoxicating liquor to be consumed during tastings and
samplings approved by rule of the Liquor Control Commission;
         (e)   Spiritous liquor to be consumed for purposes of a tasting
sample, as defined in R.C. § 4301.171.
      (2)   A person may have in the person's possession on an F liquor permit
premises an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor that was not
purchased from the holder of the F permit if the premises for which the F
permit is issued is a music festival and the holder of the F permit grants
permission for that possession on the premises during the period for which the
F permit is issued. As used in this division (C)(2), MUSIC FESTIVAL means a
series of outdoor live musical performances extending for a period of at least
three consecutive days and located on an area of land of at least 40 acres.
      (3)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession on a D-2 liquor
permit premises an opened or unopened container of wine that was not purchased
from the holder of the D-2 permit if the premises for which the D-2 permit is
issued is an outdoor performing arts center, the person is attending an
orchestral performance, and the holder of the D-2 permit grants permission for
the possession and consumption of wine in certain predesignated areas of the
premises during the period for which the D-2 permit is issued.
         (b)   As used in division (C)(3)(a) of this section:
            ORCHESTRAL PERFORMANCE means a concert comprised of a group of not
fewer than 40 musicians playing various musical instruments.
            OUTDOOR PERFORMING ARTS CENTER means an outdoor performing arts
center that is located on not less than 150 acres of land and that is open for
performances from the first day of April to the last day of October of each
year.
      (4)   A person may have in the person’s possession an opened or unopened
container of beer or intoxicating liquor at an outdoor location at which the
person is attending an orchestral performance as defined in division (C)(3)(b)
of this section if the person with supervision and control over the performance
grants permission for the possession and consumption of beer or intoxicating
liquor in certain predesignated areas of that outdoor location.
      (5)   (a)   A person may have in the person's possession on an F-9 liquor
permit premises an opened or unopened container of beer or intoxicating liquor
that was not purchased from the holder of the F-9 permit if the person is
attending either of the following:
            1.   An orchestral performance and the F-9 permit holder grants
permission for the possession and consumption of beer or intoxicating liquor in
certain predesignated areas of the premises during the period for which the F-
9 permit is issued;
            2.   An outdoor performing arts event or orchestral performance
that is free of charge and the F-9 permit holder annually hosts not less than
25 other events or performances that are free of charge on the permit premises.
         (b)   As used in division (C)(5) of this section, ORCHESTRAL
PERFORMANCE has the same meaning as in division (C)(3)(b) of this section.
      (6)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession on the property
of an outdoor motorsports facility an opened or unopened container of beer or
intoxicating liquor that was not purchased from the owner of the facility if
both of the following apply:
            1.   The person is attending a racing event at the facility; and
            2.   The owner of the facility grants permission for the possession
and consumption of beer or intoxicating liquor on the property of the facility.
         (b)   As used in division (C)(6)(a) of this section:
            OUTDOOR MOTORSPORTS FACILITY. An outdoor racetrack to which all of
the following apply:
               a.   It is 2.4 miles or more in length.
               b.   It is located on 200 acres or more of land.
               c.   The primary business of the owner of the facility is the
hosting and promoting of racing events.
               d.   The holder of a D-1, D-2, or D-3 permit is located on the
property of the facility.
            RACING EVENT. A motor vehicle racing event sanctioned by one or
more motor racing sanctioning organizations.
      (7)   (a)   A person may have in the person's possession an opened
container of beer or intoxicating liquor at an outdoor location within an
outdoor refreshment area created under R.C. § 4301.82 if the opened container
of beer or intoxicating liquor was purchased from an A-1, A-1-A, A-1c, A-2, A-
2f, D class, or F class permit holder to which both of the following apply:
            1.   The permit holder’s premises is located within the outdoor
refreshment area.
            2.   The permit held by the permit holder has an outdoor
refreshment area designation.
         (b)   Division (C)(7) of this section does not authorize a person to
do either of the following:
            1.   Enter the premises of an establishment within an outdoor
refreshment area while possessing an opened container of beer or intoxicating
liquor acquired elsewhere;
            2.   Possess an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor
while being in or on a motor vehicle within an outdoor refreshment area, unless
the possession is otherwise authorized under division (D) or (E) of this
section.
         (c)   As used in division (C)(7) of this section, "D class permit
holder" does not include a D-6 or D-8 permit holder.
      (8)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession on the property
of a market, within a defined F-8 permit premises, an opened container of beer
or intoxicating liquor that was purchased from a D permit premises that is
located immediately adjacent to the market if both of the following apply:
            1.   The market grants permission for the possession and
consumption of beer and intoxicating liquor within the defined F-8 permit
premises;
            2.   The market is hosting an event pursuant to an F-8 permit and
the market has notified the division of liquor control about the event in
accordance with R.C. § 4303.208(A)(3).
   (D)   This section does not apply to a person who pays all or a portion of
the fee imposed for use of a chauffeured limousine pursuant to a prearranged
contract or the guest of the person, when all of the following apply:
      (1)   The person or guest is a passenger in the limousine.
      (2)   The person or guest is located in the limousine, but is not
occupying a seat in the front compartment of the limousine where the operator
of the limousine is located.
      (3)   The limousine is located on any street, highway, or other public or
private property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking.
   (E)   An opened bottle of wine that was purchased from the holder of a
permit that authorizes the sale of wine for consumption on the premises where
sold is not an opened container for the purposes of this section if both of the
following apply:
      (1)   The opened bottle of wine is securely resealed by the permit holder
or an employee of the permit holder before the bottle is removed from the
premises. The bottle shall be secured in such a manner that it is visibly
apparent if the bottle has been subsequently opened or tampered with.
      (2)   The opened bottle of wine that is resealed in accordance with
division (E)(1) of this section is stored in the trunk of a motor vehicle or,
if the motor vehicle does not have a trunk, behind the last upright seat or in
an area not normally occupied by the driver or passengers and not easily
accessible by the driver.
   (F)   (1)   Except if an ordinance or resolution is enacted or adopted under
division (F)(2) of this section, this section does not apply to a person who,
pursuant to a prearranged contract, is a passenger riding on a commercial
quadricycle when all of the following apply:
         (a)   The person is not occupying a seat in the front of the
commercial quadricycle where the operator is steering or braking.
         (b)   The commercial quadricycle is being operated on a street,
highway, or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking.
         (c)   The person has in their possession on the commercial quadricycle
an opened container of beer or wine.
         (d)   The person has in their possession on the commercial quadricycle
not more than either 36 ounces of beer or 18 ounces of wine.
      (2)   The Legislative Authority may enact an ordinance or adopt a
resolution, as applicable, that prohibits a passenger riding on a commercial
quadricycle from possessing an opened container of beer or wine.
      (3)   As used in this section, COMMERCIAL QUADRICYCLE means a vehicle
that has fully-operative pedals for propulsion entirely by human power and that
meets all of the following requirements:
         (a)   It has four wheels and is operated in a manner similar to a
bicycle.
         (b)   It has at least five seats for passengers.
         (c)   It is designed to be powered by the pedaling of the operator and
the passengers.
         (d)   It is used for commercial purposes.
         (e)   It is operated by the vehicle owner or an employee of the owner.
   (G)   (1)   This section does not apply to a person that has in the person’s
possession an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor on the premises
of a market if the beer or intoxicating liquor has been purchased from a D
liquor permit holder that is located in the market.
      (2)   As used in division (G) of this section, MARKET means an
establishment that:
         (a)   Leases space in the market to individual vendors, not less than
50% of which are retail food establishments or food service operations licensed
under R.C. Chapter 3717;
         (b)   Has an indoor sales floor area of not less than 22,000 square
feet;
         (c)   Hosts a farmer’s market on each Saturday from April through
December.
   (H)   (1)   As used in this section, ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE has the same meaning
as in R.C. § 4303.185.
      (2)   An alcoholic beverage in a closed container being transported under
R.C. § 4303.185 to its final destination is not an opened container for the
purposes of this section if the closed container is securely sealed in such a
manner that it is visibly apparent if the closed container has been
subsequently opened or tampered with after sealing.
   (I)   This section does not apply to a person who has in the person's
possession an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor in a public-use
airport, as described in R.C. § 4303.181(D)(2)(a)(iii), when both of the
following apply:
      (1)   Consumption of the opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor
occurs in the area of the airport terminal that is restricted to persons taking
flights to and from the airport; and
      (2)   The consumption is authorized under R.C. § 4303.181(D)(2)(a).
   (J)   This section does not apply to a person that has in the person's
possession an opened container of homemade beer or wine that is served in
accordance with R.C. § 4301.201(E).
(R.C. § 4301.62)
   (K)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4301.99(A))
§ 90.04 CONSUMPTION OF LIQUOR IN MOTOR VEHICLE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall consume any beer or intoxicating liquor in a motor
vehicle. This section does not apply to persons described in R.C. § 4301.62(D)
or a substantially similar municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 4301.64)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If an offender who violates this section was under the age of 18 years
at the time of the offense, the court, in addition to any other penalties it
imposes upon the offender, may suspend the offender's temporary instruction
permit, probationary driver's license or driver's license for a period of not
less than 6 months and not more than one year. In lieu of suspending the
offender’s temporary instruction permit, probationary driver’s license, or
driver’s license, the court instead may require the offender to perform
community service for a number of hours determined by the court. If the
offender is 15 years and 6 months of age or older and has not been issued a
temporary instruction permit or probationary driver's license, the offender
shall not be eligible to be issued such a license or permit for a period of six
months. If the offender has not attained the age of 15 years and 6 months, the
offender shall not be eligible to be issued a temporary instruction permit
until the offender attains the age of 16 years.
(R.C. § 4301.99(B))
§ 90.05 OBSTRUCTING SEARCH OF PREMISES PROHIBITED.
   (A) No person shall hinder or obstruct any agent or employee of the
Department of Liquor Control or any officer of the law, from making an
inspection or search of any place where intoxicating liquor is sold.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 90.06 ALCOHOL VAPORIZING DEVICES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section, ALCOHOL VAPORIZING DEVICE means a machine or
other device that mixes beer or intoxicating liquor with pure oxygen or any
other gas to produce a vaporized product for the purpose of consumption by
inhalation.
   (B)   No person shall sell or offer for sale an alcohol vaporizing device.
   (C)   No person shall purchase or use an alcohol vaporizing device.
(R.C. § 4301.65)
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
misdemeanor of the third degree. For a second or subsequent violation occurring
within a period of five consecutive years after the first violation, a person
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(J))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4301.99(A))
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty is
otherwise provided, shall be fined not more than $100. A separate offense shall
be deemed committed on each day that a violation occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
   
91.01   Riding animals on streets
   
91.02   Animals running at large
   
91.03   Cruelty to animals
   
91.04   Harboring annoying animals
   
91.05   Control of dogs
   
91.06   Poisoning animals
   
91.07   Swine prohibited
   
91.08   Fowl running at large
   
91.09   Rabies inoculation
   
91.10   Rabies tag
   
91.11   Certificate of rabies inoculation
   
91.12   Failure to exhibit certificate
   
91.13   Dog exposed to rabies
   
91.14   Injuring squirrels or birds
   
91.15   Catching squirrels or birds
   
91.16   (Reserved)
   
91.17   Hunting and trapping animals prohibited
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Nuisance conditions prohibited, see §
93.05
§ 91.01 RIDING ANIMALS ON STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in any street, avenue, alley, park, or
public ground of the village to run or race any horse or other animal, or to
ride or drive any animal, whether attached to a vehicle or not, at a greater
rate of speed than seven m.p.h., or to ride or drive any horse or other animal,
whether drawing a vehicle or not, in a careless or negligent manner, so as to
endanger the person or property of others, or to permit any animal to stand
unhitched or unguarded in any street, avenue, alley, park, or public ground.
('56 Code, § l)
Penalty, see § 91.99
Cross-reference:
   Animals on sidewalks, see §
95.07
§ 91.02 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or having charge of any horses,
cattle, mules, asses, sheep, goats, swine, or geese to suffer the animals to
run at large in any of the avenues, streets, lanes, alleys, parks, commons, or
any unenclosed land within the village, or upon any premises within the village
other than those owned or occupied by the owner or keeper of the animal or
animals, or to cause or allow the animal or animals to be herded, kept or
detained, for the purpose of grazing on premises within the village, other than
the premises owned or occupied by the owner or keeper of the animal or animals.
('56 Code, § 2)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.03 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to beat, or otherwise injure, any animal
in a cruel and unnecessary manner within the village.
('56 Code, § 2-2)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.04 HARBORING ANNOYING ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to harbor or keep any animal,
including but not limited to dogs, horses, insects, and fowl, which by loud and
frequent or habitual noise, shall cause serious annoyance to persons in the
neighborhood. No person shall keep or harbor any animal or fowl in the village
so as to create noxious or offensive odors or unsanitary conditions which are a
menace to the health, comfort, or safety of the public. Any person who shall
allow such animal to habitually remain or be lodged or fed within his or her
house, store or premises, shall be considered as harboring the animal within
the meaning of this section.
   (B)   In determining whether a noise is of such a character as to
unreasonably disturb the peace and quiet of the community, a court shall
consider the following non-exclusive factors:
      (1)   The time of day at which the noise takes place;
      (2)   The intensity and duration of the noise; and
      (3)   The type of noise produced.
   (C)   It shall be presumed to be a violation of this section if notice to
cease and desist producing noise has been given to any person harboring or
keeping any animal, or any employee or representative of a person harboring or
keeping any animal, and that animal continues to make noise.
('56 Code, § 2-3) (Am. Ord. 2004-21, passed 10-4-04; Am. Ord. 2010- 50, passed
11-1-10; Am. Ord. 2023-20, passed 5-1-23) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 CONTROL OF DOGS.
   (A)   For purposes of this section AT LARGE shall mean being outside the
premises owned or rented by an owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog without
being (1) on a leash or tether that is controlled by a person of suitable age
and discretion; (2) on a leash or tether that is securely attached to a stake,
rod or other fixture secured to the ground and with a person of suitable age
and discretion who is in close enough proximity to prevent the dog from causing
harm to any person; or (3) in a pen or fenced area from which the dog cannot
leave.
   (B)   No owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog shall permit the dog to be at
large in the village.
   (C)   No owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog shall leave fecal matter
deposited by the dog upon public land, public right-of-way, or private land,
other than that of the owner, keeper or harborer.
(Ord. 2014-12, passed 4-7-14) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 POISONING ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, leave, or deposit any poisoned
meat or other food or any poisonous substance in any of the streets, avenues,
alleys, park grounds or public places of the village for the purpose of
destroying any animal of any kind.
('56 Code, § 2-5)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.07 SWINE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or harbor swine in the village.
('56 Code, § 2-7)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.08 FOWL RUNNING AT LARGE.
   No person being the owner of any chickens, turkeys, or ducks, or having
charge of the chickens, turkeys, or ducks as agent, shall permit the chickens,
turkeys, or ducks to run at large in any street, lane, alley, or common or
public ground of the village, or shall permit the chickens, turkeys, or ducks
to go upon or enter any private yard, lot, or enclosure.
('56 Code, § 2-9)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.09 RABIES INOCULATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep or harbor a dog over four
months of age within the village unless the dog shall have a currently
effective immunization against rabies in compliance with applicable standards
of the State of Ohio and Hamilton County administered by a regularly licensed
and practicing veterinarian.
('56 Code, § 2-10) (Am. Ord. 2014-12, passed 4-7-14) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.10 RABIES TAG.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or suffer any dog to be off
the premises of the owner, keeper or harbor of said dog within the village and
regardless of whether the dog is on a leash or tether, without a collar on the
dog bearing a metal tag showing that the dog has a currently effective
immunization against rabies in compliance with applicable standards of the
State of Ohio and Hamilton County.
(Am. Ord. 2014-12, passed 4-7-14) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.11 CERTIFICATE OF RABIES INOCULATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep or harbor any dog over four
months of age in the village without having in his possession a certificate of
a regularly licensed and practicing veterinarian showing that each dog so owned
or harbored by him has a currently effective immunization against rabies in
compliance with applicable standards of the State of Ohio and Hamilton County.
('56 Code, § 2-12) (Am. Ord. 2014-12, passed 4-7-14) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.12 FAILURE TO EXHIBIT CERTIFICATE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, keeping or harboring a dog over
four months of age in the village to fail or refuse to exhibit to the Marshal
or any police officer of the village, a certificate of a regularly licensed and
practicing veterinarian, showing that each dog so owned, kept or harbored by
him has a currently effective immunization against rabies in compliance with
applicable standards of the State of Ohio and Hamilton County.
('56 Code, § 2-13) (Am. Ord. 2014-12, passed 4-7-14) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.13 DOG EXPOSED TO RABIES.
   No person shall own, keep or harbor a dog within the village with knowledge
that the dog has been exposed to rabies, unless the dog has a currently
effective immunization against rabies in compliance with applicable standards
of the State of Ohio and Hamilton County administered by a regularly licensed
and practicing veterinarian, or if the dog shall not have been so inoculated,
unless the owner, keeper or harborer shall forthwith have the dog treated as a
dog exposed to rabies, by a regularly licensed and practicing veterinarian.
During the treatment, the owner shall keep the dog isolated and securely penned
up.
('56 Code, § 2-14) (Am. Ord. 2014-12, passed 4-7-14) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.14 INJURING SQUIRRELS OR BIRDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to kill, wound, maim, or injure in any
manner whatever, any squirrel or bird, within the corporate limits of the
village, or to throw, fire, or shoot with any gun, pistol, arrow, or other
deadly weapon, or throw any stones or other missiles at a squirrel, or bird
within the limits.
('56 Code, § 2-18)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.15 CATCHING SQUIRRELS OR BIRDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to catch or capture any squirrel or
bird, in any manner whatever, or set any traps or spread any snares or nets
with intent to catch or capture a squirrel or bird or to follow or pursue a
squirrel or bird with intent to catch or injure the squirrel or bird.
('56 Code, § 2-19)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.16 (RESERVED)
Editor’s note:
   This section, formerly based on R.C. § 2927.21 (Reporting Escape of Certain
Animals Required), was repealed because underlying state law was repealed by
the Ohio General Assembly.
§ 91.17 HUNTING AND TRAPPING ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall hunt, trap, kill or attempt to hunt, trap or kill any
animal or fowl by the use of firearms, bow and arrow, air rifle, traps,
slingshot or any other means within the corporation limits of the village.
   (B)   This section does not prohibit the killing or trapping of injured
animals, undesirable rodents, or any other animals which create a risk of
physical harm to persons, property, or other animals, authorized by the Chief
of Police. The means for killing or trapping must also be authorized by the
Chief of Police. Common household mouse and rat traps are not to be prohibited
by this section.
(Ord. 1989-23, passed 7-3-89)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter, for which no penalty
is otherwise provided, shall be fined not more than $100. A separate offense
shall be deemed committed on each day that a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   Whoever violates §
91.04 is guilty of a minor misdemeanor, not more than $150 on the first
violation. In the event subsequent violations of §
91.04 occurs within 12 months of the original offense, the violation will be
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (C)   Whoever violates §
91.05 is guilty of a minor misdemeanor, not more than $150 on the first
violation. In the event a subsequent violation of §
91.05 occurs within 12 months of the original offense, the violation will be
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (D)   Whoever violates §
91.17 is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree. A subsequent violation of
§
91.17 shall constitute a misdemeanor of the second degree. (Ord. 1989-23,
passed 7-3-89)
(Am. Ord. 2010-50, passed 11-1-10)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Adoption of Ohio Fire Code
Smoke Alarms
   
92.35   Definitions
   
92.36   Multi-family structures required to have smoke alarms
   
92.37   Maintenance
   
92.38   Fire Chief to administer
Key Lock Box
   
92.45   Key lock box program
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 ADOPTION OF OHIO FIRE CODE.
   (A)   The Ohio Fire Code is adopted by reference and made a part hereof as
fully as if set out at length herein.
   (B)   As the Ohio Fire Code is amended from time to time, such amendments
shall be deemed adopted by reference and made a part hereof as fully as if set
out at length herein, provided that Council may by ordinance reject any such
amendment of which it disapproves.
(Ord. 2013-34, passed 12-2-13)
SMOKE ALARMS
§ 92.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   STRUCTURE. Any building or cluster of buildings built to be operated as a
condominium, apartment complex, cluster of houses, or zero lot line structures
which do not have the side yard and setback requirements of single-family
detached dwellings between each dwelling unit. These structures are classified
into two categories:
      (1)   CATEGORY 1. Includes all structures or clusters of structures that
are designed to be occupied by more than 35 families.
      (2)   CATEGORY 2. Includes all structures or clusters of structures
designed to be occupied by 35 families or fewer.
(Ord. 1988-14, passed 3-7-88)
§ 92.36 MULTI-FAMILY STRUCTURES REQUIRED TO HAVE SMOKE ALARMS.
   (A) The owner or owners of any existing structure used for residential
purposes other than a single-family detached dwelling structure shall, no later
than July 1, 1988, install electronic smoke detector devices acceptable to the
Fire Chief of the village that will sound the alarm in the event of a fire in
the structure. Any dwelling structure other than a single-family detached
dwelling constructed after the effective date of this subchapter shall not be
occupied unless it has electronic smoke detector devices acceptable to the Fire
Chief of the village.
   (B) All “Category 1” structures shall have an alarm system that not only
sounds a local alarm in the building where it is located, but also notifies
either the Village Fire Department or a central dispatch station maintained 24
hours a day that is approved by the Fire Chief.
   (C) All “Category 2” structures or clusters of structures shall have local
smoke alarms that sound the alarms within the buildings where they are located.
(Ord. 1988-14, passed 3-7-88)
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.37 MAINTENANCE.
   The person or firm in control of the premises where a fire alarm is located
shall assure that the fire alarm is properly maintained and in operational
condition at all times.
(Ord. 1988-14, passed 3-7-88)
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.38 FIRE CHIEF TO ADMINISTER.
   The Fire Chief is authorized to issue such regulations as may be necessary
to effectively implement this subchapter.
(Ord. 1988-14, passed 3-7-88)
KEY LOCK BOX
§ 92.45 KEY LOCK BOX PROGRAM.
   (A)   The Fire Department may maintain a program to allow the owner or
person in control of any building to install and maintain a key lock box of a
type approved by the Chief of the Fire Department.
   (B)   The owner or person in control of any building may voluntarily install
a key lock box. Owners electing to do so shall be and subject to the
requirements and conditions as are described in this section.
   (C)   If the owner or person in control of any building chooses to have a
key lock box such owner or person shall cause to be placed in the key lock box
the following:
      (1)   Labeled keys to locked points of access in the exterior of the
building or facility;
      (2)   Labeled keys to locked points of access to common areas, such as
hallways or utility rooms, contained within such buildings or facilities;
      (3)   Labeled keys to locked mechanical rooms;
      (4)   Labeled keys to locked electrical rooms;
      (5)   Labeled keys to all other locked areas, other than individual
apartments or rented rooms, as directed by the Chief;
      (6)   The code or password for any security alarm system in the building
or facility; and
      (7)   Any other information that may be required by regulation.
   (D)   [Reserved.]
   (E)   The owner or person in control of any building having a key lock box
shall be present, himself or herself or through his or her agent, during access
to such key lock box by the Fire or Police Department, except when the said
Department has responded to an emergency at the property.
   (F)   The Fire Chief may propose rules and regulations for the placement and
maintenance of key lock boxes within the village, including approved types of
key lock boxes. Proposed rules and regulations will be submitted for approval
to the Village Council.
   (G)   The village assumes no liability for any of the following:
      (1)   Any defects in the operation of the key lock box, of any of the
keys contained within such key lock box or any information stored within the
key lock box or otherwise provided to the village;
      (2)   The failure or neglect to respond appropriately upon receipt of an
alarm from an alarm system;
      (3)   The failure or neglect of any owner or person in control of a
building or facility having a key lock box to provide access to the key lock
box; or
      (4)   The security of any property having a key lock box due to access to
the key lock box by any person.
(Ord. 2014-14, passed 7-7-14)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A) Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty is
otherwise provided, shall be fined not more than $100. A separate offense shall
be deemed committed on each day that a violation occurs or continues.
   (B) Anyone who violates §§ 92.35 through 92.38 shall be subject to penalty
of $500 per day for each violation.
(Ord. 1988-14, passed 3-7-88)
CHAPTER 93: HEALTH, SANITATION AND NUISANCES
Section
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Dumping; littering
   
93.03   Public trees
   
93.04   Excessive sound and noise prohibited
   
93.05   Cellar doors, drains, wells, and cisterns to be closed at night
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LITTER. Garbage, trash, waste, rubbish, ashes, cans, bottles, wire, paper,
cartons, boxes, automobile parts, furniture, glass, auxiliary containers, or
anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature.
   PUBLIC TREE. A tree located on or along a street, sidewalk, lawn, park or
other property owned by, or under the control of, the Village of Glendale. For
the purposes of this section, a tree includes small seedlings or saplings
planted specifically to grow to become a full-size tree.
(Ord. 2023-20, passed 5-1-23)
§ 93.02 DUMPING; LITTERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit litter upon or into any of
the streets, roads, alleys, highways, public parks or places, sidewalks or
gutters along the streets. Any use of this kind of the gutters, alleys, roads,
streets, avenues, highways, public parks and places of the village is
prohibited.
(Ord. 2023-20, passed 5-1-23)
§ 93.03 PUBLIC TREES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than the village or those
acting under direction of the Village Administrator, to remove or cause
significant damage to any public tree.
   (B)   If any public tree is removed or significantly damaged, the person
causing the removal or damage shall make a compensatory payment to the village
equal to the dollar value of the tree, or a value equal to the devaluation of
the tree caused by said damage.
   (C)   Payment received as described in division (B) above shall be deposited
into the Urban Forestry Board Fund for the purpose of enhancing urban forestry
in the village.
   (D)   No person, other than the village, or those acting under direction of
the Village Administrator, shall:
      (1)   Plant or transplant any tree on property belonging to, or under the
control of, the village;
      (2)   Damage, cut, carve, prune, damage the root system of, or remove any
public tree; nor attach any rope, wire, nails, poster or other artifact to any
public tree; nor allow any toxic substance to harm or damage any public tree;
or set fire to or otherwise injure by fire any public tree; or
      (3)   Spray, inject or otherwise apply any fertilizer or pesticide,
including, but not limited to, dormant oil, insecticide, fungicide, herbicide,
or other biological control to any public tree. This provision shall not apply
to inadvertent overspray of any fertilizer or other biological control.
(Ord. 2023-20, passed 5-1-23)
§ 93.04 EXCESSIVE SOUND AND NOISE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall operate, cause to be operated or
permit to be operated any whistle, rattle, bell, gong, clapper, hammer, drum,
horn, radio, phonograph, or other sound-producing or sound-amplifying
instrument so as to emit loud raucous noises or in any other way create noise
or sound in such a manner as to disturb the peace and quiet of a neighborhood
or as to interfere with the transaction of business or other ordinary pursuits.
   (B)   No person, firm or corporation shall operate, cause to be operated or
permit to be operated any whistle, rattle, bell, gong, clapper, hammer, drum,
horn, radio, phonograph, television, tape player, loud speaker or any other
electronically amplified sound device, instrument, machine or equipment in such
a manner and to be of such intensity and duration as to create unreasonable
noise or loud sound and which causes inconvenience and annoyance to persons of
ordinary sensibilities. It shall be prima facie unlawful for a person, firm or
corporation to operate, cause to be operated or permit to be generated, sound
by the above described devices or by any other means under the following
circumstances.
      (1)   No person, firm or corporation, by any means, shall, between the
hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on weekdays (Monday through Thursday), 7:00
a.m. and 12:00 midnight on Fridays, and between 8:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight on
Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays, make, resume, continue, cause or permit
any noise of such a character, intensity and duration as to unreasonably
disturb the peace and quiet of two complainants from separate households, or in
the judgement of a police officer, acting as one of the complainants,
constitute a nuisance, or be detrimental to the life or health of any
individual. Between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. on weekdays (Monday
through Friday morning), 12:01 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on Saturdays, Sundays and
legal holidays, a single complainant, either a resident or a police officer,
will be sufficient to allege a violation of this section.
      (2)   Any construction work on property within hearing distance of
property used for residential purposes shall not take place between the hours
of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. on weekdays (Monday through Friday morning), and
between 10:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. on Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.
CONSTRUCTION WORK shall be defined as any type of work which requires a
building permit. This section shall not apply to any construction work
performed by the city for the health, safety and welfare of the people of
Glendale.
      (3)   No person, being the owner, or person in possession, of a motor
vehicle with a device described above, shall cause or permit any noise
emanating from the motor vehicle which is plainly audible at a distance of 50
feet from the motor vehicle. The lawful use of a motor vehicle horn shall not
be a violation of this section.
      (4)   All noise from the use of such electronically amplified sound
devices shall be contained to the property on which such devices are located.
   (C)   In determining whether a noise is of such a character as to
unreasonably disturb the peace and quiet of the community, a court shall
consider the following factors:
      (1)   Complaints of neighbors regarding the noise;
      (2)   The time of day at which the noise takes place;
      (3)   The intensity and duration of the noise;
      (4)   The type of noise produced; and
      (5)   The alternate means available without excessive noise.
   (D)   It shall be presumed to be a violation of this section if notice to
cease and desist producing a noise has been given to any person and that person
continues to make, cause or permit a noise of similar intensity and duration.
   (E)   Nothing herein shall be construed to affect the reasonable giving of
information for religious, educational, cultural, or political purposes or the
usual and reasonable operation of railways, emergency warning devices, and
motor vehicles or to prohibit the reasonable use of automobile warning devices,
the reasonable ringing of church bells, the reasonable and ordinary noises
attendant on athletic contests or lawful public or semi-public meetings,
parades, celebrations or the right of free speech guaranteed to the citizens of
the United States. The following are further exempted from noise/sound
restrictions:
      (1)   Noises resulting from any work made necessary to restore property
to a safe condition or work required to protect persons or property from
imminent exposure to danger;
      (2)   Any other noise resulting from activities of a temporary duration
permitted by law and for which a license or permit therefore has been granted
by the village; and
      (3)   Any aircraft operated in conformity with, or pursuant to, federal
law, federal air regulations, and air traffic control instruction.
   (F)   For the purpose of this section, a request to desist means actual
notice of the disturbance by any person to the offender or to an employee or
representative of the offender. Once such a request to desist is made, it shall
continue to be effective for the purposes of this section beyond the immediate
time period in which it is given, and is effective even if the noise disturbs
persons other than the person who makes the request to desist.
(Ord. 2023-20, passed 5-1-23)
§ 93.05 CELLAR DOORS, DRAINS, WELLS, AND CISTERNS TO BE CLOSED AT NIGHT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or occupying any cellar, the door
of which may be in any street or avenue of the village, to allow the cellar
door to remain open between twilight in the evening and daylight of the morning
following, without having a light in the cellar way; or for any person to have
open any drain, well, cistern, cellar, or other hole, on any sidewalk, or in
any street, avenue, or alley of the village, between twilight in the evening
and daylight of the morning following, without having the hole properly lighted
and guarded.
(Ord. 2023-20, passed 5-1-23)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty is
otherwise provided, shall be fined not more than $100. A separate offense shall
be deemed committed on each day that a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 2023-20, passed 5-1-23)
CHAPTER 94: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
Section
   
94.01   Adoption
   
94.02   Amendments
   
94.03   Abatement
   
94.04   Junk vehicles
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 ADOPTION.
   The 2021 International Property Maintenance Code as published by the
International Code Council is designated as the Glendale Property Maintenance
Code, subject to the amendments set forth in this chapter. Copies of the code
shall be on file with the office of the Village Administrator. The 2021
International Property Maintenance Code as referred to in this chapter is also
referred to as "IPMC."
(Ord. 2023-20, passed 5-1-23)
§ 94.02 AMENDMENTS.
   The following sections of the above-adopted IPMC are amended as follows:
   (A)   Section 101.1 is hereby repealed and replaced with the following:
      101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Property Maintenance
Code of the Village of Glendale, Ohio hereinafter referred to as "this code."
   (B)   Section 102.7 is hereby repealed.
   (C)   Section 103.1 is hereby repealed and replaced with the following:
      103.1 Creation of agency. The Glendale Property Maintenance Department is
hereby created and the official in charge thereof shall be known as the code
official. The function of the agency shall be the implementation,
administration and enforcement of the provisions of this code.
   (D)   Section 103.2 is hereby repealed and replaced with the following:
      103.2 Appointment. The Village Administrator, or their designee, shall
serve as the code official.
   (E)   Section 103.3 is hereby repealed.
   (F)   Section 111.4.2 is hereby repealed and replaced with the following:
      111.4.2 Method of service. Such notice shall be deemed to be properly
served where a copy thereof is served in accordance with one of the following
methods: 1. A copy is delivered personally. 2. A copy is posted in a
conspicuous place on the premises. 3. A copy is sent by certified or registered
mail addressed to the owner at the last known address with the return receipt
requested. 4. A copy is delivered in any other manner as prescribed by local
law. Service of such notice in the foregoing manner upon the owner's agent or
upon the person responsible for the structure shall constitute service of
notice upon the owner.
   (G)   Section 202 definition of "INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE" is hereby
repealed.
   (H)   Section 202 is hereby amended to include: JUNK VEHICLE.
      "JUNK VEHICLE" shall mean:
      a.   A Motor Vehicle, Trailer, Motorcycle, Watercraft or Recreational
Vehicles that possesses any or all of the following types of damage: deflated,
wrecked, or missing tires or rims; missing or wrecked body parts; broken or
missing headlights, taillights or brake lights; broken, cracked or missing
windows or windshields; missing all or part of the motor or transmission;
missing or invalid license plate(s); or a vehicle that is otherwise apparently
inoperable.
   (I)   Section 302.4 is hereby amended to replace, "[JURISDICTION TO INSERT
HEIGHT IN INCHES]" with, "eight (8) inches."
   (J)   Section 302.8.1 is hereby created:
      "With the exception of collector's vehicles, parking or storage of any
motor vehicle, trailer, sailboat, or powercraft shall be permitted only on an
improved surface."
   (K)   Section 302.8.2 is hereby created:
      "A maximum of two sailboats, powercraft, trailers, riding lawn mowers or
similar equipment, or a combination thereof, for a maximum of two of the items
listed, may be parked or stored in an open area of a rear yard, provided they
are concealed from the view of neighboring property owners by means of
buildings, fences, vegetation, terrain, or other suitable obstruction and are
stored on an improved surface. A riding lawn mower or similar equipment need
not be stored on an improved surface."
   (L)   Section 304.14 is hereby amended to replace, "[DATE] to [DATE]" with,
"April 1 to October 1".
   (M)   Section 602.3 is hereby amended to replace, "[DATE] to [DATE]" with,
"April 1 to October 1".
   (N)   Section 602.4 is hereby amended to replace, "[DATE] to [DATE]" with,
"April 1 to October 1".
   (O)   Section 109.5, Abatement, is hereby repealed and replaced with §
94.03, Abatement, as provided in this chapter.
   (P)   Section 302.8, Vehicles, is hereby repealed and replaced with § 94.04,
Junk Vehicles, as provided in this chapter.
   (Q)   Section 108, Board of Appeals, is hereby repealed and replaced with §
154.65, Board of Appeals.
(Ord. 2023-20, passed 5-1-23)
§ 94.03 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Abatement and assessment by village regarding noxious weeds and
litter; procedure. If the owner of any lot or land in violation of this IPMC
fails to comply with the notice issued in accordance with this code as to
noxious weeds or litter as defined by this IPMC, and notice has been provided
to the owner in accordance with this IPMC, the Code Official shall destroy the
offending vegetation by spraying it with a chemical compound, approved by the
County Commissioner of Health, by cutting or digging under such weeds or by any
other method approved by the County Commissioner of Health, and may otherwise
remove litter and debris. The Code Official shall report all expenses involved
in the abatement of such violation, including the cost of service of notice, to
Council, after such activity is completed. When noxious weeds have been cut or
destroyed in accordance with this code, and/or litter removed in accordance
with this code, the cost thereof shall be a lien on the lot or land from the
date such expenses are reported to Council. The Clerk of Council shall certify
such cost to the County Auditor to be placed upon the tax list and collected as
other taxes are collected and returned to the village in accordance with R.C. §
731.54.
   (B)   Abatement and assessment by village regarding hazardous structures and
other nuisances; procedure. If the owner of any lot or land in violation of
this IPMC fails to comply with the notice issued in accordance with this code
as to hazardous structures or other nuisance conditions as defined by this
IPMC, and notice has been provided to the owner in accordance with this IPMC,
the Council, by resolution, shall authorize and direct the appropriate village
official to abate the violation. The Code Official or other relevant designee
shall report all expenses involved in the abatement of such violation,
including the cost of service of notice, to Council, once such abatement has
been completed. The Clerk of Council shall certify such cost to the County
Auditor to be placed upon the tax list and collected as other taxes are
collected and returned to the village in accordance with R.C. § 715.261.
   (C)   Abatement and assessment by village; costs assessed.
      (1)   For abatement action performed pursuant to the IPMC and this
section, for which the village is able and willing to undertake using its own
personnel and equipment, the costs charged against the abated property shall be
invoiced at an hourly rate equivalent to the hourly rate paid to the employee
or employees performing the abatement activity, plus up to 10% administrative
cost over and above that amount. This additional 10% fee is intended to cover
the village's additional personnel costs, equipment depreciation, fuel costs,
and similar costs.
      (2)   For abatement action performed pursuant to the IPMC and this
section, for which the village contracts with a third party, the costs charged
against the abated property shall be subject to the laws regarding contracting
and bidding, the village shall hire a commercially-reasonable and competent
contractor or contractors to complete the abatement action, and the village
shall charge for all expenses incurred by the village in connection with the
abatement services performed, plus up to a 10% charge for the village's
administrative costs related thereto.
(Ord. 2023-20, passed 5-1-23)
§ 94.04 JUNK VEHICLES.
   (A)   Prohibition against junk vehicles on private property. No person in
charge or control of any property within the village, whether as owner, tenant,
occupant, lessee, or any person otherwise having care or control of any
premises within the village, shall allow any partially dismantled, or non-
operating, or wrecked, or junked, or discarded vehicle, or vehicle which does
not have secured to it the full number of current license plates required by
the laws of the state, to remain on such property longer than seven consecutive
days per calendar year. No person whether as owner, tenant, occupant, or lessee
of such property or as owner, renter or other rightful user or person with a
right to possession of any such vehicle shall allow any such vehicle to remain
on any property within the village for a longer time than seven consecutive
days per calendar year; except that this section shall not apply to such a
vehicle that is stored completely within an enclosed building or garage or is
otherwise specifically permitted pursuant to Zoning Code as found in the
Village of Glendale, Ohio Code of Ordinances, Chapter 154.
   (B)   Status of junk vehicles as public nuisance. The location or presence
of any junk vehicle on any public or private land or property, or public or
private street, alley, or way within the Village of Glendale is hereby deemed a
public nuisance and is subject to summary abatement as provided in this
section, any other ordinance or law of the Village of Glendale or as provided
under any relevant portion of the Ohio Revised Code. No person shall permit a
junk vehicle to remain in the open on any public or private property within the
Village of Glendale after receipt of a notice to remove such vehicle due to its
nature as a public nuisance.
   (C)   Enforcement; authority of Code Official; notices of violation; powers
of the Code Official. The Code Official, as designated by this chapter, is
hereby authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this section,
through himself/herself or through a designee. The Code Official shall have the
authority to render interpretations of this section and to adopt policies and
procedures in order to clarify the application of its provisions. Such
interpretations, policies and procedures shall be in compliance with the intent
and purpose of this section. Such policies and procedures shall not have the
effect of waiving requirements specifically provided for in this section.
      (1)   Inspections. The Code Official shall make all of the required
inspections, or shall accept reports of inspection by approved designees,
agencies or individuals. All reports of such inspections shall be in writing.
The Code Official is authorized to engage such expert opinion as deemed
necessary to report upon unusual technical issues that arise, subject to the
approval of the appointing authority.
      (2)   Right of entry. The owner, occupant, tenant, or person in charge of
any property possesses the right to deny entry to any property by the Code
Official or his/her designee for the purpose of compliance with this section.
However, nothing in this section shall prohibit the Code Official or his/her
designee from asking permission from an owner, occupant, tenant, or person in
charge of property for permission to inspect such property for compliance with
this section and all other applicable laws, regulations and codes, to seek a
search warrant based on probable cause, or to enter such property in case of
emergency circumstances requiring expeditious action.
      (3)   Identification. The Code Official shall carry proper identification
when inspecting premises in the performance of duties under this section.
      (4)   Notice of violation; orders.
         (a)   Notice to person responsible. Whenever the Code Official
determines that there has been a violation of this section, notice shall be
given in the manner prescribed in division (C)(4)(b) below as to form and
division (C)(4)(c) below as to method of service to the party or parties
responsible for the violation as specified in this section.
         (b)   Form. Such notice prescribed in division (C)(4)(a) of this
section shall be in accordance with all of the following. Such notice shall:
            1.   Be in writing;
            2.   Include a description of the property/premises sufficient for
identification;
            3.   Include a photograph or photographs of the junk vehicle, taken
by the official making such inspection;
            4.   Include a statement of the violation or violations and why the
notice is being issued. Such statement shall include the following details, to
the extent such details are available:
               a.   The make and model of the vehicle;
               b.   The vehicle identification number; and
               c.   Description of the damaged or missing parts or equipment;
            5.   Include a correction order that shall state that the
responsible party has seven days from time of delivery/posting of the order to
either (1) remove the vehicle(s) that are the subject of the notice; or (2) to
give written notice of an appeal of the Village of Glendale pursuant to
division (D) below; and
            6.   Inform the party responsible of the village's right to file to
abate the violation and to file a lien in accordance with division (F)(3)
below.
         (c)   Method of service. Such notice shall be deemed to be properly
served if a copy thereof:
            1.   Is delivered personally by the Code Official or his/her
designee and handed to an individual at the premises, or if no individual is
present, a copy thereof shall be posted in a conspicuous place in or about the
premises by such notice; or
            2.   Is sent by certified or first-class mail addressed to the last
known address of the party responsible; or
            3.   If mailed and returned as undelivered, such letter or a copy
thereof is subsequently posted in a conspicuous place in or about the premises
by such notice.
         (d)   Unauthorized tampering. Signs, tags or seals posted or affixed
by the Code Official shall not be mutilated, destroyed or tampered with, or
removed without authorization from the Code Official.
         (e)   Modifications. Whenever there are practical difficulties
involved in carrying out the provisions of this section, the Code Official
shall have the authority to grant modifications for individual cases upon
application of the party responsible provided the Code Official shall first
find that special individual reason makes the strict letter of this section
impractical, the modification is in compliance with the intent and purpose of
this section and that such modification does not lessen health, life and fire
safety requirements. The details of action granting modifications shall be
recorded and entered in the department files.
   (D)   Appeal. If any recipient of a notice of violation of this section to
remove a junk vehicle would like to appeal the order, a written notice of
appeal must be filed with the Board of Zoning Appeals at the Village of
Glendale village offices at 30 Village Square prior to the expiration of the
seven day time limit from receipt of such notice/delivery and posting of such
notice. An appeal may only be filed by:
      (1)   Appearing in person at the village offices at 30 Village Square and
completing a written notice of appeal; or
      (2)   Sending a written notice of appeal via facsimile or regular U.S.
mail, as long as it is received by the village at the village offices at 30
Village Square prior to the expiration of the seven day time limit.
   (E)   Conclusive presumption of junk vehicle as a public nuisance. If any
recipient of a notice to remove a junk vehicle fails to either (1) comply with
the notice of violation/order; or (2) appeal the notice in writing pursuant to
the notice and to this section, the vehicle or vehicles that are the subject of
the order shall be conclusively presumed to be "junk vehicle(s)" and a public
nuisance, and such public nuisance may be abated by the Police Department by
way of removing the violating vehicles from the premises.
   (F)   Enforcement and penalties. If the party responsible neither complies
with the notice of violation/order nor appeals the notice within the time
provided, the Code Official may institute the appropriate proceeding at law or
in equity to restrain, correct or abate such violation, including the
following:
      (1)   Imposition of the penalties found in §
94.99;
      (2)   Injunctive relief; and
      (3)   Removal and disposal of junk vehicles.
         (a)   The Code Official or his designee may direct the Police
Department to order the junk vehicle towed or otherwise removed from the
property or place where found in the event that the Code Official or his/her
designee has determined, upon lawful inspection, that the junk vehicle
possesses any of the following characteristics, which constitute an imminent
danger to the public health, safety, or general welfare:
            1.   The junk vehicle has become a breeding ground or harbor for
mosquitoes or other insects, snakes, rats, or other pests;
            2.   The junk vehicle has become a point of heavy growth of weeds
or other noxious vegetation over eight inches in height;
            3.   The junk vehicle is a point of concentration of gasoline, oil,
or other flammable or explosive materials;
            4.   The junk vehicle is so located that there is a danger of the
vehicle falling or turning over; or
            5.   The junk vehicle is a source of danger for children through
entrapment in areas of confinement that cannot be opened from the inside or
from exposed surfaces of metal, glass, or other rigid materials.
         (b)   Thereafter, such junk vehicle shall be deemed forfeited, to be
disposed of in accordance with the terms of this section.
         (c)   Prior to being removed, the junk vehicle shall be:
            1.   Photographed by the authorized official ordering the removal
of such vehicle;
            2.   The authorized official shall verify in writing that the
vehicle is the same as described in the inspection provided under division (C)
(4)(b);
            3.   The authorized official shall include a written and
photographic description as to the reasons the junk vehicle is determined to
meet one or more of the characteristics of §
94.02(H).
            4.   Once the authorized official has documented the junk vehicle's
status per the above terms, the Police Department shall thereupon tow, remove,
or cause to be removed such "junk vehicle" and shall immediately dispose of it
to a vehicle salvage dealer, as defined in R.C. § 4738.01, or a scrap metal
processing facility, as defined in R.C. § 4737.05.
            5.   Recovery of costs. Any monies accruing from the disposition of
a junk vehicle that are in excess of the expenses incurred by the village for
towing, removal or storage of the vehicle shall be credited to a fund of the
Village of Glendale.
            6.   Lien filed. Any action taken by the authority having
jurisdiction on such premises where costs of abatement of the violation are
incurred by the village over and above what was recoverable pursuant to the
above division (F)(3)(c)5., such costs shall be charged against the real estate
upon which the structure is located and shall be a lien upon such real estate.
(Ord. 2023-20, passed 5-1-23)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty is
otherwise provided, shall be fined not more than $100. A separate offense shall
be deemed committed on each day that a violation occurs or continues; in the
case of junk vehicles under § 94.04, each day and each individual vehicle shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2023-20, passed 5-1-23)
CHAPTER 95: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
95.01   Datum of levels
   
95.02   Grades
   
95.03   Playing in streets and parks
   
95.04   Use of streets for entertainment
   
95.05   Riding animals on sidewalks
   
95.06   Obstructing gutters
   
95.07   Obstructing sidewalks or footwalks
   
95.08   Excavations; restoration
   
95.09   Obstructing streets
   
95.10   Excavations to be lighted; barricades
   
95.11   Signs over sidewalks or streets
   
95.12   Erection of sign in public place
   
95.13   Signboards and billboards at railroad crossings
   
95.14   Billboards or signboards at cross streets
   
95.15   Billboards on residential streets; consent
   
95.16   Danger signals; requirements
   
95.17   Damaging avenues or public grounds
   
95.18   Sidewalks to be kept clean; notice
   
95.19   Sidewalks to be cleaned
   
95.20   Sewers in or under streets
   
95.21   Plan of improvements to be presented to Council
   
95.22   Roadways and sidewalks; construction
 
   
95.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Riding bicycles on sidewalks, see §
75.07
§ 95.01 DATUM OF LEVELS.
   The datum or standard of levels for all engineering work under the direction
and control of the village government, is established at 200 feet below the
level of the top of the front door-sill of the Town Hall.
('56 Code, § 7)
§ 95.02 GRADES.
   (A)   All avenues, streets, sidewalks, and gutters shall have a uniform and
connected grade, and ample provision shall be made for their thorough drainage.
Whenever any water shall have to be carried across an avenue, street, or
sidewalk, it shall be done by a covered culvert, fixed under the direction of
the proper committee of Council, in accordance with ordinance made and provided
therefor.
('56 Code,§ 7-1)
   (B)   Whenever any avenue, street, or sidewalk shall be improved under
ordinance, the grade thereof, as fixed at the time of the improvement, shall
not be thereafter changed unless by authority of subsequent ordinance.
('56 Code, § 7-2)
   (C)   Whenever the grade of any avenue, street, sidewalk, or gutter shall be
changed, or any avenue, street, sidewalk, or gutter shall have obstructions of
any kind placed thereon, without the authority of the proper committee of
Council, approved by ordinance, it shall be the duty of the committee or of the
Mayor or Marshal, to notify the owners of property abutting on the avenue,
street, sidewalk, or gutter thus changed or obstructed, to restore the grade or
remove the obstruction within one week. In default thereof, it shall be the
duty of the proper committee of Council to have the work done at the expense of
the owners of property, or of the party causing the change or obstruction. If
the committee finds the change necessary, they may report the change to the
Council for action, and, until the action, suspend their proceedings.
('56 Code, § 7-3)
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.03 PLAYING IN STREETS AND PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw any ball, or play at any game
of ball, or engage in snowballing in any street, avenue, alley, park or public
ground of the village without a permit issued by the village.
('56 Code, § 1-4)
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.04 USE OF STREETS FOR ENTERTAINMENT.
   It shall be unlawful to use the avenues, streets, or public grounds of the
village for any game, show, exhibition, or entertainment without permission
granted by the Mayor.
('56 Code, § 7-5)
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.05 RIDING ANIMALS ON SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride or drive any animal of any
description on the sidewalks, parks, or public grounds of the village.
('56 Code, § 7-8)
Penalty, see § 95.99
Cross-reference:
   Animals on streets, see §
91.01
§ 95.06 OBSTRUCTING GUTTERS.
   It shall be unlawful to obstruct any gutter so as to impede the passage of
water flowing in the gutter in any road, avenue, street, or other highway in
the village.
('56 Code, § 7-11)
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.07 OBSTRUCTING SIDEWALKS OR FOOTWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to encumber any sidewalk or footwalk by
placing barrels, boxes, coal, wood, or other substance on the sidewalk or
footwalk, so as to prevent the free passage along the sidewalk or footwalk.
('56 Code, § 7-12)
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.08 EXCAVATIONS; RESTORATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person hereafter to dig into or in any
manner break up any of the roads, avenues, or other highways in the village, or
any sidewalks, or raise or break up any part of any of the pavements or
curbstones thereon for any purpose, without a permit from the Mayor or proper
committee of Council, or unless in pursuance of an ordinance or resolution of
Council. Any person engaged in or employing others in excavation in any of the
roads, avenues, or other highways, shall have the roads, avenues, or highways
protected by suitable barriers against accident to person or property.
   (B)   When any person desires to dig up or make an opening in any of the
streets or alleys of the village, he shall make application to the Clerk of the
village for a permit to do so and, in addition to the fee provided for the
permit, he shall post a bond with the Clerk in the sum of $1,000 for each
digging up or opening, which deposit shall be held by the village as a pledge
for the prompt and proper restoration of the street or alley so dug up or
opened, and shall be returned to the person when the street or alley shall have
been so restored, or in the event of his failure to do so, shall be used by the
village in the restoration thereof.
('56 Code, § 7-14)
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.09 OBSTRUCTING STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any one to deposit any dirt, rubbish, stones,
brick, lime, or other material (except in case of erection of buildings for
which a proper permit has been obtained), in any road, street, avenue, or other
highway in the village, and allow the material to remain there over 24 hours;
or otherwise to obstruct in any manner or form, or to block any portion of any
road, avenue, street, or other highway in the village, or to erect any
building, or other structure on the road, avenue, street or highway.
('56 Code, § 7-15)
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.10 EXCAVATIONS TO BE LIGHTED, BARRICADES.
   (A)   No person shall abandon or knowingly permit to remain on public or
private property, any excavation, well, cesspool, or structure which is in the
process of construction, reconstruction, repair, or alteration unless the same
is adequately protected by suitable barricades and guarded by warning devices
or lights at night so that the condition will not reasonably prove dangerous to
life or limb.
   (B)   No person shall destroy, remove, damage, or extinguish any barricade
or warning light that is placed for the protection of the public so as to
prevent injury to life or limb.
   (C)   Any owner or agent in control of a premises on which a basement,
cellar, well, or cistern has been abandoned due to demolition, failure to
build, or any other reason shall cause the same to be filled to the ground
surface with rock, gravel, earth, or other suitable material.
('56 Code, § 7-16) (Ord. 1982-21, passed 7-12-82)
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.11 SIGNS OVER SIDEWALKS OR STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to set up or place any sign,
signboard, signpost, or pole, meat-rack, hooks, or other device or thing
whatever to denote or show his, her, or their occupation or business, or the
merchandise or anything which he, she, or they have to dispose of, in or over
any of the sidewalks, streets, or other public thoroughfares of the village, if
the sign or device shall extend from the line of the street or building into or
over the sidewalk, street, or thoroughfare, more than 18 inches, or shall be
less than eight feet above the level of the sidewalk, street, or thoroughfare.
('56 Code, § 7-17)
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.12 ERECTION OF SIGN IN PUBLIC PLACE.
   The erection of any signboard, post, pole, or other device, upon any park,
public place or space in the village is hereby strictly prohibited and declared
unlawful.
('56 Code, § 7-18)
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.13 SIGNBOARDS AND BILLBOARDS AT RAILROAD CROSSINGS.
   Wherever a public street, avenue, road, or highway is crossed by a railroad
in the village, it shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to
erect, construct, or maintain any billboard or signboard which shall obstruct
the line of sight within the area established by the following points: from the
intersection of the border of the public street, avenue, road, or highway, and
the closest rail which crosses the public street, avenue, road, or highway, to
a point on the border of the public street, avenue, road, or highway 200 feet
distant from the intersection and a point on the rail 400 feet distant from the
intersection of the rail and the border of the public street, avenue, road, or
highway, and all points and measurements herein mentioned are to be those
closest to the billboard or signboard.
('56 Code, § 7-19)
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.14 BILLBOARDS OR SIGNBOARDS AT CROSS STREETS.
   Wherever a public street, avenue, road, or highway crosses another public
street, avenue, road, or highway in the village, it shall be unlawful for any
person, firm, or corporation to erect, construct, or maintain any billboard or
signboard within a distance of 100 feet from the nearest corner of the
intersection of the cross streets, avenues, roads, or highways.
('56 Code, § 7-20)
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.15 BILLBOARDS ON RESIDENTIAL STREETS; CONSENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation, to maintain,
erect, or construct any billboard or signboard in any block on any public
street, avenue, road, or highway in the village in which half of the buildings
on both sides of the public street, avenue, road, or highway are used for
residence purposes, without first obtaining the consent in writing of the
owners or duly authorized agents of the owners owning a majority of the
frontage of the property on both sides of the street in the block in which the
billboard or signboard is maintained, or is to be erected, constructed, or
located, and the written consent is filed with the Mayor.
('56 Code, § 7-21)
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.16 DANGER SIGNALS; REQUIREMENTS.
   Nothing contained in §§
95.13 through
95.15 shall apply to sign-boards, signposts, or danger signals required to be
erected and maintained by the laws of the state or the ordinances of the
village.
('56 Code, § 7-22)
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.17 DAMAGING AVENUES OR PUBLIC GROUNDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully cut, deface, destroy, or in
any manner injure any hedge, shade tree, fruit tree, evergreen, flower,
ornamental shrub, or forest tree, or vegetable of any kind, or lawn, flower
bed, or cultivated ground, not belonging to him, or knowingly permit any animal
or fowl belonging to him, or under his care, to do so, or to cut or remove sod
or dirt from the avenues or public grounds of Glendale.
('56 Code, § 7-23)
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.18 SIDEWALKS TO BE KEPT CLEAN; NOTICE.
   (A)   The owner, occupant, or any person having the care of any building or
lot of land bordering on any street, square, or public place within the
village, where there is a sidewalk graded and paved, shall, within 24 hours
after receiving notice from a village police officer to that effect, cause the
removal from the paved portion of the sidewalk upon which the building or lot
borders, of the accumulation of leaves, dirt, or other substance that may be
dangerous to pedestrians, or a hindrance to the proper use of the paved portion
of sidewalk.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of any police officer of the village to notify
any owner or owners, occupant or occupants, or other person above designated,
to cause the removal provided for in this section.
('56 Code, § 7-29)
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.19 SIDEWALKS TO BE CLEANED.
   It shall be unlawful for any property owner to allow the sidewalk in front
of his or her property to remain in a dirty or unclean condition for a period
of one week after official notification of the condition by the Chief of Police
or other officer of the village.
('56 Code, § 7-30)
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.20 SEWERS IN OR UNDER STREETS.
   The departments, officers, and employees of the village, or any of them
shall not accept, lay out, open, improve, grade, pave, curb, or light any
street or other way, or lay or authorize to be laid any water mains, water
lines, or water connections, or sewers or sewer connections in or under any
street or other way, or permit any water mains or sewers to be connected with
the water and sewer systems of the village unless the street or way meets the
following requirements.
   (A)   Shall have been dedicated, accepted, improved, opened, and used as a
public street, prior to the effective date of this chapter.
   (B)   Unless the street or way corresponds in location and extent with a
street or way shown on a recorded plat, approved by the City Planning
Commission of the village and is constructed according to specifications
adopted therefor by the City Planning Commission and also according to the
specifications hereinafter provided for, and all of the cost of the
construction of the street or way according to the specifications including the
cost of sidewalks, combined curbs, sewers, and water mains with necessary
appurtenances all as required by the specifications is paid for by the person
or persons seeking an acceptance of the street or way, or the person or persons
seeking connection in the street or way with the sewer and water systems of the
village.
   (C)   Unless the location and extent of the street or way shall have been
first submitted to the Council for approval, and shall have received the
approval. However, in approving or refusing to approve any street or way,
Council shall not rule inconsistently with a recommendation of the City
Planning Commission except, on a two-thirds vote of all members elected to
Council.
('56 Code, § 7-33)
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.21 PLAN OF IMPROVEMENTS TO BE PRESENTED TO COUNCIL.
   Before any improvements are begun on the streets the owner shall first have
presented to Council a complete plan showing the proposed improvements,
including profiles, cross sections, and proposed grades, as well as all
necessary underground utilities such as sewers, water mains, and appurtenances,
and the like, and in the event the proposed plans and grades are satisfactory
to the Council, the grades will be established by ordinance of the Council.
('56 Code, § 7-33-1)
§ 95.22 ROADWAYS AND SIDEWALKS; CONSTRUCTION.
   Roadways shall be of Bituminous Macadam constructed in accordance with the
current specifications of the Village Engineer. However, the minimum width of
the macadam portion shall be 26 feet, and the macadam portion shall be
supplemented with concrete combined curb and gutter on each side, which curb
and gutter shall be built in accordance with specifications of the Village
Engineer. The combined curb and macadam portion to have a total width of not
less than 31 feet. Sidewalks of concrete not less than four feet wide on each
side of the street constructed according to the current specifications of the
Engineer will be required. The specifications of the Village Engineer will at
all times be reasonably consistent with the current specifications of the
Highway Department of the City of Cincinnati for similar improvements.
('56 Code, § 7-33-2)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty is
otherwise provided, shall be fined not more than $100. A separate offense shall
be deemed committed on each day that a violation occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 96: PARKS
Section
   
96.01   Regulations limiting the times that parks may be occupied
   
96.02   Park rules and regulations
§ 96.01 REGULATIONS LIMITING THE TIMES THAT PARKS MAY BE OCCUPIED.
   (A)   The public parks of the village shall be open for use only during the
daylight hours and no person shall enter or remain upon the grounds of any such
public park during any time of darkness.
   (B)   For purposes of this section PUBLIC PARKS are defined as any property
owned, leased or maintained by the village for recreational purposes; and
DARKNESS shall mean those times that the sun is completely set following dusk
and any time preceding dawn.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section and is convicted or pleads guilty to
this minor misdemeanor shall be fined no more than $200.
(Ord. 1992-38, passed 11-2-92)
§ 96.02 PARK RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The village has five active parks and nine passive parks. Reservations
can be made for use of four of the five active parks. Parks are available on a
limited basis to residents and (limited) non-residents.
      (1)   Washington Park; Picnics, soccer, baseball, basketball;
      (2)   Summit Park; Picnics, soccer, baseball, tennis;
      (3)   Lake Park; baseball;
      (4)   Saunder's Park; baseball.
   (B)   Purpose. There is great demand for our recreational fields and
flexible Administrative policies are necessary to protect both the condition
and availability of the fields. Over 1,000 families pay taxes to provide and
maintain these four recreational parks and the village will strive to share the
time fairly and equitably among all of these taxpayers. The Village
Administration reserves the right to amend these polices when in the best
interest of the village. Amendment(s) may include limiting time availability,
day availability and or denial of use. Should a sport activity be deemed too
harsh, inappropriate or injurious to the physical condition of the park(s), an
application may be rejected. Failure to follow procedures and or rules will
also result in rejection of present and future use. Those continuing to violate
these rules and or regulations, after receiving reasonable notice, may be
prosecuted in the Glendale Magistrate Court under §
96.02.
   (C)   When a permit is necessary.
      (1)   Groups of six or more persons require a permit.
      (2)   Organized sports or sport events require a permit.
   (D)   Glendale fields are available to residents and non-residents as
follows;
      (1)   Organized sports with at minimum of 50% active residential
(Glendale) children have first priority and are exempt from user fees.
      (2)   Residents (Glendale) utilizing the parks for unorganized family
member sports, events and picnics have second priority and are exempt from user
fees. In order to provide residential impromptu and non-organized residential
use of the four parks, 15% of the field time (one day) is set aside for this
use each week and will not be reserved.
      (3)   Organized sports with less than 50% but greater than 25% active
residential (Glendale) children have third priority and will receive a 50%
discount of base user.
      (4)   Organized sports with no or less than 25% active residential
children have a fourth priority and will be subject to normal user fees.
   (E)   2007 User Fees;      $100.00 per day
                  $50.00 per day at 50% Factor
                  $25.00 per day at 25% Factor
   (F)   No one team, organization, person or entity shall be permitted to
reserve more than three days per seven day schedule. No one team, organization,
person or entity shall be permitted to reserve a park or field for more than
three hours on average in any one day for games and or practices.
   (G)   Rainouts of organized GYS Sports activities may cause the cancellation
of non-resident scheduled events and may allow for temporary exceptions of
aforesaid rules, subject to the Scheduling Administrator's approval.
   (H)   Tournaments are limited to one per season per team.
   (I)   Concessions, charges, admission fees, advertising is expressly
prohibited on or about Village Recreational property and parks.
   (J)   Modification to facilities, equipment, painting, or other changes to
that which is established is prohibited without the Village Administrator's
approval.
(Ord. 2006-22, passed 6-5-06)
CHAPTER 97: FIREWORKS
Section
   
97.01   Definitions
   
97.02   Unauthorized possession, sale, or discharge of fireworks
 
   
97.99   Penalty
§ 97.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREWORKS. Any composition or device prepared for the purpose of producing a
visible or an audible effect by combustion, deflagration, or detonation, except
ordinary matches and except as provided in R.C. § 3743.80.
   LICENSED EXHIBITOR OF FIREWORKS or LICENSED EXHIBITOR. A person licensed
pursuant to R.C. §§ 3743.50 through 3743.55.
(Ord. 2022-62, passed 12-5-22)
§ 97.02 UNAUTHORIZED POSSESSION, SALE, OR DISCHARGE OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   No person shall possess for sale or sell fireworks in this village.
   (B)   No person shall possess fireworks in this village, except a licensed
exhibitor of fireworks as authorized by R.C. §§ 3743.50 through 3743.55, and
except as provided in R.C. § 3743.80.
   (C)   Except as provided in R.C. § 3743.80 and except for licensed
exhibitors of fireworks authorized to conduct a fireworks exhibition pursuant
to R.C. §§ 3743.50 through 3743.55, no person shall discharge, ignite, or
explode any fireworks in this village.
   (D)   No person shall transport fireworks in the village except in
accordance with rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal pursuant to R.C. §
3743.58.
(Ord. 2022-62, passed 12-5-22)
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty is
otherwise provided shall be fined $150 for the first offense in a calendar year
and is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. Whoever violates any provision of this
chapter for which no penalty is otherwise provided, and whose said offense is
the second offense under this chapter in a calendar year, shall be fined $250
and is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Whoever violates any
provision of this chapter for which no penalty is otherwise provided, and whose
said offense is the third or any additional offense under this chapter in a
calendar year, shall be fined $500 and is guilty of misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(Ord. 2022-62, passed 12-5-22)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
         
111.   CABLE TELEVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 110: PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
Section
   
110.01   Peddlers, solicitors, and itinerant merchants declared a nuisance
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   The practice of going in and upon private residences in the village by
solicitors, peddlers, hawkers, itinerant merchants, or transient vendors of
merchandise, not having been requested or invited to do so by the owner or
owners, occupant or occupants of the private residences, for the purpose of
soliciting orders for the sale of goods, wares, and merchandise, or disposing
of, or peddling or hawking the same or for the purpose of soliciting services
or contributions is declared to be a nuisance.
(Ord. 1993-37, passed 7-12-93; Am. Ord. 1982-10, passed 4-5-82; Am. Ord. 1982-
18, passed 7-12-82)
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty is
otherwise provided, shall be fined not more than $100. A separate offense shall
be deemed committed on each day that a violation occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 111: CABLE TELEVISION REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Customer Service standards adopted by reference
   
111.03   Cable operator information
Initial Review of Basic Cable Rates
   
111.15   Notice; operator response
   
111.16   Expedited determination and public hearing
   
111.17   Extended review period
   
111.18   Public hearing; objections
   
111.19   Benchmark analysis
   
111.20   Cost-of-service showing
   
111.21   Decision
   
111.22   Appeal
Review of Request for Increase in Basic Cable Rates
   
111.35   Notice
   
111.36   Expedited determination and public hearing
   
111.37   Extended review period
   
111.38   Public hearing; objections
   
111.39   Delayed determination
   
111.40   Price cap analysis
   
111.41   Cost-of-service showing
   
111.42   Decision
   
111.43   Refunds
   
111.44   Appeal
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASIC CABLE RATES. The monthly charges for a subscription to the basic
service tier and the associated equipment.
   BASIC SERVICE TIER. A separately available service tier to which
subscription is required for access to any other tier of service, including as
a minimum, but not limited to, all must carry signals, all PEG channels, and
all domestic television signals other than superstations.
   BENCHMARK. A per channel rate of charge for cable service and associated
equipment which the FCC has determined is reasonable.
   CABLE ACT OF 1992. The Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition
Act of 1992.
   CABLE OPERATOR. Any person or group of persons:
      (1)   Who provide cable service over a cable system and directly or
through one or mare affiliates owns a significant interest in such a cable
system; or
      (2)   Who otherwise controls or is responsible for, through any
arrangement, the management and operation of such a cable system.
   CHANNEL. A unit of cable service identified and elected by a channel number
of similar designation.
   COST OF SERVICE SHOWING. A filing in which the cable operator attempts to
show the benchmark rate or the price cap is not sufficient to allow the cable
operator to fully recover the costs of providing the basic service tier and to
continue to attract capital.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission.
   INITIAL BASIC CABLE RATES. The rates that the cable operator is changing for
the basic service tier, including charges for associated equipment, at the time
the village notifies the cable operator of the village's qualification and
intent to regulate basic cable rates.
INTERCOMMUNITY CABLE REGULATORY COMMISSION (ICRC). A regional council of
governments organized under state law of which the village is a member having
the authority to conduct certain administrative procedures on behalf of the
village in relation to this ordinance.
   MUST-CARRY SIGNAL. The signal of any local broadcast station (except
superstations which is required to be carried on the basic service tier.
   PEG CHANNEL. The channel capacity designated for public educational, or
governmental use, and facilities and equipment for the use of that channel
capacity.
   PRICE CAP. The ceiling set by the FCC on future increases in basic cable
rates regulated by the village, based on a formula using the GNP fixed weight
price index, reflecting general increases in the cost of doing business and
changes in overall inflation.
   REASONABLE£ RATE STANDARD. A channel rate that is at, or below, the
benchmark or price cap level.
   SUPERSTATION. Any non-local broadcast signal secondarily transmitted by
satellite.
(Ord. 1994-16, passed 2-7-94)
§ 111.02 CUSTOMER SERVICE STANDARDS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Customer service standards, recommended for adoption by the ICRC, are hereby
adopted by the village as part of the franchise agreement with Warner Cable. A
copy of the customer service standards are on file in the office of the Village
Clerk.
(Ord. 1995-13, passed 3-6-95)
§ 111.03 CABLE OPERATOR INFORMATION.
   (A)   Additional information requirements.
      (1)   In those cases when the cable operator has submitted initial rates
or proposed an increase that exceeds the reasonable rate standard, the Village
Council or the FCC may require the cable operator to produce information in
addition to that submitted, including proprietary information, if needed to
make a rate determination. In these cases, a cable operator may request the
information to be kept confidential in accordance with this section.
      (2)   In cases where initial or proposed rates comply with the reasonable
rate standard, the Village Council or the ICRC any request additional
information only in order to document that the cable operator's rates are in
accord with the standard.
   (B)   Request for confidentiality. A cable operator submitting information
to the Village Council may request in writing that the information may be
routinely available for public inspection. A copy of the request shall be
attached to and cover all of the information and all copies of the information
to which it applies.
(Ord. 1994-16, passed 2-7-94)
INITIAL REVIEW OF BASIC CABLE RATES
§ 111.15 NOTICE; OPERATOR RESPONSE.
   (A)   Notice. Upon the adoption of this chapter and the certification of the
village by the FCC, the village or the ICRC shall immediately notify all cable
operators in the village, by certified mail, return receipt requested, that the
village intends to regulate subscriber rates charged for the basic service tier
and associated equipment as authorized by the Cable Act of 1992.
   (B)   Cable operator response. Within 30 days of receiving notice from the
village or the ICRC, a cable operator shall file with the village or the ICRC,
its current rates for the basic service tier and associated equipment and any
supporting material concerning the reasonableness of its rates.
(Ord. 1994-16, passed 2-7-94)
§ 111.16 EXPEDITED DETERMINATION AND PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   If the Village Council is able to expeditiously determine that the
cable operator's rates for the basic service tier and associated equipment are
within the FCC's reasonable rate standard, as determined by the applicable
benchmark, the Village Council shall:
      (1)   Hold a public hearing at which interested persons may express their
views; and
      (2)   Act to approve the rates within 30 days from the data the cable
operator filed its basic cable rates with the village.
   (B)   If the Village Council or the ICRC takes no action within 30 days from
the date the cable operator filed its basic cable rates with the village, the
proposed rates will continue in effect.
   (C)   The public hearing may be held in conjunction with other ICRC
communities under the direction of the ICRC.
(Ord. 1994-16, passed 2-7-94)
§ 111.17 EXTENDED REVIEW PERIOD.
   (A)   If the Village Council is unable to determine whether the rates in
issue are within the FCC reasonable rate standard based on the material before
it, or if the cable operator submits cost-of-service showing, the Village
Council shall, within 60 days from the date the cable operator filed its basic
cable rates with the village and by adoption of a formal resolution, invoke the
following additional periods of time, as applicable, to make a final
determination:
      (1)   Ninety days if the Village Council needs more time to ensure that a
rate is within the FCC's reasonable rate standard; or
      (2)   One-hundred and fifty days if the cable operator has submitted cost
of service showing king to justify a rate above the applicable benchmark.
   (B)   If the Village Council has not made a decision within the 90 or 150-
day period, the Village Council shall issue a brief written order at the end of
the person requesting the cable operator to keep accurate account of all
amounts received by reason of the proposed rate and on whose behalf the amounts
are paid.
(Ord. 1994-16, passed 2-7-94)
§ 111.18 PUBLIC HEARING; OBJECTIONS.
   (A)   Public hearing. During the extended review period and before taking
action on the proposed rate, the Village Council or the ICRC shall hold at
least one public hearing at which interested persons may express their views
and record objections.
   (B) Objections. An interested person who wants to make an objection to the
proposed initial basic rate may request the secretary to record the objection
during the public hearing or may submit the objection in writing anytime before
the decision resolution is adopted. In order for an objection to be made part
of the record, the objector must provide the secretary with the objector's name
and address.
(Ord. 1994-16, passed 2-7-94)
§ 111.19 BENCHMARK ANALYSIS.
   If a cable operator submits its current basic cable rate schedule as being
in compliance with the FCC's reasonable rate standard, the Village Council or
the ICRC shall review the rates using the benchmark analysis in accordance with
the standard form authorized by the FCC. Based on the Village Council or the
ICRC findings, the initial basic cable rates shall be established as follows:
   (A)   If the current basic cable rates below the benchmark, those rates
shall become the initial basic cable rate and the cable operator's rates will
be capped at that level.
   (B)   If the current basic cable rates exceed the benchmark, the rates shall
be the greater of the cable operator's per channel rate on September 30, 1992,
reduced by 10% or the applicable benchmark, adjusted for inflation and any
change in the number of channels occurring between September 30, 1992 and the
initial date of regulation.
   (C)   If the current basic cable rates exceed the benchmark, but the cable
operator's per channel rate was below the benchmark on September 30, 1992, the
initial basic cable rates shall be the benchmark, adjusted for inflation.
(Ord. 1994-16, passed 2-7-94)
§ 111.20 COST-OF-SERVICE SHOWINGS.
   If a cable operator does not wish to reduce the rates to the permitted
level, the cable operator shall have the opportunity to submit cost-of-service
showing in an attempt to justify an initial basic cable rate above the FCC's
reasonable rate standard. The Village Council will review a cost-of-service
review. The Village Council may approve initial basic cable rates above the
benchmark if the cable operator makes the necessary showing; however, a cost-
of-service determination resulting in rates below the benchmark or below the
cable operator's September 30, 1992 rates minimum 10%, will prescribe the cable
operator's new rates.
(Ord. 1994-16, passed 2-7-94)
§ 111.21 DECISION.
   (A)   By formal resolution. After completion by the village or the ICRC of
its review of the cable operator's proposed rates, the Village Council shall
adopt its decision by formal resolution. The decision shall include one of the
following:
      (1)   If the proposal is within the FCC's reasonable rate standard or is
justified by a cost-of-service analysis, the Village Council shall approve the
initial basic cable rates proposed by the cable operator; or
      (2)   If the proposal is not within the FCC's reasonable rate standard
and the cost-of-service analysis, if any, does not justify the proposed rates,
the Village Council shall establish initial basic cable rates that are within
the FCC's reasonable rate standard or that are justified by a cost-of-service
analysis.
   (B) Rollbacks and refunds. If the Village Council determines that the
initial basic cable rates submitted exceed the reasonable rate standard or that
the cable operators cost-of-service showing justifies lower rates, the Village
Council may order the rates reduced in accordance with §§
111.19 or 111.20 of this chapter, as applicable. In addition, the Village
Council may order the cable operator to pay to subscribers, refunds of the
excessive portion of the rates with interest (computed at applicable rates
published by the Internal Revenue Service for tax refunds and additional tax
payments), retroactive to September 1, 1993. The method for paying any refund
and the interest rate will be in accordance with FCC regulation as directed in
the Village Council's decision resolution.
   (C)   Statement of reason for decision and public notice. If rates proposed
by a cable operator are disapproved in whole or in part, or if there were
objections made by other parties to the proposed rates, the resolution must
state the reasons for the decision and the Village Council must give public
notice of its decision. Public notice will be given by advertisement once in
the official newspaper of the village.
(Ord. 1994-16, passed 2-7-94)
§ 111.22 APPEAL.
   The Village Council's decision concerning rates for the basic service tier
or association equipment, may be appealed to the FCC in accordance with
applicable federal regulations.
(Ord. 1994-16, passed 2-7-94)
REVIEW OF REQUEST FOR INCREASE IN BASIC CABLE RATES
§ 111.35 NOTICE.
   A cable operator in the village who wishes to increase the rates for the
basic service tier or associated equipment shall file a request within the
village and the ICRC and notify any subscribers at least 30 days before the
cable operator desires the increase to take effect. This notice may not be
given more often than annually and not until at least one year after the
determination of the initial basic cable rates.
(Ord. 1994-16, passed 2-7-94)
§ 111.36 EXPEDITED DETERMINATION AND PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   If the Village Council or the ICRC is able to expeditiously determine
that the cable operator's rate increase request for basic cable service is
within the FCC's reasonable rate standard, as determined by the applicable
price cap, the Village Council shall:
      (1)   Hold a public hearing at which interested persons may express their
views; and
      (2)   Act to approve the rate increase within 30 days from the date the
cable operator filed a request with the village.
   (B)   If the Village Council takes no action within 30 days from the cable
operator filed its guest with the village, the proposed rates will go into
effect.
   (C)   During the extended review period and before taking action on the
proposed rate, the Village Council or the FCC shall hold at least one public
hearing to which interested persons may express their views and record
objections.
(Ord. 1994-16, passed 2-7-94)
§ 111.37 EXTENDED REVIEW PERIOD.
   (A)   If the Village Council and the ICRC are unable to determine whether
the rate increase is within the FCC'S reasonable rate standard based on the
material before it, or if the cable operator submits a cost-of-service showing,
the Village Council shall, by adoption of a formal resolution, invoke the
following additional periods of time as applicable, to make a final
determination:
      (1)   Ninety days if the Village Council or the ICRC needs more time to
ensure that the requested increase is within the FCC's reasonable rate standard
as determined by FCC applicable price cap; and
      (2)   One-hundred and fifty days if the cable operator has submitted a
cost-of-service showing seeking to justify a rate increase above the applicable
price cap.
   (B)   The proposed rate increase is tolled during the extended review
period.
   (C)   If the Village Council has not made a decision within the 90 to 150-
day period, the Village Council shall issue a brief written order at the end of
the period requesting the cable operator to keep accurate account of all
amounts received by reason of the proposed rate increase and on whose behalf
the amounts are paid.
(Ord. 1994-16, passed 2-7-94)
§ 111.38 PUBLIC HEARING; OBJECTIONS.
   (A)   Public hearing. During the extended review period and before taking
action on the requested rate increase, the Village Council or the ICRC shall
hold at least one public hearing at which interested persons may express their
views and record objections.
   (B)   Objections. An interested person who wishes to make an objection to
the proposed rate increase may request the secretary to record the objection
during the public hearing or may submit the objection in writing anytime before
the decision resolution is adopted. In order for an objection to be made part
of the record, the objector must provide the secretary with the objector's name
and address.
(Ord. 1994-16, passed 2-7-94)
§ 111.39 DELAYED DETERMINATION.
   If the Village Council is unable to make a final determination concerning a
requested rate increase within the extended time period, the cable operator may
put the increase into effect, subject to subsequent refund if the Village
Council later issued a decision disapproving any portion of the increase.
(Ord. 1994-16, passed 2-7-94)
§ 111.40 PRICE CAP ANALYSIS.
   If a cable operator presents its request for a rate increase as being in
compliance with the FCC's price cap, the Village Council shall review the rate
using a price cap analysis in accordance with the standard form authorized by
the FCC. Based on the Village Council's findings, the basic cable rates shall
be established as follows:
   (A)   If the proposed basic cable rate increase is within the price cap
established by the FCC, the proposed rates shall become the new basic cable
rates.
   (B)   If the proposed basic cable rate increase exceeds the price cap
published by the FCC, the Village Council shall disapprove the appropriate rate
increase and order an increase that is in compliance with the price cap.
(Ord. 1994-16, passed 2-7-94)
§ 111.41 COST-OF-SERVICE SHOWING.
   If a cable operator submits a cost-of-service showing in an attempt to
justify a rate increase above the price cap, the Village Council will review
the submission pursuant the FCC standards for cost-of-service review. The
Village Council may approve a rate increase over the price cap if the cable
operator makes the necessary showing; however, a cost-of-service determination
resulting in a rate below the price cap or below the cable operator's then
current rate will prescribe the cable operator's new rate.
(Ord. 1994-16, passed 2-7-94)
§ 111.42 DECISION.
   The Village Council's decision concerning the increase, shall be decided by
formal resolution. If a rate increase proposed by a cable operator is
disapproved in whole or in part, or if objections were made by other parties to
the proposed rate increases, the resolution must state the reasons for the
decision. Objections may be made at the public hearing by a person requesting
the secretary to read the objection or may be submitted in writing at anytime
before the decision resolution is adopted.
(Ord. 1994-16, passed 2-7-94)
§ 111.43 REFUNDS.
   (A)   The Village Council may order refunds of subscribers' rate payments
with interest if:
      (1)   The Village Council was unable to make a decision within the
extended time period described in §
111.37 of this chapter; and
      (2)   The cable operator implemented the rate increase at the end of the
extended review period; and
      (3)   The Village Council determines that the rate increase as submitted
exceeds the applicable price cap or that the cable operator failed to justify
the rate increase by a cost-of-service showing, and the Village Council
disapproves any portion of the rate increase.
   (B)   The method of paying any refund and the interest rate will be in
accordance with FCC regulations as directed in the Village Council's decision
resolution.
(Ord. 1994-16, passed 2-7-94)
§ 111.44 APPEAL.
   The Village Council's decision concerning rates for the basic service tier
or associated equipment, may be appealed to the FCC in accordance with
applicable federal regulations.
(Ord. 1994-16, passed 2-7-94)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter
         
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
         
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
         
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST MORALS
         
134.   GAMBLING
         
135.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
         
136.   OFFENSES AGAINST JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
         
137.   WEAPONS CONTROL
         
138.   DRUG OFFENSES
         
139.   MISCELLANEOUS
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Application of Title XIII
   
130.02   Definitions
   
130.03   Classification of offenses
   
130.04   Common law offenses abrogated
   
130.05   Rule of construction
   
130.06   Limitations of criminal prosecutions
   
130.07   Requirements for criminal liability; voluntary intoxication
   
130.08   Culpable mental states
   
130.09   Attempt
   
130.10   Disposition of unclaimed or forfeited property held by police
department
   
130.11   Self-defense: limitations on duty to retreat prior to using force
 
   
130.99   Penalty for Title XIII
§ 130.01 APPLICATION OF TITLE XIII.
   (A)   Title XIII of this code of ordinances embodies and prescribes
penalties for offenses against the city not classifiable in previous titles and
chapters. The word MISDEMEANORS as used in this title is not exhaustive, and
does not imply that offenses found elsewhere in this code of ordinances are not
also misdemeanors and punishable as such.
   (B)   Each act or omission for which a penalty of fine or imprisonment, or
both, is provided under this title or elsewhere in this code of ordinances is
declared a violation of ordinance and unlawful, and is made a misdemeanor, upon
conviction whereof, the penalty or penalties so provided shall be imposed by
the court.
§ 130.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTRABAND. Any property that is illegal for a person to acquire or possess
under a statute, ordinance, or rule, or that a trier of fact lawfully
determines to be illegal to possess by reason of the property’s involvement in
an offense. CONTRABAND includes, but is not limited to, all of the following:
      (1)   Any controlled substance, as defined in R.C. § 3719.01, or any
device or paraphernalia related thereto;
      (2)   Any unlawful gambling device or paraphernalia;
      (3)   Any dangerous ordnance or obscene material.
   DANGEROUS OFFENDER. A person who has committed an offense, whose history,
character and condition reveal a substantial risk that he or she will be a
danger to others, and whose conduct has been characterized by a pattern of
repetitive, compulsive or aggressive behavior with heedless indifference to the
consequences.
   DEADLY FORCE. Any force that carries a substantial risk that it will
proximately result in the death of any person.
   FORCE. Any violence, compulsion, or constraint physically exerted by any
means upon or against a person or thing.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any of the following:
      (1)   A sheriff, deputy sheriff, constable, police officer of a township
or joint police district, marshal, deputy marshal, municipal police officer,
member of a police force employed by a metropolitan housing authority under
R.C. § 3735.31(D) or state highway patrol trooper.
      (2)   An officer, agent, or employee of the state or any of its agencies,
instrumentalities, or political subdivisions, upon whom, by statute, a duty to
conserve the peace or to enforce all or certain laws is imposed and the
authority to arrest violators is conferred, within the limits of such statutory
duty and authority.
      (3)   The Mayor, in a capacity as chief conservator of the peace within
the municipality.
      (4)   A member of an auxiliary police force organized by the county,
township, or municipal law enforcement authorities, within the scope of the
member's appointment or commission.
      (5)   A person lawfully called pursuant to R.C. § 311.07 to aid a sheriff
in keeping the peace, for the purposes and during the time when the person is
called.
      (6)   A person appointed by a Mayor pursuant to R.C. § 737.10 as a
special patrolling officer during a riot or emergency, for the purposes and
during the time when the person is appointed.
      (7)   A member of the organized militia of this state or the armed forces
of the United States, lawfully called to duty to aid civil authorities in
keeping the peace or protect against domestic violence.
      (8)   A prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, secret
service officer, or municipal prosecutor.
      (9)   A veterans' home police officer appointed under R.C. § 5907.02.
      (10)   A member of a police force employed by a regional transit
authority under R.C. § 306.35(Y).
      (11)   A special police officer employed by a port authority under R.C. §
4582.04 or 4582.28.
      (12)   The House of Representatives Sergeant at Arms if the House of
Representatives Sergeant at Arms has arrest authority pursuant to R.C. §
101.311(E)(1) and an Assistant House of Representatives Sergeant at Arms.
      (13)   The Senate Sergeant at Arms and an Assistant Senate Sergeant at
Arms.
      (14)   A special police officer employed by a municipal corporation at a
municipal airport, or other municipal air navigation facility, that has
scheduled operations, as defined in 14 C.F.R. § 119.3, as amended, and that is
required to be under a security program and is governed by aviation security
rules of the Transportation Security Administration of the United States
Department of Transportation as provided in 49 C.F.R. parts 1542 and 1544, as
amended.
   NOT GUILTY BY REASON OF INSANITY. A person is NOT GUILTY BY REASON OF
INSANITY relative to a charge of an offense only if the person proves, in the
manner specified in R.C. § 2901.05, that at the time of the commission of the
offense, he or she did not know, as a result of a severe mental disease or
defect, the wrongfulness of his or her acts.
   OFFENSE OF VIOLENCE.
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.01, 2903.02, 2903.03, 2903.04, 2903.11,
2903.12, 2903.13, 2903.15, 2903.18, 2903.21, 2903.211, 2903.22, 2905.01,
2905.02, 2905.11, 2905.32, 2907.02, 2907.03, 2907.05, 2909.02, 2909.03,
2909.24, 2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2917.01, 2917.02, 2917.03, 2917.31,
2917.321, 2919.25, 2921.03, 2921.04, 2921.34, or 2923.161, of division (A)(1)
of R.C. § 2903.34, of division (A)(1), (2) or (3) of R.C.
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States, substantially equivalent to
any section, division or offense listed in division (1) of this definition;
      (3)   An offense, other than a traffic offense, under an existing or
former municipal ordinance or law of this or any other state or of the United
States, committed purposely or knowingly, and involving physical harm to
persons or a risk of serious physical harm to persons;
      (4)   A conspiracy or attempt to commit, or complicity in committing, any
offense under division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition;
      (5)   A violation of division (C) of R.C. § 959.131.
   PERSON.
      (1)   (a)   Subject to division (2) of this definition, as used in any
section contained in Title XIII of this code that sets forth a criminal
offense, PERSON includes all of the following:
            1.   An individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust,
partnership and association.
            2.   An unborn human who is viable.
         (b)   As used in any section contained in Title XIII of this code that
does not set forth a criminal offense, PERSON includes an individual,
corporation, business trust, estate, partnership and association.
         (c)   As used in division (1)(a)2. of this definition, UNBORN HUMAN
means an individual organism of the species Homo sapiens from fertilization
until live birth. VIABLE means the stage of development of a human fetus at
which there is a realistic probability of maintaining and nourishing of a life
outside the womb with or without temporary artificial life-sustaining support.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (1)(a) of this definition, in no case
shall the portion of the definition of the term PERSON that is set forth in
division (1)(a)2. of this definition be applied or construed in any section
contained in Title XIII of this code that sets forth a criminal offense in any
of the following manners:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (2)(a) of this
definition, in a manner so that the offense prohibits or is construed as
prohibiting any pregnant woman or her physician from performing an abortion
with the consent of the pregnant woman, with the consent of the pregnant woman
implied by law in a medical emergency, or with the approval of one otherwise
authorized by law to consent to medical treatment on behalf of the pregnant
woman. An abortion that violates the conditions described in the immediately
preceding sentence may be punished as a violation of R.C. § 2903.01, 2903.02,
2903.03, 2903.04, 2903.05, 2903.06, 2903.08, 2903.11, 2903.12, 2903.13,
2903.14, 2903.21 or 2903.22, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, as applicable. An abortion that does not violate the conditions
described in the second immediately preceding sentence but that does violate
R.C. § 2919.12, 2919.13(B), 2919.15, 2919.151, 2919.17 or 2919.18, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, may be punished as a violation of
such section, as applicable. Consent is sufficient under this division if it is
of the type otherwise adequate to permit medical treatment to the pregnant
woman, even if it does not comply with R.C. § 2919.12.
         (b)   In a manner so that the offense is applied or is construed as
applying to a woman based on an act or omission of the woman that occurs while
she is or was pregnant and that results in any of the following:
            1.   Her delivery of a stillborn baby.
            2.   Her causing, in any other manner, the death in utero of a
viable, unborn human that she is carrying.
            3.   Her causing the death of her child who is born alive but who
dies from one or more injuries that are sustained while the child is a viable,
unborn human.
            4.   Her causing her child who is born alive to sustain one or more
injuries while the child is a viable, unborn human.
            5.   Her causing, threatening to cause, or attempting to cause, in
any other manner, an injury, illness, or other psychological illness or
condition, regardless of its duration or gravity, to a viable, unborn human
that she is carrying.
   PHYSICAL HARM TO PERSONS. Any injury, illness, or other physiological
impairment, regardless of its gravity or duration.
   PHYSICAL HARM TO PROPERTY. Any tangible or intangible damage to property
that, in any degree, results in loss to its value or interferes with its use or
enjoyment. PHYSICAL HARM TO PROPERTY does not include wear and tear occasioned
by normal use.
   PRIVILEGE. An immunity, license, or right conferred by law, or bestowed by
express or implied grant, or arising out of status, position, office, or
relationship, or growing out of necessity.
   PROPERTY.
      (1)   Any property, real or personal, tangible or intangible, and any
interest or license in that property. PROPERTY includes, but is not limited to,
cable television service, other telecommunications service, telecommunications
devices, information service, computers, data, computer software, financial
instruments associated with computers, other documents associated with
computers, or copies of the documents, whether in machine or human-readable
form, trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights, patents, and property protected by
a trademark, copyright or patent. “Financial instruments associated with
computers” include, but are not limited to, checks, drafts, warrants, money
orders, notes of indebtedness, certificates of deposit, letters of credit,
bills of credit or debit cards, financial transaction authorization mechanisms,
marketable securities, or any computer system representations of any of them.
      (2)   As used in this definition, TRADE SECRET has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 1333.61, and TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE and INFORMATION SERVICE have the
same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      (3)   As used in this definition and in the definition of CONTRABAND in
this section, CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE, COMPUTER, COMPUTER NETWORK, COMPUTER
SOFTWARE, COMPUTER SYSTEM, DATA, and TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE have the same
meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   REPEAT OFFENDER. A person who has a history of persistent criminal activity
and whose character and condition reveal a substantial risk that he or she will
commit another offense. It is prima facie evidence that a person is a repeat
offender if any of the following applies:
      (1)   Having been convicted of one or more offenses of violence, as
defined in this section, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for
any such offense, he or she commits a subsequent offense of violence;
      (2)   Having been convicted of one or more sexually oriented offenses, as
defined in R.C. § 2950.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for
one or more of those offense, he or she commits a subsequent sexually oriented
offense;
      (3)   Having been convicted of one or more theft offenses, as defined in
R.C. § 2913.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for any such
offense, he or she commits a subsequent theft offense;
      (4)   Having been convicted of one or more felony drug abuse offenses, as
defined in R.C. § 2925.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for
any such offense, he or she commits a subsequent felony drug abuse offense;
      (5)   Having been convicted of two or more felonies, and having been
imprisoned pursuant to sentence for any such offense, he or she commits a
subsequent offense;
      (6)   Having been convicted of three or more offenses of any type or
degree other than traffic offenses, alcoholic intoxication offenses, or minor
misdemeanors, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for any such
offense, he or she commits a subsequent offense.
   RISK. A significant possibility, as contrasted with a remote possibility,
that a certain result may occur or that certain circumstances may exist.
   SCHOOL, SCHOOL BUILDING, and SCHOOL PREMISES. Have the same meanings as in
R.C. § 2925.01.
   SCHOOL ACTIVITY. Any activity held under the auspices of a board of
education of a city, local, exempted village, joint vocational, or cooperative
education school district; a governing authority of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314; a governing board of an educational
service center; or the governing body of a nonpublic school for which the State
Board of Education prescribes minimum standards under R.C. § 3301.07.
   SCHOOL BUS. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   SCHOOL SAFETY ZONE. Consists of a school, school building, school premises,
school activity, and school bus.
   SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO PERSONS. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any mental illness or condition of such gravity as would normally
require hospitalization or prolonged psychiatric treatment;
      (2)   Any physical harm that carries a substantial risk of death;
      (3)   Any physical harm that involves some permanent incapacity, whether
partial or total, or that involves some temporary, substantial incapacity;
      (4)   Any physical harm that involves some permanent disfigurement, or
that involves some temporary, serious disfigurement;
      (5)   Any physical harm that involves acute pain of such duration as to
result in substantial suffering, or that involves any degree of prolonged or
intractable pain.
   SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO PROPERTY. Any physical harm to property that does
either of the following:
      (1)   Results in substantial loss to the value of the property, or
requires a substantial amount of time, effort, or money to repair or replace;
      (2)   Temporarily prevents the use or enjoyment of the property, or
substantially interferes with its use or enjoyment for an extended period of
time.
   SUBSTANTIAL RISK. A strong possibility, as contrasted with a remote or
significant possibility, that a certain result may occur or that certain
circumstances may exist.
(R.C. §§ 2901.01, 2935.36(E))
§ 130.03 CLASSIFICATION OF OFFENSES.
   As used in this Title:
   (A)   Offenses include misdemeanors of the first, second, third, and fourth
degree, minor misdemeanors, and offenses not specifically classified.
   (B)   Regardless of the penalty that may be imposed, any offense
specifically classified as a misdemeanor is a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Any offense not specifically classified is a misdemeanor if
imprisonment for not more than one year may be imposed as a penalty.
   (D)   Any offense not specifically classified is a minor misdemeanor if the
only penalty that may be imposed is one of the following:
      (1)   For an offense committed prior to January 1, 2004, a fine not
exceeding $100;
      (2)   For an offense committed on or after January 1, 2004, a fine not
exceeding $150, community service under R.C. § 2929.27(D), or a financial
sanction other than a fine under R.C. § 2929.28.
(R.C. § 2901.02)
§ 130.04 COMMON LAW OFFENSES ABROGATED.
   (A)   No conduct constitutes a criminal offense against the municipality
unless it is defined as an offense in this code.
   (B)   An offense is defined when one or more sections of this code state a
positive prohibition or enjoin a specific duty, and provide a penalty for
violation of such prohibition or failure to meet such duty.
   (C)   This section does not affect the power of a court to punish for
contempt or to employ any sanction authorized by law to enforce an order, civil
judgment or decree.
(R.C. § 2901.03)
§ 130.05 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C) or (D) of this section,
sections of this code defining offenses or penalties shall be strictly
construed against the municipality and liberally construed in favor of the
accused.
   (B)   Rules of criminal procedure and sections of this code providing for
criminal procedure shall be construed so as to effect the fair, impartial,
speedy, and sure administration of justice.
   (C)   Any provision of a section of this code that refers to a previous
conviction of or plea of guilty to a violation of a section of this code, the
Revised Code or a division of a section of this code or the Revised Code shall
be construed to also refer to a previous conviction of or plea of guilty to a
substantially equivalent offense under an existing or former law of this
municipality, state, another state, or the United States or under an existing
or former municipal ordinance.
   (D)   Any provision of this Code that refers to a section, or to a division
of a section, of this Code that defines or specifies a criminal offense shall
be construed to also refer to an existing or former law of this state, another
state, or the United States, to an existing or former municipal ordinance, or
to an existing or former division of any such existing or former law or
ordinance that defines or specifies, or that defined or specified, a
substantially equivalent offense.
(R.C. § 2901.04)
§ 130.06 LIMITATION OF CRIMINAL PROSECUTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5)
of this section or as otherwise provided in this section, a prosecution shall
be barred unless it is commenced within the following periods after an offense
is committed:
         (a)   For a felony, six years;
         (b)   For a misdemeanor other than a minor misdemeanor, two years;
         (c)   For a minor misdemeanor, six months.
      (2)   There is no period of limitation for the prosecution of a violation
of R.C. § 2903.01 or R.C. § 2903.02 or for the prosecution of a conspiracy to
commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in committing a violation of R.C. §
2903.01 or R.C. § 2903.02.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (B) through (J) of this
section, a prosecution of any of the following offenses shall be barred unless
it is commenced within 20 years after the offense is committed:
         (a)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.03, 2903.04, 2905.01, 2905.32,
2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.21, 2909.02, 2909.22, 2909.23, 2909.24, 2909.26,
2909.27, 2909.28, 2909.29, 2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2911.12, or 2917.02, a
violation of R.C. § 2903.11 or 2903.12 if the victim is a peace officer, a
violation of R.C. § 2903.13 that is a felony, or a violation of former R.C. §
2907.12.
         (b)   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing a violation set forth in division (A)(3)(a) of this section.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (D) to (L) of this
section, a prosecution of a violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03 or a
conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in committing a
violation of either section shall be barred unless it is commenced within 25
years after the offense is committed.
      (5)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (A)(5)(b) and (E)
to (I) of this section, a prosecution of a violation of R.C. § 2907.13 shall be
barred unless it is commenced within five years after the offense is committed.
         (b)   Prosecution that would otherwise be barred under division (A)(5)
(a) of this section may be commenced within five years after the date of the
discovery of the offense by either an aggrieved person or the aggrieved
person's legal representative who is not a party to the offense.
         (c)   As used in division (A)(5)(b) of this section, "aggrieved
person" includes any of the following individuals with regard to a violation of
R.C. § 2907.13:
            1.   A patient who was the victim of the violation;
            2.   The spouse or surviving spouse of a patient who was the victim
of the violation;
            3.   Any child born as a result of the violation.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2) of this section,
if the period of limitation provided in division (A)(1) or (A)(3) of this
section has expired, prosecution shall be commenced for an offense of which an
element is fraud or breach of fiduciary duty within one year after discovery of
the offense either by an aggrieved person or by the aggrieved person's legal
representative who is not a party to the offense.
      (2)   If the period of limitation provided in division (A)(1) or (A)(3)
of this section has expired, prosecution for a violation of R.C. § 2913.49
shall be commenced within five years after discovery of the offense either by
an aggrieved person or the aggrieved person’s legal representative who is not a
party to the offense.
   (C)   (1)   If the period of limitation provided in division (A)(1) or (A)
(3) of this section has expired, prosecution shall be commenced for the
following offenses during the following specified periods of time:
         (a)   For an offense involving misconduct in office by a public
servant at any time while the accused remains a public servant, or within two
years thereafter;
         (b)   For an offense by a person who is not a public servant but whose
offense is directly related to the misconduct in office of a public servant, at
any time while that public servant remains a public servant, or within two
years thereafter.
      (2)   As used in this division:
         OFFENSE IS DIRECTLY RELATED TO THE MISCONDUCT IN OFFICE OF A PUBLIC
SERVANT. The phrase includes but is not limited to a violation of R.C. §
101.71, 101.91, 121.61 or 2921.13, 102.03(F) or (H), 2921.02(A), 2921.43(A) or
(B), or 3517.13(F) or (G), that is directly related to an offense involving
misconduct in office of a public servant, or a violation of any municipal
ordinance substantially equivalent to those Ohio Revised Code sections listed
in this division (C)(2).
         PUBLIC SERVANT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.01.
   (D)   (1)   If a DNA record made in connection with the criminal
investigation of the commission of a violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03 is
determined to match another DNA record that is of an identifiable person and if
the time of the determination is later than 25 years after the offense is
committed, prosecution of that person for a violation of the section may be
commenced within five years after the determination is complete.
      (2)   If a DNA record made in connection with the criminal investigation
of the commission of a violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03 of the Revised
Code is determined to match another DNA record that is of an identifiable
person and if the time of the determination is within 25 years after the
offense is committed, prosecution of that person for a violation of the section
may be commenced within the longer of 25 years after the offense is committed
or five years after the determination is complete.
      (3)   As used in this division, DNA RECORD has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 109.573.
   (E)   An offense is committed when every element of the offense occurs. In
the case of an offense of which an element is a continuing course of conduct,
the period of limitation does not begin to run until such course of conduct or
the accused's accountability for it terminates, whichever occurs first.
   (F)   A prosecution is commenced on the date an indictment is returned or an
information filed, or on the date a lawful arrest without a warrant is made, or
on the date a warrant, summons, citation, or other process is issued, whichever
occurs first. A prosecution is not commenced by the return of an indictment or
the filing of an information unless reasonable diligence is exercised to issue
and execute process on the same. A prosecution is not commenced upon issuance
of a warrant, summons, citation, or other process unless reasonable diligence
is exercised to execute the same.
   (G)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time when the corpus
delicti remains undiscovered.
   (H)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time when the
accused purposely avoids prosecution. Proof that the accused departed this
municipality or conceals the accused's identity or whereabouts is prima facie
evidence of the accused's purpose to avoid prosecution.
   (I)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time a prosecution
against the accused based on the same conduct is pending in this state, even
though the indictment, information, or process that commenced the prosecution
is quashed or the proceedings on the indictment, information, or process are
set aside or reversed on appeal.
   (J)   The period of limitation for a violation of this Title or Title XXIX
of the Ohio Revised Code that involves a physical or mental wound, injury,
disability, or condition of a nature that reasonably indicates abuse or neglect
of a child under 18 years of age or of a child with a developmental disability
or physical impairment under 21 years of age shall not begin to run until
either of the following occurs:
      (1)   The victim of the offense reaches the age of majority.
      (2)   A public children services agency, or a municipal or county peace
officer that is not the parent or guardian of the child, in the county in which
the child resides or in which the abuse or neglect is occurring or has occurred
has been notified that abuse or neglect is known, suspected, or believed to
have occurred.
   (K)   As used in this section, PEACE OFFICER has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 2935.01.
   (L)   (1)   The amendments to divisions (A) and (D) of this section that
took effect on July 16, 2015, apply to a violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03
committed on and after July 16, 2015, and apply to a violation of either of
those sections committed prior to July 16, 2015, if prosecution for that
violation was not barred under this section as it existed on July 16, 2015.
      (2)   The amendment to division (A)(2) of this section that took effect
on April 4, 2023, applies to a conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or
complicity in committing a violation of R.C. § 2903.01 or R.C. § 2903.02 if the
conspiracy, attempt, or complicity is committed on or after April 4, 2023, and
applies to a conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing a violation of either of those sections if the conspiracy, attempt,
or complicity was committed prior to April 4, 2023, and prosecution for that
conspiracy, attempt, or complicity was not barred under this section as it
existed on the day prior to April 4, 2023.
(R.C. § 2901.13)
Statutory reference:
   Limitation for income tax violations, see R.C. § 718.12
§ 130.07 REQUIREMENTS FOR CRIMINAL LIABILITY; VOLUNTARY INTOXICATION.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, a person is not
guilty of an offense unless both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person’s liability is based on conduct that includes either a
voluntary act, or an omission to perform an act or duty that the person is
capable of performing;
      (2)   The person has the requisite degree of culpability for each element
as to which a culpable mental state is specified by the language defining the
offense.
   (B)   When the language defining an offense does not specify any degree of
culpability, and plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict criminal
liability for the conduct described in the section, then culpability is not
required for a person to be guilty of the offense. The fact that one division
of a section plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict liability for an
offense defined in that division does not by itself plainly indicate a purpose
to impose strict criminal liability for an offense defined in other divisions
of the section that do not specify a degree of culpability.
   (C)   (1)   When language defining an element of an offense that is related
to knowledge or intent or to which mens rea could fairly be applied neither
specifies culpability nor plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict
liability, the element of the offense is established only if a person acts
recklessly.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to offenses defined
in R.C. Title XLV.
      (3)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not relieve the prosecution of
the burden of proving the culpable mental state required by any definition
incorporated into the offense.
   (D)   Voluntary intoxication may not be taken into consideration in
determining the existence of a mental state that is an element of a criminal
offense. Voluntary intoxication does not relieve a person of a duty to act if
failure to act constitutes a criminal offense. Evidence that a person was
voluntarily intoxicated may be admissible to show whether or not the person was
physically capable of performing the act with which the person is charged.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      CULPABILITY. Purpose, knowledge, recklessness, or negligence, as defined
in R.C. § 2901.22.
      INTOXICATION. Includes but is not limited to intoxication resulting from
the ingestion of alcohol, a drug, or alcohol and a drug.
      INVOLUNTARY ACTS. Reflexes, convulsions, body movements during
unconsciousness or sleep, and body movements that are not otherwise a product
of the actor's volition are involuntary acts.
      POSSESSION. A voluntary act if the possessor knowingly procured or
received the thing possessed, or was aware of the possessor’s control of the
thing possessed for a sufficient time to have ended possession.
(R.C. § 2901.21)
§ 130.08 CULPABLE MENTAL STATES.
   (A)   A person acts purposely when it is the person’s specific intention to
cause a certain result, or, when the gist of the offense is a prohibition
against conduct of a certain nature, regardless of what the offender intends to
accomplish thereby, it is the offender’s specific intention to engage in
conduct of that nature.
   (B)   A person acts knowingly, regardless of purpose, when the person is
aware that the person’s conduct will probably cause a certain result or will
probably be of a certain nature. A person has knowledge of circumstances when
the person is aware that such circumstances probably exist. When knowledge of
the existence of a particular fact is an element of an offense, such knowledge
is established if a person subjectively believes that there is a high
probability of its existence and fails to make inquiry or acts with a conscious
purpose to avoid learning the fact.
   (C)   A person acts recklessly when, with heedless indifference to the
consequences, the person disregards a substantial and unjustifiable risk that
the person’s conduct is likely to cause a certain result or is likely to be of
a certain nature. A person is reckless with respect to circumstances when, with
heedless indifference to the consequences, the person disregards a substantial
and unjustifiable risk that such circumstances are likely to exist.
   (D)   A person acts negligently when, because of a substantial lapse from
due care, the person fails to perceive or avoid a risk that the person’s
conduct may cause a certain result or may be of a certain nature. A person is
negligent with respect to circumstances when, because of a substantial lapse
from due care, the person fails to perceive or avoid a risk that such
circumstances may exist.
   (E)   When the section defining an offense provides that negligence suffices
to establish an element thereof, then recklessness, knowledge, or purpose is
also sufficient culpability for such element. When recklessness suffices to
establish an element of an offense, then knowledge or purpose is also
sufficient culpability for such element. When knowledge suffices to establish
an element of an offense, then purpose is also sufficient culpability for such
element.
(R.C. § 2901.22)
§ 130.09 ATTEMPT.
   (A)   No person, purposely or knowingly, and when purpose or knowledge is
sufficient culpability for the commission of an offense, shall engage in
conduct that, if successful, would constitute or result in the offense.
   (B)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that, in retrospect,
commission of the offense that was the object of the attempt was either
factually or legally impossible under the attendant circumstances, if that
offense could have been committed had the attendant circumstances been as the
actor believed them to be.
   (C)   No person who is convicted of committing a specific offense, of
complicity in the commission of an offense, or of conspiracy to commit an
offense, shall be convicted of an attempt to commit the same offense in
violation of this section.
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that the
actor abandoned his or her effort to commit the offense or otherwise prevented
its commission, under circumstances manifesting a complete and voluntary
renunciation of his or her criminal purpose.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of an attempt to commit an
offense. An attempt to commit aggravated murder, murder, or an offense for
which the maximum penalty is imprisonment for life is a felony of the first
degree, to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. An attempt to commit a
drug abuse offense for which the penalty is determined by the amount or number
of unit doses of the controlled substance involved in the drug abuse offense is
an offense of the same degree as the drug abuse offense attempted would be if
that drug abuse offense had been committed and had involved an amount or number
of unit doses of the controlled substance that is within the next lower range
of controlled substance amounts than was involved in the attempt. An attempt to
commit any other offense is an offense of the next lesser degree than the
offense attempted. In the case of an attempt to commit an offense other than a
violation of R.C. Chapter 3734 that is not specifically classified, an attempt
is a misdemeanor of the first degree if the offense attempted is a felony, and
a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if the offense attempted is a misdemeanor.
In the case of an attempt to commit a violation of any provision of R.C.
Chapter 3734, other than R.C. § 3734.18, that relates to hazardous wastes, an
attempt is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. An attempt to
commit a minor misdemeanor, or to engage in conspiracy, is not an offense under
this section.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
      MOTOR VEHICLE has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
(R.C. § 2923.02)
Statutory reference:
   Conspiracy, see R.C. § 2923.01
   Solid and hazardous wastes, see R.C. Chapter 3734
§ 130.10 DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED OR FORFEITED PROPERTY HELD BY POLICE
DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Safekeeping of property in custody.
      (1)   (a)   Any property that has been lost, abandoned, stolen, seized
pursuant to a search warrant, or otherwise lawfully seized or forfeited and
that is in the custody of the Police Department shall be kept safely by the
Police Department, pending the time it no longer is needed as evidence or for
another lawful purpose, and shall be disposed of pursuant to this section or
R.C. §§ 2981.12 and 2981.13.
         (b)   This section does not apply to the custody and disposal of any
of the following:
            1.   Vehicles subject to forfeiture under R.C. Title 45, except as
provided in division (B)(1)(f) of this section;
            2.   Abandoned junk motor vehicles or other property of negligible
value;
            3.   Property held by a department of rehabilitation and correction
institution that is unclaimed, that does not have an identified owner, that the
owner agrees to dispose of, or that is identified by the department as having
little value;
            4.   Animals taken, and devices used in unlawfully taking animals,
under R.C. § 1531.20;
            5.   Controlled substances sold by a peace officer in the
performance of the officer’s official duties under R.C. § 3719.141;
            6.   Property recovered by a township law enforcement agency under
R.C. §§ 505.105 to 505.109;
            7.   Property held and disposed of under an ordinance of the
municipality or under R.C. §§ 737.29 to 737.33, except that if the municipality
has received notice of a citizens’ reward program as provided in division (B)
(5) of this section and disposes of property under an ordinance shall pay 25%
of any moneys acquired from any sale or auction to the citizens’ reward
program.
      (2)   (a)   The Police Department shall adopt and comply with a written
internal control policy that does all of the following:
            1.   Provides for keeping detailed records as to the amount of
property acquired by the Police Department and the date property was acquired;
            2.   Provides for keeping detailed records of the disposition of
the property, which shall include, but not be limited to, both of the
following:
               a.   The manner in which it was disposed, the date of
disposition, detailed financial records concerning any property sold, and the
name of any person who received the property. The record shall not identify or
enable identification of the individual officer who seized any item of
property.
               b.   An itemized list of the specific expenditures made with
amounts that are gained from the sale of the property and that are retained by
the agency, including the specific amount expended on each expenditure, except
that the policy shall not provide for or permit the identification of any
specific expenditure that is made in an ongoing investigation.
            3.   Complies with R.C. § 2981.13 if the Police Department has a
law enforcement trust fund or similar fund created under that section.
         (b)   The records kept under the internal control policy shall be open
to public inspection during the Police Department’s regular business hours. The
policy adopted under this section is a public record open for inspection under
R.C. § 149.43.
      (3)   The Police Department, with custody of property to be disposed of
under this section or R.C. §§ 2981.12 or 2981.13, shall make a reasonable
effort to locate persons entitled to possession of the property, to notify them
of when and where it may be claimed, and to return the property to them at the
earliest possible time. In the absence of evidence identifying persons entitled
to possession, it is sufficient notice to advertise in a newspaper of general
circulation in the county and to briefly describe the nature of the property in
custody and inviting persons to view and establish their right to it.
      (4)   As used in this section:
         CITIZENS’ REWARD PROGRAM has the same meaning as in R.C. § 9.92.
         LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY includes correctional institutions.
         TOWNSHIP LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY means an organized police department
of a township, a township police district, a joint police district, or the
office of a township constable.
(R.C. § 2981.11)
   (B)   Disposition of unclaimed or forfeited property.
      (1)   Unclaimed or forfeited property in the custody of the Police
Department, other than property described in division (A)(1)(b) of this
section, shall be disposed of by order of any court of record that has
territorial jurisdiction over the municipality, as follows:
         (a)   Drugs shall be disposed of pursuant to R.C. § 3719.11 or placed
in the custody of the Secretary of the Treasury of the United States for
disposal or use for medical or scientific purposes under applicable federal
law.
         (b)   Firearms and dangerous ordnance suitable for police work may be
given to a law enforcement agency for that purpose. Firearms suitable for
sporting use or as museum pieces or collectors’ items may be sold at public
auction pursuant to division (B)(2) of this section. The Police Department may
sell other firearms and dangerous ordnance to a federally licensed firearms
dealer in a manner that the court considers proper. The Police Department shall
destroy any firearms or dangerous ordnance not given to a law enforcement
agency or sold or shall send them to the Bureau of Criminal Identification and
Investigation for destruction by the Bureau.
         (c)   Obscene materials shall be destroyed.
         (d)   Beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol seized from a person who
does not hold a permit issued under R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303 or otherwise
forfeited to the state for an offense under R.C. § 4301.45 or R.C. § 4301.53
shall be sold by the Division of Liquor Control if the Division determines that
it is fit for sale or shall be placed in the custody of the Investigations Unit
in the Ohio Department of Public Safety and be used for training relating to
law enforcement activities. The Ohio Department of Public Safety, with the
assistance of the Division of Liquor Control, shall adopt rules in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 119 to provide for the distribution to state or local law
enforcement agencies upon their request. If any tax imposed under R.C. Title 43
has not been paid in relation to the beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol, any
moneys acquired from the sale shall first be used to pay the tax. All other
money collected under this division (B)(1)(d) shall be paid into the State
Treasury. Any beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol that the Division
determines to be unfit for sale shall be destroyed.
         (e)   Money received by an inmate of a correctional institution from
an unauthorized source or in an unauthorized manner shall be returned to the
sender, if known, or deposited in the inmates’ industrial and entertainment
fund of the institution if the sender is not known.
         (f)   1.   Any mobile instrumentality forfeited under R.C. Chapter
2981 may be given to the law enforcement agency that initially seized the
mobile instrumentality for use in performing its duties, if the agency wants
the mobile instrumentality. The agency shall take the mobile instrumentality
subject to any security interest or lien on the mobile instrumentality.
            2.   Vehicles and vehicle parts forfeited under R.C. §§ 4549.61 to
4549.63 may be given to a law enforcement agency for use in performing its
duties. Those parts may be incorporated into any other official vehicle. Parts
that do not bear vehicle identification numbers or derivatives of them may be
sold or disposed of as provided by rules of the Director of Public Safety.
Parts from which a vehicle identification number or derivative of it has been
removed, defaced, covered, altered, or destroyed and that are not suitable for
police work or incorporation into an official vehicle shall be destroyed and
sold as junk or scrap.
         (g)   Computers, computer networks, computer systems, and computer
software suitable for police work may be given to a law enforcement agency for
that purpose or disposed of under division (B)(2) of this section.
         (h)   Money seized in connection with a violation of R.C. § 2905.32,
2907.21, or 2907.22 shall be deposited in the Victims of Human Trafficking Fund
created by R.C. § 5101.87.
      (2)   Unclaimed or forfeited property that is not described in division
(B)(1) of this section or division (A)(1)(b) of this section, with court
approval, may be used by the law enforcement agency in possession of it. If it
is not used by the agency, it may be sold without appraisal at a public auction
to the highest bidder for cash or disposed of in another manner that the court
considers proper.
      (3)   Except as provided in divisions (B)(1) and (B)(5) of this section
and after compliance with division (B)(4) of this section when applicable, any
moneys acquired from the sale of property disposed of pursuant to this section
shall be placed in the general revenue fund of the state, or the general fund
of the municipality.
      (4)   If the property was in the possession of the Police Department in
relation to a delinquent child proceeding in a juvenile court, 10% of any
moneys acquired from the sale of property disposed of under this section shall
be applied to one or more community addiction services providers, as defined in
R.C. § 5119.01. A juvenile court shall not specify a services provider, except
as provided in this division, unless the services provider is in the same
county as the court or in a contiguous county. If no services provider is
located in any of those counties, the juvenile court may specify a services
provider anywhere in Ohio. The remaining 90% of the proceeds or cash shall be
applied as provided in division (B)(3) of this section.
      (5)   (a)   If the Board of County Commissioners recognizes a citizens’
reward program under R.C. § 9.92, the Board shall notify the Police Department
of the recognition by filing a copy of its resolution conferring that
recognition with the Police Department. When the Board recognizes a citizens’
reward program and the county includes a part, but not all, of the territory of
the municipality, the Board shall so notify the Police Department of the
recognition of the citizens' reward program only if the county contains the
highest percentage of the municipality’s population.
         (b)   Upon being so notified, the Police Department shall pay 25% of
any forfeited proceeds or cash derived from each sale of property disposed of
pursuant to this section to the citizens’ reward program for use exclusively to
pay rewards. No part of the funds may be used to pay expenses associated with
the program. If a citizens’ reward program that operates in more than one
county or in another state in addition to this state receives funds under this
section, the funds shall be used to pay rewards only for tips and information
to law enforcement agencies concerning offenses committed in the county from
which the funds were received.
      (6)   Any property forfeited under R.C. Chapter 2981 not be used to pay
any fine imposed upon a person who is convicted of or pleads guilty to an
underlying criminal offense or a different offense arising out of the same
facts and circumstances.
      (7)   Any moneys acquired from the sale of personal effects, tools, or
other property seized because the personal effects, tools, or other property
were used in the commission of a violation of R.C. § 2905.32, 2907.21, or
2907.22 or derived from the proceeds of the commission of a violation of R.C. §
2905.32, 2907.21, or 2907.22 and disposed of pursuant to this division (B)
shall be placed in the Victims of Human Trafficking Fund created by R.C. §
5101.87.
(R.C. § 2981.12)
   (C)   Disposition of contraband, proceeds, or instrumentalities. Except as
otherwise provided in R.C. § 2981.13, property ordered forfeited as contraband,
proceeds, or an instrumentality pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2981 shall be disposed
of, used, or sold pursuant to division (B) of this section or R.C. § 2981.12.
If the property is to be sold under division (B) of this section or R.C. §
2981.12, the prosecutor shall cause notice of the proposed sale to be given in
accordance with law.
(R.C. § 2981.13(A))
Statutory reference:
   Forfeiture of property generally, see R.C. Chapter 2981
§ 130.11 SELF-DEFENSE: LIMITATIONS ON DUTY TO RETREAT PRIOR TO USING FORCE.
   (A)   As used in this section, RESIDENCE has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2901.05.
   (B)   For purposes of any section of this code that sets forth a criminal
offense, a person has no duty to retreat before using force in self-defense,
defense of another, or defense of that person's residence if that person is in
a place in which the person lawfully has a right to be.
   (C)   A trier of fact shall not consider the possibility of retreat as a
factor in determining whether or not a person who used force in self-defense,
defense of another, or defense of that person's residence reasonably believed
that the force was necessary to prevent injury, loss, or risk to life or
safety.
(R.C. § 2901.09)
§ 130.99 PENALTY FOR TITLE XIII.
   (A)   Except where otherwise specifically classified within the body of the
section of a chapter of this title, a violation of such section shall be deemed
a misdemeanor punishable upon conviction by a fine of not more than $500,
imprisonment of not more than six months, or both.
(R.C. § 715.67)
   (B)   Considerations in misdemeanor sentencing.
      (1)   A court that sentences an offender for a misdemeanor or minor
misdemeanor violation of any provision of the Ohio Revised Code, or of any
municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to a misdemeanor or minor
misdemeanor violation of a provision of the Ohio Revised Code, shall be guided
by the overriding purposes of misdemeanor sentencing. The overriding purposes
of misdemeanor sentencing are to protect the public from future crime by the
offender and others and to punish the offender. To achieve those purposes, the
sentencing court shall consider the impact of the offense upon the victim and
the need for changing the offender’s behavior, rehabilitating the defender, and
making restitution to the victim of the offense, the public, or the victim and
the public.
      (2)   A sentence imposed for a misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor violation
of an Ohio Revised Code provision or for a violation of a municipal ordinance
that is subject to division (B)(1) of this section shall be reasonably
calculated to achieve the two overriding purposes of misdemeanor sentencing set
forth in division (B)(1) of this section, commensurate with and not demeaning
to the seriousness of the offender’s conduct and its impact upon the victim,
and consistent with sentences imposed for similar offenses committed by similar
offenders.
      (3)   A court that imposes a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor
or minor misdemeanor violation of an Ohio Revised Code provision or for a
violation of a municipal ordinance that is subject to division (B)(1) of this
section shall not base the sentence upon the race, ethnic background, gender,
or religion of the offender.
      (4)   Divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) of this section shall not apply to any
offense that is disposed of by a traffic violations bureau of any court
pursuant to Traffic Rule 13 and shall not apply to any violation of any
provision of the Ohio Revised Code that is a minor misdemeanor and that is
disposed of without a court appearance. Divisions (B)(1) through (B)(3) of this
section do not affect any penalties established by the municipality for a
violation of its ordinances that are not substantially equivalent to a
misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor violation of a provision of the Ohio Revised
Code.
(R.C. § 2929.21)
   (C)   Misdemeanor jail terms.
      (1)   Except as provided in §
133.99 of this code or R.C. § 2929.22 or 2929.23 or division (C)(5) of this
section and unless another term is required or authorized pursuant to law, if
the sentencing court imposing a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor
elects or is required to impose a jail term on the offender pursuant to this
chapter, the court shall impose a definite jail term that shall be one of the
following:
         (a)   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than 180 days;
         (b)   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than 90 days;
         (c)   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than 60 days;
         (d)   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than 30 days.
      (2)   (a)   A court that sentences an offender to a jail term under
division (C) of this section may permit the offender to serve the sentence in
intermittent confinement or may authorize a limited release of the offender as
provided in division (E)(2) of this section. The court retains jurisdiction
over every offender sentenced to jail to modify the jail sentence imposed at
any time, but the court shall not reduce any mandatory jail term.
         (b)   1.   If a prosecutor, as defined in R.C. § 2935.01, has filed a
notice with the court that the prosecutor wants to be notified about a
particular case and if the court is considering modifying the jail sentence of
the offender in that case, the court shall notify the prosecutor that the court
is considering modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case. The
prosecutor may request a hearing regarding the court’s consideration of
modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case, and, if the
prosecutor requests a hearing, the court shall notify the eligible offender of
the hearing.
            2.   If the prosecutor requests a hearing regarding the court’s
consideration of modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case, the
court shall hold the hearing before considering whether or not to release the
offender from the offender’s jail sentence.
      (3)   If a court sentences an offender to a jail term under division (C)
of this section and the court assigns the offender to a county jail that has
established a county jail industry program pursuant to R.C. § 5147.30, the
court shall specify, as part of the sentence, whether the offender may be
considered for participation in the program. During the offender’s term in the
county jail, the court retains jurisdiction to modify its specification
regarding the offender’s participation in the county jail industry program.
      (4)   If a person sentenced to a jail term pursuant to division (C) of
this section, the court may impose as part of the sentence pursuant to R.C. §
2929.28 a reimbursement sanction, and, if the local detention facility in which
the term is to be served is covered by a policy adopted pursuant to R.C. §
307.93, 341.14, 341.19, 341.21, 341.23, 753.02, 753.04, 753.16, 2301.56, or
2947.19 and R.C. § 2929.37, both of the following apply:
         (a)   The court shall specify both of the following as part of the
sentence:
            1.   If the person is presented with an itemized bill pursuant to
R.C. § 2929.37 for payment of the costs of confinement, the person is required
to pay the bill in accordance with that section.
            2.   If the person does not dispute the bill described in division
(C)(4)(a)1. of this section and does not pay the bill by the times specified in
R.C. § 2929.37, the clerk of the court may issue a certificate of judgment
against the person as described in that section.
         (b)   The sentence automatically includes any certificate of judgment
issued as described in division (C)(4)(a)2. of this section.
      (5)   (a)   If an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
misdemeanor violation of R.C. § 2907.23, 2907.24, 2907.241, or 2907.25, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and to a specification of the
type described in R.C. § 2941.1421 and if the court imposes a jail term on the
offender for the misdemeanor violation, the court may impose upon the offender
an additional definite jail term as follows:
            1.   Subject to division (C)(5)(a)2. of this section, an additional
definite jail term of not more than 60 days;
            2.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one or more misdemeanor or felony violations of R.C. § 2907.22,
2907.23, 2907.24, 2907.241, or 2907.25, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, and also was convicted of or pleaded guilty to a
specification of the type described in R.C. § 2941.1421 regarding one or more
of those violations, an additional definite jail term of not more than 120
days.
         (b)   In lieu of imposing an additional definite jail term under
division (C)(5)(a) of this section, the court may directly impose on the
offender a sanction that requires the offender to wear a real-time processing,
continual tracking electronic monitoring device during the period of time
specified by the court. The period of time specified by the court shall equal
the duration of an additional jail term that the court could have imposed upon
the offender under division (C)(5)(a) of this section. A sanction imposed under
this division shall commence on the date specified by the court, provided that
the sanction shall not commence until after the offender has served the jail
term imposed for the misdemeanor violation of R.C. § 2907.23, 2907.24,
2907.241, or 2907.25, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and
any residential sanction imposed for the violation under division (E) of this
section or R.C. § 2929.26. A sanction imposed under this division shall be
considered to be a community control sanction for purposes of division (D) of
this section or R.C. § 2929.25, and all provisions of this code and the Ohio
Revised Code that pertain to community control sanctions shall apply to a
sanction imposed under this division, except to the extent that they would by
their nature be clearly inapplicable. The offender shall pay all costs
associated with a sanction imposed under this division, including the cost of
the use of the monitoring device.
      (6)   If an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor
violation of R.C. § 2903.13 and also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
specification of the type described in R.C. § 2941.1423 that charges that the
victim of the violation was a woman whom the offender knew was pregnant at the
time of the violation, the court shall impose on the offender a mandatory jail
term that is a definite term of at least 30 days.
      (7)   If a court sentences an offender to a jail term under this division
(C), the sentencing court retains jurisdiction over the offender and the jail
term. Upon motion of either party or upon the court’s own motion, the court, in
the court’s sole discretion and as the circumstances warrant, may substitute
one or more community control sanctions under division (E) or (F) of this
section for any jail days that are not mandatory jail days.
(R.C. § 2929.24)
   (D)   Misdemeanor community control sanctions.
      (1)   (a)   Except as provided in §
133.99 of this Code or R.C. §§ 2929.22 and 2929.23 or when a jail term is
required by law, in sentencing an offender for a misdemeanor, other than a
minor misdemeanor, the sentencing court may do either of the following:
            1.   Directly impose a sentence that consists of one or more
community control sanctions authorized by divisions (E), (F), or (G) of this
section. The court may impose any other conditions of release under a community
control sanction that the court considers appropriate. If the court imposes a
jail term upon the offender, the court may impose any community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions in addition to the jail
term.
            2.   Impose a jail term under division (C) of this section from the
range of jail terms authorized under that division for the offense, suspend all
or a portion of the jail term imposed, and place the offender under a community
control sanction or combination of community control sanctions authorized under
divisions (E), (F), or (G) of this section.
         (b)   The duration of all community control sanctions imposed upon an
offender and in effect for an offender at any time shall not exceed five years.
         (c)   At sentencing, if a court directly imposes a community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions pursuant to division (D)
(1)(a)1. of this section, the court shall state the duration of the community
control sanctions imposed and shall notify the offender that if any of the
conditions of the community control sanctions are violated the court may do any
of the following:
            1.   Impose a longer time under the same community control sanction
if the total time under all of the offender’s community control sanctions does
not exceed the five-year limit specified in division (D)(1)(b) of this section;
            2.   Impose a more restrictive community control sanction under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section, but the court is not required to
impose any particular sanction or sanctions;
            3.   Impose a definite jail term from the range of jail terms
authorized for the offense under division (C) of this section.
      (2)   If a court sentences an offender to any community control sanction
or combination of community control sanctions pursuant to division (D)(1)(a)1.
of this section, the sentencing court retains jurisdiction over the offender
and the period of community control for the duration of the period of community
control. Upon the motion of either party or on the court’s own motion, the
court, in the court’s sole discretion and as the circumstances warrant, may
modify the community control sanctions or conditions of release previously
imposed, substitute a community control sanction or condition of release for
another community control sanction or condition of release previously imposed,
or impose an additional community control sanction or condition of release.
      (3)   (a)   If a court sentences an offender to any community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions authorized under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section, the court shall place the offender
under the general control and supervision of the court or of a department of
probation in the jurisdiction that serves the court for purposes of reporting
to the court a violation of any of the conditions of the sanctions imposed. If
the offender resides in another jurisdiction and a department of probation has
been established to serve the municipal court or county court in that
jurisdiction, the sentencing court may request the municipal court or the
county court to receive the offender into the general control and supervision
of that department of probation for purposes of reporting to the sentencing
court a violation of any of the conditions of the sanctions imposed. The
sentencing court retains jurisdiction over any offender whom it sentences for
the duration of the sanction or sanctions imposed.
         (b)   The sentencing court shall require as a condition of any
community control sanction that the offender abide by the law and not leave the
state without the permission of the court or the offender’s probation officer.
In the interests of doing justice, rehabilitating the offender, and ensuring
the offender’s good behavior, the court may impose additional requirements on
the offender. The offender’s compliance with the additional requirements also
shall be a condition of the community control sanction imposed upon the
offender.
      (4)   (a)   If the court imposing sentence upon an offender sentences the
offender to any community control sanction or combination of community control
sanctions authorized under division (E), (F), or (G) of this section, and the
offender violates any of the conditions of the sanctions, the public or private
person or entity that supervises or administers the program or activity that
comprises the sanction shall report the violation directly to the sentencing
court or to the department of probation or probation officer with general
control and supervision over the offender. If the public or private person or
entity reports the violation to the department of probation or probation
officer, the department or officer shall report the violation to the sentencing
court.
         (b)   Except as provided in division (D)(4)(c) of this section, if an
offender violates any condition of a community control sanction, the sentencing
court may impose upon the violator one or more of the following penalties:
            1.   A longer time under the same community control sanction if the
total time under all of the community control sanctions imposed on the violator
does not exceed the five-year limit specified in division (D)(1)(b) of this
section;
            2.   A more restrictive community control sanction;
            3.   A combination of community control sanctions, including a jail
term.
         (c)   If an offender was acting pursuant to R.C. § 2925.11(B)(2)(b),
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or a related provision
under R.C. § 2925.12, R.C. § 2925.14, or R.C. § 2925.141, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, and in so doing violated the conditions of a
community control sanction based on a minor drug possession offense, as defined
in R.C. § 2925.11, or violated R.C. § 2925.12, R.C. § 2925.14(C)(1), or R.C. §
2925.141, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the sentencing
court shall not impose any of the penalties described in division (D)(4)(b) of
this section based on the violation.
         (d)   If the court imposes a jail term upon a violator pursuant to
division (D)(4)(b) of this section, the total time spent in jail for the
misdemeanor offense and the violation of a condition of the community control
sanction shall not exceed the maximum jail term available for the offense for
which the sanction that was violated was imposed. The court may reduce the
longer period of time that the violator is required to spend under the longer
sanction or the more restrictive sanction imposed under division (D)(4)(b) of
this section by all or part of the time the violator successfully spent under
the sanction that was initially imposed.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if an offender, for
a significant period of time, fulfills the conditions of a community control
sanction imposed pursuant to division (E), (F), or (G) of this section in an
exemplary manner, the court may reduce the period of time under the community
control sanction or impose a less restrictive community control sanction.
Fulfilling the conditions of a community control sanction does not relieve the
offender of a duty to make restitution under division (G) of this section.
(R.C. § 2929.25)
   (E)   Community residential sanction.
      (1)   Except when a mandatory jail term is required by law, the court
imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a minor misdemeanor, may
impose upon the offender any community residential sanction or combination of
community residential sanctions under this division (E). Community residential
sanctions include, but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   A term of up to 180 days in a halfway house or a term in a
halfway house not to exceed the longest jail term available for the offense,
whichever is shorter, if the political subdivision that would have
responsibility for paying the costs of confining the offender in a jail has
entered into a contract with the halfway house for use of the facility for
misdemeanor offenders;
         (b)   If the offender is an eligible offender, as defined in R.C. §
307.932, a term in a community alternative sentencing center or district
community alternative sentencing center established and operated in accordance
with that section, in the circumstances specified in that section, with one of
the conditions of the sanction being that the offender successfully complete
the portion of the sentence to be served in the center.
      (2)   A sentence to a community residential sanction under division (E)
(1)(c) of this section shall be in accordance with R.C. § 307.932. In all other
cases, the court that sentences an offender to a community residential sanction
under this division (E) may do either or both of the following:
         (a)   Permit the offender to serve the offender’s sentence in
intermittent confinement, overnight, on weekends or at any other time or times
that will allow the offender to continue at the offender’s occupation or care
for the offender’s family;
         (b)   Authorize the offender to be released so that the offender may
seek or maintain employment, receive education or training, receive treatment,
perform community service, or otherwise fulfill an obligation imposed by law or
by the court. A release pursuant to this division shall be only for the
duration of time that is needed to fulfill the purpose of the release and for
travel that reasonably is necessary to fulfill the purposes of release.
      (3)   The court may order that a reasonable portion of the income earned
by the offender upon a release pursuant to division (E)(2) of this section be
applied to any financial sanction imposed under division (G) of this section.
      (4)   No court shall sentence any person to a prison term for a
misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor or to a jail term for a minor misdemeanor.
      (5)   If a court sentences a person who has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a misdemeanor to a community residential sanction as described in
division (E)(1) of this section, at the time of reception and at other times
the person in charge of the operation of the halfway house, community
alternative sentencing center, district community alternative sentencing
center, or other place at which the offender will serve the residential
sanction determines to be appropriate, the person in charge of the operation of
the halfway house, community alternative sentencing center, district community
alternative sentencing center, or other place may cause the convicted offender
to be examined and tested for tuberculosis, HIV infection, hepatitis,
including, but not limited to, hepatitis A, B, and C, and other contagious
diseases. The person in charge of the operation of the halfway house, community
alternative sentencing center, district community alternative sentencing
center, or other place at which the offender will serve the residential
sanction may cause a convicted offender in the halfway house, community
alternative sentencing center, district community alternative sentencing
center, or other place who refuses to be tested or treated for tuberculosis,
HIV infection, hepatitis, including, but not limited to, hepatitis A, B, and C,
or another contagious disease to be tested and treated involuntarily.
      (6)   The municipality may enter into a contract with a halfway house for
use of the halfway house to house misdemeanor offenders under a sanction
imposed under division (E)(1)(a) of this section.
(R.C. § 2929.26)
   (F)   Nonresidential sanction where jail term is not mandatory.
      (1)   Except when a mandatory jail term is required by law, the court
imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a minor misdemeanor, may
impose upon the offender any nonresidential sanction or combination of
nonresidential sanctions authorized under this division. Nonresidential
sanctions include, but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   A term of day reporting;
         (b)   A term of house arrest with electronic monitoring or continuous
alcohol monitoring or both electronic monitoring and continuous alcohol
monitoring, a term of electronic monitoring or continuous alcohol monitoring
without house arrest, or a term of house arrest without electronic monitoring
or continuous alcohol monitoring;
         (c)   A term of community service of up to 500 hours for misdemeanor
of the first degree or 200 hours for a misdemeanor of the second, third, or
fourth degree;
         (d)   A term in a drug treatment program with a level of security for
the offender as determined necessary by the court;
         (e)   A term of intensive probation supervision;
         (f)   A term of basic probation supervision;
         (g)   A term of monitored time;
         (h)   A term of drug and alcohol use monitoring, including random drug
testing;
         (i)   A curfew term;
         (j)   A requirement that the offender obtain employment;
         (k)   A requirement that the offender obtain education or training;
         (l)   Provided the court obtains the prior approval of the victim, a
requirement that the offender participate in victim-offender mediation;
         (m)   If authorized by law, suspension of the offender’s privilege to
operate a motor vehicle, immobilization or forfeiture of the offender’s motor
vehicle, a requirement that the offender obtain a valid motor vehicle
operator’s license, or any other related sanction;
         (n)   A requirement that the offender obtain counseling if the offense
is a violation of R.C. § 2919.25 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance or a violation of R.C. § 2903.13 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance involving a person who was a family or household member at
the time of the violation, if the offender committed the offense in the
vicinity of one or more children who are not victims of the offense, and if the
offender or the victim of the offense is a parent, guardian, custodian, or
person in loco parentis of one or more of those children. This division does
not limit the court in requiring that the offender obtain counseling for any
offense or in any circumstance not specified in this division.
      (2)   If the court imposes a term of community service pursuant to
division (F)(1)(c) of this section, the offender may request that the court
modify the sentence to authorize the offender to make a reasonable
contribution, as determined by the court, to the general fund of the county,
municipality, or other local entity that provides funding to the court. The
court may grant the request if the offender demonstrates a change in
circumstances from the date the court imposes the sentence or that the
modification would otherwise be in the interests of justice. If the court
grants the request, the offender shall make a reasonable contribution to the
court, and the clerk of the court shall deposit that contribution into the
general fund of the county, municipality, or other local entity that provides
funding to the court. If more than one entity provides funding to the court,
the clerk shall deposit a percentage of the reasonable contribution equal to
the percentage of funding the entity provides to the court in that entity’s
general fund.
      (3)   In addition to the sanctions authorized under division (F)(1) of
this section, the court imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a
minor misdemeanor, upon an offender who is not required to serve a mandatory
jail term may impose any other sanction that is intended to discourage the
offender or other persons from committing a similar offense if the sanction is
reasonably related to the overriding purposes and principles of misdemeanor
sentencing.
      (4)   The court imposing a sentence for a minor misdemeanor may impose a
term of community service in lieu of all or part of a fine. The term of
community service imposed for a minor misdemeanor shall not exceed 30 hours.
After imposing a term of community service, the court may modify the sentence
to authorize a reasonable contribution, as determined by the court, to the
appropriate general fund as provided in division (F)(2) of this section.
(R.C. § 2929.27)
   (G)   Financial sanctions.
      (1)   In addition to imposing court costs pursuant to R.C. § 2947.23, the
court imposing a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor, including a minor
misdemeanor, may sentence the offender to any financial sanction or combination
of financial sanctions authorized under this division (G) and, if the offender
is being sentenced for a criminal offense as defined in R.C. § 2930.01, shall
sentence the offender to make restitution pursuant to this division (G) and
R.C. § 2929.281. If the court, in its discretion or as required by this
division (G), imposes one or more financial sanctions, the financial sanctions
that may be imposed pursuant to this division (G) include, but are not limited
to, the following:
         (a)   Restitution.
            1.   Unless the misdemeanor offense could be disposed of by the
traffic violations bureau serving the court under Traffic Rule 13, restitution
by the offender to the victim of the offender's crime or the victim's estate,
in an amount based on the victim's economic loss. The court may not impose
restitution as a sanction pursuant to this division if the offense could be
disposed of by the traffic violations bureau serving the court under Traffic
Rule 13. If the court requires restitution, the court shall order that the
restitution be made to the victim in open court or to the adult probation
department that serves the jurisdiction or the clerk of the court on behalf of
the victim.
            2.   The court shall determine the amount of restitution to be paid
by the offender. The victim, victim's representative, victim's attorney, if
applicable, the prosecutor or the prosecutor's designee, and the offender may
provide information relevant to the determination of the amount of restitution.
The amount the court orders as restitution shall not exceed the amount of the
economic loss suffered by the victim as a direct and proximate result of the
commission of the offense. If the court imposes restitution for the cost of
accounting or auditing done to determine the extent of economic loss, the court
may order restitution for any amount of the victim's costs of accounting or
auditing provided that the amount of restitution is reasonable and does not
exceed the value of property or services stolen or damaged as a result of the
offense. If the court decides to or is required to impose restitution, the
court shall hold an evidentiary hearing on restitution if the offender, victim,
victim's representative, victim's attorney, if applicable, or victim's estate
disputes the amount of restitution. The court shall determine the amount of
full restitution by a preponderance of the evidence.
            3.   All restitution payments shall be credited against any
recovery of economic loss in a civil action brought by the victim or the
victim's estate against the offender. No person may introduce evidence of an
award of restitution under this division (G) in a civil action for purposes of
imposing liability against an insurer under R.C. § 3937.18.
            4.   The court may order that the offender pay a surcharge, of not
more than 5% of the amount of the restitution otherwise ordered, to the entity
responsible for collecting and processing restitution payments.
            5.   The victim, victim's attorney, if applicable, or the attorney
for the victim's estate may request that the prosecutor in the case file a
motion, or the offender may file a motion, for modification of the payment
terms of any restitution ordered. If the court grants the motion, it may modify
the payment terms as it determines appropriate but shall not reduce the amount
of restitution ordered, except as provided in R.C. § 2929.281(A).
         (b)   Fines. A fine of the type described in divisions (G)(1)(b)1. and
(G)(1)(b)2. of this section payable to the appropriate entity as required by
law:
            1.   A fine in the following amount:
               a.   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than
$1,000;
               b.   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than $750;
               c.   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than $500;
               d.   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than $250;
               e.   For a minor misdemeanor, not more than $150.
            2.   A state fine or cost as defined in R.C. § 2949.111.
         (c)   Reimbursement.
            1.   Reimbursement by the offender of any or all of the costs of
sanctions incurred by the government, including, but not limited to, the
following:
               a.   All or part of the costs of implementing any community
control sanction, including a supervision fee under R.C. § 2951.021 and the
costs of global positioning system device monitoring;
               b.   All or part of the costs of confinement in a jail or other
residential facility, including, but not limited to, a per diem fee for room
and board, the costs of medical and dental treatment, and the costs of
repairing property damaged by the offender while confined;
               c.   All or part of the cost of purchasing and using an
immobilizing or disabling device, including a certified ignition interlock
device, or a remote alcohol monitoring device that a court orders an offender
to use under R.C. § 4510.13.
            2.   The amount of reimbursement under division (G)(1)(c)1. of this
section shall not exceed the total amount of reimbursement the offender is able
to pay and shall not exceed the actual cost of the sanctions. The court may
collect any amount of reimbursement the offender is required to pay under that
division. If the court does not order reimbursement under that division,
confinement costs may be assessed pursuant to a repayment policy adopted under
R.C. § 2929.37. In addition, the offender may be required to pay the fees
specified in R.C. § 2929.38 in accordance with that section.   
      (2)   (a)   If the court determines a hearing is necessary, the court may
hold a hearing to determine whether the offender is able to pay the financial
sanction imposed pursuant to this division (G) or court costs or is likely in
the future to be able to pay the sanction or costs.
         (b)   If the court determines that the offender is indigent and unable
to pay the financial sanction or court costs, the court shall consider imposing
and may impose a term of community service under division (F)(1) of this
section in lieu of imposing a financial sanction or court costs. If the court
does not determine that the offender is indigent, the court may impose a term
of community service under division (F)(1) of this section in lieu of or in
addition to imposing a financial sanction under this division (G) and in
addition to imposing court costs. The court may order community service for a
minor misdemeanor pursuant to division (F)(4) of this section in lieu of or in
addition to imposing a financial sanction under this section and in addition to
imposing court costs. If a person fails to pay a financial sanction or court
costs, the court may order community service in lieu of the financial sanction
or court costs.
      (3)   (a)   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed upon the
offender pursuant to division (G)(1)(c) of this section to pay the costs
incurred by a county pursuant to any sanction imposed under division (E), (F),
or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to confine offenders
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this section to the county
treasurer. The county treasurer shall deposit the reimbursements in the
county’s general fund. The county shall use the amounts deposited in the fund
to pay the costs incurred by the county pursuant to any sanction imposed under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to
confine offenders pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this
section.
         (b)   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed upon the offender
pursuant to division (G)(1)(c) of this section to pay the costs incurred by a
municipal corporation pursuant to any sanction imposed under division (E), (F),
or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to confine offenders
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this section to the
treasurer of the municipal corporation. The treasurer shall deposit the
reimbursements in the municipal corporation’
         (c)   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed pursuant to
division (G)(1)(c) of this section for the costs incurred by a private provider
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E), (F), or (G) of this section
to the provider.
      (4)   In addition to any other fine that is or may be imposed under this
division (G), the court imposing sentence upon an offender for misdemeanor
domestic violence or menacing by stalking may impose a fine of not less than
$70 nor more than $500, which shall be transmitted to the Treasurer of Ohio to
be credited to the address confidentiality program fund created by R.C. §
111.48.
      (5)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (G)(5), a
financial sanction imposed under division (G)(1) of this section is a judgment
in favor of the state or the political subdivision that operates the court that
imposed the financial sanction, and the offender subject to the financial
sanction is the judgment debtor. A financial sanction of reimbursement imposed
pursuant to division (G)(1)(c)1.a. of this section upon an offender is a
judgment in favor of the entity administering the community control sanction,
and the offender subject to the financial sanction is the judgment debtor. A
financial sanction of reimbursement imposed pursuant to division (G)(1)(c)1.b.
of this section upon an offender confined in a jail or other residential
facility is a judgment in favor of the entity operating the jail or other
residential facility, and the offender subject to the financial sanction is the
judgment debtor. A financial sanction of restitution imposed pursuant to
division (G)(1)(a) of this section is an order in favor of the victim of the
offender’s criminal act that can be collected through a certificate of judgment
as described in division (G)(5)(b)1. of this section, through execution as
described in division (G)(5)(b)2. of this section or through an order as
described in division (G)(5)(b)3. of this section and the offender shall be
considered for purposes of the collection as a judgment debtor.
         (b)   Once a financial sanction is imposed as a judgment or order
under this division, the victim, private provider, state, or political
subdivision may do any of the following:
            1.   Obtain from the clerk of the court in which the judgment was
entered, at no charge, a certificate of judgment that shall be in the same
manner and form as a certificate of judgment issued in a civil action;
            2.   Obtain execution of the judgment or order through any
available procedure, including any of the procedures identified in R.C. §
2929.18(D)(1) and (D)(2) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
            3.   Obtain an order for the assignment of wages of the judgment
debtor under R.C. § 1321.33 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (6)   The civil remedies authorized under division (G)(5) of this section
for the collection of the financial sanction supplement, but do not preclude,
enforcement of the criminal sentence.
      (7)   Each court imposing a financial sanction upon an offender under
this division (G) may designate the clerk of the court or another person to
collect the financial sanction. The clerk, or another person authorized by law
or the court to collect the financial sanction may do the following:
         (a)   Enter into contracts with one or more public agencies or private
vendors for the collection of amounts due under the sanction. Before entering
into a contract for the collection of amounts due from an offender pursuant to
any financial sanction imposed pursuant to this division (G), a court shall
comply with R.C. §§ 307.86 through 307.92.
         (b)   Permit payment of all or any portion of the sanction in
installments, by financial transaction device if the court is a county court or
a municipal court operated by a county, or by any other reasonable method, in
any time, and on any terms that the court considers just, except that the
maximum time permitted for payment shall not exceed five years. If the court is
a county court or a municipal court operated by a county, the acceptance of
payments by any financial transaction device shall be governed by the policy
adopted by the board of county commissioners of the county pursuant to R.C. §
301.28. If the court is a municipal court not operated by a county, the clerk
may pay any fee associated with processing an electronic transfer out of public
money or may charge the fee to the offender.
         (c)   To defray administrative costs, charge a reasonable fee to an
offender who elects a payment plan rather than a lump sum payment of any
financial sanction.
      (8)   No financial sanction imposed under this division (G) shall
preclude a victim from bringing a civil action against the offender.
      (9)   If the court imposes restitution, fines, fees, or incarceration
costs on a business or corporation, it is the duty of the person authorized to
make disbursements from assets of the business or corporation to pay the
restitution, fines, fees, or incarceration costs from those assets.
      (10)   If an offender is sentenced to pay restitution, a fine, fee, or
incarceration costs, the clerk of the sentencing court, on request, shall make
the offender's payment history available to the victim, victim's
representative, victim's attorney, if applicable, the prosecutor, the probation
department, and the court without cost.
(R.C. § 2929.28)
   (H)   Organizational penalties.
      (1)   Regardless of the other penalties provided in this section, an
organization convicted of an offense pursuant to R.C. § 2901.23 shall be fined
by the court as follows:
         (a)   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than $5,000;
         (b)   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than $4,000;
         (c)   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than $3,000;
         (d)   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than $2,000;
         (e)   For a minor misdemeanor, not more than $1,000;
         (f)   For a misdemeanor not specifically classified, not more than
$2,000;
         (g)   For a minor misdemeanor not specifically classified, not more
than $1,000.
      (2)   When an organization is convicted of an offense not specifically
classified, and the section defining the offense or penalty plainly indicates a
purpose to impose the penalty provided for violation upon organizations, then
such penalty shall be imposed in lieu of the penalty provided in this section.
      (3)   When an organization is convicted of an offense not specifically
classified, and the penalty provided includes a higher fine than that provided
in this section, then the penalty imposed shall be pursuant to the penalty
provided for violation of the section defining the offense.
      (4)   This section does not prevent the imposition of available civil
sanctions against an organization convicted of an offense pursuant to R.C. §
2901.23, either in addition to or in lieu of a fine imposed pursuant to this
section.
(R.C. § 2929.31) (Am. Ord. 2004-05, passed 2-2-05)
Cross-reference:
   Sentencing for sexually oriented offenses; sexual predators; registration,
see § 133.99
Statutory reference:
   Citation issuance and limitations on arrest for minor misdemeanors, see R.C.
§ 2935.26
   Crime victim's reparations fund, see R.C. § 2929.32
   Habitual sex offender and sexual predator registration, see R.C. Chapter
2950
   Reimbursement for costs of confinement, see R.C. §§ 2929.36 et seq.
   Reports to health care licensing boards of criminal offenses, see R.C. §
2929.42
   Restitution, see R.C. § 2929.281
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
131.01   Definitions
   
131.02   Detention or arrest of shoplifters; and those committing motion
picture piracy; protection of institutional property
Property Damage
   
131.05   Criminal damaging or endangering; vehicular vandalism
   
131.06   Criminal mischief
   
131.07   Criminal trespass
   
131.08   Aggravated trespass
   
131.09   Criminal trespass on a place of public amusement
   
131.10   Injuring vines, bushes, trees, or crops
   
131.11   Diminishing or interfering with forfeitable property
   
131.12   Railroad vandalism; criminal trespass; interference with operation of
train; grade crossing device vandalism
Theft Offenses
   
131.15   Theft
   
131.16   Value of stolen property
   
131.17   Degree of offense when certain property involved
   
131.18   Receiving stolen property
   
131.19   Unauthorized use of a vehicle
   
131.20   Unauthorized use of property, including telecommunication property and
computers
   
131.21   Passing bad checks
   
131.22   Misuse of credit cards
   
131.23   Making or using slugs
   
131.24   Defrauding creditors
   
131.25   Securing writings by deception
   
131.26   Tampering with coin machines
   
131.27   Tampering with records
   
131.28   Motion picture piracy
§ 131.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTIVE DUTY SERVICE MEMBER. Any member of the armed forces of the United
States performing active duty under Title 10 of the United States Code.
   ANHYDROUS AMMONIA. A compound formed by the combination of two gaseous
elements, nitrogen and hydrogen, in the manner described below. Anhydrous
ammonia is one part nitrogen to three  parts hydrogen (NH3). Anhydrous ammonia
by weight is fourteen parts nitrogen to three parts hydrogen, which is
approximately 82% nitrogen to 18% hydrogen.
   ASSISTANCE DOG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 955.011.
   CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE. Any services provided by or through the facilities
of any cable television system or other similar closed circuit coaxial cable
communications system, or any microwave or similar transmission service used in
connection with any cable television system or other similar closed circuit
coaxial cable communications system.
   COIN MACHINE. Any mechanical or electronic device designed to do both of the
following:
      (1)   Receive a coin or bill, or token made for that purpose;
      (2)   In return for the insertion or deposit of a coin, bill, or token,
automatically dispense property, provide a service, or grant a license.
   COMPUTER. An electronic device that performs logical, arithmetic, and memory
functions by the manipulation of electronic or magnetic impulses. COMPUTER
includes, but is not limited to, all input, output, processing, storage,
computer program, or communication facilities that are connected, or related,
in a computer system or network to an electronic device of that nature.
   COMPUTER CONTAMINANT. Means a computer program that is designed to modify,
damage, destroy, disable, deny or degrade access to, allow unauthorized access
to, functionally impair, record, or transmit information within a computer,
computer system, or computer network without the express or implied consent of
the owner or other person authorized to give consent and that is of a type or
kind described in divisions (1) through (4) of this definition or of a type or
kind similar to a type or kind described in divisions (1) through (4) of this
definition:
      (1)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “viruses” and
“worms” that are self- replicating or self-propagating and that are designed to
contaminate other computer programs, compromise computer security, consume
computer resources, modify, destroy, record, or transmit data, or disrupt the
normal operation of the computer, computer system, or computer network;
      (2)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “Trojans” or “Trojan
horses” that are not self-replicating or self-propagating and that are designed
to compromise computer security, consume computer resources, modify, destroy,
record, or transmit data, or disrupt the normal operation of the computer,
computer system, or computer network;
      (3)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “zombies” that are
designed to use a computer without the knowledge and consent of the owner, or
other person authorized to give consent, and that are designed to send large
quantities of data to a targeted computer network for the purpose of degrading
the targeted computer’s or network’s performance, or denying access through the
network to the targeted computer or network, resulting in what is commonly
known as “denial of service” or “distributed denial of service” attacks;
      (4)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “trap doors”, “back
doors”, or “root kits” that are designed to bypass standard authentication
software and that are designed to allow access or use of a computer without the
knowledge or consent of the owner, or other person authorized to give consent.
   COMPUTER HACKING.
      (1)   COMPUTER HACKING means any of the following:
         (a)   Gaining access or attempting to gain access to all or part of a
computer, computer system, or a computer network without express or implied
authorization with the intent to defraud or with intent to commit a crime;
         (b)   Misusing computer or network services including but not limited
to mail transfer programs, file transfer programs, proxy servers, and web
servers by performing functions not authorized by the owner of the computer,
computer system, or computer network or other person authorized to give
consent. As used in this division, “misuse of computer and network services”
includes but is not limited to the unauthorized use of any of the following:
            1.   Mail transfer programs to send mail to persons other than the
authorized users of that computer or computer network;
            2.   File transfer program services or proxy servers to access
other computers, computer systems, or computer networks;
            3.   Web servers to redirect users to other web pages or web
servers.
         (c)   1.   Subject to division (1)(c)2. of this definition, using a
group of computer programs commonly known as “port scanners” or “probes” to
intentionally access any computer, computer system, or computer network without
the permission of the owner of the computer, computer system, or computer
network or other person authorized to give consent. The group of computer
programs referred to in this division includes but is not limited to those
computer programs that use a computer network to access a computer, computer
system, or another computer network to determine any of the following: the
presence or types of computers or computer systems on a network; the computer
network’s facilities and capabilities; the availability of computer or network
services; the presence or versions of computer software including but not
limited to operating systems, computer services, or computer contaminants; the
presence of a known computer software deficiency that can be used to gain
unauthorized access to a computer, computer system, or computer network; or any
other information about a computer, computer system, or computer network not
necessary for the normal and lawful operation of the computer initiating the
access.
            2.   The group of computer programs referred to in division (1)
(c)1. of this definition does not include standard computer software used for
the normal operation, administration, management, and test of a computer,
computer system, or computer network including but not limited to domain name
services, mail transfer services, and other operating system services, computer
programs commonly called “ping”, “tcpdump”, and “traceroute” and other network
monitoring and management computer software, and computer programs commonly
knows as “nslookup” and “whois” and other systems administration computer
software.
         (d)   The intentional use of a computer, computer system, or a
computer network in a manner that exceeds any right or permission granted by
the owner of the computer, computer system, or computer network or other person
authorized to give consent.
      (2)   COMPUTER HACKING does not include the introduction of a computer
contaminant, as defined in this section, into a computer, computer system,
computer program, or computer network.
   COMPUTER NETWORK. A set of related and remotely-connected computers and
communication facilities that includes more than one computer system that has
the capability to transmit among the connected computers and communication
facilities through the use of computer facilities.
   COMPUTER PROGRAM. An ordered set of data representing coded instructions or
statements that, when executed by a computer, causes the computer to process
data.
   COMPUTER SERVICES. Includes, but is not limited to, the use of a computer
system, computer network, computer program, data that is prepared for computer
use, or data that is contained within a computer system or computer network.
   COMPUTER SOFTWARE. Computer programs, procedures, and other documentation
associated with the operation of a computer system.
   COMPUTER SYSTEM. A computer and related devices, whether connected or
unconnected, including, but not limited to, data input, output, and storage
devices, data communications links, and computer programs and data that make
the system capable of performing specified special purpose data processing
tasks.
   COUNTERFEIT TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. A telecommunications device that,
alone or with another telecommunications device, has been altered, constructed,
manufactured, or programmed to acquire, intercept, receive, or otherwise
facilitate the use of a telecommunications service or information service
without the authority or consent of the provider of the telecommunications
service or information service. The phrase includes but is not limited to a
clone telephone, clone microchip, tumbler telephone, or tumbler microchip; a
wireless scanning device capable of acquiring, intercepting, receiving, or
otherwise facilitating the use of telecommunications service or information
service without immediate detection; or a device, equipment, hardware, or
software designed for, or capable of, altering or changing the electronic
serial number in a wireless telephone.
   CREATE A SUBSTANTIAL RISK OF SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO ANY PERSON. Includes
the creation of a substantial risk of serious physical harm to any emergency
personnel.
   CREDIT CARD. Includes, but is not limited to, a card, code, device, or other
means of access to a customer's account for the purpose of obtaining money,
property, labor, or services on credit, or for initiating an electronic fund
transfer at a point-of-sale terminal, an automated teller machine, or a cash
dispensing machine. It also includes a county procurement card issued under
R.C. § 301.29.
   DANGEROUS DRUG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   DATA. A representation of information, knowledge, facts, concepts, or
instructions that are being or have been prepared in a formalized manner and
that are intended for use in a computer, computer system, or computer network.
   DECEPTION. To knowingly deceive another or cause another to be deceived by
any false or misleading representation, by withholding information, by
preventing another from acquiring information, or by any other conduct, act, or
omission that creates, confirms, or perpetuates a false impression in another,
including a false impression as to law, value, state of mind, or other
objective or subjective fact.
   DEFRAUD. To knowingly obtain, by deception, some benefit for oneself or
another, or to knowingly cause, by deception, some detriment to another.
   DEPRIVE. To do any of the following:
      (1)   To withhold property of another permanently, or for a period that
appropriates a substantial portion of its value or use, or with purpose to
restore it only upon payment of a reward or other consideration;
      (2)   To dispose of property so as to make it unlikely that the owner
will recover it;
      (3)   To accept, use, or appropriate money, property, or services, with
purpose not to give proper consideration in return for the money, property, or
services, and without reasonable justification or excuse for not giving proper
consideration.
   DISABLED ADULT. A person who is 18 years of age or older and has some
impairment of body or mind that makes the person unable to work at any
substantially remunerative employment that the person otherwise would be able
to perform and that will, with reasonable probability, continue for a period of
at least 12 months without any present indication of recovery from the
impairment, or who is 18 years of age or older and has been certified as
permanently and totally disabled by an agency of this state or the United
States that has the function of so classifying persons.
   DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
   ELDERLY PERSON. A person who is 65 years of age or older.
   ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER. Has the same meaning as in 92 Stat. 3728, 15
U.S.C. 1693a, as amended.
   EMERGENCY PERSONNEL. Means any of the following persons:
      (1)   A peace officer, as defined in R.C. § 2935.01;
      (2)   A member of a fire department or other firefighting agency of a
municipal corporation, township, township fire district, joint fire district,
other political subdivision, or combination of political subdivisions;
      (3)   A member of a private fire company, as defined in R.C. § 9.60, or a
volunteer firefighter;
      (4)    A member of a joint ambulance district or joint emergency medical
services district;
      (5)   An emergency medical technician-basic, emergency medical
technician-intermediate, emergency medical technician-paramedic, ambulance
operator, or other member of an emergency medical service that is owned or
operated by a political subdivision or a private entity;
      (6)   The State Fire Marshal, the Chief Deputy State Fire Marshal, or an
assistant state fire marshal;
      (7)   A fire prevention officer of a political subdivision or an arson,
fire, or similar investigator of a political subdivision.
   ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER. Has the same meaning as in 92 Stat. 3728, 15
U.S.C. 1693a, as amended.
   FIREARM and DANGEROUS ORDNANCE. Have the same meaning as in R.C. § 2923.11.
   FORGE. To fabricate or create, in whole or in part and by any means, any
spurious writing, or to make, execute, alter, complete, reproduce, or otherwise
purport to authenticate any writing, when the writing in fact is not
authenticated by that conduct.
   GAIN ACCESS. To approach, instruct, communicate with, store data in,
retrieve data from, or otherwise make use of any resources of a computer,
computer system, or computer network, or any cable service or cable system both
as defined in R.C. § 2913.04.
   INFORMATION SERVICE.
      (1)   Subject to division (2) of this definition, the offering of a
capability for generating, acquiring, storing, transforming, processing,
retrieving, utilizing, or making available information via telecommunications,
including but not limited to electronic publishing.
      (2)    INFORMATION SERVICE does not include any use of a capability of a
type described in division (1) of this definition for the management, control,
or operation of a telecommunications system or the management of a
telecommunications service.
   INTERNET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 341.42.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   OCCUPIED STRUCTURE. Means any house, building, outbuilding, watercraft,
aircraft, railroad car, truck, trailer, tent, or other structure, vehicle, or
shelter, or any portion thereof, to which any of the following applies:
      (1)   It is maintained as a permanent or temporary dwelling, even though
it is temporarily unoccupied and whether or not any person is actually present;
      (2)   At the time, it is occupied as the permanent or temporary
habitation of any person, whether or not any person is actually present;
      (3)   At the time, it is specially adapted for the overnight
accommodation of any person, whether or not any person is actually present;
      (4)   At the time, any person is present or likely to be present in it.
   OWNER. Unless the context requires a different meaning, any person, other
than the actor, who is the owner of, who has possession or control of, or who
has any license or interest in property or services, even though the ownership,
possession, control, license, or interest is unlawful.
   POLICE DOG OR HORSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.321.
   POLITICAL SUBDIVISION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2744.01.
   RENTED PROPERTY. Personal property in which the right of possession and use
of the property is for a short and possibly indeterminate term in return for
consideration; the rentee generally controls the duration of possession of the
property within any applicable minimum or maximum term; and the amount of
consideration is generally determined by the duration of possession of the
property.
   SERVICES. Includes labor, personal services, professional services, rental
services, public utility services including wireless service as defined in R.C.
§ 128.01(F)(1), common carrier services, and food, drink, transportation,
entertainment, and cable television services and, for purposes of R.C. §
2913.04 or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, includes cable
services as defined in that section.
   SLUG. An object that, by virtue of its size, shape, composition, or other
quality, is capable of being inserted or deposited in a coin machine as an
improper substitute for a genuine coin, bill, or token made for that purpose.
   STATE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2744.01.
   TELECOMMUNICATION. The origination, emission, dissemination, transmission,
or reception of data, images, signals, sounds, or other intelligence or
equivalence or intelligence of any nature over any communications system by any
method, including but not limited to a fiber optic, electronic, magnetic,
optical, digital or analog method.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Any instrument, equipment, machine, or other
device that facilitates telecommunication, including but not limited to a
computer, computer network, computer chip, computer circuit, scanner,
telephone, cellular telephone, pager, personal communications device,
transponder, receiver, radio, modem, or device that enables the use of a modem.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. The providing, allowing, facilitating, or
generating of any form of telecommunication through the use of a
telecommunications device over a telecommunications system.
   THEFT OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2911.12, 2911.13,
2911.31, 2911.32, 2913.02, 2913.03, 2913.04, 2913.041, 2913.11, 2913.21,
2913.31, 2913.32, 2913.33, 2913.34, 2913.40, 2913.42, 2913.43, 2913.44,
2913.45, 2913.47, 2913.48, former R.C. § 2913.47 or 2913.48, or R.C. § 2913.51,
2915.05, or 2921.41;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States substantially equivalent to any
section listed in division (1) of this definition, or a violation of R.C. §
2913.41, 2913.81 or 2915.06 as it existed prior to July 1, 1996;
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former municipal ordinance or law
of this or any other state or the United States involving robbery, burglary,
breaking and entering, theft, embezzlement, wrongful conversion, forgery,
counterfeiting, deceit, or fraud;
      (4)   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing any offense under division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
   UTTER. To issue, publish, transfer, use, put or send into circulation,
deliver, or display.
   WRITING. Any computer software, document, letter, memorandum, note, paper,
plate, data, film, or other thing having in or upon it any written, type-
written, or printed matter, and any token, stamp, seal, credit card, badge,
trademark, label, or other symbol of value, right, privilege, license, or
identification.
(R.C. §§ 2909.01, 2913.01)
§ 131.02 DETENTION OR ARREST OF SHOPLIFTERS; PAND THOSE COMMITTING MOTION
PICTURE PIRACY; PROTECTION OF INSTITUTIONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply.
   ARCHIVAL INSTITUTION. Any public or private building, structure, or shelter
in which are stored historical documents, devices, records, manuscripts, or
items of public interest, which historical materials are stored to preserve the
materials or the information in the materials, to disseminate the information
contained in the materials, or to make the materials available for public
inspection or for inspection by certain persons who have a particular interest
in, use for, or knowledge concerning the materials.
      AUDIOVISUAL RECORDING FUNCTION and FACILITY. Have the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2913.07.
      MUSEUM. Any public or private nonprofit institution that is permanently
organized for primarily educational or aesthetic purposes, owns or borrows
objects or items of public interest, and cares for and exhibits to the public
the objects or items.
      PRETRIAL DIVERSION PROGRAM. A rehabilitative, educational program
designed to reduce recidivism and promote personal responsibility that is at
least four hours in length and that has been approved by any court in this
state.
   (B)   A merchant, or an employee or agent of a merchant, who has probable
cause to believe that things offered for sale by a mercantile establishment
have been unlawfully taken by a person, may, for the purposes set forth in
division (D) below, detain the person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable
length of time within the mercantile establishment or its immediate vicinity.
   (C)   Any officer, employee, or agent of a library, museum, or archival
institution may, for the purposes set forth in division (D) below or for the
purpose of conducting a reasonable investigation of a belief that the person
has acted in a manner described in divisions (C)(1) and (2) below, detain a
person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable length of time within, or in the
immediate vicinity of, the library, museum, or archival institution, if the
officer, employee, or agent has probable cause to believe that the person has:
      (1)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly moved, defaced, damaged,
destroyed, or otherwise improperly tampered with property owned by or in the
custody of the library, museum, or archival institution; or
      (2)   With purpose to deprive the library, museum, or archival
institution of property owned by it or in its custody, knowingly obtained or
exerted control over the property without the consent of the owner or person
authorized to give consent, beyond the scope of the express or implied consent
of the owner or person authorized to give consent, by deception, or by threat.
   (D)   An officer, agent, or employee of a library, museum, or archival
institution pursuant to division (C) above or a merchant or an employee or
agent of a merchant pursuant to division (B) above may detain another person
for any of the following purposes:
      (1)   To recover the property that is the subject of the unlawful taking,
criminal mischief, or theft;
      (2)   To cause an arrest to be made by a peace officer;
      (3)   To obtain a warrant of arrest;
      (4)   To offer the person, if the person is suspected of the unlawful
taking, criminal mischief, or theft and notwithstanding any other provision of
this Code or the Ohio Revised Code, an opportunity to complete a pretrial
diversion program and to inform the person of the other legal remedies
available to the library, museum, archival institution, or merchant.
   (E)   The owner or lessee of a facility in which a motion picture is being
shown, or the owner’s or lessee’s employee or agent, who has probable cause to
believe that a person is or has been operating an audiovisual recording
function of a device in violation of R.C. § 2917.07 may, for the purpose of
causing an arrest to be made by a peace officer or of obtaining an arrest
warrant, detain the person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable length of
time within the facility or its immediate vicinity.
   (F)   The officer, agent, or employee of the library, museum, or archival
institution, the merchant or an employee or agent of a merchant, or the owner,
lessee, employee, or agent of the facility acting under divisions (B), (C) or
(D) above shall not search the person detained, search or seize any property
belonging to the person detained without the person's consent, or use undue
restraint upon the person detained.
   (G)   Any peace officer may arrest without a warrant any person that the
officer has probable cause to believe has committed any act described in
divisions (C)(1) or (2) above, that the officer has probable cause to believe
has committed an unlawful taking in a mercantile establishment, or that the
officer has reasonable cause to believe has committed an act prohibited by R.C.
§ 2913.07. An arrest under this division shall be made within a reasonable time
after the commission of the act or unlawful taking.
(R.C. § 2935.041)
Statutory reference:
   Arrest without a warrant generally, see R.C. § 2935.03
PROPERTY DAMAGE
§ 131.05 CRIMINAL DAMAGING OR ENDANGERING; VEHICULAR VANDALISM.
   (A)   Criminal damaging or endangering.
      (1)   No person shall cause or create a substantial risk of physical harm
to any property of another without the other person's consent:
         (a)   Knowingly, by any means; or
         (b)   Recklessly, by means of fire, explosion, flood, poison gas,
poison, radioactive material, caustic or corrosive material, or other
inherently dangerous agency or substance.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (A) is guilty of criminal damaging
or endangering, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If violation of this
division (A) creates a risk of physical harm to any person, criminal damaging
or endangering is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the property involved
in a violation of this division (A) is an aircraft, an aircraft engine,
propeller, appliance, spare part, or any other equipment or implement used or
intended to be used in the operation of an aircraft and if the violation
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, criminal damaging or endangering
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the property
involved in a violation of this division (A) is an aircraft, an aircraft
engine, propeller, appliance, spare part, or any other equipment or implement
used or intended to be used in the operation of an aircraft and if the
violation creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any person or if the
property involved in a violation of this division (A) is an occupied aircraft,
criminal damaging or endangering is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2909.06) ('56 Code, §§ l-3, 5-5, 5-14)
   (B)   Vehicular vandalism.
      (1)   As used in this division (B):
         ALLEY, STREET, and VEHICLE. Have the same meanings as in R.C. §
4511.01.
         HIGHWAY. Means any highway as defined in R.C. § 4511.01 or any lane,
road, street, alley, bridge, or overpass.
         VESSEL and WATERS IN THIS STATE. Have the same meanings as in R.C. §
1546.01.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly, and by any means, drop or throw any
object at, onto, or in the path of any of the following:
         (a)   Any vehicle on a highway;
         (b)   Any boat or vessel on any of the waters in this state.
      (3)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of vehicular
vandalism. Except as otherwise provided in this division (B)(3), vehicular
vandalism is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation of this
division (B) creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any person or the
violation of this division (B) causes serious physical harm to property,
vehicular vandalism is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
If the violation of this division (B) causes physical harm to any person or
serious physical harm to any person, vehicular vandalism is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.09)
Penalty, see § 130.99
Statutory reference:
   Disrupting public services, felony offense, see R.C. § 2909.04
   Railroad grade crossing device vandalism, see R.C. § 2909.101
   Railroad vandalism, see R.C. § 2909.10
   Vandalism, felony offense, see R.C. § 2909.05
§ 131.06 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   (A)   No person shall:
      (1)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage,
destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper with the either of the following:
         (a)   The property of another;
         (b)   One’s own residential real property with the purpose to decrease
the value of or enjoyment of the residential real property, if both of the
following apply:
            1.   The residential real property is subject to a mortgage.
            2.   The person has been served with a summons and complaint in a
pending residential mortgage loan foreclosure action relating to that real
property. As used in this division, “pending” includes the time between
judgment entry and confirmation of sale.
      (2)   With purpose to interfere with the use or enjoyment of property of
another, employ a tear gas device, stink bomb, smoke generator, or other device
releasing a substance that is harmful or offensive to persons exposed, or that
tends to cause public alarm;
      (3)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage,
destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper with a bench mark, triangulation
station, boundary marker, or other survey station, monument, or marker;
      (4)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage,
destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper with any safety device, the property of
another, or the property of the offender when required or placed for the safety
of others, so as to destroy or diminish its effectiveness or availability for
its intended purpose;
      (5)   With purpose to interfere with the use or enjoyment of the property
of another, set a fire on the land of another or place personal property that
has been set on fire on the land of another, which fire or personal property is
outside and apart from any building, other structure, or personal property that
is on that land;
      (6)   Without privilege to do so, and with intent to impair the
functioning of any computer, computer system, computer network, computer
software, or computer program, knowingly do any of the following:
         (a)   In any manner or by any means, including but not limited to,
computer hacking, alter, damage, destroy, or modify a computer, computer
system, computer network, computer software, or computer program or data
contained in a computer, computer system, computer network, computer software,
or computer program;
         (b)   Introduce a computer contaminant into a computer, computer
system, computer network, computer software, or computer program.
      (7)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly destroy or improperly tamper
with a critical infrastructure facility.
   (B)   As used in this section:
      CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2911.21.
      IMPROPERLY TAMPER. Means to change the physical location or the physical
condition of the property.
      SAFETY DEVICE. Means any fire extinguisher, fire hose, or fire axe, or
any fire escape, emergency exit, or emergency escape equipment, or any life
line, life-saving ring, life preserver, or life boat or raft, or any alarm,
light, flare, signal, sign, or notice intended to warn of danger or emergency,
or intended for other safety purposes, or any guard railing or safety
barricade, or any traffic sign or signal, or any railroad grade crossing sign,
signal, or gate, or any first aid or survival equipment, or any other device,
apparatus, or equipment intended for protecting or preserving the safety of
persons or property.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal mischief,
and shall be punished as provided in division (C)(2), (C)(3), or (C)(4) of this
section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the third degree. Except as otherwise provided
in this division, if the violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
or (A)(5) of this section creates a risk of physical harm to any person,
criminal mischief committed in violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3),
(A)(4), or (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
property involved in the violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
or (A)(5) of this section is an aircraft, an aircraft engine, propeller,
appliance, spare part, fuel, lubricant, hydraulic fluid, any other equipment,
implement, or material used or intended to be used in the operation of an
aircraft, or any cargo carried or intended to be carried in an aircraft and if
the violation creates any risk of physical harm to any person, or if the
aircraft in question is an occupied aircraft, criminal mischief committed in
violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of this section
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (A)(6) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the value of the computer, computer system, computer
network, computer software, computer program, or data involved in the violation
of division (A)(6) of this section or the loss to the victim resulting from the
violation is $1,000 or more, or if the computer, computer system, computer
network, computer software, computer program, or data involved in the violation
of division (A)(6) is used or intended to be used in the operation of an
aircraft and the violation creates any risk of physical harm to any person, or
if the aircraft in question is an occupied aircraft, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (A)(6) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)   Criminal mischief committed in violation of division (A)(7) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.07)
§ 131.07 CRIMINAL TRESPASS.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly enter or remain on the land or premises of another;
      (2)   Knowingly enter or remain on the land or premises of another, the
use of which is lawfully restricted to certain persons, purposes, modes, or
hours, when the offender knows the offender is in violation of any such
restriction or is reckless in that regard;
      (3)   Recklessly enter or remain on the land or premises of another, as
to which notice against unauthorized access or presence is given by actual
communication to the offender, or in a manner prescribed by law, or by posting
in a manner reasonably calculated to come to the attention of potential
intruders, or by fencing or other enclosure manifestly designed to restrict
access;
      (4)   Being on the land or premises of another, negligently fail or
refuse to leave upon being notified by signage posted in a conspicuous place or
otherwise being notified to do so by the owner or occupant, or the agent or
servant of either;
      (5)   Knowingly enter or remain on a critical infrastructure facility.
   (B)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that the land or
premises involved was owned, controlled, or in custody of a public agency.
   (C)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that the offender was
authorized to enter or remain on the land or premises involved, when the
authorization was secured by deception.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal trespass.
Criminal trespass in violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), or (A)(4) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Criminal trespass in
violation of division (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (2)   Notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.28, if the person, in committing the
violation of this section, used a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-
purpose vehicle, the court shall impose a fine of two times the usual amount
imposed for the violation.
      (3)   If an offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to two or more violations of this section, R.C. § 2911.21 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, and the offender, in committing each violation,
used a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle, the court,
in addition to or independent of all other penalties imposed for the violation,
may impound the certificate of registration of that snowmobile or off-highway
motorcycle or the certificate of registration and license plate of that all-
purpose vehicle for not less than 60 days. In such a case, R.C. § 4519.47
applies.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of the Ohio Revised Code, if the
offender, in committing the violation of this section, used an all-purpose
vehicle, the Clerk of the Court shall pay the fine imposed pursuant to this
section to the State Recreational Vehicle Fund created by R.C. § 4519.11.
   (F)   As used in divisions (A) through (E) of this section:
      ALL-PURPOSE VEHICLE, OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLE, and SNOWMOBILE. Have the
same meanings as in R.C. § 4519.01.
      CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY. Means:
         (a)   One of the following, if completely enclosed by a fence or other
physical barrier that is obviously designed to exclude intruders, or if clearly
marked with signs that are reasonably likely to come to the attention of
potential intruders and that indicate entry is forbidden without site
authorization:
            1.   A petroleum or alumina refinery;
            2.   An electric generating facility, substation, switching
station, electrical control center, or electric transmission and distribution
lines and associated equipment;
            3.   A chemical, polymer, or rubber manufacturing facility;
            4.   A water intake structure, water treatment facility, waste
water facility, drainage facility, water management facility, or any similar
water or sewage treatment system and its water and sewage piping;
            5.   A natural gas company facility or interstate natural gas
pipeline, including a pipeline interconnection, a natural gas compressor
station and associated facilities, city gate or town border station, metering
station, above-ground piping, regulator station, valve site, delivery station,
fabricated assembly, or any other part of a natural gas storage facility
involved in the gathering, storage, transmission, or distribution of gas;
            6.   A telecommunications central switching office or remote
switching facility or an equivalent network facility that serves a similar
purpose;
            7.   Wireline or wireless telecommunications infrastructure,
including telecommunications towers and telephone poles and lines, including
fiber optic lines;
            8.   A port, trucking terminal, or other freight transportation
facility;
            9.   A gas processing plant, including a plant used in the
processing, treatment, or fractionation of natural gas or natural gas liquids;
            10.   A transmission facility used by a federally licensed radio or
television station;
            11.   A steel-making facility that uses an electric arc furnace to
make steel;
            12.   A facility identified and regulated by the United States
Department of Homeland Security's Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards
Program under 6 C.F.R. part 27;
            13.   A dam that is regulated by the state or federal government;
            14.   A crude oil or refined products storage and distribution
facility, including valve sites, pipeline interconnections, pump station,
metering station, below- or above-ground pipeline, or piping and truck loading
or off-loading facility;
            15.   A video service network and broadband infrastructure,
including associated buildings and facilities, video service headends, towers,
utility poles, and utility lines such as fiber optic lines. As used in this
division, "video service network" has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.21.
            16.   Any above-ground portion of an oil, gas, hazardous liquid or
chemical pipeline, tank, or other storage facility;
            17.   Any above-ground portion of a well, well pad, or production
operation;
            18.   A laydown area or construction site for pipe and other
equipment intended for use on an interstate or intrastate natural gas or crude
oil pipeline;
            19.   Any mining operation, including any processing equipment,
batching operation, or support facility for that mining operation.
         (b)   With respect to a video service network or broadband or wireless
telecommunications infrastructure, the above-ground portion of a facility
installed in a public right-of-way on a utility pole or in a conduit;
         (c)   Any railroad property;
         (d)   An electronic asset of any of the following:
            1.   An electric light company that is a public utility under R.C.
§ 4905.02;
            2.   An electric cooperative, as defined in R.C. § 4928.01;
            3.   A municipal electric utility, as defined in R.C. § 4928.01;
            4.   A natural gas company that is a public utility under R.C. §
4905.02;
            5.   A telephone company that is a public utility under R.C. §
4905.02;
            6.   A video service provider, including a cable operator, as those
terms are defined in R.C. § 1332.21.
      ELECTRONIC ASSET. Includes, but is not limited to, the hardware,
software, and data of a programmable electronic device; all communications,
operations, and customer data networks; and the contents of those data
networks.
      LAND or PREMISES. Includes any land, building, structure, or place
belonging to, controlled by, or in custody of another, and any separate
enclosure or room, or portion thereof.
      PRODUCTION OPERATION, WELL, and WELL PAD. Have the same meanings as in
R.C. § 1509.01.
(R.C. § 2911.21)
§ 131.08 AGGRAVATED TRESPASS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall enter or remain on the land or premises of
another with purpose to commit on that land or those premises a misdemeanor,
the elements of which involve causing physical harm to another person or
causing another person to believe that the offender will cause physical harm to
that person.
      (2)   No person shall enter or remain on a critical infrastructure
facility with purpose to destroy or tamper with the facility.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of aggravated trespass.
Aggravated trespass in violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. Aggravated trespass in violation of division
(A)(2) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
   (C)   As used in this section, CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY has the same
meaning as in R.C. § 2911.21.
(R.C. § 2911.211)
§ 131.09 CRIMINAL TRESPASS ON A PLACE OF PUBLIC AMUSEMENT.
   (A)   As used in this section, PLACE OF PUBLIC AMUSEMENT means a stadium,
theater, or other facility, whether licensed or not, at which a live
performance, sporting event, or other activity takes  place for entertainment
of the public and to which access is made available to the public, regardless
of whether admission is charged.
   (B)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall knowingly enter or remain
on any restricted portion of a place of public amusement and, as a result of
that conduct, interrupt or cause the delay of the live performance, sporting
event, or other activity taking place at the place of public amusement after a
printed written notice has been given as provided in division (D)(1) of this
section that the general public is restricted from access to that restricted
portion of the place of public amusement. A restricted portion of a place of
public amusement may include, but is not limited to, a playing field, an
athletic surface, or a stage located at the place of public amusement.
   (C)   An owner or lessee of a place of public amusement, an agent of the
owner or lessee, or a performer or participant at a place of public amusement
may use reasonable force to restrain and remove a person from a restricted
portion of the place of public amusement if the person enters or remains on the
restricted portion of the place of public amusement and, as a result of that
conduct, interrupts or causes the delay of the live performance, sporting
event, or other activity taking place at the place of public amusement. This
division does not provide immunity from criminal liability for any use of force
beyond reasonable force by an owner or lessee of a place of public amusement,
an agent of either the owner or lessee, or a performer or participant at a
place of public amusement.
   (D)   (1)   Notice has been given that the general public is restricted from
access to a portion of a place of public amusement if a printed written notice
of the restricted access has been conspicuously posted or exhibited at the
entrance to that portion of the place of public amusement. If a printed written
notice is posted or exhibited as described in this division regarding a portion
of a place of public amusement, in addition to that posting or exhibition,
notice that the general public is restricted from access to that portion of the
place of public amusement also may be given, but is not required to be given,
by either of the following means:
         (a)   By notifying the person personally, either orally or in writing,
that access to that portion of the place of public amusement is restricted;
         (b)   By broadcasting over the public address system of the place of
public amusement an oral warning that access to that portion of the place of
public amusement is restricted.
      (2)   If notice that the general public is restricted from access to a
portion of a place of public amusement is provided by the posting or exhibition
of a printed written notice as described in division (G)(4)(a) of this section,
the municipality, in a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (G)(2)
of this section, is not required to prove that the defendant received actual
notice that the general public is restricted from access to a portion of a
place of public amusement.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
criminal trespass on a place of public amusement, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (2)   In addition to any jail term, fine, or other sentence, penalty, or
sanction it imposes upon the offender pursuant to division (E)(1) of this
section, a court may require an offender who violates this section to perform
not less than 30 and not more than 120 hours of supervised community service
work.
(R.C. § 2911.23)
§ 131.10 INJURING VINES, BUSHES, TREES, OR CROPS.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall recklessly cut down,
destroy, girdle, or otherwise injure a vine, bush, shrub, sapling, tree, or
crop standing or growing on the land of another or upon public land.
   (B)   In addition to the penalty provided in division (C) of this section,
whoever violates this section is liable in treble damages for the injury
caused.
(R.C. § 901.51)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 901.99(A))
§ 131.11 DIMINISHING OR INTERFERING WITH FORFEITABLE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall destroy, damage, remove, or transfer property that is
subject to forfeiture or otherwise take any action in regard to property that
is subject to forfeiture with purpose to do any of the following:
      (1)   Prevent or impair the state’s or political subdivision’s lawful
authority to take the property into its custody or control under R.C. Chapter
2981 or to continue holding the property under its lawful custody or control;
      (2)   Impair or defeat the court’s continuing jurisdiction over the
person and property;
      (3)   Devalue property that the person knows, or has reasonable cause to
believe, is subject to forfeiture proceedings under R.C. Chapter 2981.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interference with or
diminishing forfeitable property. Except as otherwise provided in this division
(B), interference with or diminishing forfeitable property is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the value of the property is $1,000 or more, interference
with or diminishing forfeitable property is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2981.07)
§ 131.12 RAILROAD VANDALISM; CRIMINAL TRESPASS; INTERFERENCE WITH OPERATION OF
TRAIN; GRADE CROSSING DEVICE VANDALISM.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly, and by any means, drop or throw any object
at, onto, or in the path of, any railroad rail, railroad track, locomotive,
engine, railroad car, or other vehicle of a railroad company while such vehicle
is on a railroad track.
   (B)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall climb upon or into any
locomotive, engine, railroad car, or other vehicle of a railroad company when
it is on a railroad track.
   (C)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall disrupt, delay, or
prevent the operation of any train or other vehicle of a railroad company while
such vehicle is on a railroad track.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of railroad
vandalism. Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of criminal
trespass on a locomotive, engine, railroad car, or other railroad vehicle.
Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of interference with
the operation of a train. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
railroad vandalism; criminal trespass on a locomotive, engine, railroad car, or
other railroad vehicle; and interference with the operation of a train each is
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation of division (A), (B), or
(C) of this section causes serious physical harm to property or creates a
substantial risk of physical harm to any person, causes physical harm to any
person, or causes serious physical harm to any person, the violation is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.10)
   (E)   No person shall knowingly deface, damage, obstruct, remove, or
otherwise impair the operation of any railroad grade crossing warning signal or
other protective device, including any gate, bell, light, crossbuck, stop sign,
yield sign, advance warning sign, or advance pavement marking.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section is guilty of railroad
grade crossing device vandalism. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
railroad grade crossing device vandalism is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
If the violation of division (E) of this section causes serious physical harm
to property or creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any person,
causes physical harm to any person, or causes serious physical harm to any
person, railroad grade crossing device vandalism is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.101)
THEFT OFFENSES
§ 131.15 THEFT.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to deprive the owner of property or services,
shall knowingly obtain or exert control over either the property or services in
any of the following ways:
      (1)   Without the consent of the owner or person authorized to give
consent;
      (2)   Beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of the owner or
person authorized to give consent;
      (3)   By deception;
      (4)   By threat;
      (5)   By intimidation.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of theft. Except as otherwise
provided in this division, a violation of this section is misdemeanor theft, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If any of the following criteria are met, then
a violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law:
      (1)   If the value of the property or services is $1,000 or more;
      (2)   If the property stolen is any of the property listed in R.C. §
2913.71;
      (3)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person, disabled adult,
active duty service member, or spouse of an active duty service member;
      (4)   If the property stolen is a firearm or dangerous ordnance;
      (5)   If the property stolen is a motor vehicle; or
      (6)   If the property stolen is any dangerous drug, or if the offender
previously has been convicted of a felony drug abuse offense;
      (7)   If the property stolen is a police dog or horse or an assistance
dog and the offender knows or should know that the property stolen is a police
dog or horse or an assistance dog;
      (8)   If the property stolen is anhydrous ammonia; or
      (9)   If the property stolen is a special purchase article as defined in
R.C. § 4737.04 or is a bulk merchandise container as defined in R.C. §
4737.012.
   (C)   In addition to the penalties described in division (B) of this
section, if the offender committed the violation by causing a motor vehicle to
leave the premises of an establishment at which gasoline is offered for retail
sale without the offender making full payment for gasoline that was dispensed
into the fuel tank of the motor vehicle or into another container, the court
may do one of the following:
      (1)   Unless division (C)(2) of this section applies, suspend for not
more than six months the offender's driver’s license, probationary driver’s
license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or
nonresident operating privilege;
      (2)   If the offender’s driver’s license, probationary driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or nonresident
operating privilege has previously been suspended pursuant to division (C)(1)
of this section, or any other substantially equivalent state or local law,
impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s license, permit, or privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7), provided that the suspension
shall be at least six months;
      (3)   The court, in lieu of suspending the offender’s driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, probationary driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, or nonresident operating privilege pursuant to division (C)
(1) or (C)(2) of this section, instead may require the offender to perform
community service for a number of hours determined by the court.
   (D)   In addition to the penalties described in division (B) of this
section, if the offender committed the violation by stealing rented property or
rental services, the court may order that the offender make restitution
pursuant to R.C. § 2929.18 or R.C. § 2929.28. Restitution may include, but is
not limited to, the cost of repairing or replacing the stolen property, or the
cost of repairing the stolen property and any loss of revenue resulting from
deprivation of the property due to theft of rental services that is less than
or equal to the actual value of the property at the time it was rented.
Evidence of intent to commit theft of rented property or rental services shall
be determined pursuant to the provisions of R.C. § 2913.72.
   (E)   The sentencing court that suspends an offender’s license, permit, or
nonresident operating privilege under division (C) of this section may grant
the offender limited driving privileges during the period of the suspension in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 4510.
(R.C. § 2913.02) ('56 Code, § 5-1)
§ 131.16 VALUE OF STOLEN PROPERTY.
   (A)   If more than one item of property or services is involved in a theft
offense or in a violation of R.C. § 1716.14(A) involving a victim who is an
elderly person or disabled adult, or any substantially similar municipal
ordinance, the value of the property or services involved for the purpose of
determining the value is the aggregate value of all property or services
involved in the offense.
   (B)   (1)   When a series of offenses under R.C. § 2913.02, or a series of
violations of, attempts to commit a violation of, conspiracies to violate, or
complicity in violations of R.C. § 1716.14(A), R.C. § 2913.02, 2913.03, or
2913.04, R.C. § 2913.21(B)(1) or (B)(2), or R.C. § 2913.31 or 2913.43 involving
a victim who is an elderly person or disabled adult, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, is committed by the
offender in the offender's same employment, capacity, or relationship to
another, all of those offenses shall be tried as a single offense. When a
series of offenses under R.C. § 2913.02, or a series of violations of, attempts
to commit a violation of, conspiracies to violate, or complicity in violations
of R.C. § 2913.02 or 2913.43 involving a victim who is an active duty service
member or spouse of an active duty service member, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, is committed by the
offender in the offender’s same employment, capacity, or relationship to
another, all of those offenses shall be tried as a single offense. The value of
the property or services involved in the series of offenses for the purpose of
determining the value as required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value
of all property and services involved in all offenses in the series.
      (2)   If an offender commits a series of offenses under R.C. § 2913.02
that involves a common course of conduct to defraud multiple victims, all of
the offenses may be tried as a single offense. If an offender is being tried
for the commission of a series of violations of, attempts to commit a violation
of, conspiracies to violate, or complicity in violations of R.C. § 1716.14(A),
R.C. § 2913.02, 2913.03, or 2913.04, R.C. § 2913.21(B)(1) or (B)(2), or R.C. §
2913.31 or 2913.43, whether committed against one victim or more than one
victim, involving a victim who is an elderly person or disabled adult, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, pursuant
to a scheme or course of conduct, all of those offenses may be tried as a
single offense. If an offender is being tried for the commission of a series of
violations of, attempts to commit a violation of, conspiracies to violate, or
complicity in violations of R.C. § 2913.02 or 2913.43, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, whether committed
against one victim or more than one victim, involving a victim who is an active
duty service member or spouse of an active duty service member pursuant to a
scheme or course of conduct, all of those offenses may be tried as a single
offense. If the offenses are tried as a single offense, the value of the
property or services involved for the purpose of determining the value as
required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value of all property and
services involved in all of the offenses in the course of conduct.
      (3)   When a series of two or more offenses under R.C. § 2913.40,
2913.48, or 2921.41 is committed by the offender in the offender’s same
employment, capacity, or relationship to another, all of those offenses may be
tried as a single offense. If the offenses are tried as a single offense, the
value of the property or services involved for the purpose of determining the
value as required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value of all property
and services involved in all of the offenses in the series of two or more
offenses.
      (4)   In prosecuting a single offense under division (B)(1), (B)(2) or
(B)(3) of this section, it is not necessary to separately allege and prove each
offense in the series. Rather, it is sufficient to allege and prove that the
offender, within a given span of time, committed one or more theft offenses or
violations of R.C. § 2913.40, 2913.48, or 2921.41 in the offender's same
employment, capacity, or relationship to another as described in division (B)
(1) or (B)(3) of this section, or committed one or more theft offenses that
involve a common course of conduct to defraud multiple victims or a scheme or
course of conduct as described in division (B)(2) of this section. While it is
not necessary to separately allege and prove each offense in the series in
order to prosecute a single offense under division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of
this section, it remains necessary in prosecuting them as a single offense to
prove the aggregate value of the property or services in order to meet the
requisite statutory offense level sought by the prosecution.
   (C)   The following criteria shall be used in determining the value of
property or services involved in a theft offense:
      (1)   The value of an heirloom, memento, collector's item, antique,
museum piece, manuscript, document, record, or other thing that has intrinsic
worth to its owner and that either is irreplaceable or is replaceable only on
the expenditure of substantial time, effort, or money, is the amount which
would compensate the owner for its loss.
      (2)   The value of personal effects and household goods, and of
materials, supplies, equipment, and fixtures used in the profession, business,
trade, occupation, or avocation of its owner, which property is not covered
under division (C)(1) of this section, and which retains substantial utility
for its purpose regardless of its age or condition, is the cost of replacing
such property with new property of like kind and quality.
      (3)   The value of any real or personal property that is not covered
under division (C)(1) or (2) of this section, and the value of services, is the
fair market value of the property or services. As used in this section, FAIR
MARKET VALUE is the money consideration which a buyer would give and a seller
would accept for property or services, assuming that the buyer is willing to
buy and the seller is willing to sell, that both are fully informed as to all
facts material to the transaction, and that neither is under any compulsion to
act.
   (D)   Without limitation on the evidence which may be used to establish the
value of property or services involved in a theft offense:
      (1)   When the property involved is personal property held for sale at
wholesale or retail, the price at which the property was held for sale is prima
facie evidence of its value.
      (2)   When the property involved is a security or commodity traded on an
exchange, the closing price or, if there is no closing price, the asked price,
given in the latest marked quotation prior to the offense, is prima facie
evidence of the value of the security or commodity.
      (3)   When the property involved is livestock, poultry, or raw
agricultural products for which a local market price is available, the latest
local market price prior to the offense is prima facie evidence of the value of
the livestock, poultry, or products.
      (4)   When the property involved is a negotiable instrument, the face
value is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument.
      (5)   When the property involved is a warehouse receipt, bill of lading,
pawn ticket, claim check, or other instrument entitling the holder or bearer to
receive property, the face value or, if there is no face value, the value of
the property covered by the instrument less any payment necessary to receive
the property, is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument.
      (6)   When the property involved is a ticket of admission, ticket for
transportation, coupon, token, or other instrument entitling the holder or
bearer to receive property or services, the face value or, if there is no face
value, the value of the property or services which may be received by the
instrument is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument.
      (7)   When the services involved are gas, electricity, water, telephone,
transportation, shipping, or other services for which the rate is established
by law, the duly established rate is prima facie evidence of the value of the
services.
      (8)   When the services involved are services for which the rate is not
established by law, and the offender has been notified prior to the offense of
the rate for the services, either in writing, or orally, or by posting in a
manner reasonably calculated to come to the attention of potential offenders,
the rate contained in the notice is prima facie evidence of the value of the
services.
(R.C. § 2913.61(B)-(E))
§ 131.17 DEGREE OF OFFENSE WHEN CERTAIN PROPERTY INVOLVED.
   Regardless of the value of the property involved, and regardless of whether
the offender previously has been convicted of a theft offense, a violation of §
131.08 or §
131.18 is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law if the property
involved is any of the following:
   (A)   A credit card;
   (B)   A printed form for a check or other negotiable instrument, that on its
face identifies the drawer or maker for whose use it is designed or identifies
the account on which it is to be drawn, and that has not been executed by the
drawer or maker or on which the amount is blank;
   (C)   A motor vehicle identification license plate as prescribed by R.C. §
4503.22, a temporary motor vehicle license registration as prescribed by R.C. §
4503.182, or any comparable temporary motor vehicle license registration as
prescribed by the applicable law of another state or the United States;
   (D)   A blank form for a certificate of title or a manufacturer's or
importer's certificate to a motor vehicle, as prescribed by R.C. § 4505.07;
   (E)   A blank form for any license listed in R.C. § 4507.01.
(R.C. § 2913.71)
§ 131.18 RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall receive, retain, or dispose of property of another
knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that the property has been
obtained through commission of a theft offense.
   (B)   It is not a defense to a charge of receiving stolen property in
violation of this section that the property was obtained by means other than
through the commission of a theft offense if the property was explicitly
represented to the accused person as being obtained through the commission of a
theft offense.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of receiving stolen property.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, receiving stolen property is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If any of the following criteria are met, then
a violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law:
      (1)   The value of the property involved is $1,000 or more;
      (2)   The property involved is any of the property listed in R.C. §
2913.71;
      (3)   The property involved is a firearm or dangerous ordnance, as
defined in R.C. § 2923.11;
      (4)   The property involved is a motor vehicle as defined in R.C. §
4501.01;
      (5)   The property involved is any dangerous drug, as defined in R.C. §
4729.01; or
      (6)   The property involved in violation of this section is a special
purchase article as defined in R.C. § 4737.04 or a bulk merchandise container
as defined in R.C. § 4737.012.
(R.C. § 2913.51)
§ 131.19 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF A VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly use or operate an aircraft, motor vehicle,
motorcycle, motorboat, or other motor-propelled vehicle without the consent of
the owner or person authorized to give consent.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly use or operate an aircraft, motor vehicle,
motorboat, or other motor-propelled vehicle without the consent of the owner or
person authorized to give consent, and either remove it from this state, or
keep possession of it for more than 48 hours.
   (C)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under this section:
      (1)   At the time of the alleged offense, the actor, though mistaken,
reasonably believed that he or she was authorized to use or operate the
property.
      (2)   At the time of the alleged offense, the actor reasonably believed
that the owner or person empowered to give consent would authorize the actor to
use or operate the property.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unauthorized use of a
vehicle.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (D)(1), a violation
of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled adult and if the victim
incurs a loss as a result of the violation, a violation of division (A) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.03)
§ 131.20 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF PROPERTY, INCLUDING TELECOMMUNICATION PROPERTY AND
COMPUTERS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly use or operate the property of another
without the consent of the owner or person authorized to give consent.
   (B)   No person, in any manner and by any means, including but not limited
to computer hacking, shall knowingly gain access to, attempt to gain access to,
or cause access to be gained to any computer, computer system, computer
network, cable service, cable system, telecommunications device,
telecommunications service, or information service without the consent of, or
beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of, the owner of the
computer, computer system computer network, cable service, cable system,
telecommunications device, telecommunications service, or information service
or other person authorized to give consent by the owner.
   (C)   Except as permitted under R.C. § 5503.101, no person shall knowingly
gain access to, attempt to gain access to, cause access to be granted to, or
disseminate information gained from access to the law enforcement automated
database system created pursuant to R.C. § 5503.10 without the consent of, or
beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of, the chair of the Law
Enforcement Automated Data System Steering Committee.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly gain access to, attempt to gain access to,
cause access to be granted to, or disseminate information gained from access to
the Ohio law enforcement gateway established and operated pursuant to R.C. §
109.57(C)(1) without the consent of, or beyond the scope of the express or
implied consent of, the Superintendent of the Bureau of Criminal Identification
and Investigation.
   (E)   The affirmative defenses contained in R.C. § 2913.03(C) are
affirmative defenses to a charge under this section.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of property. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
unauthorized use of property is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (1)   If unauthorized use of property is committed for the purpose of
devising or executing a scheme to defraud or to obtain property or services,
unauthorized use of property is whichever of the following is applicable:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided below, unauthorized use of property
is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the value of the property or services or the loss to the
victim is $1,000 or more, it is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (2)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled
adult, unauthorized use of property is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of computer, cable, or telecommunication property, a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (H)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of the law enforcement automated database system, a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (I)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of the Ohio law enforcement gateway, a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
   (J)   As used in this section:
      CABLE OPERATOR means any person or group of persons that does either of
the following:
         (a)   Provides cable service over a cable system and directly through
one or more affiliates owns a significant interest in that cable system;
         (b)   Otherwise controls or is responsible for, through any
arrangement, the management and operation of a cable system.
      CABLE SERVICE means any of the following:
         (a)   The one-way transmission to subscribers of video programming or
of information that a cable operator makes available to all subscribers
generally;
         (b)   Subscriber interaction, if any, that is required for the
selection or use of video programming or of information that a cable operator
makes available to all subscribers generally, both as described in division (a)
of this definition;
         (c)   Any cable television service.
      CABLE SYSTEM means any facility, consisting of a set of closed
transmission paths and associated signal generation, reception, and control
equipment that is designed to provide cable service that includes video
programming and that is provided to multiple subscribers within a community.
CABLE SYSTEM does not include any of the following:
         (a)   Any facility that serves only to retransmit the television
signals of one or more television broadcast stations;
         (b)   Any facility that serves subscribers without using any public
right-of-way;
         (c)   Any facility of a common carrier that, under 47 U.S.C. § 522(7)
(c), is excluded from the term “cable system” as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(7);
         (d)   Any open video system that complies with 47 U.S.C. § 573;
         (e)   Any facility of any electric utility used solely for operating
its electric utility system.
(R.C. § 2913.04)
§ 131.21 PASSING BAD CHECKS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      CHECK. Includes any form of debit from a demand deposit account,
including but not limited to any of the following:
         (a)   A check, bill of exchange, draft, order of withdrawal, or
similar negotiable or non- negotiable instrument;
         (b)   An electronic check, electronic transaction, debit card
transaction, check card transaction, substitute check, web check, or any form
of automated clearing house transaction.
      ISSUE A CHECK. Causing any form of debit from a demand deposit account.
   (B)   No person, with purpose to defraud, shall issue or transfer or cause
to be issued or transferred a check or other negotiable instrument, knowing
that it will be dishonored.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, a person who issues or transfers a check
or other negotiable instrument is presumed to know that it will be dishonored
if either of the following occurs:
      (1)   The drawer has no account with the drawee at the time of issue or
the stated date, whichever is later.
      (2)   The check or other negotiable instrument was properly refused
payment for insufficient funds upon presentment within 30 days after issue or
the stated date, whichever is later, and the liability of the drawer, indorser,
or any party who may be liable thereon is not discharged by payment or
satisfaction within ten days after receiving notice of dishonor.
   (D)   In determining the value of the payment for purposes of division (E)
of this section, the court may aggregate all checks and other negotiable
instruments that the offender issued or transferred or caused to be issued or
transferred in violation of division (B) of this section within a period of 180
consecutive days.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of passing bad checks. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, passing bad checks is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the check or checks or other negotiable instrument or
instruments are issued or transferred to a single vendor or single other person
for the payment of $1,000 or more, or if the check or checks or other
negotiable instrument or instruments are issued or transferred to multiple
vendors or persons for the payment of $1,500 or more, passing bad checks is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.11)
§ 131.22 MISUSE OF CREDIT CARDS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Practice deception for the purpose of procuring the issuance of a
credit card, when a credit card is issued in actual reliance thereon;
      (2)   Knowingly buy or sell a credit card from or to a person other than
the issuer;
      (3)   As an officer, employee, or appointee of a political subdivision or
as a public servant as defined under R.C. § 2921.01, knowingly misuse a credit
card account held by a political subdivision.
   (B)   No person, with purpose to defraud, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Obtain control over a credit card as security for a debt;
      (2)   Obtain property or services by the use of a credit card, in one or
more transactions, knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that the card
has expired or been revoked, or was obtained, is retained, or is being used in
violation of law;
      (3)   Furnish property or services upon presentation of a credit card,
knowing that the card is being used in violation of law;
      (4)   Represent or cause to be represented to the issuer of a credit card
that property or services have been furnished, knowing that the representation
is false.
   (C)   No person, with purpose to violate this section, shall receive,
possess, control, or dispose of a credit card.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of misuse of credit cards.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) of this section, a
violation of division (A), (B)(1), or (C) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division or division (D)(3) of
this section, a violation of division (B)(2), (3), or (4) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the cumulative retail value of the property
and services involved in one or more violations of division (B)(2), (3), or (4)
of this section which violations involve one or more credit card accounts and
occur within a period of 90 consecutive days commencing on the date of the
first violation, is $1,000 or more, misuse of credit cards is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled
adult, and if the offense involves a violation of division (B)(1) or (B)(2) of
this section, misuse of credit cards is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.21)
§ 131.23 MAKING OR USING SLUGS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Insert or deposit a slug in a coin machine, with purpose to
defraud;
      (2)   Make, possess, or dispose of a slug, with purpose of enabling
another to defraud by inserting or depositing it in a coin machine.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making or using slugs, a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2913.33)
§ 131.24 DEFRAUDING CREDITORS.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud one or more of his or her
creditors, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Remove, conceal, destroy, encumber, convey, or otherwise deal with
any of his or her property;
      (2)   Misrepresent or refuse to disclose to a fiduciary appointed to
administer or manage his or her affairs or estate, the existence, amount, or
location of any of his or her property, or any other information regarding the
property which he or she is legally required to furnish to the fiduciary.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of defrauding creditors.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, defrauding creditors is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the property involved is
$1,000 or more, defrauding creditors is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.45)
§ 131.25 SECURING WRITINGS BY DECEPTION.
   (A)   No person, by deception, shall cause another to execute any writing
that disposes of or encumbers property, or by which a pecuniary obligation is
incurred.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of securing writings by
deception. Except as otherwise provided in this division, securing writings by
deception is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the property or
the obligation involved is $1,000 or more, securing writings by deception is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate to state law. If the victim of the
offense is an elderly person, disabled adult, active duty service member, or
spouse of an active duty service member, securing writings by deception is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.43)
§ 131.26 TAMPERING WITH COIN MACHINES.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to commit theft or to defraud, shall knowingly
enter, force an entrance into, tamper with, or insert any part of an instrument
into any coin machine.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of tampering with coin
machines, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a violation of this section or of any theft offense as
defined in R.C. § 2913.01, tampering with coin machines is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2911.32)
§ 131.27 TAMPERING WITH RECORDS.
   (A)   No person, knowing that he or she has no privilege to do so, and with
purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she is facilitating a fraud, shall do
any of the following:
      (1)   Falsify, destroy, remove, conceal, alter, deface, or mutilate any
writing, computer software, data, or record;
      (2)   Utter any writing or record, knowing it to have been tampered with
as provided in division (A)(1) of this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of tampering with records.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(3) of this section, if the
offense does not involve data or computer software, tampering with records is
whichever of the following is applicable:
         (a)   If division (B)(1)(b) of this section does not apply, it is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the writing or record is a will unrevoked at the time of the
offense, it is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (B)(3) of this section, if the
offense involves a violation of division (A) of this section involving data or
computer software, tampering with records is whichever of the following is
applicable:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2)(b) of this
section, it is a misdemeanor of the first degree;
         (b)   If the value of the data or computer software involved in the
offense or the loss to the victim is $1,000 or more or if the offense is
committed for the purpose of devising or executing a scheme to defraud or to
obtain property or services and the value of the property or services or the
loss to the victim is $7,500 or more, it is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the writing, data, computer software, or record is kept by or
belongs to a local, state, or federal governmental entity, it is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.42)
§ 131.28 MOTION PICTURE PIRACY.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      AUDIOVISUAL RECORDING FUNCTION means the capability of a device to record
or transmit a motion picture or any part of a motion picture by means of any
technology existing on, or developed after, March 9, 2004.
      FACILITY means a movie theater.
   (B)   No person, without the written consent of the owner or lessee of the
facility and of the licensor of the motion picture, shall knowingly operate an
audiovisual recording function of a device in a facility in which the motion
picture is being shown.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of motion
picture piracy, a misdemeanor of the first degree on the first offense and a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
   (D)   This section does not prohibit or restrict a lawfully authorized
investigative, law enforcement, protective, or intelligence gathering employee
or agent of the government of this state or a political subdivision of this
state, or of the federal government, when acting in an official capacity, from
operating an audiovisual recording function of a device in any facility in
which a motion picture is being shown.
   (E)   Division (B) of this section does not limit or affect the application
of any other prohibition in this code or the Ohio Revised Code. Any act that is
a violation of both division (B) of this section and another provision of this
code or the Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under this section, under the
other provision of this code or the Ohio Revised Code, or under both this
section and the other provision of this code or the Ohio Revised Code.
(R.C. § 2913.07)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
Section
   
132.01   Disorderly conduct
   
132.02   Failure to disperse
   
132.03   Riot
   
132.04   Justifiable use of force to suppress riot
   
132.05   Disturbing a lawful meeting
   
132.06   Misconduct at an emergency
   
132.07   Telecommunications harassment
   
132.08   Inducing panic
   
132.09   Making false alarms
   
132.10   Personating an officer
   
132.11   Unlawful display of law enforcement emblem
   
132.12   Impersonating a peace officer
   
132.13   Impeding public passage of an emergency service responder
§ 132.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall recklessly cause inconvenience, annoyance, or alarm to
another, by doing any of the following:
      (1)   Engaging in fighting, in threatening harm to persons or property,
or in violent or turbulent behavior;
      (2)   Making unreasonable noise or an offensively coarse utterance,
gesture, or display, or communicating unwarranted and grossly abusive language
to any person;
      (3)   Insulting, taunting, or challenging another, under circumstances in
which that conduct is likely to provoke a violent response;
      (4)   Hindering or preventing the movement of persons on a public street,
road, highway, or right-of-way, or to, from, within, or upon public or private
property, so as to interfere with the rights of others, and by any act that
serves no lawful and reasonable purpose of the offender;
      (5)   Creating a condition that is physically offensive to persons or
that presents a risk of physical harm to persons or property, by any act that
serves no lawful and reasonable purpose of the offender.
   (B)   No person while voluntarily intoxicated shall do either of the
following:
      (1)   In a public place or in the presence of two or more persons, engage
in conduct likely to be offensive or to cause inconvenience, annoyance, or
alarm to persons of ordinary sensibilities, which conduct the offender, if he
or she were not intoxicated, should know is likely to have such effect on
others;
      (2)   Engage in conduct or create a condition that presents a risk of
physical harm to himself, herself or another, or to the property of another.
   (C)   Violation of any statute or ordinance of which an element is operating
a motor vehicle, locomotive, watercraft, aircraft, or other vehicle while under
the influence of alcohol or any drug of abuse is not a violation of division
(B) of this section.
   (D)   If a person appears to an ordinary observer to be intoxicated, it is
probable cause to believe that the person is voluntarily intoxicated for
purposes of division (B) of this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disorderly conduct.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (E)(2) and (E)(3) of this
section, disorderly conduct is a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Disorderly conduct is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if any of
the following applies:
         (a)   The offender persists in disorderly conduct after reasonable
warning or request to desist.
         (b)   The offense is committed in the vicinity of a school or in a
school safety zone.
         (c)   The offense is committed in the presence of any law enforcement
officer, firefighter, rescuer, medical person, emergency medical services
person, or other authorized person who is engaged in the person's duties at the
scene of a fire, accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind.
         (d)   The offense is committed in the presence of any emergency
facility person who is engaged in the person’s duties in an emergency facility.
      (3)   If an offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to three or more violations of division (B) of this section, R.C. § 2917.11(B),
or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a violation
of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A SCHOOL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2925.01.
      EMERGENCY FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON. Is the singular of "emergency facility
personnel" as defined in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency medical
services personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2133.21.
(R.C. § 2917.11) ('56 Code, §§ 3, 5-3)
§ 132.02 FAILURE TO DISPERSE.
   (A)   Where five or more persons are participating in a course of disorderly
conduct in violation of R.C. § 2917.11 or a substantially similar municipal
ordinance, and there are other persons in the vicinity whose presence creates
the likelihood of physical harm to persons or property or of serious public
inconvenience, annoyance, or alarm, a law enforcement officer or other public
official may order the participants and the other persons to disperse. No
person shall knowingly fail to obey the order.
   (B)   Nothing in this section requires persons to disperse who are peaceably
assembled for a lawful purpose.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to disperse.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3) of this section,
failure to disperse is a minor misdemeanor.
      (3)   Failure to disperse is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if the
failure to obey the order described in division (A) of this section creates the
likelihood of physical harm to persons or is committed at the scene of a fire,
accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind.
(R.C. § 2917.04)
§ 132.03 RIOT.
   (A)   No person shall participate with four or more others in a course of
disorderly conduct in violation of R.C. § 2917.11 or a substantially similar
municipal ordinance:
      (1)   With purpose to commit or facilitate the commission of a
misdemeanor, other than disorderly conduct;
      (2)   With purpose to intimidate a public official or employee into
taking or refraining from official action, or with purpose to hinder, impede,
or obstruct a function of government;
      (3)   With purpose to hinder, impede, or obstruct the orderly process of
administration or instruction at an educational institution, or to interfere
with or disrupt lawful activities carried on at the institution.
   (B)   No person shall participate with four or more others with purpose to
do an act with unlawful force or violence, even though the act might otherwise
be lawful.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of riot, a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C § 2917.03)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 132.04 JUSTIFIABLE USE OF FORCE TO SUPPRESS RIOT.
   A law enforcement officer or firefighter engaged in suppressing a riot or in
protecting persons or property during a riot:
   (A)   Is justified in using force, other than deadly force, when and to the
extent he or she has probable cause to believe such force is necessary to
disperse or apprehend rioters;
   (B)   Is justified in using force, including deadly force, when and to the
extent he or she has probable cause to believe such force is necessary to
disperse or apprehend rioters whose conduct is creating a substantial risk of
serious physical harm to persons.
(R.C. § 2917.05)
§ 132.05 DISTURBING A LAWFUL MEETING.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to prevent or disrupt a lawful meeting,
procession, or gathering, shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Do any act which obstructs or interferes with the due conduct of
the meeting, procession, or gathering.
      (2)   Make any utterance, gesture, or display which outrages the
sensibilities of the group.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disturbing a lawful
meeting. Except as otherwise provided in this division, disturbing a lawful
meeting is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Disturbing a lawful meeting is a
misdemeanor of the first degree if either of the following applies:
      (1)   The violation is committed with the intent to disturb or disquiet
any assemblage of people met for religious worship at a tax-exempt place of
worship, regardless of whether the conduct is within the place at which the
assemblage is held or is on the property on which that place is located and
disturbs the order and solemnity of the assemblage.
      (2)   The violation is committed with the intent to prevent, disrupt, or
interfere with a virtual meeting or gathering of people for religious worship,
through use of a computer, computer system, telecommunications device, or other
electronic device or system, or in any other manner.
   (C)   As used in this section:
      COMPUTER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      COMPUTER SYSTEM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      VIRTUAL MEETING OR GATHERING. A meeting or gathering by interactive video
conference or teleconference, or by a combination thereof.
(R.C. § 2917.12) ('56 Code, §§ 3, 5-9)
§ 132.06 MISCONDUCT AT AN EMERGENCY.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Hamper the lawful operations of any law enforcement officer,
firefighter, rescuer, medical person, emergency medical services person, or
other authorized person engaged in the person's duties at the scene of a fire,
accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind;
      (2)   Hamper the lawful activities of any emergency facility person who
is engaged in the person's duties in an emergency facility;
      (3)   Fail to obey the lawful order of any law enforcement officer
engaged in the law enforcement officer's duties at the scene of or in
connection with a fire, accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit access or deny
information to any news media representative in the lawful exercise of the news
media representative's duties.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of misconduct at an emergency.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, misconduct at an emergency is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If violation of this section creates a risk
of physical harm to persons or property, misconduct at an emergency is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      EMERGENCY FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON. Is the singular of "emergency facility
personnel" as defined in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON. Is the singular of "emergency medical
services personnel" as defined in R.C. § 2133.21.
(R.C. § 2917.13)
§ 132.07 TELECOMMUNICATIONS HARASSMENT.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make or cause to be made a
telecommunication, or knowingly permit a telecommunication to be made from a
telecommunications device under the person's control, to another, if the caller
does any of the following:
      (1)   Makes the telecommunication with purpose to harass, intimidate, or
abuse any person at the premises to which the telecommunication is made,
whether or not actual communication takes place between the caller and a
recipient;
      (2)   Describes, suggests, requests, or proposes that the caller, the
recipient of the telecommunication, or any other person engage in sexual
activity, and the recipient or another person at the premises to which the
telecommunication is made has requested, in a previous telecommunication or in
the immediate telecommunication, that the caller not make a telecommunication
to the recipient or to the premises to which the telecommunication is made;
      (3)   During the telecommunication, violates R.C. § 2903.21 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (4)   Knowingly states to the recipient of the telecommunication that the
caller intends to cause damage to or destroy public or private property, and
the recipient, any member of the recipient's family, or any other person who
resides at the premises to which the telecommunication is made owns, leases,
resides, or works in, will at the time of the destruction or damaging be near
or in, has the responsibility of protecting, or insures the property that will
be destroyed or damaged;
      (5)   Knowingly makes the telecommunication to the recipient of the
telecommunication, to another person at the premises to which the
telecommunication is made, or to those premises, and the recipient or another
person at those premises previously has told the caller not to make a
telecommunication to those premises or to any persons at those premises;
      (6)   Knowingly makes any comment, request, suggestion, or proposal to
the recipient of the telecommunication that is threatening, intimidating,
menacing, coercive, or obscene with the intent to abuse, threaten, or harass
the recipient;
      (7)   Without a lawful business purpose, knowingly interrupts the
telecommunication service of any person;
      (8)   Without a lawful business purpose, knowingly transmits to any
person, regardless of whether the telecommunication is heard in its entirety,
any file, document, or other communication that prevents that person from using
the person’s telephone service or electronic communication device;
      (9)   Knowingly makes any false statement concerning the death, injury,
illness, disfigurement, reputation, indecent conduct, or criminal conduct of
the recipient of the telecommunication or family or household member of the
recipient with purpose to abuse, threaten, intimidate, or harass the recipient;
      (10)   Knowingly incites another person through a telecommunication or
other means to harass or participate in the harassment of a person;
      (11)   Knowingly alarms the recipient by making a telecommunication
without a lawful purpose at an hour or hours known to be inconvenient to the
recipient and in an offensive or repetitive manner.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall make or cause to be made a telecommunication or
permit a telecommunication to be made from a telecommunications device under
the person's control, with purpose to abuse, threaten, or harass another
person.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly post a text or audio statement or an
image on an internet web site or web page for the purpose of abusing,
threatening, or harassing another person.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of telecommunications
harassment.
      (2)   A violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(5), (A)(6), (A)
(7), (A)(8), (A)(9), (A)(10), or (A)(11) or (B) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree on a first offense and a felony on each
subsequent offense, which shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(3), a violation
of division (A)(4) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree on a
first offense and a felony on each subsequent offense, to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If a violation of division (A)(4) of this section
results in economic harm of $1,000 or more, telecommunications harassment is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (D)   No cause of action may be assessed in any court of this municipality
against any provider of a telecommunications service, interactive computer
service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, or against any
officer, employee, or agent of a telecommunications service, interactive
computer service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, for any
injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly arises out of the
provider's, officer's, employee's, or agent's provision of information,
facilities, or assistance in accordance with the terms of a court order that is
issued in relation to the investigation or prosecution of an alleged violation
of this section. A provider of a telecommunications service, interactive
computer service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, or an
officer, employee, or agent of a telecommunications service, interactive
computer service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, is
immune from any civil or criminal liability for injury, death, or loss to
person or property that allegedly arises out of the provider's, officer's,
employees, or agent's provision of information, facilities, or assistance in
accordance with the terms of a court order that is issued in relation to the
investigation or prosecution of an alleged violation of this section.
   (E)   (1)   This section does not apply to a person solely because the
person provided access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person’s control, including
having provided capabilities that are incidental to providing access or
connection to or from the electronic method of remotely transferring the
information, and that do not include the creation of the content of the
material that is the subject of the access or connection. In addition, any
person providing access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person’s control shall not be
liable for any action voluntarily taken in good faith to block the receipt or
transmission through its service of any information that the person believes
is, or will be sent, in violation of this section.
      (2)   Division (E)(1) of this section does not create an affirmative duty
for any person providing access or connection to or from an electronic method
of remotely transferring information not under that person’s control to block
the receipt or transmission through its service of any information that it
believes is, or will be sent, in violation of this section except as otherwise
provided by law.
      (3)   Division (E)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who
conspires with a person actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of this section or who knowingly
advertises the availability of material of that nature.
      (4)   A provider or user of an interactive computer service, as defined
in 47 U.S.C. § 230, shall neither be treated as the publisher or speaker of any
information provided by another information content provider, as defined in 47
U.S.C. § 230, nor held civilly or criminally liable for the creation or
development of information provided by another information content provider, as
defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230. Nothing in this division shall be construed to
protect a person from liability to the extent that the person developed or
created any content in violation of this section.
   (F)   Divisions (A)(5) to (A)(11) and (B)(2) of this section do not apply to
a person who, while employed or contracted by a newspaper, magazine, press
association, news agency, news wire service, cable channel or cable operator,
or radio or television station, is gathering, processing, transmitting,
compiling, editing, or disseminating information for the general public within
the scope of the person’s employment in that capacity or the person’s
contractual authority in that capacity.
   (G)   As used in divisions (A) through (D) of this section;
      CABLE OPERATOR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.21.
      CALLER. Means the person described in division (A) of this section who
makes or causes to be made a telecommunication or who permits a
telecommunication to be made from a telecommunications device under that
person's control.
      ECONOMIC HARM. Means all direct, incidental and consequential pecuniary
harm suffered by a victim as a result of the criminal conduct. The term
includes but is not limited to all of the following:
         (a)   All wages, salaries or other compensation lost as a result of
the criminal conduct;
         (b)   The cost of all wages, salaries or other compensation paid to
employees for time those employees are prevented from working as a result of
the criminal conduct;
         (c)   The overhead costs incurred from the time that a business is
shut down as a result of the criminal conduct;
         (d)   The loss of value to tangible or intangible property that was
damaged as a result of the criminal conduct.
      FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
recipient of the telecommunication against whom the act prohibited in division
(A)(9) of this section is committed:
            1.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse, or a former spouse of
the recipient;
            2.   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the recipient, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the recipient;
            3.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse, or
former spouse of the recipient, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
recipient.
         (b)   The natural parent of any child of whom the recipient of the
telecommunication against whom the act prohibited in division (A)(9) of this
section is committed is the other natural parent or is the putative other
natural parent.
      PERSON LIVING AS A SPOUSE. Means a person who is living or has lived with
the recipient of the telecommunication against whom the act prohibited in
division (A)(9) of this section is committed in a common law marital
relationship, who otherwise is cohabiting with the recipient, or who otherwise
has cohabited with the recipient within five years prior to the date of the
alleged commission of the act in question.
      SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
      TELECOMMUNICATION and TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Have the same meanings
as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   (H)   Nothing in this section prohibits a person from making a
telecommunication to a debtor that is in compliance with the “Fair Debt
Collection Practices Act,” 15 U.S.C. 1692, as amended, or the “Telephone
Consumer Protection Act,” 47 U.S.C. 227, as amended.
(R.C. § 2917.21)
§ 132.08 INDUCING PANIC.
   (A)   No person shall cause the evacuation of any public place, or otherwise
cause serious public inconvenience or alarm, by doing any of the following:
      (1)   Initiating or circulating a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime, or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false.
      (2)   Threatening to commit any offense of violence.
      (3)   Committing any offense, with reckless disregard of the likelihood
that its commission will cause serious public inconvenience or alarm.
   (B)   Division (A)(1) of this section does not apply to any person
conducting an authorized fire or emergency drill.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of inducing panic.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3), inducing panic is
a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   If a violation of this section results in physical harm to any
person, inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law. If a violation of this section results in economic harm of $1,000 or more,
inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the
public place involved in a violation of division (A)(1) is a school or an
institution of higher education, inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law. If a violation of this section pertains to a
purported, threatened or actual use of a weapon of mass destruction, inducing
panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (D)   (1)   It is not a defense to a charge under this section that pertains
to a purported or threatened use of a weapon of mass destruction that the
offender did not possess or have the ability to use a weapon of mass
destruction or that what was represented to be a weapon of mass destruction was
not a weapon of mass destruction.
      (2)   Any act that is a violation of this section and any other section
of the Ohio Revised Code or this Code of Ordinances may be prosecuted under
this section, the other section, or both sections.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      BIOLOGICAL AGENT has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2917.33.
      ECONOMIC HARM means any of the following:
         (a)   All direct, incidental and consequential pecuniary harm suffered
by a victim as a result of the criminal conduct. “Economic harm” as described
in this division includes but is not limited to all of the following:
            1.   All wages, salaries or other compensation lost as a result of
the criminal conduct;
            2.   The cost of all wages, salaries or other compensation paid to
employees for time those employees are prevented from working as a result of
the criminal conduct;
            3.   The overhead costs incurred from the time that a business is
shut down as a result of the criminal conduct;
            4.   The loss of value to tangible or intangible property that was
damaged as a result of the criminal conduct.
         (b)   All costs incurred by the state or any political subdivision as
a result of, or in making any response to, the criminal conduct that
constituted the violation of this section or R.C. § 2917.32, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, including but not limited to all
costs so incurred by any law enforcement officers, firefighters, rescue
personnel, or emergency medical services personnel of the state or the
political subdivision.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSONNEL has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2133.21.
      INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION. Means any of the following:
         (a)   A state university or college as defined in R.C. § 3345.12(A)
(1), community college, state community college, university branch, or
technical college;
         (b)   A private, nonprofit college, university or other post-secondary
institution located in this state that possesses a certificate of authorization
issued by the Ohio Board of Regents pursuant to R.C. Chapter 1713;
         (c)   A post-secondary institution with a certificate of registration
issued by the State Board of Career Colleges and Schools pursuant to R.C.
Chapter 3332.
      SCHOOL means any school operated by a board of education or any school
for which the State Board of Education prescribes minimum standards under R.C.
§ 3301.07, whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or
training provided by the school is being conducted at the time a violation of
this section is committed.
      WEAPON OF MASS DESTRUCTION means any of the following:
         (a)   Any weapon that is designed or intended to cause death or
serious physical harm through the release, dissemination, or impact of toxic or
poisonous chemicals, or other precursors;
         (b)   Any weapon involving a disease organism or biological agent;
         (c)   Any weapon that is designed to release radiation or
radioactivity at a level dangerous to human life;
         (d)   Any of the following, except to the extent that the item or
device in question is expressly excepted from the definition of “destructive
device” pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 921(a)(4) and regulations issued under that
section:
            1.   Any explosive, incendiary, or poison gas bomb, grenade, rocket
having a propellant charge of more than four ounces, missile having an
explosive or incendiary charge of more than one-quarter ounce, mine, or similar
device;
            2.   Any combination of parts either designed or intended for use
in converting any item or device into any item or device described in division
(d)1. of this definition and from which an item or device described in that
division may be readily assembled.
(R.C. § 2917.31)
§ 132.09 MAKING FALSE ALARMS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Initiate or circulate a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime, or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false and likely to cause public inconvenience or alarm.
      (2)   Knowingly cause a false alarm of fire or other emergency to be
transmitted to or within any organization, public or private, for dealing with
emergencies involving a risk of physical harm to persons or property.
      (3)   Report to any law enforcement agency an alleged offense or other
incident within its concern, knowing that the offense did not occur;
      (4)   Initiate or circulate a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime, or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false and likely to impede the operation of a critical
infrastructure facility.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any person conducting an authorized
fire or emergency drill.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making false alarms. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, making false alarms is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If a violation of this section results in economic harm of
$1,000 or more, making false alarms is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If a violation of this section pertains to a purported,
threatened, or actual use of a weapon of mass destruction, making false alarms
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (D)   (1)   It is not a defense to a charge under this section that pertains
to a purported or threatened use of a weapon of mass destruction that the
offender did not possess or have the ability to use a weapon of mass
destruction or that what was represented to be a weapon of mass destruction was
not a weapon of mass destruction.
      (2)   Any act that is a violation of this section and any other section
of the Ohio Revised Code or this Code of Ordinances may be prosecuted under
this section, the other section, or both sections.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2911.21.
      ECONOMIC HARM and WEAPON OF MASS DESTRUCTION. Have the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2917.31.
(R.C. § 2917.32)
§ 132.10 PERSONATING AN OFFICER.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she is
facilitating a fraud, or with purpose to induce another to purchase property or
services, shall personate a law enforcement officer, or an inspector,
investigator, or agent of any governmental agency.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of personating an officer, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2913.44)
§ 132.11 UNLAWFUL DISPLAY OF LAW ENFORCEMENT EMBLEM.
   (A)   No person who is not entitled to do so shall knowingly display on a
motor vehicle the emblem of a law enforcement agency or an organization of law
enforcement officers.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of the unlawful display of the
emblem of a law enforcement agency or an organization of law enforcement
officers, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2913.441)
§ 132.12 IMPERSONATING A PEACE OFFICER.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. An employee of the United States who
serves in a position the duties of which are primarily the investigation,
apprehension, or detention of individuals suspected or convicted of offenses
under the criminal laws of the United States.
      IMPERSONATE. To act the part of, assume the identity of, wear the uniform
or any part of the uniform of, or display the identification of a particular
person or of a member of a class of persons with purpose to make another person
believe that the actor is that particular person or is a member of that class
of persons.
      INVESTIGATOR OF THE BUREAU OF CRIMINAL IDENTIFICATION AND INVESTIGATION.
Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2903.11.
      PEACE OFFICER. A sheriff, deputy sheriff, marshal, deputy marshal, member
of the organized police department of a municipal corporation, or township
constable, who is employed by a political subdivision of this state; a member
of a police force employed by a metropolitan housing authority under R.C. §
3735.31(D); a member of a police force employed by a regional transit authority
under R.C. § 306.35(Y); a state university law enforcement officer appointed
under R.C. § 3345.04; a veterans’ home police officer appointed under R.C. §
5907.02; a special police officer employed by a port authority under R.C. §
4582.04 or 4582.28; an officer, agent, or employee of the state or any of its
agencies, instrumentalities, or political subdivisions, upon whom, by statute,
a duty to conserve the peace or to enforce all or certain laws is imposed and
the authority to arrest violators is conferred, within limits of that statutory
duty and authority; or a state highway patrol trooper whose primary duties are
to preserve the peace, to protect life and property, and to enforce the laws,
ordinances, or rules of the state or any of its political subdivisions.
      PRIVATE POLICE OFFICER. Any security guard, special police officer,
private detective, or other person who is privately employed in a police
capacity.
   (B)   No person shall impersonate a peace officer, private police officer,
investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation, or
federal law enforcement officer.
   (C)   No person, by impersonating a peace officer, private police officer,
investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation, or
federal law enforcement officer, shall arrest or detain any person, search any
person, or search the property of any person.
   (D)   No person, with purpose to commit or facilitate the commission of an
offense, shall impersonate a peace officer, private police officer, federal law
enforcement officer, or an officer, agent or employee of the municipality or
the state, or investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and
Investigation.
   (E)   No person shall commit a felony while impersonating a peace officer,
private police officer, federal law enforcement officer, an officer, agent or
employee of the municipality or of the state, or investigator of the Bureau of
Criminal Identification and Investigation.
   (F)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B) of this
section that the impersonation of the peace officer, private police officer,
federal law enforcement officer, an officer, agent or employee of the
municipality or of the state, or investigator of the Bureau of Criminal
Identification and Investigation was for a lawful purpose.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the purpose of a
violation of division (D) of this section is to commit or facilitate the
commission of a felony, a violation of division (D) is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law. Whoever violates division (E) of this
section is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.51)
§ 132.13 IMPEDING PUBLIC PASSAGE OF AN EMERGENCY SERVICE RESPONDER.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall recklessly obstruct any
highway, street, sidewalk, or any other public passage in such a manner as to
render the highway, street, sidewalk, or passage impassable without
unreasonable inconvenience or hazard if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The obstruction prevents an emergency vehicle from accessing a
highway or street, prevents an emergency service responder from responding to
an emergency, or prevents an emergency vehicle or an emergency service
responder from having access to an exit from an emergency.
      (2)   Upon receipt of a request or order from an emergency service
responder to remove or cease the obstruction, the person refuses to remove or
cease the obstruction.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not limit or affect the application
of R.C. § 2921.31 or any other section of the Ohio Revised Code. Any conduct
that is a violation of division (A) of this section and that also is a
violation of R.C. § 2921.31 or any other section of the Ohio Revised Code may
be prosecuted under this section, the other section of the Ohio Revised Code,
or both sections.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawfully impeding public
passage of an emergency service responder, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   As used in this section, EMERGENCY SERVICE RESPONDER has the same
meaning as in R.C. § 2921.01.
(R.C. § 2917.14)
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST MORALS
Section
   
133.01   Definitions
   
133.02   Sexual imposition
   
133.03   Voyeurism
   
133.04   Public indecency
   
133.05   Prostitution
   
133.06   Soliciting; loitering to engage in
   
133.07   Polygraph examinations for victims: restrictions on use
   
133.08   Nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual images
Obscenity
   
133.15   Disseminating matter harmful to juveniles
   
133.16   Deception to obtain matter harmful to juveniles
   
133.17   Presumptions; notice
   
133.18   Declaratory judgment
   
133.19   Injunction; abatement of nuisance
   
133.20   Unlawful operation of viewing booths depicting sexual conduct
   
133.21   Juveniles on the premises of adult entertainment establishments
prohibited
   
133.22   Sexually oriented businesses; illegal operation and activity
 
   
133.99   Sentencing for sexually oriented offenses; sexual predators;
registration
§ 133.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   HARMFUL TO JUVENILES. That quality of any material or performance describing
or representing nudity, sexual conduct, sexual excitement, or sado-masochistic
abuse in any form to which all of the following apply:
      (1)   The material or performance, when considered as a whole, appeals to
the prurient interest in sex of juveniles.
      (2)   The material or performance is patently offensive to prevailing
standards in the adult community as a whole with respect to what is suitable
for juveniles.
      (3)   The material or performance, when considered as a whole, lacks
serious literary, artistic, political, and scientific value for juveniles.
   JUVENILE. Any unmarried person under 18 years of age.
   MATERIAL. Any book, magazine, newspaper, pamphlet, poster, print, picture,
figure, image, description, motion picture film, video cassette, laser disc,
phonograph record, cassette tape, compact disc, or other tangible thing capable
of arousing interest through sight, sound, or touch and includes an image or
text appearing on a computer monitor, television screen, liquid crystal
display, or similar display device or an image or text recorded on a computer
hard disk, computer floppy disk, compact disk, magnetic tape, or similar data
storage device.
   MENTAL HEALTH CLIENT OR PATIENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.51.
   MENTAL HEALTH PROFESSIONAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.115.
   MINOR. A person under the age of 18.
   NUDITY. The showing, representation, or depiction of human male or female
genitals, pubic area, or buttocks with less than a full, opaque covering, or of
a female breast with less than a full, opaque covering of any portion thereof
below the top of the nipple, or of covered male genitals in a discernibly
turgid state.
   OBSCENE. When considered as a whole, and judged with reference to ordinary
adults or, if it is designed for sexual deviates or other specially susceptible
group, judged with reference to that group, any material or performance is
OBSCENE if any of the following apply:
      (1)   Its dominant appeal is to prurient interest.
      (2)   Its dominant tendency is to arouse lust by displaying or depicting
sexual activity, masturbation, sexual excitement, or nudity in a way that tends
to represent human beings as mere objects of sexual appetite.
      (3)   Its dominant tendency is to arouse lust by displaying or depicting
bestiality or extreme or bizarre violence, cruelty, or brutality.
      (4)   Its dominant tendency is to appeal to scatological interest by
displaying or depicting human bodily functions of elimination in a way that
inspires disgust or revulsion in persons with ordinary sensibilities, without
serving any genuine scientific, educational, sociological, moral, or artistic
purpose.
      (5)   It contains a series of displays or descriptions of sexual
activity, masturbation, sexual excitement, nudity, bestiality, extreme or
bizarre violence, cruelty, or brutality, or human bodily functions of
elimination, the cumulative effect of which is a dominant tendency to appeal to
prurient or scatological interest, when the appeal to such an interest is
primarily for its own sake or for commercial exploitation, rather than
primarily for a genuine scientific, educational, sociological, moral, or
artistic purpose.
   PERFORMANCE. Any motion picture, preview, trailer, play, show, skit, dance,
or other exhibition performed before an audience.
   PLACE WHERE A PERSON HAS A REASONABLE EXPECTATION OF PRIVACY. A place where
a reasonable person would believe that the person could fully disrobe in
private.
   PRIVATE AREA. The genitals, pubic area, buttocks, or female breast below the
top of the areola, where nude or covered by an undergarment.
   PROSTITUTE. A male or female who promiscuously engages in sexual activity
for hire, regardless of whether the hire is paid to the prostitute or to
another.
   SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Sexual conduct or sexual contact, or both.
   SEXUAL CONDUCT. Vaginal intercourse between a male and female; anal
intercourse, fellatio, and cunnilingus between persons regardless of sex; and,
without privilege to do so, the insertion, however slight, of any part of the
body or any instrument, apparatus, or other object into the vaginal or anal
opening of another. Penetration, however slight, is sufficient to complete
vaginal or anal intercourse.
   SEXUAL CONTACT. Any touching of an erogenous zone of another, including
without limitation the thigh, genitals, buttock, pubic region, or, if the
person is a female, a breast, for the purpose of sexually arousing or
gratifying either person.
   SEXUAL EXCITEMENT. The condition of human male or female genitals when in a
state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
   SPOUSE. A person married to an offender at the time of an alleged offense,
except that such person shall not be considered the spouse when any of the
following apply:
      (1)   When the parties have entered into a written separation agreement
pursuant to R.C. § 3103.06.
      (2)   When an action is pending between the parties for annulment,
divorce, dissolution of marriage, or legal separation.
      (3)   In the case of an action for legal separation, after the effective
date of the judgment for legal separation.
(R.C. § 2907.01)
§ 133.02 SEXUAL IMPOSITION.
   (A)   No person shall have sexual contact with another, not the spouse of
the offender; cause another, not the spouse of the offender, to have sexual
contact with the offender; or cause two or more other persons to have sexual
contact when any of the following applies:
      (1)   The offender knows that the sexual contact is offensive to the
other person, or one of the other persons, or is reckless in that regard.
      (2)   The offender knows that the other person's, or one of the other
person's ability to appraise the nature of or control the offender's or
touching person's conduct is substantially impaired.
      (3)   The offender knows that the other person, or one of the other
persons, submits because of being unaware of the sexual contact.
      (4)   The other person, or one of the other persons, is 13 years of age
or older but less than 16 years of age, whether or not the offender knows the
age of the person, and the offender is at least 18 years of age and four or
more years older than the other person.
      (5)   The offender is a mental health professional, the other person or
one of the other persons is a mental health client or patient of the offender,
and the offender induces the other person who is the client or patient to
submit by falsely representing to the other person who is the client or patient
that the sexual contact is necessary for mental health treatment purposes.
   (B)   No person shall be convicted of a violation of this section solely
upon the victim's testimony unsupported by other evidence.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of sexual imposition, a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section, R.C. § 2907.02, 2907.03,
2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.06, former R.C. § 2907.12, or a substantially equivalent
state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of this section is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to three or more violations of this section, R.C. § 2907.02,
2907.03, 2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.06, former R.C. § 2907.12, or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or of any combination of those
sections, a violation of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree and,
notwithstanding the range of jail terms prescribed in R.C. § 2929.24, the court
may impose on the offender a definite jail term of not more than one year.
(R.C. § 2907.06)
Statutory reference:
   Gross sexual imposition, felony, see R.C. § 2907.05
   Notice to licensing board or agency upon indictment, conviction or guilty
plea of mental health professional, see R.C. §§ 2907.17 and 2907.18
§ 133.03 VOYEURISM.
   (A)   No person, for the purpose of sexually arousing or gratifying himself
or herself, shall commit trespass or otherwise surreptitiously invade the
privacy of another, to spy or eavesdrop upon another.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly commit trespass or otherwise secretly or
surreptitiously videotape, film, photograph, broadcast, stream, or otherwise
record another person, in a place where a person has a reasonable expectation
of privacy, for the purpose of viewing the private areas of that person.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly commit trespass or otherwise secretly or
surreptitiously videotape, film, photograph, broadcast, stream, or otherwise
record a minor, in a place where a person has a reasonable expectation of
privacy, for the purpose of viewing the private areas of the minor.
   (D)   No person shall secretly or surreptitiously videotape, film,
photograph, or otherwise record another person above, under, or through the
clothing being worn by that other person for the purpose of viewing the body
of, or the undergarments worn by, that other person.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of voyeurism.
      (1)   A violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
      (2)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
second degree.
      (3)   A violation of division (D) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (4)   A violation of division (C) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.08)
§ 133.04 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   (A)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following, under
circumstances in which the person’s conduct is likely to be viewed by and
affront others who are in the person’s physical proximity and who are not
members of the person’s household:
      (1)   Expose the person’s private parts.
      (2)   Engage in sexual conduct or masturbation.
      (3)   Engage in conduct that to an ordinary observer would appear to be
sexual conduct or masturbation.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following, under circumstances
in which the person's conduct is likely to be viewed by and affront another
person who is in the person's physical proximity, who is a minor, and who is
not the spouse of the offender:
      (1)   Engage in masturbation.
      (2)   Engage in sexual conduct.
      (3)   Engage in conduct that to an ordinary observer would appear to be
sexual conduct or masturbation.
      (4)   Expose the person’s private parts with the purpose of personal
sexual arousal or gratification or to lure the minor into sexual activity.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of public indecency and
shall be punished as provided in divisions (C)(2), (C)(3), (C)(4), and (C)(5)
of this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(2), a violation
of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, a violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the third degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by
the offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the second degree or, if
any person who was likely to view and be affronted by the offender’s conduct
was a minor, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law municipal ordinance, a violation of division
(A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations
of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
a violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by the
offender’s conduct was a minor, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(3), a violation
of division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the third
degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by the
offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one violation of
this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
second degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by the
offender’s conduct was a minor, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to two or more violations of this section or a substantially equivalent state
law municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(4), a violation
of division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
second degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law
or municipal ordinance, a violation of division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this
section or a substantially equivalent state law municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(5), a violation
of division (B)(4) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation of
this section or a substantially equivalent state law municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (B)(4) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.09)
   (D)   (1)   If either of the following applies, the court may determine at
the time of sentencing whether to classify the offender as a tier I sex
offender/child-victim offender for a violation of division (B)(4) of this
section:
         (a)   The offender is less than ten years older than the other person.
         (b)   The offender is ten or more years older than the other person
and the offender has not previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any
violation of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance.
      (2)   If the offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (B)(4) of this section, is ten or more years older than the other
person, and previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation
of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the court shall issue an order at the time of sentencing that
classifies the offender as a tier I sex offender/child-victim offender subject
to registration under R.C. §§ 2950.04, 2950.041, 2950.05, and 2950.06.
   (E)   A mother is entitled to breast-feed her baby in any location of a
place of public accommodation, as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, wherein the mother
otherwise is permitted.
(R.C. § 3781.55)
§ 133.05 PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   No person shall engage in sexual activity for hire.
   (B)   No person, with knowledge that the person has tested positive as a
carrier of a virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, shall engage
in sexual activity for hire.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
prostitution, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of engaging
in prostitution after a positive HIV test, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.25)
Statutory reference:
   Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see R.C. § 2907.27
§ 133.06 SOLICITING; LOITERING TO ENGAGE IN.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly solicit another to engage in sexual activity
for hire in exchange for the person receiving anything of value from the other
person.
   (B)   No person, with knowledge that the person has tested positive as a
carrier of a virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, shall engage
in conduct in violation of division (A) of this section.
   (C)   As used in division (A) of this section, SEXUAL ACTIVITY FOR HIRE
means an implicit or explicit agreement to provide sexual activity in exchange
for anything of value paid to the person engaging in such sexual activity, to
any person trafficking that person, or to any person associated with either
such person.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
soliciting. Soliciting is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of engaging
in solicitation after a positive HIV test, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.24)
   (E)   No person, with purpose to solicit another to engage in sexual
activity for hire and while in or near a public place, shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Beckon to, stop or attempt to stop another;
      (2)   Engage or attempt to engage another in conversation;
      (3)   Stop or attempt to stop the operator of a vehicle or approach a
stationary vehicle;
      (4)   If the offender is the operator of or a passenger in a vehicle,
stop, attempt to stop, beckon to, attempt to beckon to, or entice another to
approach or enter the vehicle of which the offender is the operator or in which
the offender is the passenger;
      (5)   Interfere with the free passage of another.
   (F)   No person, with knowledge that the person has tested positive as a
carrier of a virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, shall engage
in conduct in violation of division (E) of this section.
   (G)   As used in division (E) of this section:
      PUBLIC PLACE means any of the following:
         (a)   A street, road, highway, thoroughfare, bikeway, walkway,
sidewalk, bridge, alley, alleyway, plaza, park, driveway, parking lot or
transportation facility.
         (b)   A doorway or entrance way to a building that fronts on a place
described in division (a) of this definition.
         (c)   A place not described in division (a) or (b) of this definition
that is open to the public.
      VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   (H)   (1)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section is guilty of
loitering to engage in solicitation, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (F) of this section is guilty of
loitering to engage in solicitation after a positive HIV test, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.241)
Statutory reference:
   Offenders with knowledge that they test HIV positive, felony, see R.C. §§
2907.24(B) and 2907.241(B)
   Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see R.C. § 2907.27
§ 133.07 POLYGRAPH EXAMINATIONS FOR VICTIMS: RESTRICTIONS ON USE.
   (A)   (1)   A peace officer, prosecutor, other public official, defendant,
defendant's attorney, alleged juvenile offender, or alleged juvenile offender's
attorney shall not ask or require a victim of an alleged sex offense to submit
to a polygraph examination as a condition for proceeding with the investigation
or prosecution of the alleged sex offense.
      (2)   The refusal of the victim of an alleged sex offense to submit to a
polygraph examination shall not prevent the investigation of the alleged sex
offense, the filing of criminal charges with respect to the alleged sex
offense, or the prosecution of the alleged perpetrator of the alleged sex
offense.
   (B)   As used in this section:
      ALLEGED JUVENILE OFFENDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2930.01.
      PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.51.
      POLYGRAPH EXAMINATION. Means any mechanical or electrical instrument or
device of any type used or allegedly used to examine, test, or question an
individual for the purpose of determining the individual’s truthfulness.
      PROSECUTION. Means the prosecution of criminal charges in a criminal
prosecution or the prosecution of a delinquent child complaint in a delinquency
proceeding.
      PROSECUTOR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
      PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 117.01.
      SEX OFFENSE. Means a violation of any provision of §§
133.02 to
133.05 or R.C. §§ 2907.02 to 2907.09.
(R.C. § 2907.10)
§ 133.08 NONCONSENSUAL DISSEMINATION OF PRIVATE SEXUAL IMAGES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      CABLE SERVICE PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.01.
      DIRECT-TO-HOME SATELLITE SERVICE. Has the meaning defined in 47 U.S.C. §
303, as amended.
      DISSEMINATE. Means to post, distribute, or publish on a computer device,
computer network, web site, or other electronic device or medium of
communication.
      IMAGE. Means a photograph, film, videotape, digital recording, or other
depiction or portrayal of a person.
      INTERACTIVE COMPUTER SERVICE. Has the meaning defined in the
"Telecommunications Act of 1996", 47 U.S.C. § 230, as amended.
      INTERNET PROVIDER. Means a provider of internet service, including all of
the following:
         (a)   Broadband service, however defined or classified by the Federal
Communications Commission;
         (b)   Information service or telecommunications service, both as
defined in the "Telecommunications Act of 1996", 47 U.S.C. § 153, as amended;
         (c)   Internet protocol-enabled services, as defined in R.C. §
4927.01.
      MOBILE SERVICE. Has the meaning defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153, as amended.
      SEXUAL ACT. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Sexual activity;
         (b)   Masturbation;
         (c)   An act involving a bodily substance that is performed for the
purpose of sexual arousal or gratification;
         (d)   Sado-masochistic abuse.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIER. Has the meaning defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153,
as amended.
      VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.21.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly disseminate an image of another person if
all of the following apply:
      (1)   The person in the image is 18 years of age or older.
      (2)   The person in the image can be identified from the image itself or
from information displayed in connection with the image and the offender
supplied the identifying information.
      (3)   The person in the image is in a state of nudity or is engaged in a
sexual act.
      (4)   The image is disseminated without consent from the person in the
image.
      (5)   The image is disseminated with intent to harm the person in the
image.
   (C)   This section does not prohibit the dissemination of an image if any of
the following apply:
      (1)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of a criminal
investigation that is otherwise lawful.
      (2)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of, or in connection
with, the reporting of unlawful conduct.
      (3)   The image is part of a news report or commentary or an artistic or
expressive work, such as a performance, work of art, literary work, theatrical
work, musical work, motion picture, film, or audiovisual work.
      (4)   The image is disseminated by a law enforcement officer, or a
corrections officer or guard in a detention facility, acting within the scope
of the person's official duties.
      (5)   The image is disseminated for another lawful public purpose.
      (6)   The person in the image is knowingly and willingly in a state of
nudity or engaged in a sexual act and is knowingly and willingly in a location
in which the person does not have a reasonable expectation of privacy.
      (7)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of medical treatment or
examination.
   (D)   The following entities are not liable for a violation of this section
solely as a result of an image or other information provided by another person:
      (1)   A provider of interactive computer service;
      (2)   A mobile service;
      (3)   A telecommunications carrier;
      (4)   An internet provider;
      (5)   A cable service provider;
      (6)   A direct-to-home satellite service;
      (7)   A video service provider.
   (E)   Any conduct that is a violation of this section and any other section
of this Code or the Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under this section, the
other section, or both sections.
   (F)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (F)(1)(b), (F)(1)
(c), or (F)(1)(d) of this section, whoever violates this section is guilty of
nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual images, a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of this section or any substantially equivalent state law
or municipal ordinance, nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual images is
a misdemeanor of the second degree.
         (c)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section or any substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, nonconsensual dissemination of
private sexual images is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (d)   If the offender is under 18 years of age and the person in the
image is not more than five years older than the offender, the offender shall
not be prosecuted under this section.
      (2)   In addition to any other penalty or disposition authorized or
required by law, the court may order any person who is convicted of a violation
of this section or who is adjudicated delinquent by reason of a violation of
this section to criminally forfeit all of the following property to the state
under R.C. Chapter 2981:
         (a)   Any profits or proceeds and any property the person has acquired
or maintained in violation of this section that the sentencing court determines
to have been acquired or maintained as a result of the violation;
         (b)   Any interest in, securities of, claim against, or property or
contractual right of any kind affording a source of influence over any
enterprise that the person has established, operated, controlled, or conducted
in violation of this section that the sentencing court determines to have been
acquired or maintained as a result of the violation.
   (G)   A victim of a violation of this section may commence a civil cause of
action against the offender, as described in R.C. § 2307.66.
(R.C. § 2917.211)
OBSCENITY
§ 133.15 DISSEMINATING MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (A)   No person, with knowledge of its character or content, shall
recklessly do any of following:
      (1)   Directly sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit,
rent, or present to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles any material or performance that is obscene or harmful to juveniles;
      (2)   Directly offer or agree to sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate,
provide, exhibit, rent, or present to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law
enforcement officer posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement
officers posing as juveniles any material or performance that is obscene or
harmful to juveniles;
      (3)   While in the physical proximity of the juvenile or law enforcement
officer posing as a juvenile, allow any juvenile or law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile to review or peruse any material or view any live
performance that is harmful to juveniles.
   (B)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under this section
that involves material or a performance that is harmful to juveniles but not
obscene:
      (1)   The defendant is the parent, guardian, or spouse of the juvenile
involved.
      (2)   The juvenile involved, at the time of the conduct in question, was
accompanied by his or her parent or guardian who, with knowledge of its
character, consented to the material or performance being furnished or
presented to the juvenile.
      (3)   The juvenile exhibited to the defendant or his or her agent or
employee a draft card, driver's license, birth record, marriage license, or
other official or apparently official document purporting to show that the
juvenile was 18 years of age or over or married, and the person to whom the
document was exhibited did not otherwise have reasonable cause to believe that
the juvenile was under the age of 18 and unmarried.
   (C)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section,
involving material or a performance that is obscene or harmful to juveniles,
that the material or performance was furnished or presented for a bona fide
medical, scientific, educational, governmental, judicial, or other proper
purpose, by a physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist, teacher,
librarian, clergy, prosecutor, judge, or other proper person.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (B)(3) of this section, mistake of
age is not a defense to a charge under this section.
   (D)   (1)   A person directly sells, delivers, furnishes, disseminates,
provides, exhibits, rents, or presents or directly offers or agrees to sell,
deliver, furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit, rent, or present material or a
performance to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles in violation of this section by means of an electronic method of
remotely transmitting information if the person knows or has reason to believe
that the person receiving the information is a juvenile or the group of persons
receiving the information are juveniles.
      (2)   A person remotely transmitting information by means of a method of
mass distribution does not directly sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate,
provide, exhibit, rent, or present or directly offer or agree to sell, deliver,
furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit, rent, or present the material or
performance in question to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement
officer posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles in violation of this section if either of the following applies:
         (a)   The person has inadequate information to know or have reason to
believe that a particular recipient of the information or offer is a juvenile.
         (b)   The method of mass distribution does not provide the person the
ability to prevent a particular recipient from receiving the information.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disseminating matter
harmful to juveniles. If the material or performance involved is harmful to
juveniles except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the material or performance
involved is obscene, violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.31) ('56 Code, § 5-13)
§ 133.16 DECEPTION TO OBTAIN MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (A)   No person, for the purpose of enabling a juvenile to obtain any
material or gain admission to any performance which is harmful to juveniles,
shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Falsely represent that he or she is the parent, guardian, or spouse
of the juvenile.
      (2)   Furnish the juvenile with any identification or document purporting
to show that the juvenile is 18 years of age or over or married.
   (B)   No juvenile, for the purpose of obtaining any material or gaining
admission to any performance which is harmful to juveniles, shall do either of
the following:
      (1)   Falsely represent that he or she is 18 years of age or over or
married.
      (2)   Exhibit any identification or document purporting to show that he
or she is 18 years of age or over or married.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of deception to obtain matter
harmful to juveniles, a misdemeanor of the second degree. A juvenile who
violates division (B) of this section shall be adjudged an unruly child, with
the disposition of the case as may be appropriate under R.C. Chapter 2151.
(R.C. § 2907.33)
§ 133.17 PRESUMPTIONS; NOTICE.
   (A)   An owner or manager, or agent or employee of an owner or manager, of a
bookstore, newsstand, theater, or other commercial establishment engaged in
selling material or exhibiting performances, who, in the course of business
does any of the acts prohibited by this section is presumed to have knowledge
of the character of the material or performance involved if the owner, manager,
or agent or employee of the owner or manager has actual notice of the nature of
such material or performance, whether or not the owner, manager, or agent or
employee of the owner or manager has precise knowledge of its contents.
   (B)   Without limitation on the manner in which such notice may be given,
actual notice of the character of material or a performance may be given in
writing by the chief legal officer of the municipality. Such notice, regardless
of the manner in which it is given, shall identify the sender, identify the
material or performance involved, state whether it is obscene or harmful to
juveniles, and bear the date of such notice.
   (C)   This §
133.17 does not apply to a motion picture operator or projectionist acting
within the scope of his or her employment as an employee of the owner or
manager of the theater or other place for the showing of motion pictures to the
general public, and having no managerial responsibility or financial interest
in his or her place of employment, other than wages.
   (D)   (1)   The provisions of §§
133.15 and
133.16(A) and R.C. § 2907.311 do not apply to a person solely because the
person provided access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person’s control, including
having provided capabilities that are incidental to providing access or
connection to or from the electronic method of remotely transferring the
information, and that do not include the creation of the content of the
material that is the subject of the access or connection.
         (b)   Division (E)(4)(a) of this section does not apply to a person
who conspires with an entity actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of §§
133.15 and
133.16 and R.C. § 2907.311 or who knowingly advertises the availability of
material of that nature.
         (c)   Division (E)(4)(a) of this section does not apply to a person
who provides access or connection to an electronic method of remotely
transferring information that is engaged in the violation of §§
133.15 and
133.16 and R.C. § 2907.311 and that contain content that person has selected
and introduced into the electronic method of remotely transferring information
or content over which that person exercises editorial control.
      (5)   An employer is not guilty of a violation of §§
133.15 and 133.16 and R.C. § 2907.311 based on the actions of an employee or
agent of the employer unless the employee's or agent's conduct is within the
scope of the employee's or agent's employment or agency, and the employer does
either of the following:
         (a)   With knowledge of the employee's or agent's conduct, the
employer authorizes or ratifies the conduct.
         (b)   The employer recklessly disregards the employee's or agent's
conduct.
      (6)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under §
133.15 or R.C. § 2907.311 as the section applies to an image transmitted
through the internet or other electronic method of remotely transmitting
information that the person charged with violating the section has taken, in
good faith, reasonable, effective, and appropriate actions under the
circumstances to restrict or prevent access by juveniles to material that is
harmful to juveniles, including any method that is feasible under available
technology.
(R.C. § 2907.35)
§ 133.18 DECLARATORY JUDGMENT.
   (A)   Without limitation on the persons otherwise entitled to bring an
action for a declaratory judgment pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2721, involving the
same issue, the following persons have standing to bring a declaratory judgment
action to determine whether particular materials or performances are obscene or
harmful to juveniles:
      (1)   The chief legal officer of the municipality if and when there is
reasonable cause to believe that R.C. § 2907.31 or R.C. § 2907.32, or a
substantially similar municipal ordinance, is being or is about to be violated;
      (2)   Any person who, pursuant to R.C. § 2907.35(B) or a substantially
similar municipal ordinance, has received notice in writing from the chief
legal officer stating that particular materials or performances are obscene or
harmful to juveniles.
   (B)   Any party to an action for a declaratory judgment pursuant to division
(A) of this section is entitled, upon the party's request, to trial on the
merits within five days after joinder of the issues, and the court shall render
judgment within five days after trial is concluded.
   (C)   An action for a declaratory judgement pursuant to division (A) of this
section shall not be brought during the pendency of any civil action or
criminal prosecution when the character of the particular materials or
performances involved is at issue in the pending case, and either of the
following applies:
      (1)   Either of the parties to the action for a declaratory judgment is a
party to the pending case;
      (2)   A judgment in the pending case will necessarily constitute res
judicata as to the character of the materials or performances involved.
   (D)   A civil action or criminal prosecution in which the character of
particular materials or performances is at issue, brought during the pendency
of an action for a declaratory judgment involving the same issue, shall be
stayed during the pendency of the action for a declaratory judgment.
   (E)   The fact that a violation of R.C. § 2907.31 or R.C. § 2907.32, or a
substantially similar municipal ordinance, occurs prior to a judicial
determination of the character of the material or performance involved in the
violation does not relieve the offender of criminal liability for the
violation, even though prosecution may be stayed pending the judicial
determination.
(R.C. § 2907.36)
§ 133.19 INJUNCTION; ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   Where it appears that R.C. § 2907.31 or R.C. § 2907.32, or a
substantially similar municipal ordinance, is being or is about to be violated,
the chief legal officer of the municipality may bring an action to enjoin the
violation. The defendant, upon his or her request, is entitled to trial on the
merits within five days after the joinder of the issues, and the court shall
render judgment within five days after the trial is concluded.
   (B)   Premises used or occupied for repeated violations of R.C. § 2907.31 or
R.C. § 2907.32, or a substantially similar municipal ordinance, constitute a
nuisance subject to abatement pursuant to R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2907.37)
§ 133.20 UNLAWFUL OPERATION OF VIEWING BOOTHS DEPICTING SEXUAL CONDUCT.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT means an entity that is open to the public and
to which either of the following applies:
         (a)   It has a substantial or significant portion of its stock in
trade of the sale, rental, or viewing of visual materials or performances
depicting sexual conduct.
         (b)   It has as a principal business purpose the sale, rental, or
viewing of visual materials or performances depicting sexual conduct.
      VISUAL MATERIALS OR PERFORMANCES means films, videos, CD-ROM discs,
streaming video, or other motion pictures.
   (B)   No person who has custody, control, or supervision of a commercial
establishment, with knowledge of the character of the visual material or
performance involved, shall knowingly permit the use of, or offer the use of,
viewing booths, stalls, or partitioned portions of a room located in the
commercial establishment for the purpose of viewing visual materials or
performances depicting sexual conduct unless both of the following apply:
      (1)   The inside of each booth, stall, or partitioned room is visible
from, and at least one side of each booth, stall, or partitioned room is open
to, a continuous and contiguous main aisle or hallway that is open to the
public areas of the commercial establishment and is not obscured by any
curtain, door, or other covering or enclosure.
      (2)   No booth, stall, or partitioned room is designed, constructed,
pandered, or allowed to be used for the purpose of encouraging or facilitating
nudity or sexual activity on the part of or between patrons or members of the
public, and no booth, stall, or partitioned room has any aperture, hole, or
opening for the purpose of encouraging or facilitating nudity or sexual
activity.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that
either of the following applies to the involved visual materials or
performances:
      (1)   The visual materials or performances depicting sexual conduct are
disseminated or presented for a bona fide medical, scientific, educational,
religious, governmental, judicial, or other proper purpose and by or to a
physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist, teacher, person pursuing bona
fide studies or research, librarian, member of the clergy, prosecutor, judge,
or other person having a proper interest in the visual materials or
performances.
      (2)   The visual materials or performances depicting sexual conduct,
taken as a whole, would be found by a reasonable person to have serious
literary, artistic, political, or scientific value or are presented or
disseminated in good faith for a serious literary, artistic, political, or
scientific purpose and are not pandered for their prurient appeal.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of permitting unlawful
operation of viewing booths depicting sexual conduct, a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 2907.38)
§ 133.21 JUVENILES ON THE PREMISES OF ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ADULT ARCADE means any place to which the public is permitted or invited
in which coin- operated, slug-operated, or electronically, electrically, or
mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, or other
image-producing devices are regularly maintained to show images to five or
fewer persons per machine at any one time, and in which the images so displayed
are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis upon matter exhibiting or
describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE, or ADULT VIDEO STORE.
         (a)   Means a commercial establishment that, for any form of
consideration, has as a significant or substantial portion of its stock-in-
trade in, derives a significant or substantial portion of its revenues from,
devotes a significant or substantial portion of its interior business or
advertising to, or maintains a substantial section of its sales or display
space for the sale or rental of any of the following:
            1.   Books, magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, compact discs, slides, or
other visual representations, that are characterized by their emphasis upon the
exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas;
            2.   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia that are designed for
use or marketed primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of self or others.
         (b)   Includes a commercial establishment as defined in R.C. §
2907.38. An establishment may have other principal business purposes that do
not involve the offering for sale, rental, or viewing of materials exhibiting
or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas and
still be categorized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty store, or adult video
store. The existence of other principal business purposes does not exempt an
establishment from being categorized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty
store, or adult video store so long as one of its principal business purposes
is offering for sale or rental, for some form of consideration, such materials
that exhibit or describe specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
      ADULT CABARET means a nightclub, bar, juice bar, restaurant, bottle club,
or similar commercial establishment, whether or not alcoholic beverages are
served, that regularly features any of the following:
         (a)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or seminudity;
         (b)   Live performances that are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities;
         (c)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other
photographic reproductions that are distinguished or characterized by their
emphasis upon the exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT ENTERTAINMENT means the sale, rental, or exhibition, for any form
of consideration, of books, films, video cassettes, magazines, periodicals, or
live performances that are characterized by an emphasis on the exposure or
display of specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activity.
      ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT means an adult arcade, adult bookstore,
adult novelty store, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motion picture
theater, adult theater, nude or seminude model studio, or sexual encounter
establishment. An establishment in which a medical practitioner, psychologist,
psychiatrist, or similar professional person licensed by the state engages in
medically approved and recognized therapy, including, but not limited to,
massage therapy, as regulated pursuant to R.C. § 4731.15, is not an “adult
entertainment establishment”.
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER means a commercial establishment where
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or similar photographic
reproductions that are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis upon
the exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas are regularly shown for any form of consideration.
      ADULT THEATER means a theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar
commercial establishment that, for any form of consideration, regularly
features persons who appear in a state of nudity or seminudity or live
performances that are characterized by their emphasis upon the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities.
      DISTINGUISHED OR CHARACTERIZED BY THEIR EMPHASIS UPON means the dominant
or principal character and theme of the object described by this phrase. For
instance, when the phrase refers to films “that are distinguished or
characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas”, the films so described are
those whose dominant or principal character and theme are the exhibition or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      NUDE OR SEMINUDE MODEL STUDIO means any place where a person, who
regularly appears in a state of nudity or seminudity, is provided for money or
any other form of consideration to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted,
sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by other persons. A modeling
class or studio is not a nude or seminude model studio and is not subject to
this chapter if it is operated in any of the following ways:
         (a)   By a college or university supported entirely or partly by
taxation;
         (b)   By a private college or university that maintains and operates
educational programs, the credits for which are transferable to a college or
university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
         (c)   In a structure that has no sign visible from the exterior of the
structure and no other advertising indicating that a person appearing in a
state of nudity or seminudity is available for viewing, if in order to
participate in a class in the structure, a student must enroll at least three
days in advance of the class and if not more than one nude or seminude model is
on the premises at any one time.
      NUDITY, NUDE, or STATE OF NUDITY means the showing of the human male or
female genitals, pubic area, vulva, anus, anal cleft, or cleavage with less
than a fully opaque covering; or the showing of the female breasts with less
than a fully opaque covering of any part of the nipple.
      REGULARLY FEATURES or REGULARLY SHOWN means a consistent or substantial
course of conduct, such that the films or performances exhibited constitute a
substantial portion of the films or performances offered as a part of the
ongoing business of the adult entertainment establishment.
      SEMINUDE or STATE OF SEMINUDITY means a state of dress in which opaque
clothing covers not more than the genitals, pubic region, and nipple of the
female breast, as well as portions of the body covered by supporting straps or
devices.
      SEXUAL ENCOUNTER ESTABLISHMENT.
         (a)   Means a business or commercial establishment that, as one of its
principal business purposes, offers for any form of consideration a place where
either of the following occur:
            1.   Two or more persons may congregate, associate, or consort for
the purpose of engaging in specified sexual activities.
            2.   Two or more persons appear nude or seminude for the purpose of
displaying their nude or seminude bodies for their receipt of consideration or
compensation in any type or form.
         (b)   An establishment where a medical practitioner, psychologist,
psychiatrist, or similar professional person licensed by the state engages in
medically approved and recognized therapy, including, but not limited to,
massage therapy, as regulated pursuant to R.C. § 4731.15, is not a “sexual
encounter establishment”.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS means the cleft of the buttocks, anus, male or
female genitals, or the female breast.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY means any of the following:
         (a)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, or actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, masturbation, or sodomy;
         (b)   Excretory functions as a part of or in connection with any of
the activities described in division (a) of this definition.
   (B)   No person knowingly shall allow an individual, including, but not
limited to, a patron, customer, or employee, who is under 18 years of age on
the premises of an adult entertainment establishment.
   (C)   No individual who is under 18 years of age knowingly shall show or
give false information concerning the individual’s name or age, or other false
identification, for the purpose of gaining entrance to an adult entertainment
establishment.
   (D)   A person shall not be found guilty of a violation of division (B) of
this section if the person raises as an affirmative defense and if the jury or,
in a nonjury trial, the court finds the person has established by a
preponderance of the evidence, all of the following:
      (1)   The individual gaining entrance to the adult entertainment
establishment exhibited to an operator, employee, agent, or independent
contractor of the adult entertainment establishment a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card issued under R.C. §§ 4507.50 and
4507.52 showing that the individual was then at least 18 years of age.
      (2)   The operator, employee, agent, or independent contractor made a
bona fide effort to ascertain the true age of the individual gaining entrance
to the adult entertainment establishment by checking the identification
presented, at the time of entrance, to ascertain that the description on the
identification compared with the appearance of the individual and that the
identification had not been altered in any way.
      (3)   The operator, employee, agent, or independent contractor had reason
to believe that the individual gaining entrance to the adult entertainment
establishment was at least 18 years of age.
   (E)   In any criminal action in which the affirmative defense described in
division (D) of this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or the
Deputy Registrar who issued a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an
identification card under R.C. §§ 4507.50 and 4507.52 shall be permitted to
submit certified copies of the records, in the Registrar’s or Deputy
Registrar’s possession, of the issuance of the license or identification card
in question, in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of the Bureau of Motor
Vehicles in the action.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
permitting a juvenile on the premises of an adult entertainment establishment,
a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each day a person violates this division
constitutes a separate offense.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of use by a
juvenile of false information to enter an adult entertainment establishment, a
delinquent act that would be a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if committed by
an adult.
(R.C. § 2907.39)
§ 133.22 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; ILLEGAL OPERATION AND ACTIVITY.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. A commercial establishment that has
as a significant or substantial portion of its stock in trade or inventory in,
derives a significant or substantial portion of its revenues from, devotes a
significant or substantial portion of its interior business or advertising to,
or maintains a substantial section of its sales or display space for the sale
or rental, for any form of consideration, of books, magazines, periodicals, or
other printed matter, or photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes,
compact discs, slides, or other visual representations, that are characterized
by their emphasis upon the exhibition or description of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT CABARET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where films,
motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, or similar photographic reproductions
that are characterized by their emphasis upon the display of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas are regularly shown to more than five
individuals for any form of consideration.
      CHARACTERIZED BY. Describing the essential character or quality of an
item.
      EMPLOYEE. Any individual who performs any service on the premises of a
sexually oriented business on a full-time, part-time, or contract basis,
regardless of whether the individual is denominated an employee, independent
contractor, agent, or otherwise, but does not include an individual exclusively
on the premises for repair or maintenance of the premises or for the delivery
of goods to the premises.
      NUDITY, NUDE, or STATE OF NUDITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2907.39.
      OPERATOR. Any individual on the premises of a sexually oriented business
who causes the business to function or who puts or keeps in operation the
business or who is authorized to manage the business or exercise overall
operational control of the business premises.
      PATRON. Any individual on the premises of a sexually oriented business
except for any of the following:
         (a)   An operator or an employee of the sexually oriented business;
         (b)   An individual who is on the premises exclusively for repair or
maintenance of the premises or for the delivery of goods to the premises;
         (c)   A public employee or a volunteer firefighter emergency medical
services worker acting within the scope of the public employee’s or volunteer’s
duties as a public employee or volunteer.
      PREMISES. The real property on which the sexually oriented business is
located and all appurtenances to the real property, including, but not limited,
to the sexually oriented business, the grounds, private walkways, and parking
lots or parking garages adjacent to the real property under the ownership,
control, or supervision of the owner or operator of the sexually oriented
business.
      REGULARLY. Consistently or repeatedly.
      SEMINUDE or STATE OF SEMINUDITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2907.39.
      SEXUAL DEVICE. Any three-dimensional object designed and marketed for
stimulation of the male or female human genitals or anus or female breasts or
for sadomasochistic use or abuse of oneself or others, including, but not
limited to, dildos, vibrators, penis pumps, and physical representations of the
human genital organs, but not including devices primarily intended for
protection against sexually transmitted diseases or for preventing pregnancy.
      SEXUAL DEVICE SHOP. A commercial establishment that regularly features
sexual devices, but not including any pharmacy, drug store, medical clinic, or
establishment primarily dedicated to providing medical or healthcare products
or services, and not including any commercial establishment that does not
restrict access to its premises by reason of age.
      SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. A business or commercial enterprise that, as one
of its principal business purposes, purports to offer for any form of
consideration physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
individuals of the opposite sex when one or more of the individuals is nude or
seminude.
      SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult bookstore, adult video store, adult
cabaret, adult motion picture theater, sexual device shop, or sexual encounter
center, but does not include a business solely by reason of its showing,
selling, or renting materials that may depict sex.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Includes human genitals, pubic region, and
buttocks and the human female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Sexual intercourse, oral copulation,
masturbation, or sodomy, or excretory functions as a part of or in connection
with any of these activities.
   (B)   No sexually oriented business shall be or remain open for business
between 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. on any day, except that a sexually
oriented business that holds a liquor permit pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4303 may
remain open until the hour specified in that permit if it does not conduct,
offer, or allow sexually oriented entertainment activity in which the
performers appear nude.
   (C)   (1)   No patron who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family
shall knowingly touch any employee while that employee is nude or seminude or
touch the clothing of any employee while that employee is nude or seminude.
      (2)   No employee who regularly appears nude or seminude on the premises
of a sexually oriented business, while on the premises of that sexually
oriented business and while nude or seminude, shall knowingly touch a patron
who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or another employee who
is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or the clothing of a patron
who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or another employee who
is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or allow a patron who is not
a member of the employee’s immediate family or another employee who is not a
member of the employee’s immediate family to touch the employee or the clothing
of the employee.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of illegally
operating a sexually oriented business, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of illegal
sexually oriented activity in a sexually oriented business. If the offender
touches a specified anatomical area of the patron or employee, or the clothing
covering a specified anatomical area, a violation of division (C) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender does not touch a
specified anatomical area of the patron or employee, or the clothing covering a
specified anatomical area, a violation of division (C) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2907.40)
Statutory reference:
   State indemnification for certain municipal liability stemming from local
adult business regulations, see R.C. § 715.55
§ 133.99 SENTENCING FOR SEXUALLY ORIENTED OFFENSES; SEXUAL PREDATORS;
REGISTRATION.
   (A)   If an offender is being sentenced for a sexually oriented offense or
child-victim oriented offense that is a misdemeanor committed on or after
January 1, 1997, and the offender is a tier III sex offender/child-victim
offender relative to the offense or the offense is any offense listed in R.C. §
2901.07(D)(1) to (D)(3), the judge shall include in the offender’s sentence a
statement that the offender is a tier III sex offender/child-victim offender,
shall comply with the requirements of R.C. § 2950.03, and shall require the
offender to submit to a DNA specimen collection procedure pursuant to R.C. §
2901.07.
   (B)   If an offender is being sentenced for a sexually oriented offense or a
child-victim oriented offense that is a misdemeanor committed on or after
January 1, 1997, the judge shall include in the sentence a summary of the
offender’s duties imposed under R.C. §§ 2950.04, 2950.041, 2950.05, and
2950.06, and the duration of the duties. The judge shall inform the offender,
at the time of sentencing, of those duties and of their duration. If required
under R.C. § 2950.03(A)(2), the judge shall perform the duties specified in
that section or, if required under R.C. § 2950.03(A)(6), the judge shall
perform the duties specified in that division.
(R.C. § 2929.23)
CHAPTER 134: GAMBLING
Section
   
134.01   Definitions
   
134.02   Prohibitions against gambling; exception
   
134.03   Operating a gambling house
   
134.04   Public gaming
   
134.05   Cheating
   
134.06   Regulations concerning operation of licensed bingo game
   
134.07   Records to be kept
   
134.08   Requirements for bingo game operators
   
134.09   Bingo games for amusement only
   
134.10   Prohibitions where instant bingo game is conducted
   
134.11   Raffle drawings
   
134.12   Instant bingo other than at bingo sessions
   
134.13   Restrictions on owner or lessor of location at instant bingo
   
134.14   Skill-based amusement machines; prohibited conduct
   
134.15   Electronic instant bingo; prohibited conduct
Statutory reference:
   Conducting an illegal bingo game, felony, see R.C. § 2915.07
   Licensing bingo games by Attorney General, see R.C. § 2915.08
   Licensing distributors of bingo supplies by Attorney General, see R.C. §
2915.081
   Licensing manufacturers of bingo supplies by Attorney General, see R.C. §
2915.082
§ 134.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BET. The hazarding of anything of value upon the result of an event,
undertaking, or contingency, but does not include a bona fide business risk.
   BINGO. Means either of the following:
      (1)   A game with all of the following characteristics:
         (a)   The participants use bingo cards or sheets, including paper
formats and electronic representation or image formats, that are divided into
25 spaces arranged in 5 horizontal and 5 vertical rows of spaces, with each
space, except the central space, being designated by a combination of a letter
and a number and with the central space being designated as a free space;
         (b)   The participants cover the spaces on the bingo cards or sheets
that correspond to combinations of letters and numbers that are announced by a
bingo game operator;
         (c)   A bingo game operator announces combinations of letters and
numbers that appear on objects that a bingo game operator selects by chance,
either manually or mechanically, from a receptacle that contains 75 objects at
the beginning of each game, each object marked by a different combination of a
letter and a number that corresponds to one of the 75 possible combinations of
a letter and a number that can appear on the bingo cards or sheets;
         (d)   The winner of the bingo game includes any participant who
properly announces during the interval between the announcements of letters and
numbers, as described in division (1)(c) of this definition, that a
predetermined and preannounced pattern of spaces has been covered on a bingo
card or sheet being used by the participant.
      (2)   Instant bingo, electronic instant bingo, and raffles.
   BINGO GAME OPERATOR. Any person, except security personnel, who performs
work or labor at the site of bingo including but not limited to collecting
money from participants, handing out bingo cards or sheets or objects to cover
spaces on bingo cards or sheets, selecting from a receptacle the objects that
contain the combination of letters and numbers that appear on bingo cards or
sheets, calling out the combinations of letters and numbers, distributing
prizes, selling or redeeming instant bingo tickets or cards, selling or
redeeming electronic instant bingo tickets, credits, or vouchers, accessing an
electronic instant bingo system other than as a participant, supervising the
operation of a punch board, selling raffle tickets, selecting raffle tickets
from a receptacle and announcing the winning numbers in a raffle, and
preparing, selling, and serving food or beverages. BINGO GAME OPERATOR does not
include a person who is installing, maintaining, updating, or repairing an
electronic instant bingo system.
   BINGO SESSION. A period that includes both of the following:
      (1)   Not to exceed five continuous hours for the conduct of one or more
games described in division (1) of the definition of "bingo" in this section,
instant bingo, and electronic instant bingo;
      (2)   A period for the conduct of instant bingo and electronic instant
bingo for not more than two hours before and not more than two hours after the
period described in division (1) of this definition.
   BINGO SUPPLIES. Bingo cards or sheets; instant bingo tickets or cards;
electronic bingo aids; raffle tickets; punch boards; seal cards; instant bingo
ticket dispensers; electronic instant bingo systems; and devices for selecting
or displaying the combination of bingo letters and numbers or raffle tickets.
Items that are BINGO SUPPLIES are not gambling devices if sold or otherwise
provided, and used, in accordance with this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915. For
purposes of this chapter, BINGO SUPPLIES are not to be considered equipment
used to conduct a bingo game.
   BOOKMAKING. The business of receiving or paying off bets.
   CHAMBER OF COMMERCE. Any organization of individuals, professionals, and
businesses that has the purpose to advance the commercial, financial,
industrial, and civic interests of the community and that is, and has received
from the Internal Revenue Service a determination letter that currently is in
effect stating that the organization is, exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(6).
   CHARITABLE BINGO GAME. Any bingo game described in divisions (1) or (2) of
the definition of “bingo” in this section that is conducted by a charitable
organization that has obtained a license pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08 and the
proceeds of which are used for a charitable purpose.
   CHARITABLE INSTANT BINGO ORGANIZATION. An organization that is exempt from
federal income taxation under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3) and is
a charitable organization as defined in this section. A CHARITABLE INSTANT
BINGO ORGANIZATION does not include a charitable organization that is exempt
from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3)
and that is created by a veteran's organization, a fraternal organization, or a
sporting organization in regards to bingo conducted or assisted by a veteran's
organization, a fraternal organization, or a sporting organization pursuant to
R.C. § 2915.13, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, “charitable
organization” means either of the following:
         (a)   An organization that is exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3);
         (b)   A volunteer rescue service organization, volunteer firefighter’s
organization, veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC 501(c)(4),
501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10) or 501(c)(19).
      (2)   To qualify as a charitable organization, an organization shall have
been in continuous existence as such in this state for a period of two years
immediately preceding either the making of an application for a bingo license
under R.C. § 2915.08 or the conducting of any game of chance as provided in
R.C. § 2915.02(D), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   CHARITABLE PURPOSE. Means that the net profit of bingo, other than instant
bingo or electronic instant bingo, is used by, or is given, donated, or
otherwise transferred to, any of the following:
      (1)   Any organization that is described in IRC 509(a)(1), 501(a)(2), or
501(a)(3) and is either a governmental unit or an organization that is tax
exempt under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3);
      (2)   A veteran's organization that is a post, chapter, or organization
of veterans, or an auxiliary unit or society of, or a trust or foundation for,
any such post, chapter, or organization organized in the United States or any
of its possessions, at least 75% of the members of which are veterans and
substantially all of the other members of which are individuals who are
spouses, widows, or widowers of veterans, or such individuals, provided that no
part of the net earnings of such post, chapter, or organization inures to the
benefit of any private shareholder or individual, and further provided that the
net profit is used by the post, chapter, or organization for the charitable
purposes set forth in R.C. § 5739.02(B)(12), is used for awarding scholarships
to or for attendance at an institution mentioned in that division of the
Revised Code, is donated to a governmental agency, or is used for nonprofit
youth activities, the purchase of United States or Ohio flags that are donated
to schools, youth groups, or other bona fide nonprofit organizations, promotion
of patriotism, or disaster relief;
      (3)   A fraternal organization that has been in continuous existence in
this state for 15 years and that uses the net profit exclusively for religious,
charitable, scientific, literary, or educational purposes, or for the
prevention of cruelty to children or animals, if contributions for such use
would qualify as a deductible charitable contribution under IRC 170;
      (4)   A volunteer firefighter's organization that uses the net profit for
the purposes set forth in the definition of “volunteer firefighter's
organization” in this section.
   COMMUNITY ACTION AGENCY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 122.66.
   CONDUCT. To back, promote, organize, manage, carry on, sponsor, or prepare
for the operation of bingo or a game of chance, a scheme of chance, or a
sweepstakes.
   DEAL. A single game of instant bingo tickets, or a single game of electronic
instant bingo tickets, all with the same serial number.
   DISTRIBUTOR. Any person who purchases or obtains bingo supplies and who does
either of the following:
      (1)   Sells, offers for sale, or otherwise provides or offers to provide
the bingo supplies to another person for use in this state;
      (2)   Modifies, converts, adds to, or removes parts from the bingo
supplies to further their promotion or sale for use in this state.
   ELECTRONIC BINGO AID.
      (1)   ELECTRONIC BINGO AID means an electronic device used by a
participant to monitor bingo cards or sheets purchased at the time and place of
a bingo session and that does all of the following:
         (a)   It provides a means for a participant to input numbers and
letters announced by a bingo caller.
         (b)   It compares the numbers and letters entered by the participant
to the bingo faces previously stored in the memory of the device.
         (c)   It identifies a winning bingo pattern.
      (2)   ELECTRONIC BINGO AID does not include any device into which a coin,
currency, token, or an equivalent is inserted to activate play.
   ELECTRONIC INSTANT BINGO.
      (1)   A form of bingo that consists of an electronic or digital
representation of instant bingo in which a participant wins a prize if the
participant's electronic instant bingo ticket contains a combination of numbers
or symbols that was designated in advance as a winning combination, and to
which all of the following apply:
         (a)   Each deal has a predetermined, finite number of winning and
losing tickets and a predetermined prize amount and deal structure, provided
that there may be multiple winning combinations in each deal and multiple
winning tickets.
         (b)   Each electronic instant bingo ticket within a deal has a unique
serial number that is not regenerated.
         (c)   Each electronic instant bingo ticket within a deal is sold for
the same price.
         (d)   After a participant purchases an electronic instant bingo
ticket, the combination of numbers or symbols on the ticket is revealed to the
participant.
         (e)   The reveal of numbers or symbols on the ticket may incorporate
an entertainment or bonus theme, provided that the reveal does not include
spinning reels that resemble a slot machine.
         (f)   The reveal theme, if any, does not require additional
consideration or award any prize other than any predetermined prize associated
with the electronic instant bingo ticket.
      (2)   The term shall not include any of the following:
         (a)   Any game, entertainment, or bonus theme that replicates or
simulates any of the following:
            1.   The gambling games of keno, blackjack, roulette, poker, craps,
other casino-style table games;
            2.   Horse racing;
            3.   Gambling games offered in this state on slot machines or video
lottery terminals. As used in this division, "video lottery terminal" has the
same meaning as in R.C. § 3770.21.
         (b)   Any device operated by dropping one or more coins or tokens into
a slot and pulling a handle or pushing a button or touchpoint on a touchscreen
to activate one to three or more rotating reels marked into horizontal segments
by varying symbols, where the predetermined prize amount depends on how and how
many of the symbols line up when the rotating reels come to a rest;
         (c)   Any device that includes a coin or token slot, tray, or hopper
and the ability to dispense coins, cash, tokens, or anything of value other
than a credit ticket voucher.
   ELECTRONIC INSTANT BINGO SYSTEM. Means both of the following:
      (1)   A mechanical, electronic, digital, or video device and associated
software to which all of the following apply:
         (a)   It is used by not more than one player at a time to play
electronic instant bingo on a single screen that is physically connected to the
device;
         (b)   It is located on the premises of the principal place of business
of a veteran's or fraternal organization that holds a type II or type III bingo
license to conduct electronic instant bingo at that location issued under R.C.
§ 2915.08.
      (2)   Any associated equipment or software used to manage, monitor, or
document any aspect of electronic instant bingo.
   EXPENSES. The reasonable amount of gross profit actually expended for all of
the following:
      (1)   The purchase or lease of bingo supplies;
      (2)   The annual license fee required under R.C. § 2915.08;
      (3)   Bank fees and service charges for a bingo session or game account
described in R.C. § 2915.10;
      (4)   Audits and accounting services;
      (5)   Safes;
      (6)   Cash registers;
      (7)   Hiring security personnel;
      (8)   Advertising bingo;
      (9)   Renting premises in which to conduct a bingo session;
      (10)   Tables and chairs;
      (11)   Expenses for maintaining and operating a charitable organization's
facilities, including, but not limited to, a post home, club house, lounge,
tavern, or canteen and any grounds attached to the post home, club house,
lounge, tavern, or canteen;
      (12)   Payment of real property taxes and assessments that are levied on
a premises on which bingo is conducted;
      (13)   Any other product or service directly related to the conduct of
bingo that is authorized in rules adopted by the Attorney General under R.C. §
2915.08(F)(1).
   FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION. Any society, order, state headquarters, or
association within this state, except a college or high school fraternity, that
is not organized for profit, that is a branch, lodge, or chapter of a national
or state organization, that exists exclusively for the common business or
sodality of its members.
   GAMBLING DEVICE. Means any of the following:
      (1)   A book, totalizer, or other equipment used for recording bets;
      (2)   A ticket, token, or other device representing a chance, share, or
interest in a scheme of chance or evidencing a bet;
      (3)   A deck of cards, dice, gaming table, roulette wheel, slot machine,
or other apparatus designed for use in connection with a game of chance;
      (4)   Any equipment, device, apparatus, or paraphernalia specially
designed for gambling purposes;
      (5)   Bingo supplies sold or otherwise provided, or used, in violation of
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
   GAMBLING OFFENSE. Means any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. Chapter 2915;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States substantially equivalent to any
provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915 or a violation of R.C. § 2915.06
as it existed prior to July 1, 1996;
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former municipal ordinance or law
of this or any other state or of the United States, of which gambling is an
element;
      (4)   A conspiracy or attempt to commit, or complicity in committing, any
offense under division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
   GAME FLARE. The board or placard, or electronic representation of a board or
placard, that accompanies each deal of instant bingo or electronic instant
bingo tickets and that includes the following information for the game:
      (1)   The name of the game;
      (2)   The manufacturer's name or distinctive logo;
      (3)   The form number;
      (4)   The ticket count;
      (5)   The prize structure, including the number of winning tickets by
denomination and the respective winning symbol or number combinations for the
winning tickets;
      (6)   The cost per play;
      (7)   The serial number of the game.
   GAME OF CHANCE. Poker, craps, roulette, or other game in which a player
gives anything of value in the hope of gain, the outcome of which is determined
largely by chance, but does not include bingo.
   GAME OF CHANCE CONDUCTED FOR PROFIT. Any game of chance designed to produce
income for the person who conducts or operates the game of chance, but does not
include bingo.
   GROSS ANNUAL REVENUES. The annual gross receipts derived from the conduct of
bingo described in division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in this section
plus the annual net profit derived from the conduct of bingo described in
division (2) of the definition of “bingo” in this section.
   GROSS PROFIT. Means gross receipts minus the amount actually expended for
the payment of prize awards.
   GROSS RECEIPTS. All money or assets, including admission fees, that a person
receives from bingo without the deduction of any amounts for prizes paid out or
for the expenses of conducting bingo. GROSS RECEIPTS does not include any money
directly taken in from the sale of food or beverages by a charitable
organization conducting bingo, or by a bona fide auxiliary unit or society of a
charitable organization conducting bingo, provided all of the following apply:
      (1)   The auxiliary unit or society has been in existence as a bona fide
auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization for at least two years
prior to conducting bingo.
      (2)   The person who purchases the food or beverage receives nothing of
value except the food or beverage and items customarily received with the
purchase of that food or beverage.
      (3)   The food and beverages are sold at customary and reasonable prices.
   HISTORIC RAILROAD. All or a portion of the tracks and right-of- way of a
railroad that was owned and operated by a for profit common carrier in this
state at any time prior to January 1, 1950.
   INSTANT BINGO. A form of bingo that shall use folded or banded tickets or
paper cards with perforated break-open tabs, a face of which is covered or
otherwise hidden from view to conceal a number, letter, or symbol, or set of
numbers, letters, or symbols, some of which have been designated in advance as
prize winners, and may also include games in which some winners are determined
by the random selection of one or more bingo numbers by the use of a seal card
or bingo blower. INSTANT BINGO also includes a punch board game. In all INSTANT
BINGO the prize amount and structure shall be predetermined. The term does not
include electronic instant bingo or any device that is activated by the
insertion of a coin, currency, token, or an equivalent, and that contains as
one of its components a video display monitor that is capable of displaying
numbers, letters, symbols, or characters in winning or losing combinations.
   INSTANT BINGO TICKET DISPENSER. A mechanical device that dispenses an
instant bingo ticket or card as the sole item of value dispensed and that has
the following characteristics:
      (1)   It is activated upon the insertion of United States currency.
      (2)   It performs no gaming functions.
      (3)   It does not contain a video display monitor or generate noise.
      (4)   It is not capable of displaying any numbers, letters, symbols, or
characters in winning or losing combinations.
      (5)   It does not simulate or display rolling or spinning reels.
      (6)   It is incapable of determining whether a dispensed bingo ticket or
card is a winning or non-winning ticket or card and requires a winning ticket
or card to be paid by a bingo game operator.
      (7)   It may provide accounting and security features to aid in
accounting for the instant bingo tickets or cards it dispenses.
      (8)   It is not part of an electronic network and is not interactive.
   IRC or INTERNAL REVENUE CODE. The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, 100 Stat.
2085, 26 U.S.C. §§ 1 et seq., as now or hereafter amended.
   MANUFACTURER. Any person who assembles completed bingo supplies from raw
materials, other items, or subparts or who modifies, converts, adds to, or
removes parts from bingo supplies to further their promotion or sale.
   MERCHANDISE PRIZE. Any item of value, but shall not include any of the
following:
      (1)   Cash, gift cards, or any equivalent thereof;
      (2)   Plays on games of chance, state lottery tickets, or bingo;
      (3)   Firearms, tobacco, or alcoholic beverages; or
      (4)   A redeemable voucher that is redeemable for any of the items listed
in division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
   NET PROFIT. Means gross profit minus expenses.
   NET PROFIT FROM THE PROCEEDS OF THE SALE OF INSTANT BINGO OR ELECTRONIC
INSTANT BINGO. Gross profit minus the ordinary, necessary, and reasonable
expense expended for the purchase of bingo supplies for the purpose of
conducting instant bingo or electronic instant bingo, and, in the case of
instant bingo or electronic instant bingo conducted by a veteran's, fraternal,
or sporting organization, minus the payment by that organization of real
property taxes and assessments levied on a premises on which instant bingo or
electronic instant bingo is conducted.
   PARTICIPANT. Any person who plays bingo.
   PERSON. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1.59 and includes any firm or any
other legal entity, however organized.
   POOL NOT CONDUCTED FOR PROFIT. A scheme in which a participant gives a
valuable consideration for a chance to win a prize and the total amount of
consideration wagered is distributed to a participant or participants.
   PUNCH BOARD. A form of instant bingo that uses a board containing a number
of holes or receptacles of uniform size in which are placed, mechanically and
randomly, serially numbered slips of paper that may be punched or drawn from
the hole or receptacle. A player may punch or draw the numbered slips of paper
from the holes or receptacles and obtain the prize established for the game if
the number drawn corresponds to a winning number or, if the punch board
includes the use of a seal card, a potential winning number.
   RAFFLE. A form of bingo in which the one or more prizes are won by one or
more persons who have purchased a raffle ticket. The one or more winners of the
raffle are determined by drawing a ticket
stub or other detachable section from a receptacle containing ticket stubs or
detachable sections corresponding to all tickets sold for the raffle. The term
does not include the drawing of a ticket stub or other detachable section of a
ticket purchased to attend a professional sporting event if both of the
following apply:
      (1)   The ticket stub or other detachable section is used to select the
winner of a free prize given away at the professional sporting event; and
      (2)   The cost of the ticket is the same as the cost of a ticket to the
professional sporting event on days when no free prize is given away.
   REDEEMABLE VOUCHER. Any ticket, token, coupon, receipt, or other noncash
representation of value.
   RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION. Any church, body of communicants, or group that is
not organized or operated for profit and that gathers in common membership for
regular worship and religious observances.
   REVOKE. To void permanently all rights and privileges of the holder of a
license issued under R.C. §§ 2915.08, 2915.081, or 2915.082 or a charitable
gaming license issued by another jurisdiction.
   SCHEME OF CHANCE.
      (1)   A slot machine unless authorized under R.C. Chapter 3772, lottery
unless authorized under R.C. Chapter 3770, numbers game, pool conducted for
profit, or other scheme in which a participant gives a valuable consideration
for a chance to win a prize, but does not include bingo, a skill-based
amusement machine, or a pool not conducted for profit. “Scheme of chance”
includes the use of an electronic device to reveal the results of a game entry
if valuable consideration is paid, directly or indirectly, for a chance to win
a prize. Valuable consideration is deemed to be paid for a chance to win a
prize in the following instances:
         (a)   Less than 50% of the goods or services sold by a scheme of
chance operator in exchange for game entries are used or redeemed by
participants at any one location;
         (b)   Less than 50% of participants who purchase goods or services at
any one location do not accept, use, or redeem the goods or services sold or
purportedly sold;
         (c)   More than 50% of prizes at any one location are revealed to
participants through an electronic device simulating a game of chance or a
“casino game” as defined in R.C. § 3772.01;
         (d)   The good or service sold by a scheme of chance operator in
exchange for a game entry cannot be used or redeemed in the manner advertised;
         (e)   A participant pays more than fair market value for goods or
services offered by a scheme of chance operator in order to receive one or more
game entries;
         (f)   A participant may use the electronic device to purchase
additional game entries;
         (g)   A participant may purchase additional game entries by using
points or credits won as prizes while using the electronic device;
         (h)   A scheme of chance operator pays out in prize money more than
20% of the gross revenue received at one location; or
         (i)   A participant makes a purchase or exchange in order to obtain
any good or service that may be used to facilitate play on the electronic
device.
      (2)   As used in this division, “electronic device” means a mechanical,
video, digital, or electronic machine or device that is capable of displaying
information on a screen or other mechanism and that is owned, leased, or
otherwise possessed by any person conducting a scheme of chance, or by that
person’s partners, affiliates, subsidiaries, or contractors. "Electronic
device" does not include an electronic instant bingo system.
   SEAL CARD. A form of instant bingo that uses instant bingo tickets in
conjunction with a board or placard that contains one or more seals that, when
removed or opened, reveal predesignated winning numbers, letters, or symbols.
   SECURITY PERSONNEL. Includes any person who either is a sheriff, deputy
sheriff, marshal, deputy marshal, township constable, or member of an organized
police department of a municipal corporation or has successfully completed a
peace officer's training course pursuant to R.C. §§ 109.71 to 109.79 and who is
hired to provide security for the premises on which bingo is conducted.
   SKILL-BASED AMUSEMENT MACHINE. 
      (1)   (a)   A mechanical, video, digital, or electronic device that
rewards the player or players, if at all, only with merchandise prizes or with
redeemable vouchers redeemable only for merchandise prizes, provided that with
respect to rewards for playing the game all of the following apply:
            1.   The wholesale value of a merchandise prize awarded as a result
of the single play of a machine does not exceed $10;
            2.   Redeemable vouchers awarded for any single play of a machine
are not redeemable for a merchandise prize with a wholesale value of more than
$10;
            3.   Redeemable vouchers are not redeemable for a merchandise prize
that has a wholesale value of more than $10 times the fewest number of single
plays necessary to accrue the redeemable vouchers required to obtain that
prize; and
            4.   Any redeemable vouchers or merchandise prizes are distributed
at the site of the skill-based amusement machine at the time of play.
         (b)   A card for the purchase of gasoline is a redeemable voucher for
purposes of division (1) of this definition even if the skill-based amusement
machine for the play of which the card is awarded is located at a place where
gasoline may not be legally distributed to the public or the card is not
redeemable at the location of, or at the time of playing, the skill-based
amusement machine.
      (2)   A device shall not be considered a skill-based amusement machine
and shall be considered a slot machine if it pays cash or one or more of the
following apply:
         (a)   The ability of a player to succeed at the game is impacted by
the number or ratio of prior wins to prior losses of players playing the game;
         (b)   Any reward of redeemable vouchers is not based solely on the
player achieving the object of the game or the players score;
         (c)   The outcome of the game, or the value of the redeemable voucher
or merchandise prize awarded for winning the game, can be controlled by a
source other than any player playing the game;
         (d)   The success of any player is or may be determined by a chance
event that cannot be altered by player actions;
         (e)   The ability of any player to succeed at the game is determined
by game features not visible or known to the player;
         (f)   The ability of the player to succeed at the game is impacted by
the exercise of a skill that no reasonable player could exercise.
      (3)   All of the following apply to any machine that is operated as
described in division (1) of this definition:
         (a)   As used in this definition of SKILL-BASED AMUSEMENT MACHINE,
GAME and PLAY mean one event from the initial activation of the machine until
the results of play are determined without payment of additional consideration.
An individual utilizing a machine that involves a single game, play, contest,
competition, or tournament may be awarded redeemable vouchers or merchandise
prizes based on the results of play.
         (b)   Advance play for a single game, play, contest, competition, or
tournament participation may be purchased. The cost of the contest,
competition, or tournament participation may be greater than a single non-
contest, competition, or tournament play.
         (c)   To the extent that the machine is used in a contest,
competition, or tournament, that contest, competition, or tournament has a
defined starting and ending date and is open to participants in competition for
scoring and ranking results toward the awarding of redeemable vouchers or
merchandise prizes that are stated prior to the start of the contest,
competition, or tournament.
      (4)   For purposes of division (1) of this definition, the mere presence
of a device, such as a pin-setting, ball-releasing, or scoring mechanism, that
does not contribute to or affect the outcome of the play of the game does not
make the device a skill-based amusement machine.
   SLOT MACHINE. Means either of the following:
      (1)   (a)   Any mechanical, electronic, video, or digital device that is
capable of accepting anything of value, directly or indirectly, from or on
behalf of a player who gives the thing of value in the hope of gain, the
outcome of which is determined largely or wholly by chance;
         (b)   Any mechanical, electronic, video, or digital device that is
capable of accepting anything of value, directly or indirectly, from or on
behalf of a player to conduct bingo or a scheme or game of chance.
      (2)   The term does not include a skill-based amusement machine, an
instant bingo ticket dispenser, or an electronic instant bingo system.
   SPORTING ORGANIZATION. A hunting, fishing, or trapping organization, other
than a college or high school fraternity or sorority, that is not organized for
profit, that is affiliated with a state or national sporting organization,
including but not limited to, the League of Ohio Sportsmen, and that has been
in continuous existence in this state for a period of three years.
   SUSPEND. To interrupt temporarily all rights and privileges of the holder of
a license issued under R.C. § 2915.08, 2915.081, or 2915.082 or a charitable
gaming license issued by another jurisdiction.
   SWEEPSTAKES. Any game, contest, advertising scheme or plan, or other
promotion where consideration is not required for a person to enter to win or
become eligible to receive any prize, the determination of which is based upon
chance. “Sweepstakes” does not include bingo as authorized under R.C. Chapter
2915, pari-mutuel wagering as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3769, lotteries
conducted by the State Lottery Commission as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3770,
and casino gaming as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3772.
   SWEEPSTAKES TERMINAL DEVICE.
      (1)   A mechanical, video, digital, or electronic machine or device that
is owned, leased, or otherwise possessed by any person conducting a
sweepstakes, or by that person’s partners, affiliates, subsidiaries, or
contractors, that is intended to be used by a sweepstakes participant, and that
is capable of displaying information on a screen or other mechanism. A device
is a sweepstakes terminal device if any of the following apply:
         (a)   The device uses a simulated game terminal as a representation of
the prizes associated with the results of the sweepstakes entries.
         (b)   The device utilizes software such that the simulated game
influences or determines the winning of or value of the prize.
         (c)   The device selects prizes from a predetermined finite pool of
entries.
         (d)   The device utilizes a mechanism that reveals the content of a
predetermined sweepstakes entry.
         (e)   The device predetermines the prize results and stores those
results for delivery at the time the sweepstakes entry results are revealed.
         (f)   The device utilizes software to create a game result.
         (g)   The device reveals the prize incrementally, even though the
device does not influence the awarding of the prize or the value of any prize
awarded.
         (h)   The device determines and associates the prize with an entry or
entries at the time the sweepstakes is entered.
      (2)   As used in this definition and in § 134.02:
         ENTER. The act by which a person becomes eligible to receive any prize
offered in a sweepstakes.
         ENTRY. One event from the initial activation of the sweepstakes
terminal device until all the sweepstakes prize results from that activation
are revealed.
         PRIZE. Any gift, award, gratuity, good, service, credit, reward, or
any other thing of value that may be transferred to a person, whether
possession of the prize is actually transferred, or placed on an account or
other record as evidence of the intent to transfer the prize.
         SWEEPSTAKES TERMINAL DEVICE FACILITY. Any location in this state where
a sweepstakes terminal device is provided to a sweepstakes participant, except
as provided in § 134.02(G) and R.C. § 2915.02(G).
   VETERAN'S ORGANIZATION. Any individual post or state headquarters of a
national veteran's association or an auxiliary unit of any individual post of a
national veteran's association, which post, state headquarters, or auxiliary
unit is incorporated as a nonprofit corporation and either has received a
letter from the state headquarters of the national veteran's association
indicating that the individual post or auxiliary unit is in good standing with
the national veteran's association or has received a letter from the national
veteran's association indicating that the state headquarters is in good
standing with the national veteran's association. As used in this definition,
NATIONAL VETERAN'S ASSOCIATION means any veteran's association that has been in
continuous existence as such for a period of at least five years and either is
incorporated by an act of the United States Congress or has a national dues-
paying membership of at least 5,000 persons.
   VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTER'S ORGANIZATION. Any organization of volunteer
firefighters, as defined in R.C. § 146.01, that is organized and operated
exclusively to provide financial support for a volunteer fire department or a
volunteer fire company and that is recognized or ratified by a county,
municipal corporation, or township.
   VOLUNTEER RESCUE SERVICE ORGANIZATION. Any organization of volunteers
organized to function as an emergency medical service organization, as defined
in R.C. § 4765.01.
   YOUTH ATHLETIC ORGANIZATION. Any organization, not organized for profit,
that is organized and operated exclusively to provide financial support to, or
to operate, athletic activities for persons who are 21 years of age or younger
by means of sponsoring, organizing, operating, or contributing to the support
of an athletic team, club, league, or association.
   YOUTH ATHLETIC PARK ORGANIZATION. Any organization, not organized for
profit, that satisfies both of the following:
      (1)   It owns, operates, and maintains playing fields that satisfy both
of the following:
         (a)   The playing fields are used for athletic activities by one or
more organizations, not organized for profit, each of which is organized and
operated exclusively to provide financial support to, or to operate, athletic
activities for persons who are 18 years of age or younger by means of
sponsoring, organizing, operating, or contributing to the support of an
athletic team, club, league, or association.
         (b)   The playing fields are not used for any profit- making activity
at any time during the year.
      (2)   It uses the proceeds of bingo it conducts exclusively for the
operation, maintenance, and improvement of its playing fields of the type
described in division (1) of this definition.
(R.C. § 2915.01)
§ 134.02 PROHIBITIONS AGAINST GAMBLING; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Engage in bookmaking, or knowingly engage in conduct that
facilitates bookmaking.
      (2)   Establish, promote, or operate or knowingly engage in conduct that
facilitates any game of chance conducted for profit or any scheme of chance.
      (3)   Knowingly procure, transmit, exchange, or engage in conduct that
facilitates the procurement, transmission, or exchange of information for use
in establishing odds or determining winners in connection with bookmaking or
with any game of chance conducted for profit or any scheme of chance.
      (4)   Engage in betting or in playing any scheme or game of chance as a
substantial source of income or livelihood.
      (5)   Conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a sweepstakes with the
use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes terminal device facility
and either:
         (a)   Give to another person any item described in R.C. § 2915.01(VV)
(1), (VV)(2), (VV)(3), or (VV)(4) as a prize for playing or participating in a
sweepstakes; or
         (b)   Give to another person any merchandise prize, or a redeemable
voucher for a merchandise prize, the wholesale value of which is in excess of
$10 and which is awarded as a single entry for playing or participating in a
sweepstakes. Redeemable vouchers shall not be redeemable for a merchandise
prize that has a wholesale value of more than $10.
      (6)   Conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a sweepstakes with the
use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes terminal device facility
without first obtaining a current annual “certificate of registration” from the
Attorney General as required by R.C. § 2915.02(F).
      (7)   With purpose to violate division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
(A)(5), or (A)(6) of this section, acquire, possess, control, or operate any
gambling device.
   (B)   For purposes of division (A)(1) of this section, a person facilitates
bookmaking if the person in any way knowingly aids an illegal bookmaking
operation, including, without limitation, placing a bet with a person engaged
in or facilitating illegal bookmaking. For purposes of division (A)(2) of this
section, a person facilitates a game of chance conducted for profit or a scheme
of chance if the person in any way knowingly aids in the conduct or operation
of any such game or scheme, including, without limitation, playing any such
game or scheme.
   (C)   This section does not prohibit conduct in connection with gambling
expressly permitted by law.
   (D)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   Games of chance, if all of the following apply:
         (a)   The games of chance are not craps for money or roulette for
money.
         (b)   The games of chance are conducted by a charitable organization
that is and has received from the Internal Revenue Service a determination
letter that is currently in effect, stating that the organization is exempt
from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3).
         (c)   The games of chance are conducted at festivals of the charitable
organization that are conducted not more than a total of five days a calendar
year, and are conducted on premises owned by the charitable organization for a
period of no less than one year immediately preceding the conducting of the
games of chance, on premises leased from a governmental unit, or on premises
that are leased from a veteran's or fraternal organization and that have been
owned by the lessor veteran's or fraternal organization for a period of no less
than one year immediately preceding the conducting of the games of chance. A
charitable organization shall not lease premises from a veteran's or fraternal
organization to conduct a festival described in this division, if the veteran's
or fraternal organization already has leased the premises twelve times during
the preceding year to charitable organizations for that purpose. If a
charitable organization leases premises from a veteran's or fraternal
organization to conduct a festival described in this division, the charitable
organization shall not pay a rental rate for the premises per day of the
festival that exceeds the rental rate per bingo session that a charitable
organization may pay under R.C. § 2915.09(B)(1) or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance when it leases premises from another charitable
organization to conduct bingo games.
         (d)   All of the money or assets received from the games of chance
after deduction only of prizes paid out during the conduct of the games of
chance are used by, given, donated or otherwise transferred to any organization
that is described in IRC 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a
governmental unit or an organization that is tax exempt under IRC 501(a) and
described in IRC 501(c)(3).
         (e)   The games of chance are not conducted during or within ten hours
of a bingo game conducted for amusement purposes only pursuant to R.C. §
2915.12 or a substantially similar municipal ordinance. No person shall receive
any commission, wage, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity, or other form of
compensation, directly or indirectly, for operating or assisting in the
operation of any game of chance.
      (2)   Any tag fishing tournament, as defined in R.C. § 1531.01, operated
under a permit issued under R.C. § 1533.92.
      (3)   Bingo conducted by a charitable organization that holds a license
issued under R.C. § 2915.08.
   (E)   Division (D) of this section shall not be construed to authorize the
sale, lease, or other temporary or permanent transfer of the right to conduct
games of chance, as granted by that division, by any charitable organization
that is granted that right.
   (F)   Any person desiring to conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a
sweepstakes with the use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes
terminal device facility shall first register with the Office of the Attorney
General and obtain an annual certificate of registration by providing a filing
fee of $200 and all information as required by rule adopted under R.C. §
2915.02(H). Not later than the tenth day of each month, each sweepstakes
terminal device operator shall file a sweepstakes terminal device monthly
report with the Attorney General and provide a filing fee of $50 and all
information required by rule adopted under R.C. § 2915.02(H). All information
provided to the Attorney General under this division shall be available to law
enforcement upon request.
   (G)   (1)   A person may apply to the Attorney General, on a form prescribed
by the Attorney General, for a certificate of compliance that the person is not
operating a sweepstakes terminal device facility. The form shall require the
person to include the address of the business location where sweepstakes
terminal devices will be used and to make the following certifications:
         (a)   That the person will not use more than two sweepstakes terminal
devices at the business location;
         (b)   That the retail value of sweepstakes prizes to be awarded at the
business location using sweepstakes terminal devices during a reporting period
will be less than 3% of the gross revenue received at the business location
during the reporting period;
         (c)   That no other form of gaming except lottery ticket sales as
authorized under R.C. Chapter 3770 will be conducted at the business location
or in an adjoining area of the business location;
         (d)   That any sweepstakes terminal device at the business location
will not allow any deposit of any money, coin, or token, or the use of any
credit card, debit card, prepaid card, or any other method of similar payment
to be used, directly or indirectly, to participate in a sweepstakes;
         (e)   That notification of any prize will not take place on the same
day as a participant’s sweepstakes entry; and
         (f)   That the person consents to provide any other information to the
Attorney General as required by rule adopted under R.C. § 2915.02(H).
      (2)   The filing fee for a certificate of compliance is $250. The
Attorney General may charge up to an additional $250 for reasonable expenses
resulting from any investigation related to an application for a certificate of
compliance.
      (3)   A certificate of compliance is effective for one year. The
certificate holder may reapply for a certificate of compliance. A person issued
a certificate of compliance shall file semiannual reports with the Attorney
General stating the number of sweepstakes terminal devices at the business
location and that the retail value of prizes awarded at the business location
using sweepstakes terminal devices is less than 3% of the gross revenue
received at the business location.
   (H)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of gambling, a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling
offense, gambling is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
Notwithstanding this division, failing to file a sweepstakes terminal device
monthly report as required by division (F) of this section or the semiannual
report required by division (G) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 2915.02(A) - (G), (K))
§ 134.03 OPERATING A GAMBLING HOUSE.
   (A)   No person, being the owner or lessee, or having custody, control, or
supervision of premises, shall:
      (1)   Use or occupy the premises for gambling in violation of R.C. §
2915.02 or a substantially similar municipal ordinance.
      (2)   Recklessly permit the premises to be used or occupied for gambling
in violation of R.C. § 2915.02 or a substantially similar municipal ordinance.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of operating a
gambling house, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously
has been convicted of a gambling offense, operating a gambling house is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   Premises used or occupied in violation of this section constitute a
nuisance subject to abatement under R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2915.03)
§ 134.04 PUBLIC GAMING.
   (A)   No person, while at a hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall,
or other place of public accommodation, business, amusement, or resort shall
make a bet or play any game of chance or scheme of chance.
   (B)   No person, being the owner or lessee, or having custody, control, or
supervision of a hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall, or other place
of public accommodation, business, amusement, or resort shall recklessly permit
those premises to be used or occupied in violation of division (A) of this
section.
   (C)   Divisions (A) and (B) of this section do not prohibit conduct in
connection with gambling expressly permitted by law.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of public gaming. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, public gaming is a minor misdemeanor. If
the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling offense, public
gaming is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (E)   Premises used or occupied in violation of division (B) of this section
constitute a nuisance subject to abatement under R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2915.04)
§ 134.05 CHEATING.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall engage in conduct designed to corrupt the outcome
of any of the following:
      (1)   The subject of a bet.
      (2)   A contest of knowledge, skill, or endurance that is not an athletic
or sporting event.
      (3)   A scheme or game of chance.
      (4)   Bingo.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Offer, give, solicit, or accept anything of value to corrupt the
outcome of an athletic or sporting event.
      (2)   Engage in conduct designed to corrupt the outcome of an athletic or
sporting event.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
cheating. Except as otherwise provided in this division, cheating is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the potential gain from the cheating is
$1,000 or more or if the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling
offense or of any theft offense as defined in R.C. § 2913.01, cheating is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
corrupting sports. Corrupting sports is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.05)
§ 134.06 REGULATIONS CONCERNING OPERATION OF LICENSED BINGO GAME.
   (A)   No charitable organization that conducts bingo shall fail to do any of
the following:
      (1)   Own all of the equipment used to conduct bingo or lease that
equipment from a charitable organization that is licensed to conduct bingo, or
from the landlord of a premises where bingo is conducted, for a rental rate
that is not more than is customary and reasonable for that equipment;
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (A)(3) of this section,
use all of the gross receipts from bingo for paying prizes, for reimbursement
of expenses for or for renting premises in which to conduct bingo, for
reimbursement of expenses for or for purchasing or leasing bingo supplies used
in conducting bingo, for reimbursement of expenses for or for hiring security
personnel, for reimbursement of expenses for or for advertising bingo, or for
reimbursement of other expenses or for other expenses listed in the definition
for “expenses” in R.C. § 2915.01, provided that the amount of the receipts so
spent is not more than is customary and reasonable for a similar purchase,
lease, hiring, advertising, or expense. If the building in which bingo is
conducted is owned by the charitable organization conducting bingo and the
bingo conducted includes a form of bingo described in division (1) of the
definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01, the charitable organization may deduct
from the total amount of the gross receipts from each session a sum equal to
the lesser of $600 or 45% of the gross receipts from the bingo described in
that division as consideration for the use of the premises;
      (3)   Use, or give, donate, or otherwise transfer, all of the net profit
derived from bingo described in R.C. § 2915.01(O)(1) for a charitable purpose
listed in its license application and described in R.C. § 2915.01(V), or
distribute all of the net profit from the proceeds of the sale of instant bingo
or electronic instant bingo as stated in its license application and in
accordance with R.C. § 2915.101, as applicable.
   (B)   No charitable organization that conducts a bingo game described in
division (1) of the definition of "bingo" in R.C. § 2915.01 shall fail to do
any of the following:
      (1)   Conduct the bingo game on premises that are owned by the charitable
organization, on premises that are owned by another charitable organization and
leased from that charitable organization for a rental rate not in excess of the
lesser of $650 per bingo session or 45% of the gross receipts of the bingo
session, on premises that are leased from a person other than a charitable
organization for a rental rate that is not more than is customary and
reasonable for premises that are similar in location, size, and quality but not
in excess of $450 per bingo session, or on premises that are owned by a person
other than a charitable organization, that are leased from that person by
another charitable organization, and that are subleased from that other
charitable organization by the charitable organization for a rental rate not in
excess of $450 per bingo session. No charitable organization is required to pay
property taxes or assessments on premises that the charitable organization
leases from another person to conduct bingo sessions. If the charitable
organization leases from a person other than a charitable organization the
premises on which it conducts bingo sessions, the lessor of the premises shall
provide only the premises to the organization and shall not provide the
organization with bingo game operators, security personnel, concessions or
concession operators, bingo supplies, or any other type of service. A
charitable organization shall not lease or sublease premises that it owns or
leases to more than three other charitable organizations per calendar week for
conducting bingo sessions on the premises. A person that is not a charitable
organization shall not lease premises that it owns, leases, or otherwise is
empowered to lease to more than three charitable organizations per calendar
week for conducting bingo sessions on the premises. In no case shall more than
nine bingo sessions be conducted on any premises in any calendar week;
      (2)   Display its license conspicuously at the premises where the bingo
session is conducted;
      (3)   Conduct the bingo session in accordance with division (1) of the
definition of "bingo" in R.C. § 2915.01.
   (C)   No charitable organization that conducts a bingo game described in
division (1) of the definition of "bingo" in R.C. § 2915.01 shall not do any of
the following:
      (1)   Pay any compensation to a bingo game operator for operating a bingo
session that is conducted by the charitable organization or for preparing,
selling, or serving food or beverages at the site of the bingo session, permit
any auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization to pay
compensation to any bingo game operator who prepares, sells, or serves food or
beverages at a bingo session conducted by the charitable organization, or
permit any auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization to prepare,
sell, or serve food or beverages at a bingo session conducted by the charitable
organization, if the auxiliary unit or society pays any compensation to the
bingo game operators who prepare, sell, or serve the food or beverages;
      (2)   Pay consulting fees to any person for any services performed in
relation to the bingo session;
      (3)   Pay concession fees to any person who provides refreshments to the
participants in the bingo session;
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(4) of this section,
conduct more than three bingo sessions in any seven-day period. A volunteer
firefighter's organization or a volunteer rescue service organization that
conducts not more than five bingo sessions in a calendar year may conduct more
than three bingo sessions in a seven-day period after notifying the Attorney
General when it will conduct the sessions;
      (5)   Pay out more than $6,000 in prizes for bingo games described in
R.C. § 2915.01(S)(1) during any bingo session that is conducted by the
charitable organization. “Prizes” does not include awards from the conduct of
instant bingo.
      (6)   Conduct a bingo session at any time during the eight-hour period
between 2:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m., at any time during, or within ten hours of, a
bingo game conducted for amusement only pursuant to R.C. § 2915.12 or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, at any premises not specified on
its license, or on any day of the week or during any time period not specified
on its license. This division does not prohibit the sale of instant bingo
tickets beginning at 9:00 a.m. for a bingo session that begins at 10:00 a.m. If
circumstances make it impractical for the charitable organization to conduct a
bingo session at the premises, or on the day of the week or at the time
specified on its license or if a charitable organization wants to conduct bingo
sessions on a day of the week or at a time other than the day or time specified
on its license, the charitable organization may apply in writing to the
Attorney General for an amended license pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08(J). A
charitable organization may apply twice in each calendar year for an amended
license to conduct bingo sessions on a day of the week or at a time other than
the day or time specified on its license. If the amended license is granted,
the organization may conduct bingo sessions at the premises, on the day of the
week, and at the time specified on its amended license;
      (7)   Permit any person whom the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, is under the age of 18 to work as a bingo game operator;
      (8)   Permit any person whom the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any
jurisdiction to be a bingo game operator;
      (9)   Permit the lessor of the premises on which the bingo session is
conducted, if the lessor is not a charitable organization, to provide the
charitable organization with bingo game operators, security personnel,
concessions, bingo supplies, or any other type of service;
      (10)   Purchase or lease bingo supplies from any person except a
distributor issued a license under R.C. § 2915.081;
      (11)   (a)   Use or permit the use of electronic bingo aids except under
the following circumstances:
            1.   For any single participant, not more than 90 bingo faces can
be played using an electronic bingo aid or aids.
            2.   The charitable organization shall provide a participant using
an electronic bingo aid with corresponding paper bingo cards or sheets.
            3.   The total price of bingo faces played with an electronic bingo
aid shall be equal to the total price of the same number of bingo faces played
with a paper bingo card or sheet sold at the same bingo session but without an
electronic bingo aid.
            4.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be part of an electronic
network other than a network that includes only bingo aids and devices that are
located on the premises at which the bingo is being conducted or be interactive
with any device not located on the premises at which the bingo is being
conducted.
            5.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be used to participate in bingo
that is conducted at a location other than the location at which the bingo
session is conducted and at which the electronic bingo aid is used.
            6.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be used to provide for the
input of numbers and letters announced by a bingo caller other than the bingo
caller who physically calls the numbers and letters at the location at which
the bingo session is conducted and at which the electronic bingo aid is used.
         (b)   The Attorney General may adopt rules in accordance with R.C.
Chapter 119 that govern the use of electronic bingo aids. The rules may include
a requirement that an electronic bingo aid be capable of being audited by the
Attorney General to verify the number of bingo cards or sheets played during
each bingo session.
      (12)   Permit any person the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, to be under 18 years of age to play bingo described in division (1)
of the definition of "bingo" in R.C. § 2915.01.
   (D)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) of this section,
no charitable organization shall provide to a bingo game operator, and no bingo
game operator shall receive or accept, any commission, wage, salary, reward,
tip, donation, gratuity, or other form of compensation, directly or indirectly,
regardless of the source, for conducting bingo or providing other work or labor
at the site of bingo during a bingo session.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) of this section, no
charitable organization shall provide to a bingo game operator any commission,
wage, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity, or other form of compensation,
directly or indirectly regardless of the source, for conducting instant bingo,
electronic instant bingo, or both other than at a bingo session at the site of
instant bingo, electronic instant bingo, or both other than at a bingo session.
      (3)   Nothing in this division (D) of this section prohibits an employee
of a fraternal organization, veteran's organization, or sporting organization
from selling instant bingo tickets or cards to the organization's members or
invited guests, as long as no portion of the employee's compensation is paid
from any receipts of bingo.
   (E)   Notwithstanding division (B)(1) of this section, a charitable
organization that, prior to December 6, 1977, has entered into written
agreements for the lease of premises it owns to another charitable organization
or other charitable organizations for the conducting of bingo sessions so that
more than two bingo sessions are conducted per calendar week on the premises,
and a person that is not a charitable organization and that, prior to December
6, 1977, has entered into written agreements for the lease of premises it owns
to charitable organizations for the conducting of more than two bingo sessions
per calendar week on the premises, may continue to lease the premises to those
charitable organizations, provided that no more than four sessions are
conducted per calendar week, that the lessor organization or person has
notified the Attorney General in writing of the organizations that will conduct
the sessions and the days of the week and the times of the day on which the
sessions will be conducted, that the initial lease entered into with each
organization that will conduct the sessions was filed with the Attorney General
prior to December 6, 1977, and that each organization that will conduct the
sessions was issued a license to conduct bingo games by the Attorney General
prior to December 6, 1977.
   (F)   This section does not prohibit a bingo licensed charitable
organization or a game operator from giving any person an instant bingo ticket
as a prize.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of
illegally conducting a bingo game, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law. Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A)(1), (A)(3), (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3), (C)(1) to (C)(11), or (D) of
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a violation of division (A)(1), (A)(3), (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)
(3), (C)(1) to (C)(11), or (D) of this section, a violation of division (A)(1),
(A)(3), (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3), (C)(1) to (C)(11), or (D) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. Whoever violates division (C)(12) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of a violation of division (C)(12) of this
section, a violation of division (C)(12) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.09)
§ 134.07 RECORDS TO BE KEPT.
   (A)   No charitable organization that conducts bingo or a game of chance
pursuant to R.C. § 2915.02(D), or any substantially similar municipal
ordinance, shall fail to maintain the following records for at least three
years from the date on which the bingo or game of chance is conducted:
      (1)   An itemized list of the gross receipts of each bingo session, each
game of instant bingo by serial number, each electronic instant bingo game by
serial number, each raffle, each punch board game, and each game of chance, and
an itemized list of the gross profits of each game of instant bingo by serial
number and each electronic instant bingo game by serial number;
      (2)   An itemized list of all expenses, other than prizes, that are
incurred in conducting bingo, the name of each person to whom the expenses are
paid, and a receipt for all of the expenses;
      (3)   A list of all prizes awarded during each bingo session, each
raffle, each punch board game, and each game of chance conducted by the
charitable organization, the total prizes awarded from each game of instant
bingo by serial number and each electronic instant bingo game by serial number,
and the name, address, and social security number of all persons who are
winners of prizes of $600 or more in value;
      (4)   An itemized list of the recipients of the net profit of bingo or
game of chance, including the name and address of each recipient to whom the
money is distributed, and if the organization uses the net profit of bingo, or
the money or assets received from a game of chance, for any charitable or other
purpose set forth in R.C. § 2915.01(V), R.C. § 2915.02(D), or R.C. § 2915.101,
a list of each purpose and an itemized list of each expenditure for each
purpose;
      (5)   The number of persons who participate in any bingo session or game
of chance that is conducted by the charitable organization;
      (6)   A list of receipts from the sale of food and beverages by the
charitable organization or one of its auxiliary units or societies, if the
receipts were excluded from “gross receipts” under R.C. § 2915.01(T);
      (7)   An itemized list of all expenses incurred at each bingo session,
each raffle, each punch board game, or each game of instant bingo or electronic
instant bingo conducted by the charitable organization in the sale of food and
beverages by the charitable organization or by an auxiliary unit or society of
the charitable organization, the name of each person to whom the expenses are
paid, and a receipt for all of the expenses.
   (B)   A charitable organization shall keep the records that it is required
to maintain pursuant to division (A) of this section at its principal place of
business in this state or at its headquarters in this state and shall notify
the Attorney General of the location at which those records are kept.
   (C)   The gross profit from each bingo session or game described in division
(1) or (2) of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01 shall be deposited
into a checking account devoted exclusively to the bingo session or game.
Payments for allowable expenses incurred in conducting the bingo session or
game and payments to recipients of some or all of the net profit of the bingo
session or game shall be made only by checks or electronic fund transfers drawn
on the bingo session or game account.
   (D)   Each charitable organization shall conduct and record an inventory of
all of its bingo supplies as of the first day of November of each year.
   (E)   The Attorney General may adopt rules in accordance with R.C. Chapter
119 that establish standards of accounting, record keeping, and reporting to
ensure that gross receipts from bingo or games of chance are properly accounted
for.
   (F)   A distributor shall maintain, for a period of three years after the
date of its sale or other provision, a record of each instance of its selling
or otherwise providing to another person bingo supplies for use in this state.
The record shall include all of the following for each instance:
      (1)   The name of the manufacturer from which the distributor purchased
the bingo supplies and the date of the purchase;
      (2)   The name and address of the charitable organization or other
distributor to which the bingo supplies were sold or otherwise provided;
      (3)   A description that clearly identifies the bingo supplies;
      (4)   Invoices that include the nonrepeating serial numbers of all paper
bingo cards and sheets and all instant bingo deals sold or otherwise provided
to each charitable organization.
   (G)   A manufacturer shall maintain, for a period of three years after the
date of its sale or other provision, a record of each instance of its selling
or otherwise providing bingo supplies for use in this state. The record shall
include all of the following for each instance:
      (1)   The name and address of the distributor to whom the bingo supplies
were sold or otherwise provided;
      (2)   A description that clearly identifies the bingo supplies, including
serial numbers;
      (3)   Invoices that include the nonrepeating serial numbers of all paper
bingo cards and sheets and all instant bingo deals sold or otherwise provided
to each distributor.
   (H)   (1)   The Attorney General or any law enforcement agency may do all of
the following:
         (a)   Investigate any charitable organization, distributor, or
manufacturer or any officer, agent, trustee, member, or employee of the
organization, distributor, or manufacturer;
         (b)   Examine the accounts and records of the charitable organization,
distributor, or manufacturer or of any officer, agent, trustee, member, or
employee of the organization, distributor, or manufacturer;
         (c)   Conduct inspections, audits, and observations of bingo or games
of chance;
         (d)   Conduct inspections of the premises where bingo or games of
chance are conducted or where bingo supplies are manufactured or distributed;
         (e)   Take any other necessary and reasonable action to determine if a
violation of any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915 has occurred
and to determine whether R.C. § 2915.11, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, has been complied with.
      (2)   If any law enforcement agency has reasonable grounds to believe
that a charitable organization, distributor, or manufacturer or an officer,
agent, trustee, member, or employee of the organization, distributor, or
manufacturer has violated any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915,
the law enforcement agency may proceed by action in the proper court to enforce
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915, provided that the law enforcement agency
shall give written notice to the Attorney General when commencing an action as
described in this division.
   (I)   No person shall destroy, alter, conceal, withhold, or deny access to
any accounts or records of a charitable organization, distributor, or
manufacturer that have been requested for examination, or obstruct, impede, or
interfere with any inspection, audit, or observation of bingo or a game of
chance, of premises where bingo or a game of chance is conducted, or of
premises where bingo supplies are manufactured or distributed, or refuse to
comply with any reasonable request of, or obstruct, impede, or interfere with
any other reasonable action undertaken by, the Attorney General or a law
enforcement agency pursuant to division (H) of this section.
   (J)   Whoever violates division (A) or (I) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2915.10)
§ 134.08 REQUIREMENTS FOR BINGO GAME OPERATORS.
   (A)   No person shall be a bingo game operator unless the person is 18 years
of age or older.
   (B)   No person who has been convicted of a felony or a gambling offense in
any jurisdiction shall be a bingo game operator.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. Whoever violates division (B) of this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2915.11)
§ 134.09 BINGO GAMES FOR AMUSEMENT ONLY.
   (A)   Sections
134.06 through
134.13 and
134.15 do not apply to bingo games that are conducted for the purpose of
amusement only. A bingo game is conducted for the purpose of amusement only if
it complies with all of the requirements specified in either division (A)(1) or
(A)(2) of this section.
      (1)   (a)   The participants do not pay any money or any other thing of
value, including an admission fee or any fee, for bingo cards or sheets,
objects to cover the spaces, or other devices used in playing bingo, for the
privilege of participating in the bingo game, or to defray any costs of the
game, or pay tips or make donations during or immediately before or after the
bingo game.
         (b)   All prizes awarded during the course of the game are non-
monetary, and in the form of merchandise, goods, or entitlement to goods or
services only, and the total value of all prizes awarded during the game is
less than $100.
         (c)   No commission, wages, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity,
or other form of compensation, either directly or indirectly, and regardless of
the source, is paid to any bingo game operator for work or labor performed at
the site of the bingo game.
         (d)   The bingo game is not conducted either during or within ten
hours of any of the following:
            1.   A bingo session during which a charitable bingo game is
conducted pursuant to R.C. §§ 2915.07 through 2915.11 or any substantially
similar municipal ordinance.
            2.   A scheme or game of chance, or bingo described in R.C. §
2915.01(O)(2).
         (e)   The number of players participating in the bingo game does not
exceed 50.
      (2)   (a)   The participants do not pay money or any other thing of value
as an admission fee, and no participant is charged more than $0.25 to purchase
a bingo card or sheet, objects to cover the spaces, or other devices used in
playing bingo.
         (b)   The total amount of money paid by all of the participants for
bingo cards or sheets, objects to cover the spaces, or other devices used in
playing bingo does not exceed $100.
         (c)   All of the money paid for bingo cards or sheets, objects to
cover spaces, or other devices used in playing bingo is used only to pay
winners monetary and nonmonetary prizes and to provide refreshments.
         (d)   The total value of all prizes awarded during the game does not
exceed $100.
         (e)   No commission, wages, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity,
or other form of compensation, either directly or indirectly, and regardless of
the source, is paid to any bingo game operator for work or labor performed at
the site of the bingo game.
         (f)   The bingo game is not conducted during or within ten hours of
either of the following:
            1.   A bingo session during which a charitable bingo game is
conducted pursuant to R.C. §§ 2915.07 through 2915.15 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance;
            2.   A scheme of chance or a game of chance, or bingo described in
R.C. § 2915.01(O)(2).
         (g)   All of the participants reside at the premises where the bingo
game is conducted.
         (h)   The bingo games are conducted on different days of the week and
not more than twice in a calendar week.
   (B)   The Attorney General or any local law enforcement agency may
investigate the conduct of a bingo game that purportedly is conducted for
purposes of amusement only if there is reason to believe that the purported
amusement bingo game does not comply with the requirements of either division
(A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section. A local law enforcement agency may proceed by
action in the proper court to enforce this section if the local law enforcement
agency gives written notice to the Attorney General when commencing the action.
(R.C. § 2915.12)
§ 134.10 PROHIBITIONS WHERE INSTANT BINGO GAME IS CONDUCTED.
   (A)   No charitable organization that conducts instant bingo shall do any of
the following:
      (1)   Fail to comply with the requirements of R.C. § 2915.09(A)(1), (A)
(2), and (A)(3), or any substantially similar municipal ordinance;
      (2)   Conduct instant bingo unless either of the following applies:
         (a)   That organization is, and has received from the Internal Revenue
Service a determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the
organization is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a), is
described in IRC 501(c)(3), is a charitable organization as defined in R.C. §
2915.01, is in good standing in the state pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08, and is in
compliance with R.C. Chapter 1716;
         (b)   That organization is, and has received from the Internal Revenue
Service a determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the
organization is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a), is
described in IRC 501(c)(7), (c)(8), (c)(10), or (c)(19) or is a veteran's
organization described in IRC 501(c)(4), and conducts instant bingo under R.C.
§ 2915.13.
      (3)   Conduct instant bingo on any day, at any time, or at any premises
not specified on the organization's license issued pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08;
      (4)   Permit any person whom the organization knows or should have known
has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any jurisdiction to be a
bingo game operator in the conduct of instant bingo;
      (5)   Purchase or lease supplies used to conduct instant bingo or punch
board games from any person except a distributor licensed under R.C. §
2915.081;
      (6)   Sell or provide any instant bingo ticket or card for a price
different from the price printed on it by the manufacturer on either the
instant bingo ticket or card or on the game flare
      (7)   Sell an instant bingo ticket or card to a person under 18 years of
age;
      (8)   Fail to keep unsold instant bingo tickets or cards for less than
three years;
      (9)   Pay any compensation to a bingo game operator for conducting
instant bingo that is conducted by the organization or for preparing, selling,
or serving food or beverages at the site of the instant bingo game, permit any
auxiliary unit or society of the organization to pay compensation to any bingo
game operator who prepares, sells, or serves food or beverages at an instant
bingo game conducted by the organization, or permit any auxiliary unit or
society of the organization to prepare, sell, or serve food or beverages at an
instant bingo game conducted by the organization, if the auxiliary unit or
society pays any compensation to the bingo game operators who prepare, sell, or
serve the food or beverages;
      (10)   Pay fees to any person for any services performed in relation to
an instant bingo game, except as provided in R.C. § 2915.093(D);
      (11)   Pay fees to any person who provides refreshments to the
participants in an instant bingo game;
      (12)   (a)   Allow instant bingo tickets or cards to be sold to bingo
game operators at a premises at which the organization sells instant bingo
tickets or cards or to be sold to employees of a D permit holder who are
working at a premises at which instant bingo tickets or cards are sold;
         (b)   Division (A)(12)(a) of this section does not prohibit a licensed
charitable organization or a bingo game operator from giving any person an
instant bingo ticket as a prize in place of a cash prize won by a participant
in an instant bingo game. In no case shall an instant bingo ticket or card be
sold or provided for a price different from the price printed on it by the
manufacturer on either the instant bingo ticket or card or on the game flare.
      (13)   Fail to display its bingo license, and the serial numbers of the
deal of instant bingo tickets or cards to be sold, conspicuously at each
premises at which it sells instant bingo tickets or cards;
      (14)   Possess a deal of instant bingo tickets or cards that was not
purchased from a distributor licensed under R.C. § 2915.081 as reflected on an
invoice issued by the distributor that contains all of the information required
by R.C. § 2915.10(E);
      (15)   Fail, once it opens a deal of instant bingo tickets or cards, to
continue to sell the tickets or cards in that deal until the tickets or cards
with the top two highest tiers of prizes in that deal are sold;
      (16)   Possess bingo supplies that were not obtained in accordance with
R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (B)   A charitable organization may purchase, lease, or use instant bingo
ticket dispensers to sell instant bingo tickets or cards.
   (C)   Pursuant to R.C. § 2915.091(C), the Attorney General may adopt rules
in accordance with R.C. Chapter 119 that govern the conduct of instant bingo by
charitable organizations.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section or a rule adopted under
division (C) of this section is guilty of illegal instant bingo conduct. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, illegal instant bingo conduct is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of a violation of division (A) of this section or of such a rule adopted under
division (C) of this section, illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.091)
§ 134.11 RAFFLE DRAWINGS.
   (A)   (1)   Subject to division (A)(2) of this section, a person or entity
may conduct a raffle to raise money for the person or entity and does not need
a license to conduct bingo in order to conduct a raffle drawing that is not for
profit if the person or entity is any of the following:
         (a)   Exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and
described in IRC § 501(c)(3);
         (b)   A school district, community school established under R.C.
Chapter 3314, STEM school established under R.C. Chapter 3326, college-
preparatory boarding school established under R.C. Chapter 3328, or chartered
nonpublic school;
         (c)   Exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and
described in IRC § 501(c)(4), 501(c)(6), 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10), or
501(c)(19).
      (2)   If a person or entity that is described in division (A)(1)(c) of
this section conducts a raffle, the person or entity shall distribute at least
50% of the net profit from the raffle to a charitable purpose described in R.C.
§ 2915.01(V) or to a department or agency of the federal government, the state,
or any political subdivision.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (A) of this section, no person shall
conduct a raffle drawing that is for profit or a raffle drawing that is not for
profit.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of illegal
conduct of a raffle. Except as otherwise provided in this division, illegal
conduct of a raffle is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of a violation of division (B) of this section,
illegal conduct of a raffle is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2915.092)
§ 134.12 INSTANT BINGO OTHER THAN AT BINGO SESSIONS.
   (A)   As used in this section, RETAIL INCOME FROM ALL COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY
means the income that a person receives from the provision of goods, services,
or activities that are provided at the location where instant bingo other than
at a bingo session is conducted, including the sale of instant bingo tickets. A
religious organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC
501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3), at not more than one location at which
it conducts its charitable programs, may include donations from its members and
guests as retail income.
   (B)   (1)   If a charitable instant bingo organization conducts instant
bingo other than at a bingo session under a type III license issued under R.C.
§ 2915.08, the charitable instant bingo organization shall enter into a written
contract with the owner or lessor of the location at which the instant bingo is
conducted to allow the owner or lessor to assist in the conduct of instant
bingo other than at a bingo session, identify each location where the instant
bingo other than at a bingo session is being conducted, and identify the owner
or lessor of each location.
      (2)   A charitable instant bingo organization that conducts instant bingo
other than at a bingo session under a type III license issued under R.C. §
2915.08 is not required to enter into a written contract with the owner or
lessor of the location at which the instant bingo is conducted provided that
the owner or lessor is not assisting in the conduct of the instant bingo other
than at a bingo session and provided that the conduct of the instant bingo
other than at a bingo session at that location is not more than five days per
calendar year and not more than ten hours per day.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (F) of this section, charitable instant
bingo organization shall conduct instant bingo other than at a bingo session at
a location where the primary source of retail income from all commercial
activity at that location is the sale of instant bingo tickets.
   (D)   (1)   The owner or lessor of a location that enters into a contract
pursuant to division (B) of this section shall pay the full gross profit to the
charitable instant bingo organization, in return for the deal of instant bingo
tickets. The owner or lessor may retain the money that the owner or lessor
receives for selling the instant bingo tickets, provided, however, that after
the deal has been sold, the owner or lessor shall pay to the charitable instant
bingo organization the value of any unredeemed instant bingo prizes remaining
in the deal of instant bingo tickets.
      (2)   The charitable instant bingo organization shall pay 6% of the total
gross receipts of any deal of instant bingo tickets for the purpose of
reimbursing the owner or lessor for expenses described in this division.
      (3)   As used in this division, EXPENSES means those items provided for
in R.C. § 2915.01(GG)(4), (GG)(5), (GG)(6), (GG)(7), (GG)(8), (GG)(12), and
(GG)(13) and that percentage of the owner’s or lessor’s rent for the location
where instant bingo is conducted. Expenses, in the aggregate, shall not exceed
6% of the total gross receipts of any deal of instant bingo tickets.
      (4)   As used in this division, FULL GROSS PROFIT means the amount by
which the total receipts of all instant bingo tickets, if the deal has been
sold in full, exceeds the amount that would be paid out if all prizes were
redeemed.
   (E)   A charitable instant bingo organization shall provide the Attorney
General with all of the following information:
      (1)   That the charitable instant bingo organization has terminated a
contract entered into pursuant to division (B) of this section with an owner or
lessor of a location;
      (2)   That the charitable instant bingo organization has entered into a
written contract pursuant to division (B) of this section with a new owner or
lessor of a location;
      (3)   That the charitable instant bingo organization is aware of conduct
by the owner or lessor of a location at which instant bingo is conducted that
is in violation of R.C. Chapter 2915.
(R.C. § 2915.093)
   (F)   Division (C) of this section does not apply to a volunteer
firefighter's organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under
IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3), that conducts instant bingo other
than at a bingo session on the premises where the organization conducts
firefighter training, that has conducted instant bingo continuously for at
least five years prior to the effective date of this amendment, and that,
during each of those five years, had gross receipts of at least $1,500,000.
   (G)   (1)   Subject to the requirements of R.C. §§ 2915.14 and 2915.15
concerning electronic instant bingo, a veteran's organization, a fraternal
organization, or a sporting organization authorized to conduct a bingo session
pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2915 may conduct instant bingo, electronic instant
bingo, or both other than at a bingo session under a type III license issued
under R.C. § 2915.08 if all of the following apply:
         (a)   The veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization limits the sale of instant bingo or electronic instant bingo to 12
hours during any day, provided that the sale does not begin earlier than 10:00
a.m. and ends not later than 2:00 a.m.
         (b)   The veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization limits the sale of instant bingo or electronic instant bingo to
its own premises and to its own members and invited guests.
         (c)   The veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization is raising money for an organization that is described in IRC §
509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a governmental unit or an
organization that maintains its principal place of business in this state, that
is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC
§ 501(c)(3), and that is in good standing in this state and executes a written
contract with that organization as required in division (G)(2) of this section.
      (2)   If a veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization authorized to conduct instant bingo or electronic instant bingo
pursuant to division (G)(1) of this section is raising money for another
organization that is described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is
either a governmental unit or an organization that maintains its principal
place of business in this state, that is exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c), and that is in good standing
in this state, the veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization shall execute a written contract with the organization that is
described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a governmental
unit or an organization that maintains its principal place of business in this
state, that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and
described in IRC § 501(c), and that is in good standing in this state in order
to conduct instant bingo or electronic instant bingo. That contract shall
include a statement of the percentage of the net proceeds that the veteran's,
fraternal, or sporting organization will be distributing to the organization
that is described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a
governmental unit or an organization that maintains its principal place of
business in this state, that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC §
501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3), and that is in good standing in this
state.
      (3)   (a)   If a veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or
sporting organization authorized to conduct instant bingo or electronic instant
bingo pursuant to division (G)(1) of this section has been issued a liquor
permit under R.C. Chapter 4303, that permit may be subject to suspension,
revocation, or cancellation if the veteran's organization, fraternal
organization, or sporting organization violates a provision of this chapter or
R.C. Chapter 2915.
         (b)   No veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization that enters into a written contract pursuant to division (G)(2) of
this section shall violate any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915,
or permit, aid, or abet any other person in violating any provision of this
chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
      (4)   A veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization shall give all required proceeds earned from the conduct of
instant bingo or electronic instant bingo to the organization with which the
veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or sporting organization has
entered into a written contract.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (G) of this section is guilty of illegal
instant bingo or electronic instant bingo conduct. Except as otherwise provided
in this division, illegal instant bingo or electronic instant bingo conduct is
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been
convicted of a violation of division (G) of this section, illegal instant bingo
or electronic instant bingo conduct is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.13)
§ 134.13 RESTRICTIONS ON OWNER OR LESSOR OF LOCATION AT INSTANT BINGO.
   (A)   No owner or lessor of a location shall assist a charitable instant
bingo organization in the conduct of instant bingo other than at a bingo
session at that location unless the owner or lessor has entered into a written
contract, as described in R.C. § 2915.093, with the charitable instant bingo
organization to assist in the conduct of instant bingo other than at a bingo
session.
   (B)   The location of the lessor or owner shall be designated as a location
where the charitable instant bingo organization conducts instant bingo other
than at a bingo session.
   (C)   No owner or lessor of a location that enters into a written contract
as prescribed in division (A) of this section shall violate any provision of
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915, or permit, aid, or abet any other person in
violating any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (D)   No owner or lessor of a location that enters into a written contract
as prescribed in division (A) of this section shall violate the terms of the
contract.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty
of illegal instant bingo conduct. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, illegal instant bingo conduct is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of division (C) or
(D) of this section, illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If an owner or lessor of a location knowingly, intentionally, or
recklessly violates division (C) or (D) of this section, any license that the
owner or lessor holds for the retail sale of any goods on the owner's or
lessor's premises that is issued by the state or a political subdivision is
subject to suspension, revocation, or payment of a monetary penalty at the
request of the Attorney General.
(R.C. § 2915.094)
§ 134.14 SKILL-BASED AMUSEMENT MACHINES; PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall give to another person any item described in division
(1), (2), (3), or (4) of the definition for “merchandise prize” in §
134.01 in exchange for a noncash prize, toy, or novelty received as a reward
for playing or operating a skill-based amusement machine or for a free or
reduced-price game won on a skill-based amusement machine.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of skill-based
amusement machine prohibited conduct. A violation of division (A) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree for each redemption of a prize
that is involved in the violation. If the offender previously has been
convicted of a violation of division (A) of this section, a violation of that
division is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. §  2915.06)
   (C)   Any regulation of skill-based amusement machines shall be governed by
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915 and not by R.C. Chapter 1345.
(R.C. § 2915.061)
§ 134.15 ELECTRONIC INSTANT BINGO; PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   No charitable organization shall conduct electronic instant bingo
unless all of the following are true:
      (1)   The organization is a veteran's organization described in R.C. §
2915.01(J), or is a fraternal organization described in R.C. § 2915.01(L), and
the organization qualified as a veteran's organization or fraternal
organization, as applicable, on or before June 30, 2021.
      (2)   The organization is a veteran's organization described in IRC § 501
(c)(4) or is, and has received from the Internal Revenue Service a
determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the organization
is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a), and is described in
IRC § 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10), or 501(c)(19).
      (3)   The organization has not conducted a raffle in violation of R.C. §
2915.092(B) using an electronic raffle machine, as described in Ohio Veterans
and Fraternal Charitable Coalition v. DeWine, Case No. 13-CV-13610 (C.P.
Franklin Co. February 23, 2018), at any time on or after January 1, 2022.
   (B)   No charitable organization that conducts electronic instant bingo
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Possess an electronic instant bingo system that was not obtained in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 2915 or with any rule adopted under R.C. Chapter
2915;
      (2)   Conduct electronic instant bingo on any day, at any time, or on any
premises not specified on the organization's type II or type III license issued
under R.C. § 2915.08;
      (3)   Hold more than one valid license to conduct electronic instant
bingo at any one time;
      (4)   Conduct electronic instant bingo on more than one premises or on
any premises other than the charitable organization's principal place of
business;
      (5)   Operate more than ten electronic bingo systems at the premises on
which the charitable organization conducts electronic instant bingo under its
license;
      (6)   Fail to display both of the following conspicuously at the premises
on which the charitable organization conducts electronic instant bingo:
         (a)   The charitable organization's bingo license;
         (b)   The serial number of each deal of electronic instant bingo
tickets being sold.
      (7)   Permit any person the charitable organization knows, or should have
known, to be under 18 years of age to play electronic instant bingo;
      (8)   Sell or provide to any person an electronic instant bingo ticket
for a price different from the price displayed on the game flare for that deal,
except that the charitable organization may give a participant who wins an
electronic instant bingo game an electronic instant bingo ticket as a prize in
place of a cash prize;
      (9)   Fail, once an electronic instant bingo deal is begun, to continue
to sell tickets in that deal until all prizes have been awarded;
      (10)   Permit any person whom the organization knows, or should have
known, has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any jurisdiction
to be a bingo game operator in the conduct of electronic instant bingo;
      (11)   Permit a bingo game operator to play electronic instant bingo;
      (12)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(12)(b) of this
section, pay compensation to a bingo game operator for conducting electronic
instant bingo.
         (b)   Division (B)(12)(a) of this section does not prohibit an
employee of a veteran's organization or fraternal organization from redeeming
electronic instant bingo tickets or vouchers for the organization's members or
invited guests, so long as no portion of the employee's compensation is paid
from any bingo receipts.
      (13)   Pay consulting fees to any person in relation to electronic
instant bingo.
   (C)   No person shall sell, offer to sell, or otherwise provide or offer to
provide an electronic instant bingo system to any person for use in this
municipality unless the electronic instant bingo system has been approved under
R.C. § 2915.15.
   (D)   Whoever knowingly violates division (A), (B), or (C) of this section
or a rule adopted under R.C. § 2915.14(D) is guilty of illegal electronic
instant bingo conduct. Illegal electronic instant bingo conduct is a
misdemeanor of the first degree, except that if the offender previously has
been convicted of a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or state law, or of a rule adopted
under R.C. § 2915.14(D), illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.14)
CHAPTER 135: OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
Section
   
135.01   Assault
   
135.02   Negligent assault
   
135.03   Aggravated menacing
   
135.031   Injury to persons by hunters
   
135.04   Menacing
   
135.041   Menacing by stalking
   
135.042   Violating a protection order, consent agreement, anti-stalking
protection order or order issued by a court of another state
   
135.05   Unlawful restraint
   
135.06   Coercion
   
135.07   Hazing prohibited
   
135.08   Unlawful collection of bodily substances
Offenses Against the Family
   
135.10   Domestic violence
   
135.11   Interference with custody
   
135.12   False report of child abuse or neglect
   
135.13   Interference with support orders
§ 135.01 ASSAULT.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cause or attempt to cause physical harm to
another or to another's unborn.
   (B)   No person shall recklessly cause serious physical harm to another or
to another's unborn.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of assault. Except as provided
in R.C. § 2903.13(C), assault is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   If an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to assault when it
is a misdemeanor also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a specification as
described in R.C. § 2941.1423 (victim of the offense was a woman whom the
defendant knew was pregnant at the time of the offense) that was included in
the indictment, count in the indictment, or information charging the offense,
the court shall sentence the offender to a mandatory jail term as provided in
R.C. § 2929.24(F).
   (E)   A prosecution for a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section
does not preclude a prosecution of a violation of any other section of the Ohio
Revised Code. One or more acts, a series of acts, or a course of behavior that
can be prosecuted under division (A) or (B) of this section or any other
section of the Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under division (A) or (B) of
this section, the other section of the Ohio Revised Code, or both sections.
However, if an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (A) or (B) of this section and also is convicted of or pleads guilty
to a violation of R.C. § 2903.22, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, based on the same conduct involving the same victim that was the
basis of the violation of division (A) or (B) of this section, the offenses are
allied offenses of similar import under R.C. § 2941.25.
(R.C. § 2903.13) ('56 Code, § 5-2)
Statutory reference:
   Felony offenses, see R.C. § 2903.13(C)
§ 135.02 NEGLIGENT ASSAULT.
   (A)   No person shall negligently, by means of a deadly weapon or dangerous
ordnance as defined in R.C. § 2923.11, cause physical harm to another or to
another's unborn.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of negligent assault, a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 2903.14) ('56 Code, § 5-2)
§ 135.03 AGGRAVATED MENACING.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cause another to believe that the offender
will cause serious physical harm to the person or property of the other person,
such other person's unborn, or a member of such other person's immediate
family. In addition to any other basis for the other person’s belief that the
offender will cause serious physical harm to the person or property of the
other person, the other person’s unborn, or a member of the other person’s
immediate family, the other person’s belief may be based on words or conduct of
the offender that are directed at or identify a corporation, association, or
other organization that employs the other person or to which the other person
belongs.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of aggravated menacing. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, aggravated menacing is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the victim of the offense is an officer or employee of a
public children services agency or a private child placing agency and the
offense relates to the officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated
performance of official responsibilities or duties, aggravated menacing is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law or, if the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to an offense of violence,
the victim of that prior offense was an officer or employee of a public
children services agency or private child placing agency, and that prior
offense related to the officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated
performance of official responsibilities or duties, a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
   (C)   As used in this section, ORGANIZATION includes an entity that is a
governmental employer.
(R.C. § 2903.21) ('56 Code, § 5-2)
§ 135.031 INJURY TO PERSONS BY HUNTERS.
   (A)   No person in the act of hunting, pursuing, taking, or killing a wild
animal shall act in a negligent, careless, or reckless manner so as to injure
persons.
(R.C. § 1533.171(A))
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 1533.99(C))
Statutory Reference:
   Revocation of license for violation, see R.C. § 1533.171(B) through (E)
§ 135.04 MENACING.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall knowingly cause another to believe that the
offender will cause physical harm to the person or property of the other
person, the other person's unborn, or a member of the other person's immediate
family. In addition to any other basis for the other person's belief that the
offender will cause physical harm to the person or property of the other
person, the other person's unborn, or a member of the other person's immediate
family, the other person's belief may be based on words or conduct of the
offender that are directed at or identify a corporation, association, or other
organization that employs the other person or to which the other person
belongs.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly place or attempt to place another in
reasonable fear of physical harm or death by displaying a deadly weapon,
regardless of whether the deadly weapon displayed is operable or inoperable, if
either of the following applies:
         (a)   The other person is an emergency service responder, the person
knows or reasonably should know that the other person is an emergency service
responder, and it is the person's specific purpose to engage in the specified
conduct against an emergency service responder.
         (b)   The other person is a family or household member or co-worker of
an emergency service responder, the person knows or reasonably should know that
the other person is a family or household member or co-worker of an emergency
service responder, and it is the person's specific purpose to engage in the
specified conduct against a family or household member or co-worker of an
emergency service responder.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of menacing. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, menacing is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If the victim of the offense is an officer or employee of a public
children services agency or a private child placing agency and the offense
relates to the officer's or employee's performance or anticipated performance
of official responsibilities or duties or if the victim of the offense is an
emergency service responder in the performance of the responder's official
duties, menacing is one of the following:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (A)(2)(b) of this section,
a misdemeanor of the first degree;
      (2)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to an offense of violence, the victim of that prior offense was an officer or
employee of a public children services agency or private child placing agency
or an emergency service responder, and that prior offense related to the
officer's or employee's performance or anticipated performance of official
responsibilities or duties or to the responder's performance of the responder's
official duties, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   A prosecution for a violation of division (A) of this section does not
preclude a prosecution of a violation of any other section of the Ohio Revised
Code. One or more acts, a series of acts, or a course of behavior that can be
prosecuted under division (A) of this section or any other section of the Ohio
Revised Code may be prosecuted under division (A) of this section, the other
section of the Ohio Revised Code, or both sections. However, if an offender is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of division (A) of this section
and also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of R.C. § 2903.13, or
any substantially similar municipal ordinance, based on the same conduct
involving the same victim that was the basis of the violation of division (A)
of this section, the offenses are allied offenses of similar import under R.C.
§ 2941.25.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      CO-WORKER. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 2903.13.
      EMERGENCY SERVICE RESPONDER. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 2903.13.
      FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2903.13.
      ORGANIZATION. Includes an entity that is a governmental employer.
(R.C. § 2903.22) ('56 Code, § 5-2)
§ 135.041 MENACING BY STALKING.
   (A)   (1)   No person by engaging in a pattern of conduct shall knowingly
cause another person to believe that the offender will cause physical harm to
the other person or a family or household member of the other person or cause
mental distress to the other person or a family or household member of the
other person. In addition to any other basis for the other person’s belief that
the offender will cause physical harm to the other person or the other person’s
family or household member or mental distress to the other person or the other
person’s family or household member, the other person’s belief or mental
distress may be based on words or conduct of the offender that are directed at
or identify a corporation, association, or other organization that employs the
other person or to which the other person belongs.
      (2)   No person, through the use of any form of written communication or
any electronic method of remotely transferring information, including but not
limited to any computer, computer network, computer program, computer system,
or telecommunication device, shall post a message or use any intentionally
written or verbal graphic gesture with purpose to urge do either of the
following:
         (a)   Violate division (A)(1) of this section;
         (b)   Urge or incite another to commit a violation of division (A)(1)
of this section.
      (3)   No person, with a sexual motivation, shall violate division (A)(1)
or (A)(2) of this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of menacing by
stalking.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2) of this section,
menacing by stalking is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Menacing by stalking is a felony, to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law, if any of the following applies:
         (a)   The offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of R.C. § 2903.211 or a violation of R.C. § 2911.211, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to either of these offenses.
         (b)   In committing the offense under division (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)
(3) of this section, the offender made a threat of physical harm to or against
the victim, or as a result of an offense committed under division (A)(2) of
this section, a third person induced by the offender’s posted message made a
threat of physical harm to or against the victim.
         (c)   In committing the offense under division (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)
(3) of this section, the offender trespassed on the land or premises where the
victim lives, is employed, or attends school, or as a result of an offense
committed under division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this section, a third person
induced by the offender’s posted message trespassed on the land or premises
where the victim lives, is employed, or attends school.
         (d)   The victim of the offense is a minor.
         (e)   The offender has a history of violence towards the victim or any
other person or a history of other violent acts towards the victim or any other
person.
         (f)   While committing the offense under division (A)(1) of this
section or a violation of division (A)(3) of this section based on conduct in
violation of division (A)(1) of this section, the offender had a deadly weapon
on or about the offender's person or under the offender's control. Division (B)
(2)(f) of this section does not apply in determining the penalty for a
violation of division (A)(2) of this section or a violation of division (A)(3)
of this section based on conduct in violation of division (A)(2) of this
section.
         (g)   At the time of the commission of the offense, the offender was
the subject of a protection order issued under R.C. § 2903.213 or R.C. §
2903.214, regardless of whether or not the person to be protected under the
order is the victim of the offense or another person.
         (h)   In committing the offense under division (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)
(3) of this section, the offender caused serious physical harm to the premises
at which the victim resides, to the real property on which that premises is
located, or to any personal property located on that premises, or as a result
of an offense committed under division (A)(2) of this section or an offense
committed under division (A)(3) of this section based on a violation of
division (A)(2) of this section, a third person induced by the offender’s
posted message caused serious physical harm to that premises, that real
property, or any personal property on that premises.
         (i)   Prior to committing the offense, the offender had been
determined to represent a substantial risk of physical harm to others as
manifested by evidence of then-recent homicidal or other violent behavior,
evidence of then-recent threats that placed another in reasonable fear of
violent behavior and serious harm, or other evidence of then-present
dangerousness.
         (j)   The victim of the offense is an officer or employee of a public
children services agency or a private child placing agency and the offense
relates to the officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated performance
of official responsibilities or duties.
         (k)   The offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to an offense of violence, the victim of that prior offense was an officer or
employee of a public children services agency or private child placing agency,
and that prior offense related to the officer’s or employee’s performance or
anticipated performance of official responsibilities or duties.
   (C)   R.C. § 2919.271 applies in relation to a defendant charged with a
violation of this section.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      COMPUTER, COMPUTER NETWORK, COMPUTER PROGRAM, COMPUTER SYSTEM, and
TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON. Is the singular of "emergency facility
personnel" as defined in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency medical
services personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2133.21.
      FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
person against whom the act prohibited in division (A)(1) of this section is
committed:
            1.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse, or a former spouse of
the person;
            2.   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the person, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the person;
            3.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse, or
former spouse of the person, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
person.
         (b)   The natural parent of any child of whom the person against whom
the act prohibited in division (C)(1)(a) of this section is committed is the
other natural parent or is the putative other natural parent.
      MENTAL DISTRESS. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any mental illness or condition that involves some temporary
substantial incapacity;
         (b)   Any mental illness or condition that would normally require
psychiatric treatment, psychological treatment, or other mental health
services, whether or not any person requested or received psychiatric
treatment, psychological treatment, or other mental health services.
      ORGANIZATION. Includes an entity that is a governmental employer.
      PATTERN OF CONDUCT. Two or more actions or incidents closely related in
time, whether or not there has been a prior conviction based on any of those
actions or incidents, or two or more actions or incidents closely related in
time, whether or not there has been a prior conviction based on any of those
actions or incidents, directed at one or more persons employed by or belonging
to the same corporation, association, or other organization. Actions or
incidents that prevent, obstruct, or delay the performance by a public
official, firefighter, rescuer, emergency medical services person, or emergency
facility person of any authorized act within the public official's,
firefighter's, rescuer's, emergency medical services person's, or emergency
facility person’s official capacity, or the posting of messages, use of
intentionally written or verbal graphic gestures, or receipt of information or
data through the use of any form of written communication or an electronic
method of remotely transferring information, including but not limited to a
computer, computer network, computer program, computer system, or
telecommunications device, may constitute a “pattern of conduct.”
      PERSON LIVING AS A SPOUSE. Means a person who is living or has lived with
the person against whom the act prohibited in division (A)(1) of this section
is committed in a common law marital relationship, who otherwise is cohabiting
with that person, or who otherwise has cohabited with the person within five
years prior to the date of the alleged commission of the act in question.
      POST A MESSAGE. Transferring, sending, posting, publishing,
disseminating, or otherwise communicating, or attempting to transfer, send,
post, publish, disseminate, or otherwise communicate, any message or
information, whether truthful or untruthful, about an individual, and whether
done under one’s own name, under the name of another, or while impersonating
another.
      PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.01.
      SEXUAL MOTIVATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2971.01.
      THIRD PERSON. In relation to conduct as described in division (A)(2) of
this section, an individual who is neither the offender nor the victim of the
conduct.
   (E)   The prosecution does not need to prove in a prosecution under this
section that a person requested or received psychiatric treatment,
psychological treatment, or other mental heal services in order to show that
the person was caused mental distress as described in division (b) of the
definition for “mental distress” in this section.
   (F)   (1)   This section does not apply to a person solely because the
person provided access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person’s control, including
having provided capabilities that are incidental to providing access or
connection to or from the electronic method of remotely transferring the
information, and that do not include the creation of the content of the
material that is the subject of the access or connection. In addition, any
person providing access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person’s control shall not be
liable for any action voluntarily taken in good faith to block the receipt or
transmission through its service of any information that it believes is or will
be sent in violation of this section.
      (2)   Division (F)(1) of this section does not create an affirmative duty
for any person providing access or connection to or from an electronic method
of remotely transferring information not under that person’s control to block
the receipt or transmission through its service of any information that it
believes is or will be sent in violation of this section except as otherwise
provided by law.
      (3)   Division (F)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who
conspires with a person actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of this section or who knowingly
advertises the availability of material of that nature.
(R.C. § 2903.211)
Statutory reference:
   Conditions of bail for violators, see R.C. § 2903.212
   Anti-stalking protection order as pretrial condition of release, see R.C. §
2903.213
§ 135.042 VIOLATING A PROTECTION ORDER, CONSENT AGREEMENT, ANTI-STALKING
PROTECTION ORDER OR ORDER ISSUED BY A COURT OF ANOTHER STATE.
   (A)   No person shall recklessly violate the terms of any of the following:
      (1)   A protection order issued or consent agreement approved pursuant to
R.C. § 2919.26 or R.C. § 3113.31;
      (2)   A protection order issued pursuant to R.C. § 2151.34, 2903.213 or
2903.214;
      (3)   A protection order issued by a court of another state.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of violating a
protection order.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(3) or (4) of this
section, violating a protection order is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   Violating a protection order is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if the offender previously has been convicted of, pleaded
guilty to, or been adjudicated a delinquent child for any of the following:
         (a)   A violation of a protection order issued or consent agreement
approved pursuant to R.C. § 2151.34, 2903.213, 2903.214, 2919.26, or 3113.31,
or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance;
         (b)   Two or more violations of R.C. § 2903.21, 2903.211, 2903.22, or
2911.211, or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or
any combination of those offenses, that involved the same person who is the
subject of the protection order or consent agreement;
         (c)   One or more violations of this section, or any substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance.
      (4)   If the offender violates a protection order or consent agreement
while committing a felony offense, violating a protection order is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   If the protection order violated by the offender was an order
issued pursuant to R.C. § 2151.34 or 2903.214 that required electronic
monitoring of the offender pursuant to that section, the court may require in
addition to any other sentence imposed upon the offender that the offender be
electronically monitored for a period not exceeding five years by a law
enforcement agency designated by the court. If the court requires under this
division that the offender be electronically monitored, unless the court
determines that the offender is indigent, the court shall order that the
offender pay the costs of the installation of the electronic monitoring device
and the cost of monitoring the electronic monitoring device.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(3) of this
section that the protection order issued by a court of another state does not
comply with the requirements specified in 18 U.S.C. 2265(b) for a protection
order that must be accorded full faith a credit by a court of this state or
that it is not entitled to full faith and credit under 18 U.S.C. 2265(c).
   (D)   In a prosecution for a violation of this section, it is not necessary
for the prosecution to prove that the protection order or consent agreement was
served on the defendant if the prosecution proves that the defendant was shown
the protection order or consent agreement or a copy of either or a judge,
magistrate, or law enforcement officer informed the defendant that a protection
order or consent agreement had been issued, and proves that the defendant
recklessly violated the terms of the order or agreement.
   (E)   As used in this section, PROTECTION ORDER ISSUED BY A COURT OF ANOTHER
STATE means an injunction or another order issued by a criminal court of
another state for the purpose of preventing violent or threatening acts or
harassment against, contact or communication with, or physical proximity to
another person including a temporary order, and means an injunction or order of
that nature issued by a civil court of another state, including a temporary
order and a final order issued in an independent action or as a pendente lite
order in a proceeding for other relief, if the court issued it in response to a
complaint, petition or motion filed by or on behalf of a person seeking
protection. The term does not include an order for support or for custody of a
child issued pursuant to the divorce
and child custody laws of another state, except to the extent that the order
for support or for custody of a child is entitled to full faith and credit
under the laws of the United States.
(R.C. § 2919.27)
Statutory reference:
   Mental evaluations of defendants, see R.C. § 2919.271
§ 135.05 UNLAWFUL RESTRAINT.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall knowingly restrain
another of the other person’s liberty.
   (B)   No person, without privilege to do so and with a sexual motivation,
shall knowingly restrain another of the other person’s liberty.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful restraint, a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   As used in this section, SEXUAL MOTIVATION has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2971.01
(R.C.§ 2905.03)
§ 135.06 COERCION.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to coerce another into taking or refraining
from action concerning which the other person has a legal freedom of choice,
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Threaten to commit any offense.
      (2)   Utter or threaten any slander against any person.
      (3)   Expose or threaten to expose any matter tending to subject any
person to hatred, contempt, or ridicule, or to damage any person’s personal or
business repute, or to impair any person’s credit.
      (4)   Institute or threaten criminal proceedings against any person.
      (5)   Take or withhold, or threaten to take or withhold official action,
or cause or threaten to cause official action to be taken or withheld.
   (B)   Divisions (A)(4) and (5) of this section shall not be construed to
prohibit a prosecutor or court from doing any of the following in good faith
and in the interests of justice:
      (1)   Offering or agreeing to grant, or granting immunity from
prosecution pursuant to R.C. § 2945.44.
      (2)   In return for a plea of guilty to one or more offenses charged or
to one or more other or lesser offenses, or in return for the testimony of the
accused in a case to which the accused is not a party, offering or agreeing to
dismiss, or dismissing one or more charges pending against an accused, or
offering or agreeing to impose, or imposing a certain sentence or modification
of sentence.
      (3)   Imposing a community control sanction on certain conditions,
including without limitation requiring the offender to make restitution or
redress to the victim of the offense.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(3), (4),
or (5) of this section that the actor's conduct was a reasonable response to
the circumstances which occasioned it, and that the actor’s purpose was limited
to any of the following:
      (1)   Compelling another to refrain from misconduct or to desist from
further misconduct.
      (2)   Preventing or redressing a wrong or injustice.
      (3)   Preventing another from taking action for which the actor
reasonably believed the other person to be disqualified.
      (4)   Compelling another to take action which the actor reasonably
believed the other person to be under a duty to take.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of coercion, a misdemeanor of
the second degree.
   (E)   As used in this section:
   COMMUNITY CONTROL SANCTION has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   THREAT  includes a direct threat and a threat by innuendo.
(R.C. § 2905.12)
§ 135.07 HAZING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      HAZING. Means doing any act or coercing another, including the victim, to
do any act of initiation into any student or other organization or any act to
continue or reinstate membership in or affiliation with any student or other
organization that causes or creates a substantial risk of causing mental or
physical harm to any person, including coercing another to consume alcohol or a
drug of abuse, as defined in R.C. § 3719.011.
      ORGANIZATION. Includes a national or international organization with
which a fraternity or sorority is affiliated.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall recklessly participate in the hazing of another.
      (2)   No administrator, employee, faculty member, teacher, consultant,
alumnus, or volunteer of any organization, including any primary, secondary, or
post-secondary school or any other educational institution, public or private,
shall recklessly permit the hazing of any person associated with the
organization.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall recklessly participate in the hazing of another
when the hazing includes coerced consumption of alcohol or drugs of abuse
resulting in serious physical harm to the other person.
      (2)   No administrator, employee, faculty member, teacher, consultant,
alumnus, or volunteer of any organization, including any primary, secondary, or
post-secondary school or any other educational institution, public or private,
shall recklessly permit the hazing of any person associated with the
organization when the hazing includes coerced consumption of alcohol or drugs
of abuse resulting in serious physical harm to that person.
   (D)   Whoever violates divisions (B) or (C) of this section is guilty of
hazing. A violation of division (B)(1) or (B)(2) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the second degree. A violation of division (C)(1) or (C)(2) of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.31)
   (E)   Reckless failure to immediately report knowledge of hazing.
      (1)   No administrator, employee, faculty member, teacher, consultant,
alumnus, or volunteer of any organization, including any primary, secondary, or
post-secondary school or any other public or private educational institution,
who is acting in an official and professional capacity shall recklessly fail to
immediately report the knowledge of hazing to a law enforcement agency in the
county in which the victim of hazing resides or in which the hazing is
occurring or has occurred.
      (2)   A violation of division (E)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree, except that the violation is a misdemeanor of the first
degree if the hazing causes serious physical harm.
(R.C. § 2903.311(B), (C))
§ 135.08 UNLAWFUL COLLECTION OF BODILY SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly collect any blood, urine, tissue, or other
bodily substance of another person without privilege or consent to do so.
   (B)   (1)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any of the
following:
         (a)   The collection of any bodily substance of a person by a law
enforcement officer, or by another person pursuant to the direction or advice
of a law enforcement officer, for purposes of a chemical test or tests of the
substance under R.C. § 1547.111(A)(1) or R.C. § 4511.191(A)(2) to determine the
alcohol, drug, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance, or
combination content of the bodily substance;
         (b)   The collection of any bodily substance of a person by a peace
officer, or by another person pursuant to the direction or advice of a peace
officer, for purposes of a test or tests of the substance as provided in R.C. §
4506.17(A) to determine the person’s alcohol concentration or the presence of
any controlled substance or metabolite of a controlled substance.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section shall not be construed as implying
that the persons identified in divisions (B)(1)(a) and (b) of this section do
not have privilege to collect the bodily substance of another person as
described in those divisions or as limiting the definition of “privilege” set
forth in R.C. § 2901.01.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of unlawful
collection of a bodily substance. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, unlawful collection of a bodily substance is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (A) of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, unlawful collection of a bodily
substance is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.15)
OFFENSES AGAINST THE FAMILY
§ 135.10 DOMESTIC VIOLENCE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cause or attempt to cause physical harm to a
family or household member.
   (B)   No person shall recklessly cause serious physical harm to a family or
household member.
   (C)   No person, by threat of force, shall knowingly cause a family or
household member to believe that the offender will cause imminent physical harm
to the family or household member.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of domestic violence,
and the court shall sentence the offender as provided in divisions (D)(2) to
(D)(5) of this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3), (D)(4) or (D)(5)
of this section, a violation of division (C) of this section is a misdemeanor
of the fourth degree and a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section is
a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(4) of this section, if
the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted of domestic
violence, a violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or the United States that is substantially equivalent
to domestic violence, a violation of R.C. § 2903.14, 2909.06, 2909.07, 2911.12,
2911.211, or 2919.22 if the victim of the violation was a family or household
member at the time of the violation, a violation of an existing or former
municipal ordinance or law of this or any other state or the United States that
is substantially equivalent to any of those sections if the victim of the
violation was a family or household member at the time of the commission of the
violation, or any offense of violence if the victim of the offense was a family
or household member at the time of the commission of the offense, a violation
of division (A) or (B) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law, and a violation of division (C) is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (4)   If the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted
of two or more offenses of domestic violence or two or more violations or
offenses of the type described in division (D)(3) of this section involving a
person who was a family or household member at the time of the violations or
offenses, a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law, and a violation of division (C) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) or (D)(4) of this
section, if the offender knew that the victim of the violation was pregnant at
the time of the violation, a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law, and a violation of
division (C) of this section is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no court or unit
of state or local government shall charge any fee, cost, deposit, or money in
connection with the filing of charges against a person alleging that the person
violated this section or a municipal ordinance substantially equivalent to this
section or in connection with the prosecution of any charges so filed.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
offender:
            1.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse as defined below, or a
former spouse of the offender;
            2.   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the offender, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the offender;
            3.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse, or
former spouse of the offender, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
offender.
         (b)   The natural parent of any child of whom the offender is the
other natural parent or is the putative other natural parent.
      PERSON LIVING AS A SPOUSE. Means a person who is living or has lived with
the offender in a common law marital relationship, who otherwise is cohabiting
with the offender, or who otherwise has cohabited with the offender within five
years prior to the date of the alleged commission of the act in question.
(R.C. § 2919.25)('56 Code, § 5)
Statutory reference:
   Temporary protection orders, see R.C. § 2919.26
   Violation of protection order or consent agreement, factors to consider,
bail, see R.C. § 2919.251
§ 135.11 INTERFERENCE WITH CUSTODY.
   (A)   No person, knowing that he or she is without privilege to do so or
being reckless in that regard, shall entice, take, keep, or harbor a person
identified in division (A)(1), (2) or (3) of this section from the parent,
guardian, or custodian of the person identified in division (A)(1), (2) or (3)
of this section:
      (1)   A child under the age of 18, or a child with a mental or physical
disability under the age of 21;
      (2)   A person committed by law to an institution for delinquent, unruly,
neglected, abused, or dependent children;
      (3)   A person committed by law to an institution for persons with mental
illnesses or an institution for persons with intellectual disabilities.
   (B)   No person shall aid, abet, induce, cause, or encourage a child or a
ward of the juvenile court who has been committed to the custody of any person,
department, or public or private institution to leave the custody of that
person, department, or institution without legal consent.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of enticing or taking under
division (A)(1)(a) of this section that the actor reasonably believed that his
or her conduct was necessary to preserve the child's health or safety. It is an
affirmative defense to a charge of keeping or harboring under division (A)(1)
of this section that the actor in good faith gave notice to law enforcement or
judicial authorities within a reasonable time after the child or committed
person came under his or her shelter, protection, or influence.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interference with custody.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this subdivision, a violation of
division (A)(1) above is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the child who is
the subject of a violation of division (A)(1) is removed from the state or if
the offender previously has been convicted of an offense under this section or
a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of
division (A)(1) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law. If the child who is the subject of a violation of division (A)(1)
suffers physical harm as a result of the violation, a violation of division (A)
(1) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (A)(2) or (3) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (3)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. Each day of a violation of division (B) is a separate offense.
(R.C. § 2919.23)
§ 135.12 FALSE REPORT OF CHILD ABUSE OR NEGLECT.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make or cause another person to make a false
report under R.C. § 2151.421(B) alleging that any person has committed an act
or omission that resulted in a child being an abused child as defined in R.C. §
2151.031 or a neglected child as defined in R.C. § 2151.03.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making or causing a false
report of child abuse or child neglect, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2921.14)
§ 135.13 INTERFERENCE WITH SUPPORT ORDERS.
   (A)   No person, by using physical harassment or threats of violence against
another person, shall interfere with the other person's initiation or
continuance of, or attempt to prevent the other person from initiating or
continuing, an action to issue or modify a support order under R.C. Chapter
3115, or under R.C. § 2151.23, 2151.231, 2151.232, 2151.33, 2151.36, 2151.361,
2151.49, 3105.18, 3105.21, 3109.05, 3109.19, 3111.13, 3113.04, 3113.07, or
3113.31.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interfering with an action
to issue or modify a support order, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of
this section or a substantially similar state law or municipal ordinance, or
R.C. § 3111.19, interfering with an action to issue or modify a support order
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2919.231)
CHAPTER 136: OFFENSES AGAINST JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
136.01   Definitions
   
136.02   Assaulting a police dog or horse, or assistance dog
Compounding
   
136.05   Compounding a crime
   
136.06   Failure to report a crime
   
136.07   Failure to aid a law enforcement officer
Obstruction
   
136.10   Falsification
   
136.11   Obstructing official business
   
136.12   Obstructing justice
   
136.13   Resisting arrest
   
136.14   Misuse of 9-1-1 system
   
136.15   Failure to disclose personal information
§ 136.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE, CONTRIBUTION, LEGISLATIVE CAMPAIGN FUND, POLITICAL
ACTION COMMITTEE, POLITICAL CONTRIBUTING ENTITY, and POLITICAL PARTY. Have the
same meanings as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   DETENTION. Arrest; confinement in any vehicle subsequent to an arrest;
confinement in any public or private facility for custody of persons charged
with or convicted of crime in this state or another state or under the laws of
the United States or alleged or found to be a delinquent child or unruly child
in this state or another state or under the laws of the United States;
hospitalization, institutionalization, or confinement in any public or private
facility that is ordered pursuant to or under the authority of R.C. § 2945.37,
2945.371, 2945.38, 2945.39, 2945.40, 2945.401 or 2945.402; confinement in any
vehicle for transportation to or from any facility of any of those natures;
detention for extradition or deportation; except as provided in this division,
supervision by any employee of any facility of any of those natures that is
incidental to hospitalization, institutionalization, or confinement in the
facility but that occurs outside the facility; supervision by an employee of
the Department of  Rehabilitation and Correction of a person on any type of
release from a state correctional institution; or confinement in any vehicle,
airplane, or place while being returned from outside of this state into this
state by a private person or entity pursuant to a contract entered into under
R.C. § 311.29(E) or R.C. § 5149.03(B). For a person confined in a county jail
who participates in a county jail industry program pursuant to R.C. § 5147.30,
DETENTION includes time spent at an assigned work site and going to and from
the work site.
   DETENTION FACILITY. Any public or private place used for the confinement of
a person charged with or convicted of any crime in this state or another state
or under the laws of the United States or alleged or found to be a delinquent
child or an unruly child in this state or another state or under the laws of
the United States.
   OFFICIAL PROCEEDING. Any proceeding before a legislative, judicial,
administrative, or other governmental agency or official authorized to take
evidence under oath, and includes any proceeding before a referee, hearing
examiner, commissioner, notary, or other person taking testimony or a
disposition in connection with an official proceeding.
   PARTY OFFICIAL. Any person who holds an elective or appointive post in a
political party in the United States or this state, by virtue of which he or
she directs, conducts, or participates in directing or conducting party affairs
at any level of responsibility.
   PROVIDER AGREEMENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5164.01.
   PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Any elected or appointed officer, employee, or agent of the
state or any political subdivision thereof, whether in a temporary or permanent
capacity, and includes but is not limited to legislators, judges, and law
enforcement officers. The term does not include an employee, officer, or
governor-appointed member of the board of directors of the nonprofit
corporation formed under R.C. § 187.01.
   PUBLIC SERVANT.  
      (1)   Any of the following:
         (a)   Any public official.
         (b)   Any person performing ad hoc a governmental function, including
but not limited to a juror, member of a temporary commission, master,
arbitrator, advisor, or consultant.
         (c)   A person who is a candidate for public office, whether or not he
or she is elected or appointed to the office for which he or she is a
candidate. A person is a candidate for purposes of this division if he or she
has been nominated according to law for election or appointment to public
office, or if he or she has filed a petition or petitions as required by law to
have his or her name placed on the ballot in a primary, general, or special
election, or if he or she campaigns as a write-in candidate in any primary,
general, or special election.
      (2)   The term does not include an employee, officer, or governor-
appointed member of the board of directors of the nonprofit corporation formed
under R.C. § 187.01.
   VALUABLE THING or VALUABLE BENEFIT. Includes, but is not limited to, a
contribution. This inclusion does not indicate or imply that a contribution was
not included in those terms before September 17, 1986.
(R.C. § 2921.01)
§ 136.02 ASSAULTING A POLICE DOG OR HORSE, OR ASSISTANCE DOG.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cause, or attempt to cause, physical harm to
a police dog or horse in either of the following circumstances:
      (1)   The police dog or horse is assisting a law enforcement officer in
the performance of the officer's official duties at the time the physical harm
is caused or attempted.
      (2)   The police dog or horse is not assisting a law enforcement officer
in the performance of the officer's official duties at the time the physical
harm is caused or attempted, but the offender has actual knowledge that the dog
or horse is a police dog or horse.
   (B)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following:
      (1)   Taunt, torment, or strike a police dog or horse;
      (2)   Throw an object or substance at a police dog or horse;
      (3)   Interfere with or obstruct a police dog or horse, or interfere with
or obstruct a law enforcement officer who is being assisted by a police dog or
horse, in a manner that does any of the following:
         (a)   Inhibits or restricts the law enforcement officer’s control of
the police dog or horse;
         (b)   Deprives the law enforcement officer of control of the police
dog or horse;
         (c)   Releases the police dog or horse from its area of control;
         (d)   Enters the area of control of the police dog or horse without
the consent of the law enforcement officer, including placing food or any other
object or substance into that area;
         (e)   Inhibits or restricts the ability of the police dog or horse to
assist a law enforcement officer;
      (4)   Engage in any conduct that is likely to cause serious physical
injury or death to a police dog or horse.
      (5)   If the person is the owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog, fail to
reasonably restrain the dog from taunting, tormenting, chasing, approaching in
a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack, or attempting to bite or
otherwise endanger a police dog or horse that at the time of the conduct, the
police dog or horse is assisting a law enforcement officer in the performance
of the officer's duties or that the person knows is a police dog or horse.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly cause, or attempt to cause, physical harm to
an assistance dog in either of the following circumstances:
      (1)   The dog, at the time the physical harm is caused or attempted, is
assisting or serving a person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired or a
person with a mobility impairment.
      (2)   The dog, at the time the physical harm is caused or attempted, is
not assisting or serving a person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired or a
person with a mobility impairment, but the offender has actual knowledge that
the dog is an assistance dog.
   (D)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following:
      (1)   Taunt, torment, or strike an assistance dog;
      (2)   Throw an object or substance at an assistance dog;
      (3)   Interfere with or obstruct an assistance dog, or interfere with or
obstruct a person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired or a person with a
mobility impairment who is being assisted or served by an assistance dog, in a
manner that does any of the following:
         (a)   Inhibits or restricts the assisted or served person’s control of
the dog;
         (b)   Deprives the assisted or served person of control of the dog;
         (c)   Releases the dog from its area of control;
         (d)   Enters the area of control of the dog without the consent of the
assisted or served person, including placing food or any other object or
substance into that area;
         (e)   Inhibits or restricts the ability of the dog to assist the
assisted or served person;
      (4)   Engage in any conduct that is likely to cause serious physical
injury or death to an assistance dog;
      (5)   If the person is the owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog, fail to
reasonably restrain the dog from taunting, tormenting, chasing, approaching in
a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack, or attempting to bite or
otherwise endanger an assistance dog that at the time of the conduct is
assisting or serving a person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired or a
person with a mobility impairment or that the person knows is an assistance
dog.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
assaulting a police dog or horse. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, assaulting a police dog or horse is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. If the violation results in physical harm to the police dog or horse
other than death or serious physical harm, assaulting a police dog or horse is
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation results in serious physical
harm to the police dog or horse or results in its death, assaulting a police
dog or horse is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
harassing a police dog or horse. Except as otherwise provided this division,
harassing a police dog or horse is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
violation results in physical harm to the police dog or horse but does not
result in its death or in serious physical harm to it, harassing a police dog
or horse is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation results in
serous physical harm to the police dog or horse or results in its death,
harassing a police dog or horse is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of
assaulting an assistance dog. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
assaulting an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
violation results in physical harm to the assistance dog other than death or
serious physical harm, assaulting an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the violation results in serious physical harm to the
assistance dog or results in its death, assaulting an assistance dog is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of
harassing an assistance dog. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
harassing an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
violation results in physical harm to the assistance dog but does not result in
the death or in serious physical harm to it, harassing an assistance dog is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation results in serious physical
harm to the assistance dog or results in its death, harassing an assistance dog
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   In addition to any other sanctions or penalty imposed for the
offense under this section, R.C. Chapter 2929 or any other provision of the
Revised Code or this code, whoever violates division (A), (B), (C), or (D) of
this section is responsible for the payment of all of the following:
         (a)   Any veterinary bill or bill for medication incurred as a result
of the violation by the police department regarding a violation of division (A)
or (B) of this section or by the person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired
or the person with a mobility impairment assisted or served by the assistance
dog regarding a violation of division (C) or (D) of this section;
         (b)   The cost of any damaged equipment that results from the
violation;
         (c)   If the violation did not result in the death of the police dog
or horse or the assistance dog that was the subject of the violation and if, as
a result of that dog or horse being the subject of the violation, the dog or
horse needs further training or retraining to be able to continue in the
capacity of a police dog or horse or an assistance dog, the cost of any further
training or retraining of that dog or horse by a law enforcement officer or by
the person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired or the person with a
mobility impairment assisted or served by the assistance dog;
         (d)   If the violation resulted in the death of the assistance dog
that was the subject of the violation or resulted in serious physical harm to
the police dog or horse or the assistance dog or horse that was the subject of
the violation to the extent that the dog or horse needs to be replaced on
either a temporary or a permanent basis, the cost of replacing that dog or
horse and of any further training of a new police dog or horse or a new
assistance dog by a law enforcement officer or by the person who is blind,
deaf, or hearing impaired or the person with a mobility impairment assisted or
served by the assistance dog, which replacement or training is required because
of the death of or the serious physical harm to the dog or horse that was the
subject of the violation.
   (F)   This section does not apply to a licensed veterinarian whose conduct
is in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4741.
   (G)   This section only applies to an offender who knows or should know at
the time of the violation that the police dog or horse or assistance dog that
is the subject of a violation under this section is a police dog or horse or an
assistance dog.
   (H)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ASSISTANCE DOG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 955.011.
      BLIND. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 955.011.
      PERSON WITH A MOBILITY IMPAIRMENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
955.011.
      PHYSICAL HARM. Any injury, illness, or other psychological impairment,
regardless of its gravity or duration.
      POLICE DOG OR HORSE. A dog or horse that has been trained and may be used
to assist law enforcement officers in the performance of their official duties.
      SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM. Any of the following:
         (a)   Any physical harm that carries a substantial risk of death.
         (b)   Any physical harm that causes permanent maiming or that involves
some temporary, substantial maiming.
         (c)   Any physical harm that causes acute pain of a duration that
results in substantial suffering.
(R.C. § 2921.321)
COMPOUNDING
§ 136.05 COMPOUNDING A CRIME.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly demand, accept, or agree to accept anything
of value in consideration of abandoning or agreeing to abandon a pending
criminal prosecution.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section when both
of the following apply:
      (1)   The pending prosecution involved is for a violation of R.C. §
2913.02, 2913.11, 2913.21(B)(2), or 2913.47, or a substantially similar
municipal ordinance, of which the actor under this section was the victim.
      (2)   The thing of value demanded, accepted, or agreed to be accepted, in
consideration of abandoning or agreeing to abandon the prosecution, did not
exceed an amount that the actor reasonably believed due him or her as
restitution for the loss caused him or her by the offense.
   (C)   When a prosecuting witness abandons or agrees to abandon a prosecution
under division (B) of this section, the abandonment or agreement in no way
binds the state to abandoning the prosecution.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of compounding a crime, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2921.21)
§ 136.06 FAILURE TO REPORT A CRIME.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2) of this section, no
person, knowing that a felony has been or is being committed, shall knowingly
fail to report the information to law enforcement authorities.
      (2)   No person, knowing that a violation of R.C. § 2913.04(B) has been
or is being committed or that the person has received information derived from
such a violation, shall knowingly fail to report the violation to law
enforcement authorities.
   (B)   Except for conditions that are within the scope of division (E) of
this section, no person giving aid to a sick or injured person shall
negligently fail to report to law enforcement authorities any gunshot or stab
wound treated or observed by the person, or any serious physical harm to
persons that the person knows or has reasonable cause to believe resulted from
an offense of violence.
   (C)   No person who discovers the body or acquires the first knowledge of
the death of a person shall fail to report the death immediately to a physician
or advanced practice registered nurse whom the person knows to be treating the
deceased for a condition from which death at such time would not be unexpected,
or to a law enforcement officer, an ambulance service, an emergency squad, or
the coroner in a political subdivision in which the body is discovered, the
death is believed to have occurred, or knowledge concerning the death is
obtained. For purposes of this division, “advanced practice registered nurse”
does not include a certified registered nurse anesthetist.
   (D)   No person shall fail to provide upon request of the person to whom a
report required by division (C) of this section was made, or to any law
enforcement officer who has reasonable cause to assert the authority to
investigate the circumstances surrounding the death, any facts within his or
her knowledge that may have a bearing on the investigation of the death.
   (E)   (1)   As used in this section, BURN INJURY means any of the following:
         (a)   Second or third degree burns;
         (b)   Any burns to the upper respiratory tract or laryngeal edema due
to the inhalation of super-heated air;
         (c)   Any burn injury or wound that may result in death;
         (d)   Any physical harm to persons caused by or as the result of the
use of fireworks, novelties and trick noisemakers, and wire sparklers, as each
is defined by R.C. § 3743.01.
      (2)   No physician, nurse, physician assistant or limited practitioner
who, outside a hospital, sanitarium, or other medical facility, attends or
treats a person who has sustained a burn injury inflicted by an explosion or
other incendiary device, or that shows evidence of having been inflicted in a
violent, malicious, or criminal manner, shall fail to report the burn injury
immediately to the local arson bureau, if there is such a bureau in the
jurisdiction in which the person is attended or treated, or otherwise to local
law enforcement authorities.
      (3)   No manager, superintendent, or other person in charge of a
hospital, sanitarium, or other medical facility in which a person is attended
or treated for any burn injury inflicted by an explosion or other incendiary
device, or that shows evidence of having been inflicted in a violent,
malicious, or criminal manner, shall fail to report the burn injury immediately
to the local arson bureau, if there is such a bureau in the jurisdiction in
which the person is attended or treated, or otherwise to local law enforcement
authorities.
      (4)   No person who is required to report any burn injury under division
(E)(2) or (3) of this section shall fail to file, within three working days
after attending or treating the victim, a written report of the burn injury
with the office of the State Fire Marshal. The report shall be made on a form
provided by the State Fire Marshal.
      (5)   Anyone participating in the making of reports under division (E) of
this section or anyone participating in a judicial proceeding resulting from
the reports is immune from any civil or criminal liability that otherwise might
be incurred or imposed as a result of such actions. Notwithstanding R.C. §
4731.22, the physician-patient relationship or advanced practice registered
nurse- patient relationship is not a ground for excluding evidence regarding a
person’s burn injury or the cause of the burn injury in any judicial proceeding
resulting from a report submitted under division (E) of this section.
   (F)   (1)   Any doctor of medicine or osteopathic medicine, hospital intern
or resident, nurse, psychologist, social worker, independent social worker,
social work assistant, licensed professional clinical counselor, licensed
professional counselor, independent marriage and family therapist, or marriage
and family therapist who knows or has reasonable cause to believe that a
patient or client has been the victim of domestic violence, as defined in R.C.
§ 3113.31, shall note that knowledge or belief and the basis for it in the
patient’s or client’s records.
      (2)   Notwithstanding R.C. § 4731.22, the physician-patient privilege or
advanced practice registered nurse-patient privilege shall not be a ground for
excluding any information regarding the report containing the knowledge or
belief noted under division (F)(1) of this section, and the information may be
admitted as evidence in accordance with the Rules of Evidence.
   (G)   Division (A) or (D) of this section does not require disclosure of
information, when any of the following applies:
      (1)   The information is privileged by reason of the relationship between
attorney and client; physician and patient; advanced practice registered nurse
and patient; licensed psychologist or licensed school psychologist and client;
licensed professional clinical counselor, licensed professional counselor,
independent social worker, social worker, independent marriage and family
therapist, or marriage and family therapist and client; member of the clergy,
rabbi, minister, or priest and any person communicating information
confidentially to the member of the clergy, rabbi, minister, or priest for a
religious counseling purpose of a professional character; husband and wife; or
a communications assistant and those who are a party to a telecommunications
relay service call.
      (2)   The information would tend to incriminate a member of the actor's
immediate family.
      (3)   Disclosure of the information would amount to revealing a news
source, privileged under R.C. § 2739.04 or 2739.12.
      (4)   Disclosure of the information would amount to disclosure by a
member of the ordained clergy of an organized religious body of a confidential
communication made to that member of the clergy in that member's capacity as a
member of the clergy by a person seeking the aid or counsel of that member of
the clergy.
      (5)   Disclosure would amount to revealing information acquired by the
actor in the course of the actor's duties in connection with a bona fide
program of treatment or services for persons with drug dependencies or persons
in danger of drug dependence, which program is maintained or conducted by a
hospital, clinic, person, agency, or community addiction services provider
whose alcohol and drug addiction services are certified pursuant to R.C. §
5119.36.
      (6)   Disclosure would amount to revealing information acquired by the
actor in the course of the actor's duties in connection with a bona fide
program for providing counseling services to victims of crimes that are
violations of R.C. § 2907.02 or R.C. § 2907.05 or to victims of felonious
sexual penetration in violation of former R.C. § 2907.12. As used in this
division, COUNSELING SERVICES include services provided in an informal setting
by a person who, by education or experience, is competent to provide those
services.
   (H)   No disclosure of information pursuant to this section gives rise to
any liability or recrimination for a breach of privilege or confidence.
   (I)   Whoever violates division (A) or (B) of this section is guilty of
failure to report a crime. Violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Violation of division (A)(2) or (B) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (J)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty of
failure to report knowledge of a death, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (K)   (1)   Whoever negligently violates division (E) of this section is
guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Whoever knowingly violates division (E) of this section is guilty
of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (L)   As used in this section, NURSE includes an advanced practice
registered nurse, registered nurse, and licensed practical nurse.
(R.C. § 2921.22)
§ 136.07 FAILURE TO AID A LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall negligently fail or refuse to aid a law enforcement
officer, when called upon for assistance in preventing or halting the
commission of an offense, or in apprehending or detaining an offender, when the
aid can be given without a substantial risk of physical harm to the person
giving it.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to aid a law
enforcement officer, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2921.23) ('56 Code, § 5-15)
OBSTRUCTION
§ 136.10 FALSIFICATION.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make a false statement, or knowingly swear
or affirm the truth of a false statement previously made, when any of the
following applies:
      (1)   The statement is made in any official proceeding.
      (2)   The statement is made with purpose to incriminate another.
      (3)   The statement is made with purpose to mislead a public official in
performing his or her official function.
      (4)   The statement is made with purpose to secure the payment of
unemployment compensation; Ohio Works First; prevention, retention and
contingency benefits and services; disability financial assistance; retirement
benefits or health care coverage from a state retirement system; economic
development assistance as defined in R.C. § 9.66; or other benefits
administered by a governmental agency or paid out of a public treasury.
      (5)   The statement is made with purpose to secure the issuance by a
governmental agency of a license, permit, authorization, certificate,
registration, release, or provider agreement.
      (6)   The statement is sworn or affirmed before a notary public or
another person empowered to administer oaths.
      (7)   The statement is in writing on or in connection with a report or
return that is required or authorized by law.
      (8)   The statement is in writing, and is made with purpose to induce
another to extend credit to or employ the offender, or to confer any degree,
diploma, certificate of attainment, award of excellence, or honor on the
offender, or to extend to or bestow upon the offender any other valuable
benefit or distinction, when the person to whom the statement is directed
relies upon it to his or her detriment.
      (9)   The statement is made with purpose to commit or facilitate the
commission of a theft offense.
      (10)   The statement is knowingly made to a probate court in connection
with any action, proceeding, or other matter within its jurisdiction, either
orally or in a written document, including, but not limited to, an application,
petition, complaint, or other pleading, or an inventory, account, or report.
      (11)   The statement is made on an account, form, record, stamp, label or
other writing that is required by law.
      (12)   The statement is made in connection with the purchase of a
firearm, as defined in R.C. § 2923.11, and in conjunction with the furnishing
to the seller of the firearm of a fictitious or altered driver's or commercial
driver's license or permit, a fictitious or altered identification card, or any
other document that contains false information about the purchaser's identity.
      (13)   The statement is made in a document or instrument of writing that
purports to be a judgment, lien, or claim of indebtedness and is filed or
recorded with the Secretary of State, a county recorder, or the clerk of a
court of record.
      (14)   The statement is made in an application filed with a county
sheriff pursuant to R.C. § 2923.125 in order to obtain or renew a concealed
handgun license or is made in an affidavit submitted to a county sheriff to
obtain a concealed handgun license on a temporary emergency basis under R.C. §
2923.1213.
      (15)   The statement is required under R.C. § 5743.71 in connection with
the person’s purchase of cigarettes or tobacco products in a delivery sale.
   (B)   No person, in connection with the purchase of a firearm as defined in
R.C. § 2923.11, shall knowingly furnish to the seller of the firearm a
fictitious or altered driver's or commercial driver's license or permit, a
fictitious or altered identification card, or any other document that contains
false information about the purchaser's identity.
   (C)   No person, in an attempt to obtain a concealed handgun license under
R.C. § 2923.125, shall knowingly present to a sheriff a fictitious or altered
document that purports to be certification of the person’s competence in
handling a handgun as described in division (B)(3) of that section.
   (D)   It is no defense to a charge under division (A)(6) of this section
that the oath or affirmation was administered or taken in an irregular manner.
   (E)   If contradictory statements relating to the same fact are made by the
offender within the period of the statute of limitations for falsification, it
is not necessary for the prosecution to prove which statement was false, but
only that one or the other was false.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), (A)
(5), (A)(6), (A)(7), (A)(8), (A)(10), (A)(11), (A)(13) or (A)(15) of this
section is guilty of falsification. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, falsification is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(9) of this section is guilty of
falsification in a theft offense. Except as other wise provided in this
division, falsification in a theft offense is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the value of the property or services stolen is $500 or more,
falsification in a theft offense is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A)(12) or (B) of this section is guilty
of falsification to purchase a firearm, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (A)(14) or (C) of this section is guilty
of falsification to obtain a concealed handgun license, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section in removal
proceedings under R.C. § 319.26, 321.37, 507.13 or 733.78 is guilty of
falsification regarding a removal proceeding, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.13)
   (G)   (1)   No person who has knowingly failed to maintain proof of
financial responsibility in accordance with R.C. § 4509.101 shall produce any
document or present to a peace officer an electronic wireless communications
device that is displaying any text or images with the purpose to mislead a
peace officer upon the request of a peace officer for proof of financial
responsibility made in accordance with R.C. § 4509.101(D)(2).
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (G) is guilty of falsification, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4509.102)
Cross-reference:
   Fraudulent application for driver's license, see §
71.01
Statutory reference:
   Civil liability for violations of this section, see R.C. § 2921.13(G)
§ 136.11 OBSTRUCTING OFFICIAL BUSINESS.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so and with purpose to prevent,
obstruct, or delay the performance by a public official of any authorized act
within the public official's official capacity, shall do any act that hampers
or impedes a public official in the performance of the public official's lawful
duties.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of obstructing official
business. Except as otherwise provided in this division, obstructing official
business is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If a violation of this section
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, obstructing official business is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.31) ('56 Code, § 5-15)
Cross-reference:
   Resisting traffic officer, see §
70.04
§ 136.12 OBSTRUCTING JUSTICE.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to hinder the discovery, apprehension,
prosecution, conviction, or punishment of another for crime, or to assist
another to benefit from the commission of a crime, and no person, with purpose
to hinder the discovery, apprehension, prosecution, adjudication as a
delinquent child, or disposition of a child for an act that if committed by an
adult would be a crime or to assist a child to benefit from the commission of
an act that if committed by an adult would be a crime, shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Harbor or conceal the other person or child.
      (2)   Provide the other person or child with money, transportation, a
weapon, a disguise, or other means of avoiding discovery or apprehension.
      (3)   Warn the other person or child of impending discovery or
apprehension.
      (4)   Destroy or conceal physical evidence of the crime or act, or induce
any person to withhold testimony or information or to elude legal process
summoning him or her to testify or supply evidence.
      (5)   Communicate false information to any person.
      (6)   Prevent or obstruct any person, by means of force, intimidation, or
deception, from performing any act to aid in the discovery, apprehension, or
prosecution of the other person or child.
   (B)   A person may be prosecuted for, and may be convicted of or adjudicated
a delinquent child for committing, a violation of division (A) of this section
regardless of whether the person or child aided ultimately is apprehended for,
is charged with, is convicted of, pleads guilty to, or is adjudicated a
delinquent child for committing the crime or act the person or child aided
committed. The crime or act the person or child aided committed shall be used
under division (C) of this section in determining the penalty for violation of
division (A) of this section, regardless of whether the person or child aided
ultimately is apprehended for, is charge with, is convicted of, pleads guilty
to, or is adjudicated a delinquent child for committing the crime or act the
person or child aided committed.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of obstructing justice.
      (1)   If the crime committed by the person aided is a misdemeanor or if
the act committed by the child aided would be a misdemeanor if committed by an
adult, obstructing justice is a misdemeanor of the same degree as the crime
committed by the person aided or a misdemeanor of the same degree that the act
committed by the child aided would be if committed by an adult.
      (2)   If the crime committed by the person aided is a felony or if the
act committed by the child aided would be a felony if committed by an adult, or
if the crime or act committed by the person or child aided is an act of
terrorism, obstructing justice is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      ACT OF TERRORISM has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.21.
      ADULT and CHILD have the same meaning as in R.C. § 2151.011.
      DELINQUENT CHILD has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2152.02.
(R.C. § 2921.32) ('56 Code, § 5-15)
§ 136.13 RESISTING ARREST.
   (A)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of himself, herself or another.
   (B)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of the person or another person and, during the course of or as a
result of the resistance or interference, cause physical harm to a law
enforcement officer.
   (C)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of the person or another person if either of the following
applies:
      (1)   The offender, during the course of or as a result of the resistance
or interference, recklessly causes physical harm to a law enforcement officer
by means of a deadly weapon; or
      (2)   The offender, during the course of the resistance or interference,
brandishes a deadly weapon.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of resisting arrest. A
violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. A violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. A violation of division (C) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (E)   As used in this section, DEADLY WEAPON has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 2923.11.
(R.C. § 2921.33) ('56 Code, § 5-15)
Cross-reference:
   Resisting traffic officer, see §
70.04
§ 136.14 MISUSE OF 9-1-1 SYSTEM.
   (A)   As used in this section, 9-1-1 SYSTEM means a system through which
individuals can request emergency service using the telephone number 9-1-1.
(R.C. § 128.01(A))
   (B)   No person shall knowingly use the telephone number of a 9-1-1 system
established under R.C. Chapter 128 to report an emergency if the person knows
that no emergency exists.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly use a 9-1-1 system for a purpose other than
obtaining emergency service.
   (D)   No person shall disclose or use any information concerning telephone
numbers, addresses, or names obtained from the database that serves the public
safety answering point of a 9-1-1 system established under R.C. Chapter 128,
except for any of the following purposes or under any of the following
circumstances:
      (1)   For the purpose of the 9-1-1 system;
      (2)   For the purpose of responding to an emergency call to an emergency
service provider;
      (3)   In the circumstance of the inadvertent disclosure of such
information due solely to technology of the wireless telephone network portion
of the 9-1-1 system not allowing access to the database to be restricted to 9-
1-1 specific answering lines at a public safety answering point;
      (4)   In the circumstance of access to a database being given by a
telephone company that is a wireless service provider to a public utility or
municipal utility in handling customer calls in times of public emergency or
service outages. The charge, terms, and conditions for the disclosure or use of
such information for the purpose of such access to a database assistance shall
be subject to the jurisdiction of the Steering Committee;
      (5)   In the circumstance of access to a database given by a telephone
company that is a wireline service provider to a state and local government in
warning of a public emergency, as determined by the Steering Committee. The
charge, terms and conditions for the disclosure or use of that information for
the purpose of access to a database is subject to the jurisdiction of the
Steering Committee.
(R.C. § 128.32(E) - (G))
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 128.99(A), (B))
§ 136.15 FAILURE TO DISCLOSE PERSONAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   No person who is in a public place shall refuse to disclose the
person’s name, address, or date of birth, when requested by a law enforcement
officer who reasonably suspects either of the following:
      (1)   The person is committing, has committed, or is about to commit a
criminal offense.
      (2)   The person witnessed any of the following:
         (a)   An offense of violence that would constitute a felony under the
laws of this state;
         (b)   A felony offense that causes or results in, or creates a
substantial risk of, serious physical harm to another person or property;
         (c)   Any attempt or conspiracy to commit, or complicity in
committing, any offenses identified in division (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)(b) of this
section;
         (d)   Any conduct reasonably indicating that any offense identified in
division (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)(b) of this section or any attempt, conspiracy, or
complicity described in division (A)(2)(c) of this section has been, is being,
or is about to be committed.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of failure to
disclose one’s personal information, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (C)   Nothing in division (A) of this section requires a person to answer
any questions beyond that person’s name, address, or date of birth. Nothing in
division (A) of this section authorizes a law enforcement officer to arrest a
person for not providing any information beyond the person’s name, address, or
date of birth or for refusing to describe the offense observed.
   (D)   It is not a violation of division (A) of this section to refuse to
answer a question that would reveal a person’s age or date of birth if age is
an element of the crime that the person is suspected of committing.
(R.C. § 2921.29)
   (E)   No person entering an airport, train station, port, or other similar
critical transportation infrastructure site shall refuse to show identification
when requested by a law enforcement officer when there is a threat to security
and the law enforcement officer is requiring identification of all persons
entering the site.
   (F)   A law enforcement officer may prevent any person who refuses to show
identification when asked under the circumstances described in division (E) of
this section from entering the critical transportation infrastructure site.
(R.C. § 2909.31)
CHAPTER 137: WEAPONS CONTROL
Section
   
137.01   Definitions
   
137.02   Carrying concealed weapons
   
137.03   Using weapons while intoxicated
   
137.04   Improperly handling firearms in a motor vehicle
   
137.05   Failure to secure dangerous ordnance
   
137.06   Unlawful transactions in weapons
   
137.07   Underage purchase of firearm or handgun
   
137.08   Discharging firearms
   
137.09   Concealed handgun licenses: possession of a revoked or suspended
license; additional restrictions; posting of signs prohibiting possession
   
137.10   Defaced firearms
§ 137.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTIVE DUTY. Has the same meaning as defined in 10 U.S.C. § 101.
   ALIEN REGISTRATION NUMBER. The number issued by the United States
Citizenship and Immigration Services Agency that is located on the alien’s
permanent resident card and may also be commonly referred to as the “USCIS
number” or the “alien number”.
   AUTOMATIC FIREARM. Any firearm designed or specially adapted to fire a
succession of cartridges with a single function of the trigger.
   BALLISTIC KNIFE. A knife with a detachable blade that is propelled by a
spring-operated mechanism.
   CONCEALED HANDGUN LICENSE or LICENSE TO CARRY A CONCEALED HANDGUN .
      (1)   Means, subject to division (2) of this definition, a license or
temporary emergency license to carry a concealed handgun issued under R.C. §
2923.125 or R.C. § 2923.1213 or a license to carry a concealed handgun issued
by another state with which the Attorney General has entered into a reciprocity
agreement under R.C. § 109.69.
      (2)   A reference in any provision of this Code to a concealed handgun
license issued under R.C. § 2923.125 or a license to carry a concealed handgun
issued under R.C. § 2923.125 means only a license of the type that is specified
in that section. A reference in any provision of this Code to a concealed
handgun license issued under R.C. § 2923.1213, a license to carry a concealed
handgun issued under R.C. § 2923.1213, or a license to carry a concealed
handgun on a temporary emergency basis means only a license of the type that is
specified in R.C. § 2923.1213. A reference in any provision of this Code to a
concealed handgun license issued by another state or a license to carry a
concealed handgun issued by another state means only a license issued by
another state with which the Attorney General has entered into a reciprocity
agreement under R.C. § 109.69.
   DANGEROUS ORDNANCE.
      (1)   Any of the following, except as provided in division (2) of this
definition:
         (a)   Any automatic or sawed-off firearm, zip-gun, or ballistic knife.
         (b)   Any explosive device or incendiary device.
         (c)   Nitroglycerin, nitrocellulose, nitrostarch, PETN, cyclonite,
TNT, picric acid, and other high explosives; amatol, tritonal, tetrytol,
pentolite, pecretol, cyclotol, and other high explosive compositions; plastic
explosives; dynamite, blasting gelatin, gelatin dynamite, sensitized ammonium
nitrate, liquid-oxygen blasting explosives, blasting powder, and other blasting
agents; and any other explosive substance having sufficient brisance or power
to be particularly suitable for use as a military explosive, or for use in
mining, quarrying, excavating, or demolitions.
         (d)   Any firearm, rocket launcher, mortar, artillery piece, grenade,
mine, bomb, torpedo, or similar weapon, designed and manufactured for military
purposes, and the ammunition for that weapon.
         (e)   Any firearm muffler or suppressor.
         (f)   Any combination of parts that is intended by the owner for use
in converting any firearm or other device into a dangerous ordnance.
      (2)    DANGEROUS ORDNANCE does not include any of the following:
         (a)   Any firearm, including a military weapon and the ammunition for
that weapon, and regardless of its actual age, that employs a percussion cap or
other obsolete ignition system, or that is designed and safe for use only with
black powder.
         (b)   Any pistol, rifle, or shotgun, designed or suitable for sporting
purposes, including a military weapon as issued or as modified, and the
ammunition for that weapon, unless the firearm is an automatic or sawed-off
firearm.
         (c)   Any cannon or other artillery piece that, regardless of its
actual age, is of a type in accepted use prior to 1887, has no mechanical,
hydraulic, pneumatic, or other system for absorbing recoil and returning the
tube into battery without displacing the carriage, and is designed and safe for
use only with black powder.
         (d)   Black powder, priming quills, and percussion caps possessed and
lawfully used to fire a cannon of a type defined in division (2)(c) of this
definition during displays, celebrations, organized matches or shoots, and
target practice, and smokeless and black powder, primers, and percussion caps
possessed and lawfully used as a propellant or ignition device in small-arms or
small-arms ammunition.
         (e)   Dangerous ordnance that is inoperable or inert and cannot
readily be rendered operable or activated, and that is kept as a trophy,
souvenir, curio, or museum piece.
         (f)   Any device that is expressly excepted from the definition of a
destructive device pursuant to the Gun Control Act of 1968, 18 U.S.C. 921(a)
(4), as amended, and regulations issued under that act.
         (g)   Any firearm with an overall length of at least 26 inches that is
approved for sale by the Federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and
Explosives under the "Gun Control Act of 1968", 82 Stat. 1213, 18 U.S.C. § 921
(a)(3), but that is found by the Bureau not to be regulated under the "National
Firearms Act", 68A Stat. 725 (1934), 26 U.S.C. § 5845(a).
   DEADLY WEAPON. Any instrument, device, or thing capable of inflicting death,
and designed or specially adapted for use as a weapon, or possessed, carried,
or used as a weapon.
   EXPLOSIVE. Any chemical compound, mixture, or device, the primary or common
purpose of which is to function by explosion. EXPLOSIVE includes all materials
that have been classified as division 1.1, division 1.2, division 1.3, or
division 1.4 explosives by the United States Department of Transportation in
its regulations and includes, but is not limited to, dynamite, black powder,
pellet powders, initiating explosives, blasting caps, electric blasting caps,
safety fuses, fuse igniters, squibs, cordeau detonant fuses, instantaneous
fuses, and igniter cords and igniters. EXPLOSIVES does not include “fireworks,”
as defined in R.C. § 3743.01, or any substance or material otherwise meeting
the definition of explosive set forth in this section that is manufactured,
sold, possessed, transported, stored, or used in any activity described in R.C.
§ 3743.80, provided the activity is conducted in accordance with all applicable
laws, rules, and regulations, including but not limited to the provisions of
R.C. § 3743.80 and the rules of the Fire Marshal adopted pursuant to R.C. §
3737.82.
   EXPLOSIVE DEVICE. Any device designed or specially adapted to cause physical
harm to persons or property by means of an explosion, and consisting of an
explosive substance or agency and a means to detonate it. EXPLOSIVE DEVICE
includes without limitation any bomb, any explosive demolition device, any
blasting cap or detonator containing an explosive charge, and any pressure
vessel that has been knowingly tampered with or arranged so as to explode.
   FIREARM.
      (1)   Any deadly weapon capable of expelling or propelling one or more
projectiles by the action of an explosive or combustible propellant. FIREARM
includes an unloaded firearm, and any firearm that is inoperable but that can
readily be rendered operable.
      (2)   When determining whether a firearm is capable of expelling or
propelling one or more projectiles by the action of an explosive or combustible
propellant, the trier of fact may rely upon circumstantial evidence, including,
but not limited to, the representations and actions of the individual
exercising control over the firearm.
   HANDGUN. Means any of the following:
      (1)   Any firearm that has a short stock and is designed to be held and
fired by the use of a single hand;
      (2)   Any combination of parts from which a firearm of a type described
in division (1) of this definition can be assembled.
   INCENDIARY DEVICE. Any firebomb, and any device designed or specially
adapted to cause physical harm to persons or property by means of fire, and
consisting of an incendiary substance or agent and a means to ignite it.
   MISDEMEANOR PUNISHABLE BY IMPRISONMENT FOR A TERM EXCEEDING ONE YEAR. The
phrase does not include any of the following:
      (1)   Any federal or state offense pertaining to antitrust violations,
unfair trade practices, restraints of trade, or other similar offenses relating
to the regulation of business practices;
      (2)   Any misdemeanor offense punishable by a term of imprisonment of two
years or less.
   SAWED-OFF FIREARM. A shotgun with a barrel less than 18 inches long, or a
rifle with a barrel less than 16 inches long, or a shotgun or rifle less than
26 inches long overall. SAWED-OFF FIREARM does not include any firearm with an
overall length of at least 26 inches that is approved for sale by the Federal
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives under the "Gun Control Act
of 1968", 82 Stat. 1213, 18 U.S.C. § 921(a)(3), but that is found by the Bureau
not to be regulated under the "National Firearms Act", 68A Stat. 725 (1934), 26
U.S.C. § 5845(a).
   SEMI-AUTOMATIC FIREARM. Any firearm designed or specially adapted to fire a
single cartridge and automatically chamber a succeeding cartridge ready to
fire, with a single function of the trigger.
   VALID CONCEALED HANDGUN LICENSE or VALID LICENSE TO CARRY A CONCEALED
HANDGUN. A concealed handgun license that is currently valid, that is not under
a suspension under R.C. § 2923.128(A)(1), under R.C. § 2923.1213, or under a
suspension provision of the state other than this state in which the license
was issued, and that has not been revoked under R.C. § 2923.128(B)(1), under
R.C. § 2923.1213, or under a revocation provision of the state other than this
state in which the license was issued.
   ZIP-GUN. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any firearm of crude and extemporized manufacture.
      (2)   Any device, including without limitation a starter's pistol, not
designed as a firearm, but that is specially adapted for use as a firearm.
      (3)   Any industrial tool, signalling device, or safety device, not
designed as a firearm, but that as designed is capable of use as such, when
possessed, carried, or used as a firearm.
(R.C. § 2923.11)
§ 137.02 CARRYING CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly carry or have, concealed on the person's
person or concealed ready at hand, any of the following:
      (1)   A deadly weapon other than a handgun;
      (2)   A handgun other than a dangerous ordnance;
      (3)   A dangerous ordnance.
   (B)   No person who has been issued a concealed handgun license shall do any
of the following:
      (1)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose and is
carrying a concealed handgun, before or at the time a law enforcement officer
asks if the person is carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly fail to disclose
that the person then is carrying a concealed handgun, provided that it is not a
violation of this division if the person fails to disclose that fact to an
officer during the stop and the person already has notified another officer of
that fact during the same stop;
      (2)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose and is
carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly fail to keep the person’s hands in
plain sight at any time after any law enforcement officer begins approaching
the person while stopped and before the law enforcement officer leaves, unless
the failure is pursuant to and in accordance with directions given by a law
enforcement officer;
      (3)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose, if the
person is carrying a concealed handgun, and if the person is approached by any
law enforcement officer while stopped, knowingly remove or attempt to remove
the loaded handgun from the holster, pocket, or other place in which the person
is carrying it, knowingly grasp or hold the loaded handgun, or knowingly have
contact with the loaded handgun by touching it with the person’s hands or
fingers at any time after the law enforcement officer begins approaching and
before the law enforcement officer leaves, unless the person removes, attempts
to remove, grasps, holds, or has contact with the loaded handgun pursuant to
and in accordance with directions given by the law enforcement officer;
      (4)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose and is
carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly disregard or fail to comply with any
lawful order of any law enforcement officer given while the person is stopped,
including, but not limited to, a specific order to the person to keep the
person’s hands in plain sight.
   (C)   (1)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   An officer, agent, or employee of this or any other state or the
United States, or to a law enforcement officer, who is authorized to carry
concealed weapons or dangerous ordnance or is authorized to carry handguns and
is acting within the scope of the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s duties;
         (b)   Any person who is employed in this state, who is authorized to
carry concealed weapons or dangerous ordnance or is authorized to carry
handguns, and who is subject to and in compliance with the requirements of R.C.
§ 109.801, unless the appointing authority of the person has expressly
specified that the exemption provided in this division (C)(1)(b) does not apply
to the person;
         (c)   A person’s transportation or storage of a firearm, other than a
firearm described in R.C. § 2923.11(G) to (M), in a motor vehicle for any
lawful purpose if the firearm is not on the actor’s person;
         (d)   A person’s storage or possession of a firearm, other than a
firearm described in R.C. § 2923.11(G) to (M), in the actor’s own home for any
lawful purpose.
      (2)   Division (A)(2) of this section does not apply to any person who
has been issued a concealed handgun license that is valid at the time of the
alleged carrying or possession of a handgun or who, at the time of the alleged
carrying or possession of a handgun, is an active duty member of the armed
forces of the United States and is carrying a valid military identification
card and documentation of successful completion of firearms training that meets
or exceeds the training requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), unless
the person knowingly is in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(1) of this
section of carrying or having control of a weapon other than a handgun and
other than a dangerous ordnance, that the actor was not otherwise prohibited by
law from having the weapon, and that any of the following applies:
      (1)   The weapon was carried or kept ready at hand by the actor for
defensive purposes, while the actor was engaged in or was going to or from the
actor's lawful business or occupation, which business or occupation was of a
character or was necessarily carried on in a manner or at a time or place as to
render the actor particularly susceptible to criminal attack, such as would
justify a prudent person in going armed.
      (2)   The weapon was carried or kept ready at hand by the actor for
defensive purposes, while the actor was engaged in a lawful activity and had
reasonable cause to fear a criminal attack upon the actor, a member of the
actor's family, or the actor's home, such as would justify a prudent person in
going armed.
      (3)   The weapon was carried or kept ready at hand by the actor for any
lawful purpose and while in the actor's own home.
   (E)   (1)   No person who is charged with a violation of this section shall
be required to obtain a concealed handgun license as a condition for the
dismissal of the charge.
      (2)   If a person is convicted of, was convicted of, pleads guilty to, or
has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (B)(1) of this section as it
existed prior to June 13, 2022, the person may file an application under R.C. §
2953.35 requesting the expungement of the record of conviction.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of carrying concealed
weapons. Except as otherwise provided in this division or divisions (F)(2), (F)
(6), and (F)(7) of this section, carrying concealed weapons in violation of
division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Except as
otherwise provided in this division or divisions (F)(2), (F)(6), and (F)(7) of
this section, if the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of
this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance
or of any offense of violence, if the weapon involved is a firearm that is
either loaded or for which the offender has ammunition ready at hand, or if the
weapon involved is dangerous ordnance, carrying concealed weapons in violation
of division (A) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law. Except as otherwise provided in divisions (F)(2), (F)(6), and (F)(7)
of this section, if the offense is committed aboard an aircraft, or with
purpose to carry a concealed weapon aboard an aircraft, regardless of the
weapon involved, carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (A) of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A person shall not be arrested for a violation of division (A)(2)
of this section solely because the person does not promptly produce a valid
concealed handgun license. If a person is arrested for a violation of division
(A)(2) of this section and is convicted of or pleads guilty to the violation,
the offender shall be punished as follows:
         (a)   The offender shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor if both of
the following apply:
            1.   Within 10 days after the arrest, the offender presents a
concealed handgun license, which license was valid at the time of the arrest to
the law enforcement agency that employs the arresting officer.
            2.   At the time of the arrest, the offender was not knowingly in a
place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
         (b)   The offender shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined
$500 if all of the following apply:
            1.   The offender previously had been issued a concealed handgun
license, and that license expired within the two years immediately preceding
the arrest.
            2.   Within 45 days after the arrest, the offender presents a
concealed handgun license to the law enforcement agency that employed the
arresting officer, and the offender waives in writing the offender's right to a
speedy trial on the charge of the violation that is provided in R.C. § 2945.71.
            3.   At the time of the commission of the offense, the offender was
not knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
         (c)   If divisions (F)(2)(a) and (F)(2)(b) and (F)(6) of this section
do not apply, the offender shall be punished under division (F)(1) or (F)(7) of
this section.
      (3)   Carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (B)(1) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (4)   Carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (B)(2) or (B)
(4) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division
(B)(2) or (B)(4) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. In
addition to any other penalty or sanction imposed for a misdemeanor violation
of division (B)(2) or (B)(4) of this section, the offender’s concealed handgun
license shall be suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2).
      (5)   Carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (B)(3) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (6)   If a person being arrested for a violation of division (A)(2) of
this section is an active duty m ember of the armed forces of the United States
and is carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of
successful completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training
requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), and if at the time of the
violation the person was not knowingly in a place described in R.C. 2923.126
(B), the officer shall not arrest the person for a violation of that division.
If the person is not able to promptly produce a valid military identification
card and documentation of successful completion of firearms training that meets
or exceeds the training requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1) and if
the person is not in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B), the officer shall
issue a citation and the offender shall be assessed a civil penalty of not more
than $500. The citation shall be automatically dismissed and the civil penalty
shall not be assessed if both of the following apply:
         (a)   Within ten days after the issuance of the citation, the offender
presents a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), which were both valid at the time of the
issuance of the citation to the law enforcement agency that employs the citing
officer.
         (b)   At the time of the citation, the offender was not knowingly in a
place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
      (7)   If a person being arrested for a violation of division (A)(2) of
this section is knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B)(5) and is
not authorized to carry a handgun or have a handgun concealed on the person’s
person or concealed ready at hand under that division, the penalty shall be as
follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person
produces a valid concealed handgun license within ten days after the arrest and
has not previously been convicted or pleaded guilty to a violation of division
(A)(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the person is guilty of a minor misdemeanor;
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person has
previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (A)
(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
         (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person has
previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of division
(A)(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree;
         (d)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person has
previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of
division (A)(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, or convicted of or pleaded guilty to any offense of
violence, if the weapon involved is a firearm that is either loaded or for
which the offender has ammunition ready at hand, or if the weapon involved is a
dangerous ordnance, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (G)   If a law enforcement officer stops a person to question the person
regarding a possible violation of this section, for a traffic stop, or for any
other law enforcement purpose, if the person surrenders a firearm to the
officer, either voluntarily or pursuant to a request or demand of the officer,
and if the officer does not charge the person with a violation of this section
or arrest the person for any offense, the person is not otherwise prohibited by
law from possessing the firearm, and the firearm is not contraband, the officer
shall return the firearm to the person at the termination of the stop. If a
court orders a law enforcement officer to return a firearm to a person pursuant
to the requirement set forth in this division, R.C. § 2923.163(B) applies.
   (H)   For purposes of this section, DEADLY WEAPON or WEAPON does not include
any knife, razor, or cutting instrument if the instrument was not used as a
weapon.
(R.C. § 2923.12) (‘56 Code, § 5-4)
Statutory reference:
   Carrying concealed handguns, licensing through county sheriff, see R.C. §§
2923.124 et seq.
   Concealed carry by a qualifying adult, see R.C. § 2923.111
   Conveyance or possession of deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance on school
premises, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.122
   Conveyance, possession, or control of deadly weapon or dangerous ordinance
in a courthouse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.123
   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, felony offense, see R.C.
§ 2923.131
   Possession of firearm in liquor permit premises, felony offense, see R.C. §
2923.121
§ 137.03 USING WEAPONS WHILE INTOXICATED.
   (A)   No person, while under the influence of alcohol or any drug of abuse,
shall carry or use any firearm or dangerous ordnance.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of using weapons while
intoxicated, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2923.15)
§ 137.04 IMPROPERLY HANDLING FIREARMS IN A MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly discharge a firearm while in or on a motor
vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a loaded firearm in a
motor vehicle in such a manner that the firearm is accessible to the operator
or any passenger without leaving the vehicle.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a firearm in a motor
vehicle, unless the person may lawfully possess that firearm under applicable
law of this state or the United States, the firearm is unloaded, and the
firearm is carried in one of the following ways:
      (1)   In a closed package, box, or case.
      (2)   In a compartment that can be reached only by leaving the vehicle.
      (3)   In plain sight and secured in a rack or holder made for the
purpose.
      (4)   If the firearm is at least 24 inches in overall length as measured
from the muzzle to the part of the stock furthest from the muzzle and if the
barrel is at least 18 inches in length, either in plain sight with the action
open or the weapon stripped, or, if the firearm is of a type on which the
action will not stay open or which cannot easily be stripped, in plain sight.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a loaded handgun in a
motor vehicle if, at the time of that transportation or possession, any of the
following applies:
      (1)   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a
combination of them.
      (2)   The person's whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine
contains a concentration of alcohol, a listed controlled substance, or a listed
metabolite of a controlled substance prohibited for persons operating a
vehicle, as specified in R.C. § 4511.19(A), regardless of whether the person at
the time of the transportation or possession as described in this division is
the operator of or a passenger in the motor vehicle.
   (E)   No person who has been issued a concealed handgun license or who is an
active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is carrying a
valid military identification card and documentation of successful completion
of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements described
in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), who is the driver or an occupant of a motor vehicle
that is stopped as a result of a traffic stop or a stop for another law
enforcement purpose or is the driver or an occupant of a commercial motor
vehicle that is stopped by an employee of the motor carrier enforcement unit
for the purposes defined in R.C. § 5503.34, and who is transporting or has a
loaded handgun in the motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle in any manner,
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Before or at the time a law enforcement officer asks if the person
is carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly fail to disclose that the person
then possesses or has a loaded handgun in the motor vehicle, provided that it
is not a violation of this division if the person fails to disclose that fact
to an officer during the stop and the person already has notified another
officer of that fact during the same stop;
      (2)   Before or at the time an employee of the motor carrier enforcement
unit asks if the person is carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly fail to
disclose that the person then possesses or has a loaded handgun in the
commercial motor vehicle, provided that it is not a violation of this division
if the person fails to disclose that fact to an employee of the unit during the
stop and the person already has notified another employee of the unit of that
fact during the same stop;
      (3)   Knowingly fail to remain in the motor vehicle while stopped, or
knowingly fail to keep the person’s hands in plain sight at any time after any
law enforcement officer begins approaching the person while stopped and before
the law enforcement officer leaves, unless the failure is pursuant to and in
accordance with directions given by a law enforcement officer;
      (4)   Knowingly have contact with the loaded handgun by touching it with
the person’s hands or fingers in the motor vehicle at any time after the law
enforcement officer begins approaching and before the law enforcement officer
leaves, unless the person has contact with the loaded handgun pursuant to and
in accordance with directions given by the law enforcement officer.
      (5)   Knowingly disregard or fail to comply with any lawful order of any
law enforcement officer given while the motor vehicle is stopped, including but
not limited to a specific order to the person to keep the person’s hands in
plain sight.
   (F)   (1)   Divisions (A), (B), (C), and (E) of this section do not apply to
any of the following:
         (a)   An officer, agent, or employee of this or any other state or the
United States, or a law enforcement officer, when authorized to carry or have
loaded or accessible firearms in motor vehicles and acting within the scope of
the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s duties;
         (b)   Any person who is employed in this state, who is authorized to
carry or have loaded or accessible firearms in motor vehicles, and who is
subject to and in compliance with the requirements of R.C. § 109.801, unless
the appointing authority of the person has expressly specified that the
exemption provided in this division (F)(1)(b) does not apply to the person.
      (2)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to a person if all of
the following circumstances apply:
         (a)   The person discharges a firearm from a motor vehicle at a coyote
or groundhog, the discharge is not during the deer gun hunting season as set by
the Chief of the Division of Wildlife of the Department of Natural Resources,
and the discharge at the coyote or groundhog, but for the operation of this
section, is lawful.
         (b)   The motor vehicle from which the person discharges the firearm
is on real property that is located in an unincorporated area of a township and
that is either zoned for agriculture or is used for agriculture.
         (c)   The person owns the real property described in division (F)(2)
(b) of this section, is the spouse or a child of another person who owns that
real property, is a tenant of another person who owns that real property, or is
the spouse or a child of a tenant of another person who owns that real
property.
         (d)   The person does not discharge the firearm in any of the
following manners:
            1.   While under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or
alcohol and a drug of abuse;
            2.   In the direction of a street, highway or other public or
private property used by the public for vehicular traffic or parking;
            3.   At or into an occupied structure that is a permanent or
temporary habitation;
            4.   In the commission of any violation of law, including but not
limited to a felony that includes, as an essential element, purposely or
knowingly causing or attempting to cause the death of or physical harm to
another and that was committed by discharging a firearm from a motor vehicle.
      (3)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to a person if all of
the following apply:
         (a)   The person possesses a valid all-purpose vehicle permit issued
under R.C. § 1533.103 by the Chief of the Division of Wildlife.
         (b)   The person discharges a firearm at a wild quadruped or game bird
as defined in R.C. § 1531.01 during the open hunting season for the applicable
wild quadruped or game bird.
         (c)   The person discharges a firearm from a stationary all-purpose
vehicle as defined in R.C. § 1531.01 from private or publicly owned lands or
from a motor vehicle that is parked on a road that is owned or administered by
the Division of Wildlife.
         (d)   The person does not discharge the firearm in any of the
following manners:
            1.   While under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or
alcohol and a drug of abuse;
            2.   In the direction of a street, a highway, or other public or
private property that is used by the public for vehicular traffic or parking;
            3.   At or into an occupied structure that is a permanent or
temporary habitation;
            4.   In the commission of any violation of law, including but not
limited to a felony that includes, as an essential element, purposely or
knowingly causing or attempting to cause the death of or physical harm to
another and that was committed by discharging a firearm from a motor vehicle.
      (4)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to a person if
all of the following circumstances apply:
         (a)   At the time of the alleged violation of either of those
divisions, the person is the operator of or a passenger in a motor vehicle.
         (b)   The motor vehicle is on real property that is located in an
unincorporated area of a township and that is either zoned for agriculture or
is used for agriculture.
         (c)   The person owns the real property described in division (F)(4)
(b) of this section, is the spouse or a child of another person who owns that
real property, is a tenant of another person who owns that real property, or is
the spouse or a child of a tenant of another person who owns that real
property.
         (d)   The person, prior to arriving at the real property described in
division (F)(4)(b) of this section, did not transport or possess a firearm in
the motor vehicle in a manner prohibited by division (B) or (C) of this section
while the motor vehicle was being operated on a street, highway or other public
or private property used by the public for vehicular traffic or parking.
      (5)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to a person who
transports or possesses a handgun in a motor vehicle if, at the time of that
transportation or possession, both of the following apply:
         (a)   The person transporting or possessing the handgun has been
issued a concealed handgun license that is valid at the time in question or the
person is an active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is
carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1).
         (b)   The person transporting or possessing the handgun is not
knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
      (6)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to a person if
all of the following apply:
         (a)   The person possesses a valid all-purpose vehicle permit issued
under R.C. § 1533.103 by the Chief of the Division of Wildlife.
         (b)   The person is on or in an all-purpose vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 1531.01 or a motor vehicle during the open hunting season for a wild
quadruped or game bird.
         (c)   The person is on or in an all-purpose vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 1531.01 on private or publicly owned lands or on or in a motor vehicle that
is parked on a road that is owned or administered by the Division of Wildlife.
   (G)   (1)   The affirmative defenses authorized in R.C. § 2923.12(D)(1) and
(D)(2) are affirmative defenses to a charge under division (B) or (C) of this
section that involves a firearm other than a handgun.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B) or (C)
of this section of improperly handling firearms in a motor vehicle that the
actor transported or had the firearm in the motor vehicle for any lawful
purpose and while the motor vehicle was on the actor's own property, provided
that this affirmative defense is not available unless the person, immediately
prior to arriving at the actor's own property, did not transport or possess the
firearm in a motor vehicle in a manner prohibited by division (B) or (C) of
this section while the motor vehicle was being operated on a street, highway,
or other public or private property used by the public for vehicular traffic.
   (H)   (1)   The affirmative defenses authorized in R.C. § 2923.12(D)(1) and
(D)(2) are affirmative defenses to a charge under division (B) or (C) of this
section that involves a firearm other than a handgun.
      (2)   (a)   If a person is convicted of, was convicted of, pleads guilty
to, or has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (E) of this section as it
existed prior to September 30, 2011, and the conduct that was the basis of the
violation no longer would be a violation of division (E) of this section on or
after September 30, 2011, or if a person is convicted of, was convicted of,
pleads guilty to, or has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (E)(1) or
(E)(2) of this section as it existed prior to June 13, 2022, the person may
file an application under R.C. § 2953.35 requesting the expungement of the
record of conviction.
         (b)   If a person is convicted of, was convicted of, pleads guilty to,
or has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (B) or (C) of this section as
the division existed prior to September 30, 2011, and if the conduct that was
the basis of the violation no longer would be a violation of division (B) or
(C) of this section on or after September 30, 2011, due to the application of
division (F)(5) of this section as it exists on and after September 30, 2011,
the person may file an application under R.C. § 2953.35 requesting the
expungement of the record of conviction.
   (I)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of improperly handling
firearms in a motor vehicle. A violation of division (A) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation of division
(C) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. A violation of
division (D) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law and, if the loaded handgun is concealed on the person's person, it is
also a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation of
division (E)(1) or (E)(2) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. A violation of division (E)(4) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation of division (E)(3) or (E)
(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division
(E)(3) or (E)(5) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. In
addition to any other penalty or sanction imposed for a misdemeanor violation
of division (E)(3) or (E)(5) of this section, the offender's concealed handgun
license shall be suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2). A violation of
division (B) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (J)   If a law enforcement officer stops a motor vehicle for a traffic stop
or any other purpose, if any person in the motor vehicle surrenders a firearm
to the officer, either voluntarily or pursuant to a request or demand of the
officer, and if the officer does not charge the person with a violation of this
section or arrest the person for any offense, the person is not otherwise
prohibited by law from possessing the firearm, and the firearm is not
contraband, the officer shall return the firearm to the person at the
termination of the stop. If a court orders a law enforcement officer to return
a firearm to a person pursuant to the requirement set forth in this division,
R.C. § 2923.163(B) applies.
   (K)   As used in this section:
      AGRICULTURE has the same meaning as in R.C. § 519.01.
      COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4506.25(A).
      MOTOR CARRIER ENFORCEMENT UNIT means the Motor Carrier Enforcement Unit
in the Department of Public Safety, Division of State Highway Patrol, that is
created by R.C. § 5503.34.
      MOTOR VEHICLE, STREET and HIGHWAY have the same meaning as in R.C. §
4511.01.
      OCCUPIED STRUCTURE has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.01.
      TENANT has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1531.01.
      UNLOADED.
         (a)   With respect to a firearm other than a firearm described in
division (d) of this definition, means that no ammunition is in the firearm in
question, no magazine or speed loader containing ammunition is inserted into
the firearm, and one of the following applies:
            1.   There is no ammunition in a magazine or speed loader that is
in the vehicle in question and that may be used with the firearm in question.
            2.   Any magazine or speed loader that contains ammunition and that
may be used with the firearm in question is stored in a compartment within the
vehicle in question that cannot be accessed without leaving the vehicle or is
stored in a container that provides complete and separate enclosure.
         (b)   For the purposes of division (a)2. of this definition, a
“container that provides complete and separate enclosure” includes, but is not
limited to, any of the following:
            1.   A package, box, or case with multiple compartments, as long as
the loaded magazine or speed loader and the firearm in question either are in
separate compartments within the package, box, or case, or, if they are in the
same compartment, the magazine or speed loader is contained within a separate
enclosure in that compartment that does not contain the firearm and that closes
using a snap, button, buckle, zipper, hook and loop closing mechanism, or other
fastener that must be opened to access the contents or the firearm is contained
within a separate enclosure of that nature in that compartment that does not
contain the magazine or speed loader;
            2.   A pocket or other enclosure on the person of the person in
question that closes using a snap, button, buckle, zipper, hook and loop
closing mechanism, or other fastener that must be opened to access the
contents.
         (c)   For the purposes of divisions (a) and (b) of this definition,
ammunition held in stripper-clips or in en-bloc clips is not considered
ammunition that is loaded into a magazine or speed loader.
         (d)   “Unloaded” means, with respect to a firearm employing a
percussion cap, flintlock, or other obsolete ignition system, when the weapon
is uncapped or when the priming charge is removed from the pan.
   (L)   Divisions (a) and (b) of the definition of "unloaded" in division (K)
of this section do not affect the authority of a person who has been issued a
concealed handgun license that is valid at the time in question to have one or
more magazines or speed loaders containing ammunition anywhere in a vehicle,
without being transported as described in those divisions, as long as no
ammunition is in a firearm, other than a handgun, in the vehicle other than as
permitted under any other provision of this chapter. A person who has been
issued a concealed handgun license that is valid at the time in question may
have one or more magazines or speed loaders containing ammunition anywhere in a
vehicle without further restriction, as long as no ammunition is in a firearm,
other than a handgun, in the vehicle other than as permitted under any
provision of this chapter.
(R.C. § 2923.16)
Statutory reference:
   Return of surrendered firearms by law enforcement, see R.C. § 2923.163
§ 137.05 FAILURE TO SECURE DANGEROUS ORDNANCE.
   (A)   No person, in acquiring, possessing, carrying, or using any dangerous
ordnance, shall negligently fail to take proper precautions:
      (1)   To secure the dangerous ordnance against theft, or against its
acquisition or use by any unauthorized or incompetent person.
      (2)   To insure the safety of persons and property.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to a secure
dangerous ordnance, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2923.19) (‘56 Code, § 1-6)
§ 137.06 UNLAWFUL TRANSACTIONS IN WEAPONS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Recklessly sell, lend, give or furnish any firearm to any person
prohibited by R.C. § 2923.13 or 2923.15, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, from acquiring or using any firearm, or recklessly sell,
lend, give or furnish any dangerous ordnance to any person prohibited by R.C. §
2923.13, 2923.15 or 2923.17, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
from acquiring or using any dangerous ordnance;
      (2)   Possess any firearm or dangerous ordnance with purpose to dispose
of it in violation of division (A)(1) of this section;
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) of this section,
knowingly solicit, persuade, encourage, or entice a federally licensed firearms
dealer or private seller to transfer a firearm or ammunition to any person in a
manner prohibited by state or federal law;
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) of this section, with
an intent to deceive, knowingly provide materially false information to a
federally licensed firearms dealer or private seller;
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) of this section,
knowingly procure, solicit, persuade, encourage, or entice a person to act in
violation of division (A)(3) or (A)(4) of this section;
      (6)   When transferring any dangerous ordnance to another, negligently
fail to require the transferee to exhibit such identification, license, or
permit showing the transferee to be authorized to acquire dangerous ordnance
pursuant to R.C. § 2923.17, or negligently fail to take a complete record of
the transaction and forthwith forward a copy of the record to the sheriff of
the county or Safety Director or Police Chief of the municipality where the
transaction takes place;
      (7)   Knowingly fail to report to law enforcement authorities forthwith
the loss or theft of any firearm or dangerous ordnance in the person's
possession and under his or her control.
   (B)   Divisions (A)(3), (A)(4), and (A)(5) of this section do not apply to
any of the following:
      (1)   A law enforcement officer who is acting within the scope of the
officer's duties;
      (2)   A person who is acting in accordance with directions given by a law
enforcement officer described in division (B)(1) of this section.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful transactions in
weapons. A violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. A
violation of division (A)(6) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. A violation of division (A)(7) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      AMMUNITION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.401.
      FEDERALLY LICENSED FIREARMS DEALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5502.63.
      MATERIALLY FALSE INFORMATION. Means information regarding the transfer of
a firearm or ammunition that portrays an illegal transaction as legal or a
legal transaction as illegal.
      PRIVATE SELLER. Means a person who sells, offers for sale, or transfers a
firearm or ammunition and who is not a federally licensed firearms dealer.
(R.C. § 2923.20)
§ 137.07 UNDERAGE PURCHASE OF FIREARM OR HANDGUN.
   (A)   No person under 18 years of age shall purchase or attempt to purchase
a firearm.
   (B)   No person under 21 years of age shall purchase or attempt to purchase
a handgun; provided, that this division does not apply to the purchase or
attempted purchase of a handgun by a person 18 years of age or older and under
21 years of age if either of the following applies:
      (1)   The person is a law enforcement officer and has received firearms
training approved by the Ohio Peace Officer Training Council or equivalent
firearms training.
      (2)   The person is an active or reserve member of the armed services of
the United States or the Ohio National Guard, or was honorably discharged from
military service in the active or reserve armed services of the United States
or the Ohio National Guard, and the person has received firearms training from
the armed services or the national guard or equivalent firearms training.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of underage
purchase of a firearm, a delinquent act that would be a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law if it could be committed by an adult. Whoever
violates division (B) of this section is guilty of underage purchase of a
handgun, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2923.211)
Statutory reference:
   Improperly furnishing firearms to a minor, felony, see R.C. § 2923.21
§ 137.08 DISCHARGING FIREARMS.
   (A)   Except in the case of persons in military array, persons acting in
self defense, or persons engaged in enforcing the laws, no person shall
discharge any kind of firearm whatever, including: pistols, rifles, shotguns,
zip guns, long bows, compound bows, cross bows, slingshots or other firearm or
projectile launching device by whatever name known.
   (B)   This section does not including the discharging of pneumatic, electric
or rim fired nail runs or fastening devices used in construction when such
device is being used in construction activity.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If
violation of this section results in damage to property other than the property
of the violator or in injury to any animal or fowl, violation of this section
is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
('56 Code, § l-2) (Am. Ord. 1990-10, passed 2-5-90)
§ 137.09 CONCEALED HANDGUN LICENSES: POSSESSION OF A REVOKED OR SUSPENDED
LICENSE; ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS; POSTING OF SIGNS PROHIBITING POSSESSION.
   (A)   Possession of a revoked or suspended concealed handgun license.
      (1)   No person, except in the performance of official duties, shall
possess a concealed handgun license that was issued and that has been revoked
or suspended.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (A) is guilty of possessing a
revoked or suspended concealed handgun license, a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(R.C. § 2923.1211(B), (C))
   (B)   Additional restrictions. Pursuant to R.C. § 2923.126:
      (1)   A concealed handgun license that is issued under R.C. § 2923.125
shall expire five years after the date of issuance. A licensee who has been
issued a license under that section shall be granted a grace period of 30 days
after the licensee's license expires during which the licensee's license
remains valid. Except as provided in divisions (B)(2) and (B)(3) of this
section, a licensee who has been issued a concealed handgun license under R.C.
§ 2923.125 or 2923.1213 may carry a concealed handgun anywhere in this state if
the license is valid when the licensee is in actual possession of a concealed
handgun. The licensee shall give notice of any change in the licensee's
residence address to the sheriff who issued the license within 45 days after
that change.
      (2)   A valid concealed handgun license does not authorize the licensee
to carry a concealed handgun in any manner prohibited under R.C. § 2923.12(B)
or in any manner prohibited under R.C. § 2923.16. A valid license does not
authorize the licensee to carry a concealed handgun into any of the following
places:
         (a)   A police station, sheriff’s office, or state highway patrol
station, premises controlled by the bureau of criminal identification and
investigation; a state correctional institution, jail, workhouse, or other
detention facility; any area of an airport passenger terminal that is beyond a
passenger or property screening checkpoint or to which access is restricted
through security measures by the airport authority or a public agency; or an
institution that is maintained, operated, managed, and governed pursuant to
R.C. § 5119.14(A) or R.C. § 5123.03(A)(1);
         (b)   A school safety zone if the licensee's carrying the concealed
handgun is in violation of R.C. § 2923.122;
         (c)   A courthouse or another building or structure in which a
courtroom is located if the licensee's carrying the concealed handgun is in
violation of R.C. § 2923.123;
         (d)   Any premises or open air arena for which a D permit has been
issued under R.C. Chapter 4303 if the licensee's carrying the concealed handgun
is in violation of R.C. § 2923.121;
         (e)   Any premises owned or leased by any public or private college,
university, or other institution of higher education, unless the handgun is in
a locked motor vehicle or the licensee is in the immediate process of placing
the handgun in a locked motor vehicle or unless the licensee is carrying the
concealed handgun pursuant to a written policy, rule, or other authorization
that is adopted by the institution’s board of trustees or other governing body
and that authorizes specific individuals or classes of individuals to carry a
concealed handgun on the premises;
         (f)   Any church, synagogue, mosque, or other place of worship, unless
the church, synagogue, mosque, or other place of worship posts or permits
otherwise;
         (g)   Any building that is a government facility of this state or a
political subdivision of this state and that is not a building that is used
primarily as a shelter, restroom, parking facility for motor vehicles, or rest
facility and is not a courthouse or other building or structure in which a
courtroom is located that is subject to division (B)(2)(c) of this section,
unless the governing body with authority over the building has enacted a
statute, ordinance, or policy that permits a licensee to carry a concealed
handgun into the building;
         (h)   A place in which federal law prohibits the carrying of handguns.
      (3)   (a)   Nothing in this division (B) shall negate or restrict a rule,
policy, or practice of a private employer that is not a private college,
university, or other institution of higher education concerning or prohibiting
the presence of firearms on the private employer's premises or property,
including motor vehicles owned by the private employer. Nothing in this
division (B) shall require a private employer of that nature to adopt a rule,
policy, or practice concerning or prohibiting the presence of firearms on the
private employer's premises or property, including motor vehicles owned by the
private employer.
         (b)   1.   A private employer shall be immune from liability in a
civil action for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that
allegedly was caused by or related to a licensee bringing a handgun onto the
premises or property of the private employer, including motor vehicles owned by
the private employer, unless the private employer acted with malicious purpose.
A private employer is immune from liability in a civil action for any injury,
death, or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused by or related to
the private employer's decision to permit a licensee to bring, or prohibit a
licensee from bringing, a handgun onto the premises or property of the private
employer.
            2.   A political subdivision shall be immune from liability in a
civil action, to the extent and in the manner provided in R.C. Chapter 2744,
for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused
by or related to a licensee bringing a handgun onto any premises or property
owned, leased, or otherwise under the control of the political subdivision. As
used in this division, POLITICAL SUBDIVISION has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2744.01.
            3.    An institution of higher education shall be immune from
liability in a civil action for any injury, death, or loss to person or
property that allegedly was caused by or related to a licensee bringing a
handgun onto the premises of the institution, including motor vehicles owned by
the institution, unless the institution acted with malicious purpose. An
institution of higher education is immune from liability in a civil action for
any injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused by
or related to the institution’s decision to permit a licensee or class of
licensees to bring a handgun onto the premises of the institution.
            4.   A nonprofit corporation shall be immune from liability in a
civil action for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that
allegedly was caused by or related to a licensee bringing a handgun onto the
premises of the nonprofit corporation, including any motor vehicle owned by the
nonprofit corporation, or to any event organized by the nonprofit corporation,
unless the nonprofit corporation acted with malicious purpose. A nonprofit
corporation is immune from liability in a civil action for any injury, death,
or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused by or related to the
nonprofit corporation's decision to permit a licensee to bring a handgun onto
the premises of the nonprofit corporation or to any event organized by the
nonprofit corporation.
         (c)   1.   a.   Except as provided in division (B)(3)(c)2. of this
section and R.C. § 2923.1214, the owner or person in control of private land or
premises, and a private person or entity leasing land or premises owned by the
state, the United States, or a political subdivision of the state or the United
States, may post a sign in a conspicuous location on that land or on those
premises prohibiting persons from carrying firearms or concealed firearms on or
onto that land or those premises. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, a person who knowingly violates a posted prohibition of that nature
is guilty of criminal trespass in violation of R.C. § 2911.21(A)(4) and is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If a person knowingly violates a
posted prohibition of that nature and the posted land or premises primarily was
a parking lot or other parking facility, the person is not guilty of criminal
trespass under R.C. § 2911.21 or under any other criminal law of this state or
criminal law, ordinance, or resolution of a political subdivision of this
state, and instead is subject only to a civil cause of action for trespass
based on the violation.
               b.   If a person knowingly violates a posted prohibition of the
nature described in this division and the posted land or premises is a child
day-care center, type A family day-care home, or type B family day-care home,
unless the person is a licensee who resides in a type A family day-care home or
type B family day- care home, the person is guilty of aggravated trespass in
violation of R.C. § 2911.211. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the person
previously has been convicted of a violation of this division or any
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or of any offense of
violence, if the weapon involved is a firearm that is either loaded or for
which the offender has ammunition ready at hand, or if the weapon involved is
dangerous ordnance, the offender is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
            2.   A landlord may not prohibit or restrict a tenant who is a
licensee and who on or after September 9, 2008 enters into a rental agreement
with the landlord for the use of residential premises, and the tenant’s guest
while the tenant is present, from lawfully carrying or possessing a handgun on
those residential premises.
            3.   As used in division (B)(3)(c) of this section:
               LANDLORD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01.
               RENTAL AGREEMENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01.
               RESIDENTIAL PREMISES. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01,
except the term does not include a dwelling unit that is owned or operated by a
college or university.
               TENANT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01.
      (4)   A person who holds a valid concealed handgun license issued by
another state that is recognized by the Attorney General pursuant to a
reciprocity agreement entered into pursuant to R.C. § 109.69 or a person who
holds a valid concealed handgun license under the circumstances described in
R.C. § 109.69(B) has the same right to carry a concealed handgun in this state
as a person who was issued a concealed handgun license under R.C. § 2923.125
and is subject to the same restrictions that apply to a person who has been
issued a license under that section that is valid at the time in question.
      (5)   (a)   A peace officer has the same right to carry a concealed
handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun license
under R.C. § 2923.125, provided that the officer when carrying a concealed
handgun under authority of this division is carrying validating identification.
For purposes of reciprocity with other states, a peace officer shall be
considered to be a licensee in this state.
         (b)   An active duty member of the armed forces of the United States
who is carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of
successful completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training
requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1) has the same right to carry a
concealed handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun
license under R.C. § 2923.125 and is subject to the same restrictions as
specified in this division (B).
         (c)   A tactical medical professional who is qualified to carry
firearms while on duty under R.C. § 109.771 has the same right to carry a
concealed handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun
license under R.C. § 2923.125.
      (6)   (a)   A qualified retired peace officer who possesses a retired
peace officer identification card issued pursuant to division (B)(6)(b) of this
section and a valid firearms requalification certification issued pursuant to
division (B)(6)(c) of this section has the same right to carry a concealed
handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun license
under R.C. § 2923.125 and is subject to the same restrictions that apply to a
person who has been issued a license issued under that section that is valid at
the time in question. For purposes of reciprocity with other states, a
qualified retired peace officer who possesses a retired peace officer
identification card issued pursuant to division (B)(6)(b) of this section and a
valid firearms requalification certification issued pursuant to division (B)(6)
(c) of this section shall be considered to be a licensee in this state.
         (b)   1.   Each public agency of this state or of a political
subdivision of this state that is served by one or more peace officers shall
issue a retired peace officer identification card to any person who retired
from service as a peace officer with that agency, if the issuance is in
accordance with the agency’s policies and procedures and if the person, with
respect to the person’s service with that agency, satisfies all of the
following:
               a.   The person retired in good standing from service as a peace
officer with the public agency, and the retirement was not for reasons of
mental instability.
               b.   Before retiring from service as a peace officer with that
agency, the person was authorized to engage in or supervise the prevention,
detection, investigation, or prosecution of, or the incarceration of any person
for, any violation of law and the person had statutory powers of arrest.
               c.   At the time of the person’s retirement as a peace officer
with that agency, the person was trained and qualified to carry firearms in the
performance of the peace officer’s duties.
               d.   Before retiring from service as a peace officer with that
agency, the person was regularly employed as a peace officer for an aggregate
of 15 years or more, or, in the alternative, the person retired from service as
a peace officer with that agency, after completing any applicable probationary
period of that service, due to a service-connected disability, as determined by
the agency.
            2.   A retired peace officer identification card issued to a person
under division (B)(6)(b)1. of this section shall identify the person by name,
contain a photograph of the person, identify the public agency of this state or
of the political subdivision of this state from which the person retired as a
peace officer and that is issuing the identification card, and specify that the
person retired in good standing from service as a peace officer with the
issuing public agency and satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)(6)
(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(B)1.d. of this section. In addition to the required content
specified in this division, a retired peace officer identification card issued
to a person under division (B)(6)(b)1. of this section may include the firearms
requalification certification described in division (B)(6)(c) of this section,
and if the identification card includes that certification, the identification
card shall serve as the firearms requalification certification for the retired
peace officer. If the issuing public agency issues credentials to active law
enforcement officers who serve the agency, the agency may comply with division
(B)(6)(b)1. of this section by issuing the same credentials to persons who
retired from service as a peace officer with the agency and who satisfy the
criteria set forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(b)1.d. of this section,
provided that the credentials so issued to retired peace officers are stamped
with the word “RETIRED”.
            3.   A public agency of this state or of a political subdivision of
this state may charge persons who retired from service as a peace officer with
the agency a reasonable fee for issuing to the person a retired peace officer
identification card pursuant to division (B)(6)(b)1. of this section.
         (c)   1.   If a person retired from service as a peace officer with a
public agency of this state or of a political subdivision of this state and the
person satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)
(b)1.d. of this section, the public agency may provide the retired peace
officer with the opportunity to attend a firearms requalification program that
is approved for purposes of firearms requalification required under R.C. §
109.801. The retired peace officer may be required to pay the cost of the
course.
            2.   If a retired peace officer who satisfies the criteria set
forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(b)1.d. of this section attends a
firearms requalification program that is approved for purposes of firearms
requalification required under R.C. § 109.801, the retired peace officer’s
successful completion of the firearms requalification program requalifies the
retired peace officer for purposes of division (B)(6) of this section for five
years from the date on which the program was successfully completed, and the
requalification is valid during that five-year period. If a retired peace
officer who satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)
(6)(b)1.d. of this section satisfactorily completes such a firearms
requalification program, the retired peace officer shall be issued a firearms
requalification certification that identifies the retired peace officer by
name, identifies the entity that taught the program, specifies that the retired
peace officer successfully completed the program, specifies the date on which
the course was successfully completed, and specifies that the requalification
is valid for five years from that date of successful completion. The firearms
requalification certification for a retired peace officer may be included in
the retired peace officer identification card issued to the retired peace
officer under division (B)(6)(b) of this section.
            3.   A retired peace officer who attends a firearms requalification
program that is approved for purposes of firearms requalification required
under R.C. § 109.801 may be required to pay the cost of the program.
      (7)   As used in division (B) of this section:
         GOVERNING BODY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 154.01.
         GOVERNMENT FACILITY OF THIS STATE OR A POLITICAL SUBDIVISION OF THIS
STATE. Means any of the following:
            1.   A building or part of a building that is owned or leased by
the government of this state or a political subdivision of this state and where
employees of the government of this state or the political subdivision
regularly are present for the purpose of performing their official duties as
employees of the state or political subdivision;
            2.   The office of a deputy registrar serving pursuant to R.C.
Chapter 4503 that is used to perform deputy registrar functions.
         NONPROFIT CORPORATION. Means any private organization that is exempt
from federal income taxation pursuant to subsection 501(a) and described in
subsection 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code.
         QUALIFIED RETIRED PEACE OFFICER. Means a person who satisfies all of
the following:
            1.   The person satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)
(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(b)1.d. of this section.
            2.   The person is not under the influence of alcohol or another
intoxicating or hallucinatory drug or substance.
            3.   The person is not prohibited by federal law from receiving
firearms.
         RETIRED PEACE OFFICER IDENTIFICATION CARD. Means an identification
card that is issued pursuant to division (B)(6)(b) of this section to a person
who is a retired peace officer.
         TACTICAL MEDICAL PROFESSIONAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
109.71.
         VALIDATING IDENTIFICATION. Means photographic identification issued by
the agency for which an individual serves as a peace officer that identifies
the individual as a peace officer of the agency.
(R.C. § 2923.126)
   (C)   Posting of signs prohibiting possession. Each person, board, or entity
that owns or controls any place or premises identified in R.C. § 2923.126(B) as
a place into which a valid license does not authorize the licensee to carry a
concealed handgun, or a designee of such a person, board, or entity, shall post
in the following one or more conspicuous locations in the premises a sign that
contains a statement in substantially the following form: "Unless otherwise
authorized by law, pursuant to the Ohio Revised Code, no person shall knowingly
possess, have under the person's control, convey, or attempt to convey a deadly
weapon or dangerous ordnance onto these premises."
(R.C. § 2923.1212)
§ 137.10 DEFACED FIREARMS.
   (A)   No person shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Change, alter, remove, or obliterate the name of the manufacturer,
model, manufacturer’s serial number, or other mark of identification on a
firearm.
      (2)   Possess a firearm knowing or having reasonable cause to believe
that the name of the manufacturer, model, manufacturer’s serial number, or
other mark of identification on the firearm has been changed, altered, removed,
or obliterated.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) of this section is guilty of
defacing identification marks of a firearm. Except as otherwise provided in
this division, defacing identification marks of a firearm is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (A)(1) of this section, defacing
identification marks of a firearm is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of
possessing a defaced firearm. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
possessing a defaced firearm is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of
division (A)(2) of this section, possessing a defaced firearm is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any firearm on which no
manufacturer's serial number was inscribed at the time of its manufacture.
(R.C. § 2923.201)
CHAPTER 138: DRUG OFFENSES
Section
   
138.01   Definitions
   
138.02   Laboratory report required for prosecution
   
138.03   Federal prosecution bar to municipal prosecution
   
138.04   Counterfeit controlled substances
   
138.05   Use, possession, or sale of drug paraphernalia
   
138.06   Controlled substance schedules
   
138.07   Sale of pseudoephedrine
   
138.08   Sale of dextromethorphan
   
138.09   Sale of pure caffeine product
Drug Abuse
   
138.10   Drug possession offenses
   
138.11   Possessing drug abuse instruments
   
138.12   Permitting drug abuse
   
138.13   Abusing harmful intoxicants
Unlawful Transactions
   
138.20   Trafficking in controlled substances; gift of marijuana
   
138.21   Deception to obtain a dangerous drug
   
138.22   Illegal dispensing of drug samples
   
138.23   Nitrous oxide: improper dispensing or distribution; possession in a
motor vehicle
§ 138.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words,
terms and phrases and their derivatives used in this chapter which are not
defined in this section shall have the meanings given to them in the Ohio
Revised Code.
   ADMINISTER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   ADULTERATE. To cause a drug to be adulterated as described in R.C. §
3715.63.
   ALCOHOL AND DRUG ADDICTION SERVICES. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5119.01.
   BULK AMOUNT. Of a controlled substance means any of the following:
      (1)   For any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance included in
Schedule I, Schedule II, or Schedule III, with the exception of any controlled
substance analog, marihuana, cocaine, L.S.D., heroin, any fentanyl-related
compound, and hashish and except as provided in division (2), (5), or (6) of
this definition, whichever of the following is applicable:
         (a)   An amount equal to or exceeding 10 grams or 25 unit doses of a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of
a Schedule I opiate or opium derivative;
         (b)   An amount equal to or exceeding 10 grams of a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of raw or gum opium;
         (c)   An amount equal to or exceeding 30 grams or 10 unit doses of a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of
a Schedule I hallucinogen other than tetrahydrocannabinol or lysergic acid
amide, or a Schedule I stimulant or depressant;
         (d)   An amount equal to or exceeding 20 grams or 5 times the maximum
daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard pharmaceutical
reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule II opiate or opium derivative;
         (e)   An amount equal to or exceeding 5 grams or 10 unit doses of a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of
phencyclidine;
         (f)   An amount equal to or exceeding 120 grams or 30 times the
maximum daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard
pharmaceutical reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance that is or contains any amount of a Schedule II stimulant that is in
a final dosage form manufactured by a person authorized by the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 301 et seq., as amended) and the federal drug
abuse control laws, as defined in this section, that is or contains any amount
of a Schedule II depressant substance or a Schedule II hallucinogenic
substance;
         (g)   An amount equal to or exceeding 3 grams of a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of a Schedule II
stimulant, or any of its salts or isomers, that is not in a final dosage form
manufactured by a person authorized by the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act
(21 U.S.C. 301 et seq., as amended) and the federal drug abuse control laws;
      (2)   An amount equal to or exceeding 120 grams or 30 times the maximum
daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard pharmaceutical
reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III or IV substance other than an anabolic
steroid or a Schedule III opiate or opium derivative;
      (3)   An amount equal to or exceeding 20 grams or 5 times the maximum
daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard pharmaceutical
reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III opiate or opium derivative;
      (4)   An amount equal to or exceeding 250 milliliters or 250 grams of a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of
a Schedule V substance;
      (5)   An amount equal to or exceeding 200 solid dosage units, 16 grams,
or 16 milliliters of a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III anabolic steroid;
      (6)   For any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is a
combination of a fentanyl-related compound and any other compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V,
if the defendant is charged with a violation of R.C. § 2925.11 and the
sentencing provisions set forth in R.C. § 2925.11(C)(10)(b) and (C)(11) will
not apply regarding the defendant and the violation, the bulk amount of the
controlled substance for purposes of the violation is the amount specified in
division (1), (2), (3), (4), or (5) of this definition for the other Schedule
III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V controlled substance that is combined with the
fentanyl-related compound.
   CERTIFIED GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE. A duly constituted and organized committee of
the Ohio State Bar Association or of one or more local bar associations of the
state that complies with the criteria set forth in Rule V, Section 6 of the
Rules for the Government of the Bar of Ohio.
   COCAINE. Any of the following:
       (1)   A cocaine salt, isomer, or derivative, a salt of a cocaine isomer
or derivative, or the base form of cocaine.
      (2)   Coca leaves or a salt, compound, derivative, or preparation of coca
leaves, including ecgonine, a salt, isomer, or derivative of ecgonine, or a
salt of an isomer or derivative of ecgonine.
      (3)   A salt, compound, derivative, or preparation of a substance
identified in division (1) or (2) of this definition that is chemically
equivalent to or identical with any of those substances, except that the
substances shall not include decocainized coca leaves or extraction of coca
leaves if the extractions do not contain cocaine or ecgonine.
   COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A JUVENILE. An offense is COMMITTED IN THE
VICINITY OF A JUVENILE if the offender commits the offense within 100 feet of a
juvenile or within the view of a juvenile, regardless of whether the offender
knows the age of the juvenile, whether the offender knows the offense is being
committed within 100 feet of or within view of the juvenile, or whether the
juvenile actually views the commission of the offense.
   COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A SCHOOL. An offense is COMMITTED IN THE
VICINITY OF A SCHOOL if the offender commits the offense on school premises, in
a school building, or within 1,000 feet of the boundaries of any school
premises, regardless of whether the offender knows the offense is being
committed on school premises, in a school building, or within 1,000 feet of the
boundaries of any school premises.
   COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A SUBSTANCE ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER OR A
RECOVERING ADDICT. An offense is COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A SUBSTANCE
ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER OR A RECOVERING ADDICT if either of the following
apply:
      (1)   The offender commits the offense on the premises of a substance
addiction services provider's facility, including a facility licensed prior to
June 29, 2019, under R.C. § 5119.391 to provide methadone treatment or an
opioid treatment program licensed on or after that date under R.C. § 5119.37,
or within 500 feet of the premises of a substance addiction services provider's
facility and the offender knows or should know that the offense is being
committed within the vicinity of the substance addiction services provider's
facility.
      (2)   The offender sells, offers to sell, delivers, or distributes the
controlled substance or controlled substance analog to a person who is
receiving treatment at the time of the commission of the offense, or received
treatment within 30 days prior to the commission of the offense, from a
substance addiction services provider and the offender knows that the person is
receiving or received that treatment.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE ANALOG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   COUNTERFEIT CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any drug that bears, or whose container or label bears, a
trademark, trade name, or other identifying mark used without authorization of
the owner of rights to the trademark, trade name, or identifying mark.
      (2)   Any unmarked or unlabeled substance that is represented to be a
controlled substance manufactured, processed, packed, or distributed by a
person other than the person that manufactured, processed, packed, or
distributed it.
      (3)   Any substance that is represented to be a controlled substance but
is not a controlled substance or is a different controlled substance.
      (4)   Any substance other than a controlled substance that a reasonable
person would believe to be a controlled substance because of its similarity in
shape, size, and color, or its markings, labeling, packaging, distribution, or
the price for which it is sold or offered for sale.
   CULTIVATE. Includes planting, watering, fertilizing or tilling.
   DANGEROUS DRUG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   DECEPTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01
   DISCIPLINARY COUNSEL. The disciplinary counsel appointed by the Board of
Commissioners on Grievances and Discipline of the Ohio Supreme Court under the
Rules for the Government of the Bar of Ohio.
   DISPENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   DISTRIBUTE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   DRUG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2913.02(A) that constitutes theft of drugs,
or any violation of R.C. § 2925.02, 2925.03, 2925.04, 2925.041, 2925.05,
2925.06, 2925.11, 2925.12, 2925.13, 2925.22, 2925.23, 2925.24, 2925.31,
2925.32, 2925.36, or 2925.37.
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former law of a municipality, state
or any other state or of the United States, that is substantially equivalent to
any section listed in division (1) of this definition.
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former law of a municipality, state
or any other state, or of the United States, of which planting, cultivating,
harvesting, processing, making, manufacturing, producing, shipping,
transporting, delivering, acquiring, possessing, storing, distributing,
dispensing, selling, inducing another to use, administering to another, using,
or otherwise dealing with a controlled substance is an element.
      (4)   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing or attempting to commit, any offense under division (1), (2), or (3)
of this definition.
   DRUG OF ABUSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.011.
   FELONY DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Any drug abuse offense that would constitute a
felony under the laws of this state, any other state, or the United States.
   FENTANYL-RELATED COMPOUND. Any of the following:
      (1)   Fentanyl;
      (2)   Alpha-methylfentanyl (N-[1-(alpha-methyl-beta-phenyl)ethyl-4-
piperidyl] propionanilide; 1-(1-methyl-2-phenylethyl)-4-(N-propanilido)
piperidine);
      (3)   Alpha-methylthiofentanyl (N-[1-methyl-2-(2-thienyl)ethyl-4-
piperidinyl]-N-phenylpropanamide);
      (4)   Beta-hydroxyfentanyl (N-[1-(2-hydroxy-2-phenethyl-4-piperidinyl]-N-
phenylpropanamide);
      (5)   Beta-hydroxy-3-methylfentanyl (other name: N-[1-(2-hydroxy-2-
phenethyl)-3-methyl-4-piperidinyl]-N-phenylpropanam ide);
      (6)   3-methylfentanyl (N-[3-methyl-1-(2-phenylethyl)-4-piperidyl]-N-
phenylpropanamide);
      (7)   3-methylthiofentanyl (N-[3-methyl-1-[2-(thienyl)ethyl]-4-
piperidinyl]-– phenylpropanamide);
      (8)   Para-fluorofentanyl (N-(4-fluorophenyl)-N-[1-(2-phenethyl)-4-
piperidinyl]propanamide;
      (9)   Thiofentanyl (N-phenyl-N-[1-(2-thienyl)ethyl-4-piperidinyl]-
propanamide;
      (10)   Alfentanil;
      (11)   Carfentanil;
      (12)   Remifentanil;
      (13)   Sufentanil;
      (14)   Acetyl-alpha-methylfentanyl (N-[1-(1-methyl-2-phenethyl)-4-
piperidinyl]-N-phenylacetamide); and
      (15)   Any compound that meets all of the following fentanyl
pharmacophore requirements to bind at the mu receptor, as identified by a
report from an established forensic laboratory, including acetylfentanyl,
furanylfentanyl, valerylfentanyl, butyrylfentanyl, isobutyrylfentanyl, 4-
methoxybutyrylfentanyl, para-fluorobutyrylfentanyl, acrylfentanyl, and ortho-
fluorofentanyl:
         (a)   A chemical scaffold consisting of both of the following:
            1.   A five, six, or seven member ring structure containing a
nitrogen, whether or not further substituted;
            2.   An attached nitrogen to the ring, whether or not that nitrogen
is enclosed in a ring structure, including an attached aromatic ring or other
lipophilic group to that nitrogen.
         (b)   A polar functional group attached to the chemical scaffold,
including but not limited to a hydroxyl, ketone, amide, or ester;
         (c)   An alkyl or aryl substitution off the ring nitrogen of the
chemical scaffold; and
         (d)   The compound has not been approved for medical use by the United
States food and drug administration.
   HARMFUL INTOXICANT. Does not include beer or intoxicating liquor, but means
any of the following:
      (1)   Any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance the gas, fumes, or
vapor of which when inhaled can induce intoxication, excitement, giddiness,
irrational behavior, depression, stupefaction, paralysis, unconsciousness,
asphyxiation, or other harmful physiological effects, and includes but is not
limited to any of the following:
         (a)   Any volatile organic solvent, plastic cement, model cement,
fingernail polish remover, lacquer thinner, cleaning fluid, gasoline, or other
preparation containing a volatile organic solvent.
         (b)   Any aerosol propellant.
         (c)   Any fluorocarbon refrigerant.
         (d)   Any anesthetic gas.
      (2)   Gamma Butyrolactone;
      (3)   1,4 Butanediol.
   HASHISH.
      (1)   A resin or a preparation of a resin to which both of the following
apply:
         (a)   It is contained in or derived from any part of the plant of the
genus cannabis, whether in solid form or in a liquid concentrate, liquid
extract, or liquid distillate form.
         (b)   It has a delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration of more than
0.3%.
      (2)   The term does not include a hemp byproduct in the possession of a
licensed hemp processor under R.C. Chapter 928, provided that the hemp
byproduct is being produced, stored, and disposed of in accordance with rules
adopted under R.C. § 928.03.
   HYPODERMIC. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   JUVENILE. A person under 18 years of age.
   LICENSED HEALTH PROFESSIONAL AUTHORIZED TO PRESCRIBE DRUGS. Has the same
meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   L.S.D. Lysergic acid diethylamide.
   MAJOR DRUG OFFENDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   MANDATORY PRISON TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   MANUFACTURE. To plant, cultivate, harvest, process, make, prepare, or
otherwise engage in any part of the production of a drug, by propagation,
extraction, chemical synthesis, or compounding, or any combination of the same,
and includes packaging, repackaging, labeling, and other activities incident to
production.
   MANUFACTURER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   MARIHUANA. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01, except that it does
not include hashish.
   METHAMPHETAMINE. Methamphetamine, any salt, isomer, or salt of an isomer of
methamphetamine, or any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance containing
methamphetamine or any salt, isomer, or salt of an isomer of methamphetamine.
   MINOR DRUG POSSESSION OFFENSE. Either of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2925.11 as it existed prior to July 1, 1996,
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   A violation of R.C. § 2925.11 as it exists on and after July 1,
1996, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that is a misdemeanor
or a felony of the fifth degree.
   OFFICIAL WRITTEN ORDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   PERSON. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   PERSON WITH A DRUG DEPENDENCY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.011.
   PHARMACIST. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   PHARMACY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   POSSESS or POSSESSION. Having control over a thing or substance but may not
be inferred solely from mere access to the thing or substance through ownership
or occupation of the premises upon which the thing or substance is found.
   PREMISES OF A SUBSTANCE ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER'S FACILITY. Means the
parcel of real property on which any substance addiction service provider's
facility is situated.
   PRESCRIPTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   PRESUMPTION FOR A PRISON TERM or PRESUMPTION THAT A PRISON TERM SHALL BE
IMPOSED. A presumption as described in R.C. § 2929.13(D) that a prison term is
a necessary sanction for a felony in order to comply with the purposes and
principles of sentencing under R.C. § 2929.11.
   PROFESSIONAL LICENSE. Any license, permit, certificate, registration,
qualification, admission, temporary license, temporary permit, temporary
certificate, or temporary registration that is described in R.C. § 2925.01(W)
(1) to (37) and that qualifies a person as a professionally licensed person.
   PROFESSIONALLY LICENSED PERSON. Any of the following:
      (1)   A person who has received a certificate or temporary certificate as
a certified public accountant or who has registered as a public accountant
under R.C. Chapter 4701 and who holds an Ohio permit issued under that chapter;
      (2)   A person who holds a certificate of qualification to practice
architecture issued or renewed and registered under R.C. Chapter 4703;
      (3)   A person who is registered as a landscape architect under R.C.
Chapter 4703 or who holds a permit as a landscape architect issued under that
chapter;
      (4)   A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4707;
      (5)   A person who has been issued a certificate of registration as a
registered barber under R.C. Chapter 4709;
      (6)   A person licensed and regulated to engage in the business of a debt
pooling company by a legislative authority, under authority of R.C. Chapter
4710;
      (7)   A person who has been issued a cosmetologist's license, hair
designer's license, manicurist's license, esthetician's license, natural hair
stylist's license, advanced cosmetologist's license, advanced hair designer's
license, advanced manicurist's license, advanced esthetician's license,
advanced natural hair stylist's license, cosmetology instructor's license, hair
design instructor's license, manicurist instructor's license, esthetics
instructor's license, natural hair style instructor's license, independent
contractor's license, or tanning facility permit under R.C. Chapter 4713;
      (8)   A person who has been issued a license to practice dentistry, a
general anesthesia permit, a conscious sedation permit, a limited resident's
license, a limited teaching license, a dental hygienist's license, or a dental
hygienist's teacher's certificate under R.C. Chapter 4715;
      (9)   A person who has been issued an embalmer's license, a funeral
director's license, a funeral home license, or a crematory license, or who has
been registered for an embalmer's or funeral director's apprenticeship under
R.C. Chapter 4717;
      (10)   A person who has been licensed as a registered nurse or practical
nurse, or who has been issued a certificate for the practice of nurse-midwifery
under R.C. Chapter 4723;
      (11)   A person who has been licensed to practice optometry or to engage
in optical dispensing under R.C. Chapter 4725;
      (12)   A person licensed to act as a pawnbroker under R.C. Chapter 4727;
      (13)   A person licensed to act as a precious metals dealer under R.C.
Chapter 4728;
      (14)   A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 as a pharmacist or
pharmacy intern or registered under that chapter as a registered pharmacy
technician, certified pharmacy technician, or pharmacy technician trainee;
      (15)   A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 as a manufacturer of
dangerous drugs, outsourcing facility, third-party logistics provider,
repackager of dangerous drugs, wholesale distributor of dangerous drugs, or
terminal distributor of dangerous drugs;
      (16)   A person who is authorized to practice as a physician assistant
under R.C. Chapter 4730;
      (17)   A person who has been issued a license to practice medicine and
surgery, osteopathic medicine and surgery, or podiatric medicine and surgery
under R.C. Chapter 4731 or has been issued a certificate to practice a limited
branch of medicine under that chapter;
      (18)   A person licensed as a psychologist, independent school
psychologist, or school psychologist under R.C. Chapter 4732;
      (19)   A person registered to practice the profession of engineering or
surveying under R.C. Chapter 4733;
      (20)   A person who has been issued a license to practice chiropractic
under R.C. Chapter 4734;
      (21)   A person licensed to act as a real estate broker or real estate
salesperson under R.C. Chapter 4735;
      (22)   A person registered as a registered environmental health
specialist under R.C. Chapter 4736;
      (23)   A person licensed to operate or maintain a junkyard under R.C.
Chapter 4737;
      (24)   A person who has been issued a motor vehicle salvage dealer's
license under R.C. Chapter 4738;
      (25)   A person who has been licensed to act as a steam engineer under
R.C. Chapter 4739;
      (26)   A person who has been issued a license or temporary permit to
practice veterinary medicine or any of its branches, or who is registered as a
graduate animal technician under R.C. Chapter 4741;
      (27)   A person who has been issued a hearing aid dealer's or fitter's
license or trainee permit under R.C. Chapter 4747;
      (28)   A person who has been issued a class A, class B, or class C
license or who has been registered as an investigator or security guard
employee under R.C. Chapter 4749;
      (29)   A person licensed to practice as a nursing home administrator
under R.C. Chapter 4751;
      (30)   A person licensed to practice as a speech-language pathologist or
audiologist under R.C. Chapter 4753;
      (31)   A person issued a license as an occupational therapist or physical
therapist under R.C. Chapter 4755;
      (32)   A person who is licensed as a licensed professional clinical
counselor, licensed professional counselor, social worker, independent social
worker, independent marriage and family therapist, or marriage and family
therapist, or registered as a social work assistant under R.C. Chapter 4757;
      (33)   A person issued a license to practice dietetics under R.C. Chapter
4759;
      (34)   A person who has been issued a license or limited permit to
practice respiratory therapy under R.C. Chapter 4761;
      (35)   A person who has been issued a real estate appraiser certificate
under R.C. Chapter 4763;
      (36)   A person who has been issued a home inspector license under R.C.
Chapter 4764;
      (37)   A person who has been admitted to the bar by order of the Ohio
Supreme Court in compliance with its prescribed and published rules.
   PUBLIC PREMISES. Any hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall, or other
place of public accommodation, business, amusement, or resort.
   SALE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   SAMPLE DRUG. A drug or pharmaceutical preparation that would be hazardous to
health or safety if used without the supervision of a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs, or a drug of abuse, and that, at
one time, had been placed in a container plainly marked as a sample by a
manufacturer.
   SCHEDULE I, SCHEDULE II, SCHEDULE III, SCHEDULE IV or SCHEDULE V. Have the
same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   SCHOOL. Any school operated by a board of education, any community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314, or any nonpublic school for which the
State Board of Education prescribes minimum standards under R.C. § 3301.07,
whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or training
provided by the school is being conducted at the time a criminal offense is
committed.
   SCHOOL BUILDING. Any building in which any of the instruction,
extracurricular activities, or training provided by a school is conducted,
whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or training
provided by the school is being conducted in the school building at the time a
criminal offense is committed.
   SCHOOL PREMISES. Either of the following:
      (1)   The parcel of real property on which any school is situated,
whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or training
provided by the school is being conducted on the premises at the time a
criminal offense is committed.
      (2)   Any other parcel of real property that is owned or leased by a
board of education of a school, the governing authority of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314, or the governing body of a nonpublic
school for which the State Board of Education prescribes minimum standards
under R.C. § 3301.07 and on which some of the instruction, extracurricular
activities, or training of the school is conducted, whether or not any
instruction, extracurricular activities, or training provided by the school is
being conducted on the parcel of real property at the time a criminal offense
is committed.
   STANDARD PHARMACEUTICAL REFERENCE MANUAL. The current edition, with
cumulative changes if any, of references that are approved by the State Board
of Pharmacy.
   SUBSTANCE ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER. Means an agency, association,
corporation or other legal entity, individual, or program that provides one or
more of the following at a facility:
      (1)   Either alcohol addiction services, or drug addiction services, or
both such services that are certified by the Ohio Director of Mental Health and
Addiction Services under R.C. § 5119.36;
      (2)   Recovery supports that are related to either alcohol addiction
services, or drug addiction services, or both such services and paid for with
federal, state, or local funds administered by the Ohio Department of Mental
Health and Addiction Services or a board of alcohol, drug addiction, and mental
health services.
   UNIT DOSE. An amount or unit or a compound, mixture, or preparation
containing a controlled substance that is separately identifiable and in a form
that indicates that it is the amount or unit by which the controlled substance
is separately administered to or taken by an individual.
   WHOLESALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
(R.C. §§ 2925.01)
§ 138.02 LABORATORY REPORT REQUIRED FOR PROSECUTION.
   (A)   (1)   In any criminal prosecution for a violation of this chapter or
R.C. Chapters 2925 or 3719, a laboratory report from the Bureau of Criminal
Identification and Investigation or a laboratory operated by another law
enforcement agency, or a laboratory established by or under the authority of an
institution of higher education that has its main campus in this state and that
is accredited by the Association of American Universities or the North Central
Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools, primarily for the purpose of
providing scientific service to law enforcement agencies, and signed by the
person performing the analysis, stating that the substance that is the basis of
the alleged offense has been weighed and analyzed and stating the findings as
to the content, weight, and identity of the substance and that it contains any
amount of a controlled substance and the number and description of unit
dosages, is prima facie evidence of the content, identity, and weight or the
existence and number of unit dosages of the substance. In any criminal
prosecution for a violation of R.C. § 2925.041 or a violation of this chapter,
R.C. Chapter 2925 or R.C. Chapter 3719 that is based on the possession of
chemicals sufficient to produce a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance
included in Schedule I, II, III, IV, or V, a laboratory report from the Bureau
or from any laboratory that is operated or established as described in this
division that is signed by the person performing the analysis, stating that the
substances that are the basis of the alleged offense have been weighed and
analyzed and stating the findings as to the content, weight, and identity of
each of the substances, is prima facie evidence of the content, identity, and
weight of the substances.
      (2)   Attached to that report shall be a copy of a notarized statement by
the signer of the report giving the name of the signer and stating that the
signer is an employee of the laboratory issuing the report and that performing
the analysis is a part of the signer's regular duties, and giving an outline of
the signer's education, training, and experience for performing an analysis of
materials included under this section. The signer shall attest that
scientifically accepted tests were performed with due caution, and that the
evidence was handled in accordance with established and accepted procedures
while in the custody of the laboratory.
   (B)   The prosecuting attorney shall serve a copy of the report on the
attorney of record for the accused, or on the accused if the accused has no
attorney, prior to any proceeding in which the report is to be used against the
accused other than at a preliminary hearing or grand jury proceeding where the
report may be used without having been previously served upon the accused.
   (C)   The report shall not be prima facie evidence of the contents,
identity, and weight or the existence and number of unit dosages of the
substance if the accused or the accused's attorney demands the testimony of the
person signing the report, by serving the demand upon the prosecuting attorney,
within seven days from the accused or the accused's attorney's receipt of the
report. The time may be extended by a trial judge in the interests of justice.
   (D)   Any report issued for use under this section shall contain notice of
the right of the accused to demand, and the manner in which the accused shall
demand, the testimony of the person signing the report.
   (E)   Any person who is accused of a violation of this chapter or R.C.
Chapters 2925 or 3719 is entitled, upon written request made to the prosecuting
attorney, to have a portion of the substance that is, or of each of the
substances that are, the basis of the alleged violation preserved for the
benefit of independent analysis performed by a laboratory analyst employed by
the accused person, or, if the accused is indigent, by a qualified laboratory
analyst appointed by the court. Such portion shall be a representative sample
of the entire substance that is, or of each of the substances that are, the
basis of the alleged violation and shall be of sufficient size, in the opinion
of the court, to permit the accused's analyst to make a thorough scientific
analysis concerning the identity of the substance or substances. The
prosecuting attorney shall provide the accused's analyst with the sample
portion at least 14 days prior to trial, unless the trial is to be held in a
court not of record or unless the accused person is charged with a minor
misdemeanor, in which case the prosecuting attorney shall provide the accused's
analyst with the sample portion at least three days prior to trial. If the
prosecuting attorney determines that such a sample portion cannot be preserved
and given to the accused's analyst, the prosecuting attorney shall so inform
the accused person, or the accused's attorney. In such a circumstance, the
accused person is entitled, upon written request made to the prosecuting
attorney, to have the accused's privately employed or court appointed analyst
present at an analysis of the substance that is, or the substances that are,
the basis of the alleged violation, and, upon further written request, to
receive copies of all recorded scientific data that result from the analysis
and that can be used by an analyst in arriving at conclusions, findings, or
opinions concerning the identity of the substance or substances subject to the
analysis.
   (F)   In addition to the rights provided under division (E) of this section,
any person who is accused of a violation of this chapter or R.C. Chapters 2925
or 3719 that involves a bulk amount of a controlled substance, or any multiple
thereof, or who is accused of a violation of R.C. § 2925.11 or a substantially
similar municipal ordinance, other than a minor misdemeanor violation, that
involves marihuana, is entitled, upon written request made to the prosecuting
attorney, to have a laboratory analyst of the accused's choice, or, if the
accused is indigent, a qualified laboratory analyst appointed by the court,
present at a measurement or weighing of the substance that is the basis of the
alleged violation. Also, the accused person is entitled, upon further written
request, to receive copies of all recorded scientific data that result from the
measurement or weighing and that can be used by an analyst in arriving at
conclusions, findings, or opinions concerning the weight, volume, or number of
unit doses of the substance subject to the measurement or weighing.
(R.C. § 2925.51)
   (G)   In addition to the financial sanctions authorized or required under
R.C. §§ 2929.18 and 2929.28 and to any costs otherwise authorized or required
under any provision of law, the court imposing sentence upon an offender who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a drug abuse offense may order the offender to
pay to the state, municipal, or county law enforcement agencies that handled
the investigation and prosecution all of the costs that the state, municipal
corporation, or county reasonably incurred in having tests performed under this
section or R.C. § 2925.51 or in any other manner on any substance that was the
basis of, or involved in, the offense to determine whether the substance
contained any amount of a controlled substance if the results of the tests
indicate that the substance tested contained any controlled substance. No court
shall order an offender under this section to pay the costs of tests performed
on a substance if the results of the tests do not indicate that the substance
tested contained any controlled substance. The court shall hold a hearing to
determine the amount of costs to be imposed under this section. The court may
hold the hearing as part of the sentencing hearing for the offender.
(R.C. § 2925.511)
§ 138.03 FEDERAL PROSECUTION BAR TO MUNICIPAL PROSECUTION.
   If a violation of this chapter is a violation of the federal drug abuse
control laws, as defined in R.C. § 3719.01, a conviction or acquittal under the
federal drug abuse control laws for the same act is a bar to prosecution in
this state.
(R.C. § 2925.50)
§ 138.04 COUNTERFEIT CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly possess any counterfeit controlled
substance.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section shall be guilty of
possession of counterfeit controlled substances, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 2925.37(A), (G))
Statutory reference:
   Trafficking and other felony counterfeit controlled substance offenses, see
R.C. § 2925.37(H) - (K)
§ 138.05 USE, POSSESSION, OR SALE OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   (A)   As used in this section, DRUG PARAPHERNALIA means any equipment,
product, or material of any kind that is used by the offender, intended by the
offender for use, or designed for use, in propagating, cultivating, growing,
harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing,
preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing,
concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introduced into the
human body, a controlled substance in violation of this chapter. DRUG
PARAPHERNALIA includes, but is not limited to, any of the following equipment,
products, or materials that are used by the offender, intended by the offender
for use, or designed by the offender for use, in any of the following manners:
      (1)   A kit for propagating, cultivating, growing, or harvesting any
species of a plant that is a controlled substance or from which a controlled
substance can be derived.
      (2)   A kit for manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing,
processing, or preparing a controlled substance.
      (3)   Any object, instrument, or device for manufacturing, compounding,
converting, producing, processing, or preparing methamphetamine.
      (4)   An isomerization device for increasing the potency of any species
of a plant that is a controlled substance.
      (5)   Testing equipment for identifying, or analyzing the strength,
effectiveness, or purity of, a controlled substance, except for those exempted
in division (D)(4) of this section;
      (6)   A scale or balance for weighing or measuring a controlled
substance.
      (7)   A diluent or adulterant, such as quinine hydrochloride, mannitol,
mannite, dextrose, or lactose, for cutting a controlled substance.
      (8)   A separation gin or sifter for removing twigs and seeds from, or
otherwise cleaning or refining, marihuana.
      (9)   A blender, bowl, container, spoon, or mixing device for compounding
a controlled substance.
      (10)   A capsule, balloon, envelope, or container for packaging small
quantities of a controlled substance.
      (11)   A container or device for storing or concealing a controlled
substance.
      (12)   A hypodermic syringe, needle, or instrument for parenterally
injecting a controlled substance into the human body.
      (13)   An object, instrument, or device for ingesting, inhaling, or
otherwise introducing into the human body, marihuana, cocaine, hashish, or
hashish oil, such as a metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or
ceramic pipe, with or without a screen, permanent screen, hashish head, or
punctured metal bowl; water pipe; carburetion tube or device; smoking or
carburetion mask; roach clip or similar object used to hold burning material,
such as a marihuana cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be
held in the hand; miniature cocaine spoon, or cocaine vial; chamber pipe;
carburetor pipe; electric pipe; air driver pipe; chillum; bong; or ice pipe or
chiller.
   (B)   In determining if any equipment, product, or material is drug
paraphernalia, a court or law enforcement officer shall consider, in addition
to other relevant factors, the following:
      (1)   Any statement by the owner or by anyone in control of the
equipment, product, or material, concerning its use.
      (2)   The proximity in time or space of the equipment, product, or
material, or of the act relating to the equipment, product, or material, to a
violation of any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2925.
      (3)   The proximity of the equipment, product, or material to any
controlled substance.
      (4)   The existence of any residue of a controlled substance on the
equipment, product, or material.
      (5)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of the owner, or of
anyone in control, of the equipment, product, or material, to deliver it to any
person whom he or she knows intends to use the equipment, product, or material
to facilitate a violation of any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter
2925. A finding that the owner or anyone in control of the equipment, product,
or material is not guilty of a violation of any other provision of this chapter
or R.C. Chapter 2925 does not prevent a finding that the equipment, product, or
material was intended or designed by the offender for use as drug
paraphernalia.
      (6)   Any oral or written instruction provided with the equipment,
product, or material concerning its use.
      (7)   Any descriptive material accompanying the equipment, product, or
material and explaining or depicting its use.
      (8)   National or local advertising concerning the use of the equipment,
product, or material.
      (9)   The manner and circumstances in which the equipment, product, or
material is displayed for sale.
      (10)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of the sales of the
equipment, product, or material to the total sales of the business enterprise.
      (11)   The existence and scope of legitimate uses of the equipment,
product, or material in the community.
      (12)   Expert testimony concerning the use of the equipment, product, or
material.
   (C)   (1)   Subject to divisions (D)(2), (D)(3), and (D)(4) of this section,
no person shall knowingly use, or possess with purpose to use, drug
paraphernalia.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly sell, or possess or manufacture with
purpose to sell, drug paraphernalia, if he or she knows or reasonably should
know that the equipment, product, or material will be used as drug
paraphernalia.
      (3)   No person shall place an advertisement in any newspaper, magazine,
handbill, or other publication that is published and printed and circulates
primarily within this state, if he or she knows that the purpose of the
advertisement is to promote the illegal sale in this municipality or in this
state of the equipment, product, or material that the offender intended or
designed for use as drug paraphernalia.
   (D)   (1)   This section does not apply to manufacturers, licensed health
professionals authorized to prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies,
and other persons whose conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715,
4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, and 4741. This section shall not be construed to
prohibit the possession or use of a hypodermic as authorized by R.C. §
3719.172.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to a person’s use,
or possession with purpose to use, any drug paraphernalia that is equipment, a
product, or material of any kind that is used by the person, intended by the
person for use, or designed for use in storing, containing, concealing,
injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing into the human body
marihuana.
      (3)   Division (B)(2) of R.C. § 2925.11 applies with respect to a
violation of division (C)(1) of this section when a person seeks or obtains
medical assistance for another person who is experiencing a drug overdose, a
person experiences a drug overdose and seeks medical assistance for that
overdose, or a person is the subject of another person seeking or obtaining
medical assistance for that overdose.
      (4)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to a person's use,
or possession with purpose to use, any drug testing strips to determine the
presence of fentanyl or a fentanyl-related compound.
   (E)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ Chapter 2981, any drug paraphernalia that was
used, possessed, sold, or manufactured in violation of this section shall be
seized, after a conviction for that violation, shall be forfeited, and upon
forfeiture shall be disposed of pursuant to R.C. § 2981.12(B).
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (C)(1) of this section is guilty of
illegal use or possession of drug paraphernalia, a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (F)(3) of this section, whoever
violates division (C)(2) of this section is guilty of dealing in drug
paraphernalia, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C)(2) of this section by selling drug
paraphernalia to a juvenile is guilty of selling drug paraphernalia to
juveniles, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (C)(3) of this section is guilty of
illegal advertising of drug paraphernalia, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (G)   (1)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this section, the court may suspend for not more than five years
the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit. However, if
the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another
state or the United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the
violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If the offender is a
professionally licensed person, in addition to any other sanction imposed for a
violation of this section, the court immediately shall comply with R.C. §
2925.38.
      (2)   (a)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
         (b)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (G)(2) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.14)
   (H)   Illegal use or possession of marihuana drug paraphernalia.
      (1)   As used in this division (H), DRUG PARAPHERNALIA has the same
meaning as in division (A) of this section.
      (2)   In determining if any equipment, product, or material is drug
paraphernalia, a court or law enforcement officer shall consider, in addition
to other relevant factors, all factors identified in division (B) of this
section.
      (3)   No person shall knowingly use, or possess with purpose to use, any
drug paraphernalia that is equipment, a product, or material of any kind that
is used by the person, intended by the person for use, or designed for use in
storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise
introducing into the human body marihuana.
      (4)   This division (H) does not apply to any person identified in
division (D)(1) of this section, and it shall not be construed to prohibit the
possession or use of a hypodermic as authorized by R.C. § 3719.172.
      (5)   (a)   Division (E) of this section applies with respect to any drug
paraphernalia that was used or possessed in violation of division (H) of this
section.
         (b)   Division (B)(2) of R.C. § 2925.11 applies with respect to a
violation of this division (H) when a person seeks or obtains medical
assistance for another person who is experiencing a drug overdose, a person
experiences a drug overdose and seeks medical assistance for that overdose, or
a person is the subject of another person seeking or obtaining medical
assistance for that overdose.
      (6)   (a)   Whoever violates division (H)(3) of this section is guilty of
illegal use or possession of marihuana drug paraphernalia, a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   Arrest or conviction for a violation of division (H)(3) of this
section does not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the
person so arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries about the person's
criminal record, including any inquiries contained in any application for
employment, license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection with
the person's appearance as a witness.
      (7)   (a)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender
for a violation of division (H) of this section, the court shall do the
following, if applicable:
            1.   If the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a
violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially similar municipal ordinance or
the law of another state or the United States arising out of the same set of
circumstances as the violation, the court shall suspend the offender's driver's
or commercial driver's license or permit for not more than five years.
            2.   If the offender is a professionally licensed person, the court
immediately shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
         (b)   1.   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under division (H)
of this section prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the
sentencing court requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an
offender who pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another
state or the United States that arose out of the same set of circumstances as
the violation for which the offender’s license or permit was suspended under
division (H) of this section shall not file such a motion.
            2.   Upon the filing of a motion under division (H)(7)(b) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.141)
§ 138.06 CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE SCHEDULES.
   Controlled Substance Schedules I, II, III, IV, and V, as established in R.C.
§ 3719.41 and amended by R.C. §§ 3719.43 and 3719.44, are hereby adopted by
reference, and shall be treated as if set forth in full herein.
Statutory reference:
   For comprehensive lists of drugs identified under each of the following
Schedules, see R.C. § 3719.41, as amended by R.C. §§ 3719.43 and 3719.44:
   Schedule I
      (A)   Narcotics - opiates
      (B)   Narcotics - opium derivatives
      (C)   Hallucinogens
      (D)   Depressants
      (E)   Stimulants
   Schedule II
      (A)   Narcotics - opium and opium derivatives
      (B)   Narcotics - opiates
      (C)   Stimulants
      (D)   Depressants
      (E)   Hallucinogenic substances
      (F)   Immediate precursors
   Schedule III
      (A)   Stimulants
      (B)   Depressants
      (C)   Narcotic antidotes
      (D)   Narcotics - narcotic preparations
      (E)   Anabolic steroids
      (F)   Hallucinogenic substances
   Schedule IV
      (A)   Narcotic drugs
      (B)   Depressants
      (C)   Fenfluramine
      (D)   Stimulants
      (E)   Other substances
   Schedule V
      (A)   Narcotic drugs
      (B)   Narcotics - narcotic preparations
      (C)   Stimulants
§ 138.07 SALE OF PSEUDOEPHEDRINE.
   (A)   Unlawful purchases.
      (1)   As used in divisions (A), (B), (C) and (D) of this section:
         CONSUMER PRODUCT. Any food or drink that is consumed or used by humans
and any drug, including a drug that may be provided legally only pursuant to a
prescription, that is intended to be consumed or used by humans.
         EPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of ephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or salts
of optical isomers.
         EPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains ephedrine.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of pseudoephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or
salts of optical isomers.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains
pseudoephedrine.
         RETAILER. A place of business that offers consumer products for sale
to the general public.
         SINGLE-INGREDIENT PREPARATION. A compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance that contains a single active ingredient.
         TERMINAL DISTRIBUTOR OF DANGEROUS DRUGS. Has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 4729.01.
      (2)   (a)   1.   No individual shall knowingly purchase, receive, or
otherwise acquire an amount of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
that is greater than either of the following unless the pseudoephedrine product
or ephedrine product is dispensed by a pharmacist pursuant to a valid
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs and the conduct of the pharmacist and the licensed health professional
authorized to prescribe drugs is in accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715,
4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741:
               a.   Three and six tenths grams within a period of a single day;
               b.   Nine grams within a period of 30 consecutive days.
            2.   The limits specified in divisions (A)(2)(a)1.a. and (A)(2)
(a)1.b. of this section apply to the total amount of base pseudoephedrine or
base ephedrine in the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product,
respectively. The limits do not apply to the product’s overall weight.
         (b)   It is not a violation of division (B)(1) of this section for an
individual to receive or accept more than an amount of pseudoephedrine product
or ephedrine product specified in division (A)(2)(a)1.a. or (A)(2)(a)1.b. of
this section if the individual is an employee of a retailer or terminal
distributor of dangerous drugs, and the employee receives or accepts from the
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs the pseudoephedrine product
or ephedrine product in a sealed container in connection with manufacturing,
warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading of the
product.
      (3)   (a)   No individual under 18 years of age shall knowingly purchase,
receive, or otherwise acquire a pseudoephedrine product, or ephedrine product
unless the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product is dispensed by a
pharmacist pursuant to a valid prescription issued by a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs and the conduct of the pharmacist
and the licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs is in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741.
         (b)   Division (A)(3)(a) of this section does not apply to an
individual under 18 years of age who purchases, receives, or otherwise acquires
a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product from any of the following:
            1.   A licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs
or pharmacist who dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides the pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to that individual and whose conduct is in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741;
            2.   A parent or guardian of that individual who provides the
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the individual;
            3.   A person, as authorized by that individual’s parent or
guardian, who dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides the pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to the individual;
            4.   A retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs who
provides the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to that individual if
the individual is an employee of the retailer or terminal distributor of
dangerous drugs and the individual receives or accepts from the retailer or
terminal distributor of dangerous drugs the pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product in a sealed container in connection with manufacturing,
warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading of the
product.
      (4)   No individual under 18 years of age shall knowingly show or give
false information concerning the individual’s name, age, or other
identification for the purpose of purchasing, receiving, or otherwise acquiring
a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product.
      (5)   No individual shall knowingly fail to comply with the requirements
of R.C. § 3715.051(B).
      (6)   Whoever violates division (A)(2)(a) of this section is guilty of
unlawful purchase of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (A)(3)(a) of this section is guilty of
underage purchase of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
delinquent act that would be a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if it could be
committed by an adult.
      (8)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) of this section is guilty of using
false information to purchase a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
delinquent act that would be a misdemeanor of the first degree if it could be
committed by an adult.
      (9)   Whoever violates division (A)(5) of this section is guilty of
improper purchase of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2925.55)
   (B)   Unlawful retail sales.
      (1)   (a)   1.   Except as provided in division (B)(1)(b) of this
section, no retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs or an employee
of a retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall knowingly sell,
offer to sell, hold for sale, deliver, or otherwise provide to any individual
an amount of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product that is greater than
either of the following:
               a.   Three and six tenths grams within a period of a single day;
               b.   Nine grams within a period of 30 consecutive days.
            2.   The maximum amounts specified in divisions (B)(1)(a)1.a. and
(B)(1)(a)1.b. of this section apply to the total amount of base pseudoephedrine
or base ephedrine in the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product,
respectively. The maximum amounts do not apply to the product’s overall weight.
         (b)   1.   Division (B)(1)(a) of this section does not apply to any
quantity of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product dispensed by a
pharmacist pursuant to a valid prescription issued by a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs if the conduct of the pharmacist and
the licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs is in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741.
            2.   It is not a violation of division (B)(1)(a) of this section
for a retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, or employee of either
to provide to an individual more than an amount of pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product specified in division (B)(1)(a)1.a. or (B)(1)(a)1.b. of this
section under either of the following circumstances:
               a.   The individual is an employee of the retailer or terminal
distributor of dangerous drugs, and the employee receives or accepts from the
retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, or employee the
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product in a sealed container in
connection with manufacturing, warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging,
loading, or unloading of the product;
               b.   A stop-sale alert is generated after the submission of
information to the national precursor log exchange under the conditions
described in R.C. § 3715.052(A)(2).
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (B)(2)(b) of this section, no
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs or an employee of a
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall sell, offer to sell,
hold for sale, deliver, or otherwise provide a pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product to an individual who is under 18 years of age.
         (b)   Division (B)(2)(a) of this section does not apply to any of the
following:
            1.   A licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs
or pharmacist who dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides a pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to an individual under 18 years of age and whose
conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731,
or 4741;
            2.   A parent or guardian of an individual under 18 years of age
who provides a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the individual;
            3.   A person who, as authorized by the individual’s parent or
guardian, dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides a pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product to an individual under 18 years of age;
            4.   The provision by a retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous
drugs, or employee of either of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
in a sealed container to an employee of the retailer or terminal distributor of
dangerous drugs who is under 18 years of age in connection with manufacturing,
warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading of the
product.
      (3)   No retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall fail
to comply with the requirements of R.C. § 3715.051(A) or R.C. § 3715.052(A)(2).
      (4)   No retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall fail
to comply with the requirements of R.C. § 3715.052(A)(1).
      (5)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(a) of this section is guilty of
unlawfully selling a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (B)(2)(a) of this section is guilty of
unlawfully selling a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to a minor, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (B)(3) of this section is guilty of
improper sale of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a misdemeanor
of the second degree.
      (8)   Whoever violates division (B)(4) of this section is guilty of
failing to submit information to the national precursor log exchange, a
misdemeanor for which the offender shall be fined not more than $1,000 per
violation.
(R.C. § 2925.56)
   (C)   Transaction scans.
      (1)   As used in this division and division (D) of this section:
         CARD HOLDER. Means any person who presents a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card to a seller, or an agent or employee
of a seller, to purchase or receive any pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product from the seller, agent, or employee.
         IDENTIFICATION CARD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2927.021.
         SELLER. Means a retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs.
         TRANSACTION SCAN. Means the process by which a seller or an agent or
employee of a seller checks by means of a transaction scan device the validity
of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification card that is
presented as a condition for purchasing or receiving any pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product.
         TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE . Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2927.021.
      (2)   (a)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may perform a
transaction scan by means of a transaction scan device to check the validity of
a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a
card holder as a condition for selling, giving away, or otherwise distributing
to the card holder a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product.
         (b)   If the information deciphered by the transaction scan performed
under division (C)(2)(a) of this section fails to match the information printed
on the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented
by the card holder, or if the transaction scan indicates that the information
so printed is false or fraudulent, neither the seller nor any agent or employee
of the seller shall sell, give away, or otherwise distribute any
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the card holder.
         (c)   Division (C)(2)(a) of this section does not preclude a seller or
an agent or employee of a seller as a condition for selling, giving away, or
otherwise distributing a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the
person presenting the document from using a transaction scan device to check
the validity of a document other than a driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or an identification card if the document includes a bar code or magnetic strip
that may be scanned by the device.
      (3)   Rules adopted by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles under R.C. §
4301.61(C) apply to the use of transaction scan devices for purposes of this
division (C) and division (D) of this section.
      (4)   (a)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall
electronically or mechanically record or maintain any information derived from
a transaction scan, except the following:
            1.   The name, address, and date of birth of the person listed on
the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by
a card holder;
            2.   The expiration date, identification number, and issuing agency
of the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented
by a card holder.
         (b)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use the
information that is derived from a transaction scan or that is permitted to be
recorded and maintained under division (C)(4)(a) of this section except for
purposes of division (D) of this section, R.C. § 2925.58, or R.C. § 3715.052(A)
(1).
         (c)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use a
transaction scan device for a purpose other than the purpose specified in
division (C)(2)(a) of this section.
         (d)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall sell or
otherwise disseminate the information derived from a transaction scan to any
third party, including but not limited to selling or otherwise disseminating
that information for any marketing, advertising, or promotional activities, but
a seller or agent or employee of a seller may release that information pursuant
to a court order or as specifically authorized by division (D) of this section
or any other section of the Ohio Revised Code.
      (5)   Nothing in this division (C) or division (D) of this section
relieves a seller or an agent or employee of a seller of any responsibility to
comply with any other applicable state or federal laws or rules governing the
sale, giving away, or other distribution of pseudoephedrine products or
ephedrine products.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (C)(2)(b) or (C)(4) of this section is
guilty of engaging in an illegal pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
transaction scan, and the court may impose upon the offender a civil penalty of
up to $1,000 for each violation. The Clerk of the Court shall pay each
collected civil penalty to the County Treasurer for deposit into the County
Treasury.
(R.C. § 2925.57)
   (D)   Affirmative defenses.
      (1)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may not be found
guilty of a charge of a violation of division (B) of this section in which the
age of the purchaser or other recipient of a pseudoephedrine product is an
element of the alleged violation if the seller, agent, or employee raises and
proves as an affirmative defense that all of the following occurred:
         (a)   A card holder attempting to purchase or receive a
pseudoephedrine product presented a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
an identification card.
         (b)   A transaction scan of the driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or identification card that the card holder presented indicated that
the license or card was valid.
         (c)   The pseudoephedrine product was sold, given away, or otherwise
distributed to the card holder in reasonable reliance upon the identification
presented and the completed transaction scan.
      (2)   In determining whether a seller or an agent or employee of a seller
has proven the affirmative defense provided by division (D)(1) of this section,
the trier of fact in the action for the alleged violation of division (B) of
this section shall consider any written policy that the seller has adopted and
implemented and that is intended to prevent violations of division (B) of this
section. For purposes of division (D)(1)(c) of this section, the trier of fact
shall consider that reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and
the completed transaction scan may require a seller or an agent or employee of
a seller to exercise reasonable diligence to determine, and that the use of a
transaction scan device does not excuse a seller or an agent or employee of a
seller from exercising reasonable diligence to determine, the following:
         (a)   Whether a person to whom the seller or agent or employee of a
seller sells, gives away, or otherwise distributes a pseudoephedrine product is
18 years of age or older;
         (b)   Whether the description and picture appearing on the driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a card holder
is that of the card holder.
      (3)   In any criminal action in which the affirmative defense provided by
division (D)(1) of this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a
deputy registrar who issued an identification card under R.C. §§ 4507.50
through 4507.52 shall be permitted to submit certified copies of the records of
that issuance in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of or contractors with
the Bureau of Motor Vehicles in the action.
(R.C. § 2925.58)
   (E)   Retailer’s duties.
      (1)   As used in divisions (E) and (F) of this section:
         CONSUMER PRODUCT. Any food or drink that is consumed or used by humans
and any drug, including a drug that may be provided legally only pursuant to a
prescription, that is intended to be consumed or used by humans.
         DRUG. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         EPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of ephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or salts
of optical isomers.
         EPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains ephedrine.
         LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL. An officer or employee of any agency or
authority of the United States, a state, a territory, a political subdivision
of a state or territory, or an Indian tribe, who is empowered by the law to
investigate or conduct an official inquiry into a potential violation of law or
prosecute or otherwise conduct a criminal, civil, or administrative proceeding
arising from an alleged violation of law.
         LICENSED HEALTH PROFESSIONAL AUTHORIZED TO PRESCRIBE DRUGS. Has the
same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         NATIONAL PRECURSOR LOG EXCHANGE or EXCHANGE. The electronic system for
tracking sales of pseudoephedrine products and ephedrine products on a national
basis that is administered by the National Association of Drug Diversion
Investigators or a successor organization.
         PHARMACIST. A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 to engage in the
practice of pharmacy.
         PHARMACY. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         PRESCRIBER. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         PRESCRIPTION. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         PROOF OF AGE. A driver’s license, a commercial driver’s license, a
military identification card, a passport, or an identification card issued
under R.C. §§ 4507.50 to 4507.52 that shows a person is 18 years of age or
older.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of pseudoephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or
salts of optical isomers.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains
pseudoephedrine.
         RETAILER. A place of business that offers consumer products for sale
to the general public.
         SINGLE-INGREDIENT PREPARATION. A compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance that contains a single active ingredient.
         STOP-SALE ALERT. A notification sent from the national precursor log
exchange to a retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs indicating
that the completion of a sale of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
would result in a violation of R.C. § 2925.56(A)(1) or federal law.
         TERMINAL DISTRIBUTOR OF DANGEROUS DRUGS. Has the same meanings as in
R.C. § 4729.01.
         WHOLESALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
      (2)   A retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs that sells,
offers to sell, holds for sale, delivers, or otherwise provides a
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the public shall do all of the
following:
         (a)   Segregate pseudoephedrine products or ephedrine products from
other merchandise so that no member of the public may procure or purchase such
products without the direct assistance of a pharmacist or other authorized
employee of the retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs;
         (b)   With regard to each time a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product is sold or otherwise provided without a valid prescription:
            1.   Determine, by examination of a valid proof of age, that the
purchaser or recipient is at least 18 years of age;
            2.   a.   Using any information available, including information
from the national precursor log exchange if the information is accessible, make
a reasonable attempt to ensure that no individual purchases or receives an
amount of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product that is greater than
either of the following:
                  i.   Three and six tenths grams within a period of a single
day;
                  ii.   Nine grams within a period of 30 consecutive days.
               b.   The maximum amounts specified in divisions (E)(2)(b)2.a.i.
and (E)(2)(b)2.a.ii. of this section apply to the total amount of base
pseudoephedrine or base ephedrine in the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product, respectively. The maximum amounts do not apply to the product’s
overall weight.
         (c)   Maintain a log book of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product purchases, in accordance with R.C. § 3715.051;
         (d)   If required to comply with section R.C. § 3715.052, submit the
information specified in divisions (A)(1)(a) to (A)(1)(d) of that section to
the national precursor log exchange.
      (3)   Prescriptions, orders, and records maintained pursuant to this
section and stocks of pseudoephedrine products and ephedrine products shall be
open for inspection to federal, state, county, and municipal officers, and
employees of the State Board of Pharmacy whose duty it is to enforce the laws
of this state or of the United States relating to controlled substances. Such
prescriptions, orders, records, and stocks shall be open for inspection by the
State Medical Board and its employees for purposes of enforcing R.C. Chapter
4731.
(R.C. § 3715.05)
   (F)   Theft or loss; reporting requirements.
      (1)   Each retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, pharmacy,
prescriber, or wholesaler that sells, offers to sell, holds for sale, delivers,
or otherwise provides any pseudoephedrine product and that discovers the theft
or loss of any pseudoephedrine product in an amount of more than nine grams per
incident of theft or loss shall notify all of the following upon discovery of
the theft or loss:
         (a)   The State Board of Pharmacy, by telephone immediately upon
discovery of the theft or loss;
         (b)   Law enforcement authorities. If the incident is a theft and the
theft constitutes a felony, the retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous
drugs, pharmacy, prescriber, or wholesaler shall report the theft to the law
enforcement authorities in accordance with R.C. § 2921.22.
      (2)   Within 30 days after making a report by telephone to the State
Board of Pharmacy pursuant to division (F)(1)(a) of this section, a retailer,
terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, pharmacy, prescriber, or wholesaler
shall send a written report to the State Board of Pharmacy.
      (3)   The reports required under this section shall identify the product
that was stolen or lost, the amount of the product stolen or lost, and the date
and time of discovery of the theft or loss.
(R.C. § 3715.06)
§ 138.08 SALE OF DEXTROMETHORPHAN.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      DEXTROMETHORPHAN. Means the dextrorotatory isomer of 3-methoxy-N-
methylmorphinan, including its salts, but not including its racemic or
levorotatory forms.
      EVIDENCE OF MAJORITY AND IDENTITY. Means a document issued by the federal
government or a state, county, or municipal government, or a subdivision or
agency of any of the foregoing, including a driver's or commercial driver's
license, an identification card issued under R.C. §§ 4507.50 to 4507.52, a
military identification card, or any other form of identification that bears
the name, date of birth, description, and picture of the person identified.
      RETAILER. Means a place of business that offers consumer products for
sale to the general public, including a terminal distributor of dangerous drugs
that is licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 and operated as a pharmacy.
   (B)   No retailer or employee of a retailer shall knowingly supply, deliver,
give, or otherwise provide a drug, material, compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance containing any quantity of dextromethorphan through the sale of any
product to a person under 18 years of age, unless the person has been issued a
prescription for the product being purchased.
   (C)   For purposes of division (B) of this section, the person making the
sale of a product containing dextromethorphan shall require and obtain evidence
of majority and identity from the purchaser, unless from the purchaser's
outward appearance the person making the sale would reasonably presume the
purchaser to be 25 years of age or older. Proof that the person making the sale
demanded, was shown, and acted in reasonable reliance on the purchaser's
evidence of majority and identity is a defense to any charge of a violation of
division (B) of this section.
   (D)   A retailer or employee of a retailer is not liable for damages in a
civil action for injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly
arises from an act or omission associated with a failure to prevent the sale of
a product containing dextromethorphan to a person under 18 years of age, unless
the act or omission constitutes willful or wanton misconduct.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of illegally
selling dextromethorphan, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2925.62)
§ 138.09 SALE OF PURE CAFFEINE PRODUCT.
   (A)   As used in this section, PURE CAFFEINE PRODUCT means:
      (1)   Subject to division (A)(2) of this section, a product that consists
solely or primarily of caffeine and is manufactured into a crystalline, liquid,
or powdered form.
      (2)   The phrase does not include any of the following that contains
caffeine and is formulated, manufactured, and labeled in accordance with the
laws and regulations enforced by the United States Food and Drug
Administration:
         (a)   Coffee, tea, any soft drink, any energy drink, or any other
caffeine-containing beverage;
         (b)   Any energy product.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, no person shall
knowingly sell or offer for sale a pure caffeine product.
   (C)   Division (B) of this section does not prohibit a person from selling
or offering for sale any product manufactured in a unit-dose form such as a
pill, tablet, or caplet, but only if each unit dose of the product contains not
more than 250 milligrams of caffeine.
   (D)   Nothing in this section prohibits either of the following:
      (1)   Possession of a product described in division (C) of this section;
      (2)   Possession of a pure caffeine product by any of the following:
         (a)   A food processing establishment, as defined in R.C. § 3715.021;
         (b)   A manufacturer of a drug that is available without a
prescription;
         (c)   A laboratory that holds a current, valid category III terminal
distributor of dangerous drugs license issued by the state board of pharmacy
under R.C. § 4729.54;
         (d)   A laboratory of any agency or department of this state that
performs testing, analysis, and other laboratory services on behalf of the
state;
         (e)   A postal or delivery service that transports or delivers a pure
caffeine product to an entity specified in divisions (D)(2)(a) to (D)(2)(d) of
this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of illegal
sale of pure caffeine, a minor misdemeanor on a first offense and a misdemeanor
of the third degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 2925.34)
DRUG ABUSE
§ 138.10 DRUG POSSESSION OFFENSES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly obtain, possess, or use a controlled
substance or a controlled substance analog.
   (B)   (1)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   Manufacturers, licensed health professionals authorized to
prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies, and other persons whose
conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731,
and 4741.
         (b)   If the offense involves an anabolic steroid, any person who is
conducting or participating in a research project involving the use of an
anabolic steroid if the project has been approved by the United States Food and
Drug Administration.
         (c)   Any person who sells, offers for sale, prescribes, dispenses, or
administers for livestock or other nonhuman species an anabolic steroid that is
expressly intended for administration through implants to livestock or other
nonhuman species and approved for that purpose under the Federal Food, Drug,
and Cosmetic Act, and is sold, offered for sale, prescribed, dispensed, or
administered for that purpose in accordance with that Act.
         (d)   Any person who obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs if the prescription was issued for a legitimate medical purpose and not
altered, forged, or obtained through deception or commission of a theft
offense. As used in this division (B)(1)(d), DECEPTION and THEFT OFFENSE have
the same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      (2)   (a)   As used in division (B)(2) of this section:
            COMMUNITY ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 5119.01.
            COMMUNITY CONTROL SANCTION. Has the same meanings as in R.C. §
2929.01
            DRUG TREATMENT PROGRAM. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 2929.01.
            HEALTH CARE FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2919.16.
            MINOR DRUG POSSESSION OFFENSE. A violation of this section or R.C.
§ 2925.11 that is a misdemeanor or a felony of the fifth degree.
            PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
            POST-RELEASE CONTROL SANCTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2967.28.
            PUBLIC AGENCY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2930.01.
            QUALIFIED INDIVIDUAL. A person who is acting in good faith who
seeks or obtains medical assistance for another person who is experiencing a
drug overdose, a person who experiences a drug overdose and who seeks medical
assistance for that overdose, or a person who is the subject of another person
seeking or obtaining medical assistance for that overdose as described in
division (B)(2)(b) of this section.
            SEEK OR OBTAIN MEDICAL ASSISTANCE. Includes, but is not limited to
making a 9-1-1 call, contacting in person or by telephone call an on-duty peace
officer, or transporting or presenting a person to a health care facility.
         (b)   Subject to division (B)(2)(e) of this section, a qualified
individual shall not be arrested, charged, prosecuted, convicted, or penalized
pursuant to this chapter for a minor drug possession offense or a violation of
R.C. § 2925.12, R.C. § 2925.14(C)(1), or R.C. § 2925.141 if all of the
following apply:
            1.   The evidence of the obtaining, possession, or use of the
controlled substance or controlled substance analog, drug abuse instruments, or
drug paraphernalia that would be the basis of the offense was obtained as a
result of the qualified individual seeking the medical assistance or
experiencing an overdose and needing medical assistance.
            2.   Subject to division (B)(2)(f) of this section, within 30 days
after seeking or obtaining the medical assistance, the qualified individual
seeks and obtains a screening and receives a referral for treatment from a
community addiction services provider or a properly credentialed addiction
treatment professional.
            3.   Subject to division (B)(2)(f) of this section, the qualified
individual who obtains a screening and receives a referral for treatment under
division (B)(2)(b)2. of this section, upon the request of any prosecuting
attorney, submits documentation to the prosecuting attorney that verifies that
the qualified individual satisfied the requirements of that division. The
documentation shall be limited to the date and time of the screening obtained
and referral received.
         (c)   If a person who is serving a community control sanction or is
under a sanction on post-release control acts pursuant to division (B)(2)(b) of
this section, then R.C. § 2929.141(B), R.C. § 2929.15(B)(2), R.C. § 2929.25(D)
(3), or R.C. § 2967.28(F)(3) applies to the person with respect to any
violation of the sanction or post-release control sanction based on a minor
drug possession offense, as defined in R.C. § 2925.11, or a violation of R.C. §
2925.12, R.C. § 2925.14(C)(1), or R.C. § 2925.141.
         (d)   Nothing in division (B)(2)(b) of this section shall be construed
to do any of the following:
            1.   Limit the admissibility of any evidence in connection with the
investigation or prosecution of a crime with regards to a defendant who does
not qualify for the protections of division (B)(2)(b) of this section or with
regards to any crime other than a minor drug possession offense or a violation
of R.C. § 2925.12, R.C. § 2925.14(C)(1), or R.C. § 2925.141 committed by a
person who qualifies for protection pursuant to division (B)(2)(b) of this
section;
            2.   Limit any seizure of evidence or contraband otherwise
permitted by law;
            3.   Limit or abridge the authority of a peace officer to detain or
take into custody a person in the course of an investigation or to effectuate
an arrest for any offense except as provided in that division;
            4.   Limit, modify, or remove any immunity from liability available
pursuant to law in effect prior to September 13, 2016 to any public agency or
to an employee of any public agency.
         (e)   Division (B)(2)(b) of this section does not apply to any person
who twice previously has been granted an immunity under division (B)(2)(b) of
this section. No person shall be granted an immunity under division (B)(2)(b)
of this section more than two times.
         (f)   Nothing in this section shall compel any qualified individual to
disclose protected health information in a way that conflicts with the
requirements of the "Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of
1996", 104 Pub. L. No. 191, 110 Stat. 2021, 42 U.S.C. §§ 1320d et seq., as
amended, and regulations promulgated by the United States Department of Health
and Human Services to implement the act or the requirements of 42 C.F.R. Part
2.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of one of the
following:
      (1)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule I or Schedule II, with the
exception of marihuana or hashish, whoever violates division (A) of this
section is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V,
whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of possession of drugs.
The penalty for the offense shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2)(b) of this
section, possession of drugs is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the
offender previously has been convicted of a drug abuse offense, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (b)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds the bulk
amount, possession of drugs is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   If the drug involved in the violation is marihuana or a compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance containing marihuana other than hashish,
whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of possession of
marihuana. The penalty for the offense shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3)(b) or (C)(3)(c)
of this section, possession of marihuana is a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds 100 grams
but is less than 200 grams, possession of marihuana is a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
         (c)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds 200 grams,
possession of marihuana is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (4)   If the drug involved in the violation is hashish or a compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance containing hashish, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of possession of hashish. The penalty
for the offense shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(4)(b) or (C)(4)(c)
of this section, possession of hashish is a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds five grams
but is less than ten grams of hashish in a solid form or equals or exceeds one
gram but is less than two grams of hashish in a liquid concentrate, liquid
extract, or liquid distillate form, possession of hashish is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
         (c)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds ten grams
of hashish in a solid form or equals or exceeds two grams of hashish in a
liquid concentrate, liquid extract, or liquid distillate form, possession of
hashish is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance that is a combination of a fentanyl-related compound
and marihuana, one of the following applies:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(5)(b) of this
section, the offender is guilty of possession of marihuana and shall be
punished as provided in division (C)(3) of this section. Except as otherwise
provided in division (C)(5)(b) of this section, the offender is not guilty of
possession of a fentanyl-related compound under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) and shall
not be charged with, convicted of, or punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) for
possession of a fentanyl-related compound.
         (b)   If the offender knows or has reason to know that the compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is the drug involved contains a
fentanyl-related compound, the offender is guilty of possession of a fentanyl-
related compound and shall be punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11).
      (6)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance that is a combination of a fentanyl-related compound
and any Schedule III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V controlled substance that is
not a fentanyl-related compound, one of the following applies:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(6)(b) of this
section, the offender is guilty of possession of drugs and shall be punished as
provided in division (C)(2) of this section. Except as otherwise provided in
division (C)(6)(b) of this section, the offender is not guilty of possession of
a fentanyl-related compound under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) and shall not be
charged with, convicted of, or punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) for
possession of a fentanyl-related compound.
         (b)   If the offender knows or has reason to know that the compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is the drug involved contains a
fentanyl-related compound, the offender is guilty of possession of a fentanyl-
related compound and shall be punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11).
   (D)   Arrest or conviction for a minor misdemeanor violation of this section
does not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the person so
arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries about the person's criminal
record, including any inquiries contained in any application for employment,
license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection with the person's
appearance as a witness.
   (E)   (1)   In addition to any prison term or jail term authorized or
required by division (C) of this section and R.C. §§ 2929.13, 2929.14, 2929.22,
2929.24, and 2929.25, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and
in addition to any other sanction that is imposed for the offense under this
section, R.C. §§ 2929.11 through 2929.18, or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court that sentences an
offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of division (A) of
this section may suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or permit for not more than five years. However, if the offender pleaded guilty
to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another state or the United States
arising out of the same set of circumstances as the violation, the court shall
suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit for
not more than five years.
      (2)   If the offender is a professionally licensed person, in addition to
any other sanction imposed for a violation of this section, the court
immediately shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
   (F)   (1)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
      (2)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (F) of this section, the
sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.11)
Statutory reference:
   Felony drug possession offenses, see R.C. § 2925.11(C)
§ 138.11 POSSESSING DRUG ABUSE INSTRUMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make, obtain, possess, or use any
instrument, article, or thing the customary and primary purpose of which is for
the administration or use of a dangerous drug, other than marihuana, when the
instrument involved is a hypodermic or syringe, whether or not of crude or
extemporized manufacture or assembly, and the instrument, article, or thing
involved has been used by the offender to unlawfully administer or use a
dangerous drug, other than marihuana, or to prepare a dangerous drug, other
than marihuana, for unlawful administration or use.
   (B)   (1)   This section does not apply to manufacturers, licensed health
professionals authorized to prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies,
and other persons whose conduct was in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719,
4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, and 4741.
      (2)   Division (B)(2) of R.C. § 2925.11 applies with respect to a
violation of this section when a person seeks or obtains medical assistance for
another person who is experiencing a drug overdose, a person experiences a drug
overdose and seeks medical assistance for that overdose, or a person is the
subject of another person seeking or obtaining medical assistance for that
overdose.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possessing drug abuse
instruments, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a drug abuse offense, violation of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   (1)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this section, the court may suspend for not more than five years
the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit. However, if
the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another
state or the United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the
violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If the offender is a
professionally licensed person, in addition to any other sanction imposed for a
violation of this section, the court immediately shall comply with R.C. §
2925.38.
      (2)   (a)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
         (b)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (D)(2) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.12)
§ 138.12 PERMITTING DRUG ABUSE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner, operator, or person in charge of a
locomotive, watercraft, aircraft, or other vehicle, as defined in R.C. §
4501.01, shall knowingly permit the vehicle to be used for the commission of a
felony drug abuse offense.
   (B)   No person, who is the owner, lessee, or occupant, or who has custody,
control, or supervision of premises, or real estate, including vacant land,
shall knowingly permit his or her premises, or real estate, including vacant
land, to be used for the commission of a felony drug abuse offense by another
person.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of permitting drug abuse.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, permitting
drug abuse is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Permitting drug abuse is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if the felony drug abuse offense in question is a
violation of R.C. § 2925.02, 2925.03, or 2925.04, or if the felony drug abuse
offense in question is a violation of R.C. § 2925.041 and the offender had
actual knowledge, at the time the offender permitted the vehicle, premises, or
real estate to be used as described in division (A) or (B) of this section,
that the person who assembled or possessed the chemicals in question in
violation of R.C. § 2925.041 had assembled or possessed them with the intent to
manufacture a controlled substance in Schedule I or Schedule II in violation of
R.C. § 2925.04.
   (D)   Any premises or real estate that is permitted to be used in violation
of division (B) of this section constitutes a nuisance subject to abatement
pursuant to R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2925.13(A) - (C), (F))
§ 138.13 ABUSING HARMFUL INTOXICANTS.
   (A)   Except for lawful research, clinical, medical, dental, or veterinary
purposes, no person, with purpose to induce intoxication or similar
physiological effects, shall obtain, possess, or use a harmful intoxicant.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of abusing harmful
intoxicants, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a drug abuse offense, abusing harmful intoxicants is a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   (1)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this section, the court may suspend for not more than five years
the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit. However, if
the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another
state or the United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the
violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If the offender is a
professionally licensed person, in addition to any other sanction imposed for a
violation of this section, the court immediately shall comply with R.C. §
2925.38.
      (2)   (a)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to the September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
         (b)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (C)(2) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.31)
UNLAWFUL TRANSACTIONS
§ 138.20 TRAFFICKING IN CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES; GIFT OF MARIJUANA.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Sell or offer to sell a controlled substance or a controlled
substance analog;
      (2)   Prepare for shipment, ship, transport, deliver, prepare for
distribution, or distribute a controlled substance or a controlled substance
analog, when the offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
controlled substance or a controlled substance analog is intended for sale or
resale by the offender or another person.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   Manufacturers, licensed health professionals authorized to
prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies, and other persons whose
conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731,
and 4741.
      (2)   If the offense involves an anabolic steroid, any person who is
conducting or participating in a research project involving the use of an
anabolic steroid if the project has been approved by the United States Food and
Drug Administration.
      (3)   Any person who sells, offers for sale, prescribes, dispenses, or
administers for livestock or other nonhuman species an anabolic steroid that is
expressly intended for administration through implants to livestock or other
nonhuman species and approved for that purpose under the “Federal Food, Drug
and Cosmetic Act” (21 U.S.C. 301 et seq., as amended), and is sold, offered for
sale, prescribed, dispensed, or administered for that purpose in accordance
with that Act.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of the
following:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (C)(2) and (C)(3) of this
section, trafficking in controlled substances is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the offense
involves a gift of 20 grams or less of marihuana, trafficking in marihuana is a
minor misdemeanor upon a first offense and a misdemeanor of the third degree
upon a subsequent offense. If the offense involves a gift of 20 grams or less
of marihuana and if the offense was committed in the vicinity of a school or in
the vicinity of a juvenile, trafficking in marihuana is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
      (3)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance that is a combination of a fentanyl-related compound
and marihuana, one of the following applies:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3)(b) of this
section, the offender is guilty of trafficking in marihuana and shall be
punished under division (C)(2) of this section. The offender is not guilty of
trafficking in a fentanyl-related compound and shall not be charged with,
convicted of, or punished under R.C. § 2925.03(C)(9) for trafficking in a
fentanyl-related compound.
         (b)   If the offender knows or has reason to know that the compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is the drug involved contains a
fentanyl-related compound, the offender is guilty of trafficking in a fentanyl-
related compound and shall be punished under R.C. § 2925.03(C)(9).
   (D)   As used in this section, DRUG includes any substance that is
represented to be a drug.
(R.C. § 2925.03(A) - (C), (I))
Statutory reference:
   Felony drug trafficking offenses, see R.C. § 2925.03(C)
§ 138.21 DECEPTION TO OBTAIN A DANGEROUS DRUG.
   (A)   No person, by deception as defined in §
131.01, shall procure the administration of, a prescription for, or the
dispensing of, a dangerous drug, or possess an uncompleted preprinted
prescription blank used for writing a prescription for a dangerous drug.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of deception to obtain a
dangerous drug. The penalty for the offense is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law
(R.C. § 2925.22)
§ 138.22 ILLEGAL DISPENSING OF DRUG SAMPLES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly furnish a sample drug to another person.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to manufacturers,
wholesalers, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies, licensed health professionals
authorized to prescribe drugs, and other persons whose conduct is in accordance
with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715, 4723, 4725, 4729, 4730, 4731, and 4741.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal dispensing of
drug samples.
      (2)   If the drug involved in the offense is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule I or Schedule II, with the
exception of marihuana, illegal dispensing of drug samples is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the drug involved in the offense is a dangerous drug or a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance included in Schedule III, Schedule
IV or Schedule V, or is marihuana, the penalty for the offense shall be
determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in the following division, illegal
dispensing of drug samples is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
         (b)   If the offense was committed in the vicinity of a school or in
the vicinity of a juvenile, illegal dispensing of drug samples is a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2925.36(A) - (C))
Statutory reference:
   Felony offenses, see R.C. § 2925.36(C)(2)
§ 138.23 NITROUS OXIDE: IMPROPER DISPENSING OR DISTRIBUTION; POSSESSION IN A
MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   Improper dispensing or distribution.
      (1)   No person who dispenses or distributes nitrous oxide in cartridges
shall fail to comply with either of the following:
         (a)   The record-keeping requirements established under division (A)
(3) of this section.
         (b)   The labeling and transaction identification requirements
established under division (A)(4) of this section.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(1)(a) or (A)(1)(b) of this section is
guilty of improperly dispensing or distributing nitrous oxide, a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
      (3)   Beginning July 1, 2001, a person who dispenses or distributes
nitrous oxide shall record each transaction involving the dispensing or
distribution of the nitrous oxide on a separate card. The person shall require
the purchaser to sign the card and provide a complete residence address. The
person dispensing or distributing the nitrous oxide shall sign and date the
card. The person shall retain the card recording a transaction for one year
from the date of the transaction. The person shall maintain the cards at the
person's business address and make them available during normal business hours
for inspection and copying by officers or employees of the State Board of
Pharmacy or of other law enforcement agencies that are authorized to
investigate violations of this code, R.C. Chapters 2925, 3719, or 4729, or
federal drug abuse control laws. The cards used to record each transaction
shall inform the purchaser of the following:
         (a)   That nitrous oxide cartridges are to be used only for purposes
of preparing food;
         (b)   That inhalation of nitrous oxide can have dangerous health
effects; and
         (c)   That it is a violation of state law to distribute or dispense
cartridges of nitrous oxide to any person under age 21, punishable as a felony
of the fifth degree.
      (4)   (a)   Each cartridge of nitrous oxide dispensed or distributed in
this municipality shall bear the following printed warning: “Nitrous oxide
cartridges are to be used only for purposes of preparing food. Nitrous oxide
cartridges may not be sold to persons under age 21. Do not inhale contents.
Misuse can be dangerous to your health.”
         (b)   Each time a person dispenses or distributes one or more
cartridges of nitrous oxide, the person shall mark the packaging containing the
cartridges with a label or other device that identifies the person who
dispensed or distributed the nitrous oxide and the person's business address.
(R.C. § 2925.32(B)(4), (D)(2), (F), (G)) (Rev. 2001)
   (B)   Possession in a motor vehicle.
      (1)   As used in this section, MOTOR VEHICLE, STREET, and HIGHWAY have
the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      (2)   Unless authorized by this code or by state law, no person shall
possess an open cartridge of nitrous oxide in either of the following
circumstances:
         (a)   While operating or being a passenger in or on a motor vehicle on
a street, highway, or other public property public or private property open to
the public for purposes of vehicular traffic or parking.
         (b)   While being in or on a stationary motor vehicle on a street,
highway, or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular traffic or parking.
      (3)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of possessing nitrous
oxide in a motor vehicle, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (4)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for
possessing nitrous oxide in a motor vehicle, the court may suspend for not more
than five years the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit.
(R.C. § 2925.33)
Statutory reference:
   Trafficking in harmful intoxicants, see R.C. § 2925.32
CHAPTER 139: MISCELLANEOUS
Section
   
139.01   Desecration
   
139.02   Unvented heaters
   
139.03   Abandoned refrigerator
   
139.04   Maintaining a nuisance
§ 139.01 DESECRATION.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall purposely deface, damage,
pollute or otherwise physically mistreat any of the following:
      (1)   The flag of the United States or of this State;
      (2)   Any public monument;
      (3)   Any historical or commemorative marker, or any structure, Indian
mound or earthwork, cemetery, thing or site of great historical or
archeological interest;
      (4)   A place of worship, its furnishings, or religious artifacts or
sacred texts within the place of worship or within the grounds upon which the
place of worship is located;
      (5)   A work of art or museum piece;
      (6)   Any other object of reverence or sacred devotion.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of desecration. A violation of
division (A)(1), (2), (3), (5) or (6) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
second degree. A violation of division (A)(4) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   As used in this section, CEMETERY means any place of burial and
includes burial sites that contain American Indian burial objects placed with
or containing American Indian human remains.
(R.C. § 2927.11)
§ 139.02 UNVENTED HEATERS.
   (A)   A brazier, salamander, space heater, room heater, furnace, water
heater, or other burner or heater using wood, coal, coke, fuel oil, kerosene,
gasoline, natural gas, liquid petroleum gas, or similar fuel, and tending to
give off carbon monoxide or other harmful gases:
      (1)   When used in living quarters, or in any enclosed building or space
in which persons are usually present, shall be used with a flue or vent so
designed, installed, and maintained as to vent the products of combustion
outdoors;
      (2)   When used as a portable or temporary burner or heater at a
construction site, or in a warehouse, shed, or structure in which persons are
temporarily present, shall be vented as provided in (A)(1) above, or used with
sufficient ventilation to avoid the danger of carbon monoxide poisoning.
   (B)   This section does not apply to domestic ranges, laundry stoves, gas
logs installed in a fireplace with an adequate flue, or hot plates, unless the
same are used as space or room heaters.
   (C)   No person shall negligently use, or, being the owner, person in
charge, or occupant of premises, negligently permit the use of a burner or
heater in violation of the standards for venting and ventilation provided in
this section.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. §§ 3701.82, 3701.99)
§ 139.03 ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS.
   (A)   No person shall abandon, discard, or knowingly permit to remain on
premises under the person's control, in a place accessible to children, any
abandoned or discarded icebox, refrigerator, or other airtight or semi-airtight
container which has a capacity of 1-1/2 cubic feet or more and an opening of 50
square inches or more and which has a door or lid equipped with hinge, latch,
or other fastening device capable of securing such door or lid, without
rendering the equipment harmless to human life by removing such hinges,
latches, or other hardware which may cause a person to be confined therein.
This section shall not apply to an icebox, refrigerator, or other airtight or
semi-airtight container located in that part of a building occupied by a
dealer, warehouse or repairer.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 3767.29)
§ 139.04 MAINTAINING A NUISANCE.
   (A)   No person shall erect, continue to use or maintain a building,
structure, or place for the exercise of a trade, employment, or business, or
for keeping or feeding an animal which, by occasioning noxious exhalations or
noisome or offensive smells, becomes injurious to the health, comfort, or
property of individuals or of the public. No person shall cause or allow offal,
filth, or noisome substances to be collected or remain in any place to the
damage or prejudice of others, or of the public. No person shall unlawfully
obstruct or impede the passage of a navigable river, harbor, or collection of
water, or corrupt or render unwholesome or impure, a watercourse, stream, or
water, or unlawfully divert such watercourse from its natural course or state
to the injury or prejudice of others.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
(R.C. §§ 3767.13, 3767.99)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   BUILDING CODE
         
151.   FEE SCHEDULE AND PERMIT PROCEDURES
         
152.   (RESERVED)
         
153.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
         
154.   ZONING
         
155.   HOUSING REGULATIONS
         
156.   MINIMUM NONRESIDENTIAL STANDARDS
         
157.   DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING CODE
Section
   
150.01   Adoption of the Residential Code of Ohio for One-, Two-, and Three-
Family Dwellings
   
150.02   Reference to the Ohio Building Code for commercial construction
   
150.03   Fees
   
150.04   Appeal process
Cross-reference:
   Smoke alarm requirements for multi-family dwellings, see §§
92.35 through
92.38
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF THE RESIDENTIAL CODE OF OHIO FOR ONE-, TWO-, AND THREE-
FAMILY DWELLINGS.
   In accordance with State of Ohio law, the current edition of the Residential
Code of Ohio for One-, Two-, and Three-Family Dwellings and its referenced
codes and standards shall regulate all residential construction in the village.
(Ord. 2015-30, passed 8-31-15; Am. Ord. 2018-04, passed 1-8-18)
Statutory reference:
   Ohio Administrative Code §§ 4101:8-1 to 4101:8-25, 4101:8-29, 4101:8-34, and
4101:8-44
§ 150.02 REFERENCE TO THE OHIO BUILDING CODE FOR COMMERCIAL CONSTRUCTION.
   In accordance with State of Ohio law, the current edition of the Ohio
Building Code and its referenced codes and standards shall regulate all
commercial, industrial and attached multi-family construction of more than
three family dwellings in the Village.
(Ord. 2015-30, passed 8-31-15)
§ 150.03 FEES.
   Except as otherwise established by the Ohio Building Code and the
Residential Code of Ohio for One-, Two-, and Three-Family Dwellings, the fees
related to construction in the village shall be as established in
Chapter 151 of the Codified Ordinances.
(Ord. 2018-04, passed 1-8-18)
§ 150.04 APPEAL PROCESS.
   An appeal may be taken from the orders, decisions, and/or determinations
made by the Building Official pursuant to §§
150.01 and
150.02. Until such time, if any, as the village certifies its own Board of
Building Appeals or contracts with a certified Board of Building Appeals to
conduct appeals regarding its residential and/or commercial building codes,
such appeals shall be conducted by the Ohio Board of Building Appeals.
(Ord. 2018-04, passed 1-8-18)
CHAPTER 151: FEE SCHEDULE AND PERMIT PROCEDURES
   
151.01   Permit required
   
151.02   Notice of permit issuance
   
151.03   Fee schedule and procedures
§ 151.01 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No one shall begin a construction project that requires a zoning or building
permit without first providing the necessary plans and specifications and
obtaining the necessary permits from the office of the Building Official.
(Ord. 2005-05, passed 2-7-05)
§ 151.02 NOTICE OF PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   Each issued permit shall be conspicuously posted at the work location along
with a copy of the approved plans and documents.
(Ord. 2005-05, passed 2-7-05)
§ 151.03 FEE SCHEDULE AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   All structures, new, alterations, demolitions, miscellaneous, signs
and miscellaneous construction, excepting as listed elsewhere in this chapter,
shall have fees based on the cost of construction:
 
Residential Fees               Commercial Building Fees
Value          Proces s Total  Value          OBC Fee Proce Build ing BBS Total
Estimated Cost                 Estimated Cost ss
Residential Fees                 Commercial Building Fees
Value                            Value      OBC Fee
Estimated  Proces s Total        Estimated  Proce ss Build ing BBS     Total
Cost                             Cost
$5,000     $65.00   $110. 00    $5,000     $100. 00 $129. 00  $3.87   $132. 87
$6,000     $65.00   $120. 00    $6,000     $100. 00 $143. 00  $4.29   $147. 29
$7,000     $65.00   $125. 00    $7,000     $100. 00 $157. 00  $4.71   $161. 71
$8,000     $70.00   $135. 00    $8,000     $100. 00 $171. 00  $5.13   $176. 13
$9,000     $75.00   $145. 00    $9,000     $100. 00 $185. 00  $5.55   $190. 55
$10,000    $80.00   $155. 00    $10,000    $100. 00 $199. 00  $5.97   $204. 97
$11,000    $85.00   $165. 00    $11,000    $105. 00 $213. 00  $6.39   $219. 39
$12,000    $90.00   $175. 00    $12,000    $110. 00 $227. 00  $6.81   $233. 81
$13,000    $95.00   $185. 00    $13,000    $115. 00 $241. 00  $7.23   $248. 23
$14,000    $100.0 0 $195. 00    $14,000    $120. 00 $255. 00  $7.65   $262. 65
$15,000    $105.0 0 $210. 00    $15,000    $130. 00 $269. 00  $8.07   $277. 07
$16,000    $110.0 0 $220. 00    $16,000    $140. 00 $283. 00  $8.49   $291. 49
$17,000    $115.0 0 $230. 00    $17,000    $150. 00 $297. 00  $8.91   $305. 91
$18,000    $120.0 0 $240. 00    $18,000    $160. 00 $311. 00  $9.33   $320. 33
$19,000    $125.0 0 $250. 00    $19,000    $165. 00 $325. 00  $9.75   $334. 75
$20,000    $130.0 0 $275. 00    $20,000    $170. 00 $339. 00  $10.1 7 $349. 17
$21,000    $135.0 0 $285. 00    $21,000    $175. 00 $353. 00  $10.5 9 $363. 59
$22,000    $140.0 0 $295. 00    $22,000    $180. 00 $367. 00  $11.0 1 $378. 01
$23,000    $145.0 0 $305. 00    $23,000    $190. 00 $381. 00  $11.4 3 $392. 43
$24,000    $150.0 0 $310. 00    $24,000    $200. 00 $395. 00  $11.8 5 $406. 85
$25,000    $155.0 0 $320. 00    $25,000    $205. 00 $409. 00  $12.2 7 $421. 27
$26,000    $160.0 0 $325. 00    $26,000    $210. 00 $423. 00  $12.6 9 $435. 69
$27,000    $165.0 0 $330. 00    $27,000    $215. 00 $437. 00  $13.1 1 $450. 11
$28,000    $170.0 0 $335. 00    $28,000    $220. 00 $457. 00  $13.5 3 $464. 53
$29,000    $175.0 0 $340. 00    $29,000    $230. 00 $465. 00  $13.9 5 $478. 95
$30,000    $180.0 0 $345. 00    $30,000    $235. 00 $479. 00  $14.3 7 $493. 37
$31,000    $185.0 0 $350. 00    $31,000    $240. 00 $493. 00  $14.7 9 $507. 79
$32,000    $190.0 0 $360. 00    $32,000    $250. 00 $507. 00  $15.2 1 $522. 21
$33,000    $195.0 0 $370. 00    $33,000    $260. 00 $521. 00  $15.6 3 $536. 63
$34,000    $200.0 0 $380. 00    $34,000    $265. 00 $535. 00  $16.0 5 $551. 05
$35,000    $205.0 0 $390. 00    $35,000    $270. 00 $549. 00  $16.4 7 $565. 47
$36,000    $210.0 0 $400. 00    $36,000    $280. 00 $563. 00  $16.8 9 $579. 89
$37,000    $215.0 0 $410. 00    $37,000    $285. 00 $577. 00  $17.3 1 $594. 31
$38,000    $220.0 0 $420. 00    $38,000    $290. 00 $591. 00  $17.7 3 $608. 73
$39,000    $225.0 0 $430. 00    $39,000    $300. 00 $605. 00  $18.1 5 $623. 15
$40,000    $230.0 0 $440. 00    $40,000    $305. 00 $619. 00  $18.5 7 $637. 57
$41,000    $235.0 0 $450. 00    $41,000    $310. 00 $633. 00  $18.9 9 $651. 99
$42,000    $240.0 0 $460. 00    $42,000    $320. 00 $647. 00  $19.4 1 $666. 41
$43,000    $245.0 0 $470. 00    $43,000    $330. 00 $661. 00  $19.8 3 $680. 83
$44,000    $250.0 0 $480. 00    $44,000    $335. 00 $675. 00  $20.2 5 $695. 25
$45,000    $255.0 0 $490. 00    $45,000    $340. 00 $689. 00  $20.6 7 $709. 67
$46,000    $260.0 0 $500. 00    $46,000    $350. 00 $703. 00  $21.0 9 $724. 09
$47,000    $265.0 0 $510. 00    $47,000    $355. 00 $717. 00  $21.5 1 $738. 51
$48,000    $270.0 0 $520. 00    $48,000    $360. 00 $731. 00  $21.9 3 $752. 93
$49,000    $275.0 0 $530. 00    $49,000    $370. 00 $745. 00  $22.3 5 $767. 35
$50,000    $280.0 0 $540. 00    $50,000    $380. 00 $760. 00  $22.8 0 $782. 80
$50,000 to $540.00 + $6.20 per  $50,000 to $760.00 + $8.00 per $1,000
$100,000   $1,000                $100,000
$100,000   $850.00 + $4.60 per   $100,000
to         $1,000               to         $1,160 + $6.00 per $1,000
$500,000                         $500,000
$500,000   $2,690.00 + $2.60    $500,000   $3,560 + $3.60 per $1,000
Plus       per $1,000            Plus
 
   (B)   The estimated cost of construction is to be based on the total cost of
all improvements and construction including labor and materials. Where the
provided estimated cost on the permit application differs in noticeable amounts
from standard published costs of construction, the Building Official shall
charge the permit fee based on the standard published costs as estimated.
   (C)   All applications for a permit shall include a processing fee equal to
one-half the permit fee. The processing fee is not refundable. The processing
fee is deducted from the total cost of the permit.
   (D)   The permit fee may be doubled when construction begins prior to the
issuance of a required permit.
   (E)   Projects of an unusual scope, or of a type that is not covered in the
fee schedule, or that require extra time beyond the normal scope of work are to
be billed to the applicant or owner at a rate of $75 per hour.
   (F)   All projects that require engineering review or other professional
consultation services shall have the consultant’s total incurred costs and full
compensation added to the total cost of the permit.
   (G)   Refunds may be provided where requested within six months of the
original permit when the project is not started, or the permit has expired
without completion of the project. The refund is to be no more than one-half of
the permit fee, less the processing fee. No refund is to be provided for an
amount less than $70.
   (H)   Permit renewals may be issued when just cause for the delay is
substantiated. Permit renewals where no plan review is required may be provided
for a one-time renewal for six months for a permit fee equal to one-half the
original permit fee. Renewals that require plan review will also be billed for
the hourly review time at $70 per hour.
   (I)   Miscellaneous residential structures including but not limited to
carports, garages, decks and porches, the permit fee shall be a flat $70.
   (J)   For residential mechanical replacements, the permit fee shall be $70
for heating or air conditioning each unit, and $90 for combined heating and air
conditioning replacements.
   (K)   For commercial mechanical replacement the permit fee shall be $130 for
each replacement heating or air conditioning unit.
   (L)   Commercial re-roofing permit fees shall be based on the cost of
installation, but shall not exceed a maximum cost of $400.
   (M)   The cost of demolition permit fees for all construction shall be based
on the cost of the work but shall not exceed $100 for residential demolition or
$400 for commercial demolition.
   (N)   The permit fee for a requested certificate of occupancy for existing
commercial buildings for which a building permit is not required shall be $150
for each occupant for each 25,000 cubic feet of building volume. This fee is to
be paid in full at the time of application and is not refundable.
   (O)   Each permanent sign shall have a permit fee of $40 for the first 100
square feet of sign area and a permit fee of $100 for each sign in excess of
100 square feet.
   (P)   A temporary sign shall have a permit fee of $30.
   (Q)   Residential building permit exceptions: For residential construction,
not regulated by the Ohio Building Code, a zoning permit only, not a building
permit, is required for pre-manufactured non-habitable accessory structures up
to 120 square feet in area, for pre-manufactured above ground swimming pools,
for pre-manufactured antennas anchored to the dwelling or less than eight feet
high, for non-structural window replacement, siding, gutters, driveways, for
fences four feet or less in height, or for non-engineered retaining walls four
feet or less in height. The zoning fee is $40.
   (R)   No inspections are provided for residential work for which a building
permit is not issued. The absence of inspections does not relieve the applicant
of the responsibility to comply with all zoning requirements, all other
applicable regulations and for installing all items in accordance with the
manufacturer’s specifications and standard practices.
   (S)   The fee for an appeal shall be a minimum of $100.
(Ord. 2005-05, passed 2-7-05; Am. Ord. 2008-18, passed 7-7-08)
CHAPTER 152: (RESERVED)
CHAPTER 153: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
   
153.01   Regulations established
   
153.02   Definitions
   
153.03   Application of regulations
   
153.04   Preliminary plan
   
153.05   Subdivision design standards
   
153.06   Approval of preliminary plan
   
153.07   Required subdivision improvements
   
153.08   Installation of improvements; final plat
   
153.09   Content of final plat
   
153.10   Recording of final plat
   
153.11   Variations and exceptions
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01 REGULATIONS ESTABLISHED.
   This chapter constitutes the rules and regulations governing plats and
subdivisions of land within the village.
§ 153.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMISSION. Village Planning Commission.
   SUBDIVISION OF LAND.
      (1)   Division of land into two or more tracts, sites, or parcels;
      (2)   Dedication of a road, highway, or public or private street through
a tract of land;
      (3)   Resubdivision of land heretofore divided or platted into lots,
sites or parcels; and
      (4)   Creation of a condominium.
§ 153.03 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   (A) Any sale or contract of sale or agreement to purchase any lot or
division of land or any condominium either by lot description or by metes and
bounds shall require prior to any sale or contract of sale or agreement to
purchase and before delivery of a deed the approval and recording of a plat as
required in this chapter.
   (B)   Every subdivision of land within the village shall be shown upon a
plat and submitted to the Commission for approval or disapproval. Upon approval
the Commission shall so endorse the plat and submit the plat to the Village
Council for its consideration, approval, modification, or disapproval. If the
Commission does not approve the plat it may then be approved by the Village
Council only after a three-fourths vote of all members elected thereto. No plat
shall be recorded in the office of the Recorder of Deeds, no lots shall be sold
from such plat or any condominium sold, unless and until approved as herein
provided.
   (C)   Approval of subdivision plats shall follow this procedure:
      (1)   Applicant shall prepare a preliminary plan. (See §
153.04).
      (2)   The preliminary plan shall conform with subdivision design
standards. (See §
153.05.)
      (3)   The preliminary plan is approved or disapproved. (See §
153.06.)
      (4)   The applicant prepares plans for subdivision improvements. (See §
153.07.)
      (5)   Subdivision improvements shall conform with subdivision improvement
standards. (See §
153.07.)
      (6)   The applicant installs the improvements or submits a bond
guaranteeing their installation subject to approval by the Village Engineer.
(See §
153.08.)
      (7)   The applicant prepares and submits the final plat. (See §
153.09.)
      (8)   The final plat is approved or disapproved. (See §
153.08.)
      (9)   The final plat is recorded. (See §
153.10.)
§ 153.04 PRELIMINARY PLAN.
   In seeking to subdivide land into building lots, or to dedicate streets,
alleys, or land for public use, or to subdivide land into building lots
together with the dedication or reservation of public or private streets
respectively, or to sell condominium interests, the owner shall submit five
black-and-white copies of a preliminary sketch plan to the Commission. The
preliminary plan shall show:
   (A)   The location of present property lines, streets, buildings, water
courses, tree masses, and other existing features within the area to be
subdivided and similar facts regarding existing conditions on land immediately
adjacent thereto.
   (B)   The proposed location and width of streets, alleys, lots, properties,
building lines, and easements.
   (C)   Existing sewers, water mains, culverts, and other under-ground
structures within the tract or immediately adjacent thereto. The location and
size of the nearest water main and sewer or outlet are to be indicated upon the
plat.
   (D)   The title under which the proposed subdivision or condominium is to be
recorded and the name of the subdivider or developer.
   (E)   The names and adjoining boundaries of all adjoining subdivisions and
the names of record owners of adjoining parcels of unsubdivided land.
   (F)   Contours with intervals of five feet or less.
   (G)   North point, scale, and date.
   (H)   The zoning district that affects the property to be subdivided.
   (I)   (1)   Grades and profiles of streets and plans or written and signed
statements regarding the grades of proposed streets, and the width and type of
pavements, location, size, type of sanitary sewers or other sewage disposal
facilities, water mains and hydrants and other utilities; storm water drainage
facilities and other proposed improvements, such as sidewalks, planting and
parks.
      (2)   Preliminary plans not containing all of the above data will not be
approved; provided, however, that subdivisions containing three lots or less
and condominiums need not include requirements listed in divisions (C), (F),
and (I). Preliminary plans must be approved by the Commission and the Council
in accordance with§
153.06.
§ 153.05 SUBDIVISION DESIGN STANDARDS.
   Preliminary plans shall conform with the following design standards:
   (A)   Streets, alleys, and easements.
      (1)   The same standards shall apply to private and public streets.
      (2)   The widths and arrangements of streets in new subdivisions shall
conform with the street arrangement shown on the official street, school, and
park plan adopted by the Commission on June 22, 1944.
      (3)   The minimum width for minor streets shall be 50 feet. When streets
adjoin unsubdivided property a half-street not less than 30 feet in width may
be dedicated, and whenever the subdivided property adjoins a half-street the
remainder of the street shall be dedicated.
      (4)   Streets that are obviously in alignment with others already
existing and named shall bear the names of the existing streets.
      (5)   The proposed street names shall be checked against duplication of
street names and approved by the Post Office Department.
      (6)   Alleys are not permitted in residential areas but are required in
the rear of all business lots and shall be at least 20 feet wide. A five-foot
cut-off shall be made at all acute angle alley intersections.
      (7)   Where alleys are not provided, easements of not less than five feet
in width shall be provided on each side of all rear lot lines, and along side
lot lines where necessary, for conduits, storm and sanitary sewers, gas, and
water mains. Easements of greater width may be required along or across lots
where necessary for the extension of main storm and sanitary sewers and other
utilities, and where both water and sewer lines are located in the same
easement.
   (B)   Blocks.
      (1)   No block shall be longer than 1,500 feet between street lines.
      (2)   Where it is desirable to subdivide a tract of land, which because
of its size or location, does not permit an allotment directly related to a
normal street arrangement, there may be established one or more places. Such a
place may be in the form of a court, a dead-end street, or other arrangement;
provided, however, that proper access shall be given to all lots from a
dedicated place (street or court). Such a place shall terminate in an open
space (preferably circular) having a minimum radius of 55 feet. Except in
unusual instances no dead-end street or place shall exceed 1,000 feet in
length.
   (C)   Lots.
      (1)   All side lines of lots shall be at right angles to straight street
lines, or radial to curved street lines unless a variation to this rule will
give a better street and lot plan. Lots with double frontage should be avoided.
      (2)   No lot that is to be used for residential purposes shall contain an
area less than required by the zoning ordinance.
      (3)   Where corner lots rear upon lots facing the side street, the corner
lots shall have extra width sufficient to permit the establishment of front
building lines on both the front and the side of the lots adjoining the
streets. Extra width should be provided on all corner lots irrespective of
whether they rear upon lots facing the side streets.
      (4)   Lots on all street intersections shall have a radius of 20 feet at
the street corner.
      (5)   Panhandle lots as defined in §
154.03 are prohibited.
   (D)   Zoning requirements.
      (1)   All subdivisions shall conform with zoning requirements (
Chapter 154).
      (2)   No subdivision will be approved that creates any violation of any
zoning requirement.
   (E)   Building lines shall be shown on all lots. Such building lines shall
not be less than required by the zoning ordinance. Restrictions requiring
buildings to be set back to such building lines shall either be shown on the
plat or shall be contained in a separately recorded instrument and referred to
on the plat.
   (F)   Character of development.
      (1)   The Commission shall confer with the subdivider regarding the type
and character of development that will be permitted in the subdivision, and may
agree with the subdivider as to certain minimum restrictions to be placed upon
the property to prevent the construction of substandard buildings, and control
the type of structures, or the use of the lots which, unless so controlled,
would clearly depreciate the character and value of the proposed subdivision
and of adjoining property.
      (2)   Criteria used by the Commission in the approval of a subdivision in
the H Historic District shall include proposals for restrictions or covenants
insuring that the design of structures harmonize with those nearby.
      (3)   Restrictions shall be shown on the plat or contained in a separate
recorded instrument and referred to on the plat.
   (G)   Parks, school sites, and the like.
      (1)   Consideration shall be given to suitable sites for schools, parks,
playgrounds, and other common areas for public use so as to conform to the
recommendations of the Commission in its adopted plan of the village.
      (2)   Any provisions for schools, parks, and playgrounds should be
indicated on the preliminary plan in order that it may be determined when and
in what manner such areas will be dedicated or acquired.
   (H)   Easements along streams. Whenever any stream or important surface
drainage course is located in an area that is being subdivided, the subdivider
shall dedicate an adequate easement along each side of the stream for the
purpose of widening, deepening, sloping, improving or protecting the stream or
for drainage, parkway, or recreational use.
Penalty, see § 153.99
§ 153.06 APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAN.
   (A)   Approval of the preliminary plan does not constitute an acceptance of
the subdivision by the village. One copy of the approved preliminary plan,
signed by the chairman of the Commission and the Mayor, shall be retained in
the office of the Village Clerk. One signed copy shall be given to the
subdivider.
   (B)   Receipt of this signed copy is authorized for the subdivider to
proceed with the preparation of plans and specifications for the minimum
improvements required in §
153.07, and with the preparation of the final plat. Prior to the construction
of any improvements required in §
153.07 or to the submission of any bond, the subdivider shall furnish the
Village Council all plans, information, and data necessary for the
improvements. These plans shall be examined by the Village Council and will be
approved if in accordance with the requirements of §
153.07. Following this approval construction can be started or the amount of a
bond determined.
§ 153.07 REQUIRED SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Plans for improvements required in this section shall be prepared
by a registered engineer. The improvements listed below shall be installed
prior to the approval of the final plat, which is prepared for recording
purposes. In lieu of actual completion of such improvements, the subdivider may
file with the Village Council a surety bond to secure to the Village Council
the actual construction of such improvements in a manner satisfactory to the
Council and within a period not to exceed two years. Such bond shall be in the
amount and with surety and conditions satisfactory to the Village Council and
shall be adequate to cover the cost of the improvements.
      (2)   The owner of the tract may prepare and secure tentative approval of
a final subdivision plat of the entire area and may install the above
improvements only in a portion of such area, but the improvements must be
installed in any portion of the area for which a final plan is approved for
recording, and the owner may sell or lease or offer for sale or lease lots only
in the improved portion of the property.
      (3)   The same minimum improvements are required in all subdivisions
irrespective of the future ownership of any or all of them.
   (B)   Permanent markers.
      (1)   All subdivision boundary corners and the four corners of all street
intersections shall be definitely marked with permanent monuments. A permanent
marker shall be deemed to be concrete with a minimum dimension of four inches
extending below the frost line or steel pipe firmly imbedded in concrete which
extends below the frost line. Should conditions prohibit the placing of
monuments on line, off-set marking will be permitted, provided, however, that
exact off-set courses and distances are shown on the subdivision plat.
      (2)   A permanent bench mark shall be accessibly placed and accurately
noted on the subdivision plat.
   (C)   Street improvements.
      (1)   All streets shall be graded and the roadway surfaced. All grading
and surfacing shall be done under the supervision of the Village Engineer and
be subject to his approval. Roadway surfacing shall conform to the standard
specifications of the County.
      (2)   Street surfacing shall be at least 26 feet wide including curb and
gutter which is required; provided, however, that cul-de-sac streets not over
400 feet in length need not be wider than 20 feet including curb and gutter.
      (3)   All cul-de-sac streets shall terminate in a paved turnaround with a
width of 20 feet, a minimum inside radius of 30 feet and a minimum outside
radius of 50 feet.
   (D)   Sidewalks.
      (1)   Sidewalks meeting village specifications at least four feet wide
shall be provided along all major thoroughfares.
      (2)   Sidewalks at least four feet wide shall be provided along both
sides of all streets.
   (E)   Water lines.
      (1)   Water lines connected to the village water supply shall serve every
lot in a subdivision.
      (2)   Fire hydrants shall be installed in accordance with the
requirements of the village.
   (F)   Sanitary sewers. The subdivider shall connect with the sanitary sewer
system of the village and provide adequate sewer lines accessible to each lot.
   (G)   Storm drainage. Adequate provision shall be made for the disposal of
storm water subject to the approval of the Village Council.
   (H)   Electric power and telephone service shall be provided for each lot.
All such service shall be underground.
   (I)   Street lighting shall be provided in accordance with village
specifications or as approved by the Commission.
   (J)   Street signs shall be provided in accordance with village
specifications.
   (K)   Street trees shall be planted in variety, size, and location as
approved by the Commission.
Penalty, see § 153.99
§ 153.08 INSTALLATION OF IMPROVEMENTS; FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   The final plat on tracing cloth and five black-and-white prints
thereof together with copies of any deed restrictions where such are too
lengthy to be shown on the plat, and three prints of certified plans showing
the improvements that have been constructed within the subdivision (or a bond
assuring construction of the improvements in accordance with plans previously
approved) shall be submitted to the Commission. Before approving the plat of
all or part of a proposed subdivision the Village Council will require proof
that the improvements and revisions thereof required in §
153.07 have been satisfactorily completed. The Commission and the Village
Council shall act upon the final plat within 30 days after it has been
submitted unless the subdivider agrees to an extension of this period. The
approval of the Commission shall be shown on the plat with the date of such
approval and over the signature of the chairman of the Commission. The approval
of the Village Council shall be shown on the plat with the date of such
approval and over the signature of the Mayor.
   (B)   If the final plat conforms to the approved preliminary plat and if the
necessary improvements are constructed in accordance with the approved plans
therefor or a satisfactory bond submitted assuring their construction in
accordance with the approved plans, the final plat will be approved by the
Commission and the Village Council.
§ 153.09 CONTENT OF FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   The final plat is to be drawn at a scale of 100 feet or less to the
inch from an accurate survey and on one or more sheets whose maximum dimensions
are 29 inches by 34 inches.
   (B)   The final plat shall show:
      (1)   The boundary lines of the area being subdivided with accurate
distances and bearings.
      (2)   The lines of all proposed streets and alleys with their width and
names.
      (3)   The accurate outline of any property which is offered for
dedication for public use.
      (4)   The line of departure of one street from another.
      (5)   The lines of all adjoining lands and the lines of adjacent streets
and alleys with their width and names.
      (6)   All lot lines and an identification system for all lots and blocks.
      (7)   Building lines and easements for rights-of-way provided for public
use, services or utilities with figures showing their dimensions.
      (8)   All dimensions, both linear and angular, necessary for locating
boundaries of subdivisions, lots, streets, alleys, easements for building
lines, and of any other areas for public or private use, the linear dimensions
are to be expressed in feet and decimals of a foot.
      (9)   Radii, arcs and chords, points of tangency, central angles for all
curvilinear streets, and radii for all rounded corners.
      (10)   All survey monuments and bench marks together with their
descriptions.
      (11)   Name of subdivision and description of property subdivided,
showing its location and extent, points of compass, scale of plan, and name of
owner or owners or the subdivider.
      (12)   Certification by a civil engineer or surveyor to the effect that
the plan represents a survey made by him and that all the necessary survey
monuments are correctly shown thereon.
      (13)   Private restrictions and trusteeships and their periods of
existence. Should such restrictions and trusteeships be of such length as to
make the lettering of same on plat impracticable and thus necessitate the
preparation of a separate instrument, reference to such instrument shall be
made on the plat. Plats shall contain proper acknowledgments of owners and the
consent by the mortgagee to the plat and restrictions.
      (14)   Before it is recorded a certificate shall accompany the final
plat, showing that all taxes payable shall have been previously paid in full.
§ 153.10 RECORDING OF FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Applicant shall cause the approved final plat to be recorded within
three months of its approval by the Village Council. Applicant shall provide
the village with three copies of the recorded plat.
   (B)   No building permits may be issued for any lots in a subdivision until
the copies of the recorded plat have been received.
   (C)   In the event that an approved plat is not recorded in the three month
period specified in division (A) above, approval of the plat by the village is
automatically withdrawn and the County Recorder of Deeds so notified. If any
change is made in the approved final plat before it is recorded, village
approval is rescinded.
§ 153.11 VARIATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS.
   Whenever the tract to be subdivided is of such unusual size or shape or is
surrounded by such development or unusual conditions that the strict
application of the requirements contained in this chapter would result in real
difficulties and substantial hardships or injustices, the Village Council after
a public hearing may vary or modify such requirements, so that the subdivider
is allowed to develop his property in a reasonable manner, but so, at the same
time, the public welfare and interests of the village are protected and the
general intent and spirit of this chapter are preserved.
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter, for which another penalty is
not already provided, shall be fined not more than $100.
CHAPTER 154: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Short title
   
154.02   Intent and purpose
   
154.03   Definitions
   
154.04   Compliance with the regulations
Districts
   
154.11   Districts enumerated
   
154.12   Zoning map adopted
   
154.13   Areas not included within district
   
154.14   Boundaries of districts; rules where uncertainty may arise
District Regulations of Residential Districts
   
154.21   Use regulations
   
154.22   Height regulations
   
154.23   Lot width and lot area regulations
   
154.24   Minimum floor area requirements
   
154.25   Yard regulations
   
154.26   Parking regulations
   
154.27   Sign regulations
   
154.28   Outdoor lighting
District Regulations of Commercial Districts
   
154.31   Use regulations
   
154.32   Height regulations
   
154.33   Lot width and lot area regulations
   
154.34   Minimum floor area requirements
   
154.35   Yard regulations
   
154.36   Parking regulations
   
154.37   Reserved
Historic District
   
154.41   Purpose and intent
   
154.42   Definitions
   
154.43   Glendale Planning and Historic Preservation Commission
   
154.44   Powers and duties of the Glendale Planning and Historic Preservation
Commission
   
154.45   Designation of historic districts, landmarks, pivotal buildings,
historic sites and contributing buildings
   
154.46   Regulations governing existing buildings, new buildings, additions,
demolitions and removal of buildings
   
154.47   Appeal procedures
   
154.48   Penalties
Supplementary District Regulations
   
154.51   Additional use regulations
   
154.52   Large scale development compatibility
   
154.53   Additional height regulations
   
154.54   Exceptions to lot width and lot area regulations
   
154.55   Additional yard regulations
   
154.56   Additional parking and loading regulations
   
154.57   Flood plain regulations
   
154.58   Facilities for personal wireless services
   
154.59   Signs
Administration
   
154.61   Basic data package
   
154.62   Conditional use permits
   
154.63   (Reserved)
   
154.64   Changes in community unit plans
   
154.65   Board of Appeals
   
154.66   Changes and amendments
   
154.67   Permits and fees
   
154.68   Interpretation, purpose, and conflict
   
154.69   Enforcement
   
154.70   Notice of violation
Planned Development Overlay District
   
154.81   Purpose
   
154.82   Applicability
   
154.83   Authority to initiate
   
154.84   Applicant initiated PDO
   
154.85   Village initiated PDO
   
154.86   Submittal requirements
   
154.87   Public notice
   
154.88   Approval criteria
   
154.89   Time limits
   
154.90   Effect of a Final Development Plan
   
154.91   Required conditions for the issuance of a building permit
   
154.92   Modifications to planned developments
   
154.93   Design standards
   
154.94   Development review fees and independent review
   
154.95   Violation
   
154.96   Rules of construction and definitions
 
   
154.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Smoke alarm requirements for multi-family dwellings, see §§
92.35 through
92.38
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the zoning code of Glendale and
referred to as
Chapter 154.
§ 154.02 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   This chapter is based on the comprehensive village plan adopted on June 22,
1944 and is designed to assist in carrying out the objectives and
recommendations of this plan including the maintenance and enhancement of the
village as a fine residential area for all of its citizens. Other purposes of
the village plan and zoning code are to lessen congestion in the public streets
and to promote the health, safety, and general welfare. This plan has been
formulated with due consideration, among other things, to the character of each
district within the municipality and its peculiar suitability for particular
uses, to the conservation of property values, to the existing uses and the
preservation of their value, to the prevention of the undue concentration of
population and to the facilitation of the adequate provision of transportation,
streets, highways, sanitary sewers, water, storm drainage, police and fire
protection, schools, and recreation areas.
§ 154.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter certain terms are hereby defined. Words used
in the present tense shall include the future; the singular number shall
include the plural and the plural the singular; the word BUILDING shall include
the word STRUCTURE and PREMISES, the word SHALL is mandatory and not directory;
the words USED or OCCUPIED include the words INTENDED, DESIGNED or ARRANGED TO
BE USED OR OCCUPIED, the word LOT includes the words PLOT or PARCEL; and the
word PERSON includes a firm, association, organization, partnership, trust,
company, or corporation as well as an individual. Any word not herein defined
shall be as defined in the Ohio Building Code or in any recognized standard
English dictionary.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING OR USE. A subordinate building or use customarily
incidental to and located on the same lot occupied by the main building or use,
subordinate in footprint, extent, or purposes to the main building, limited to
and contributing to the comfort, convenience, or necessity of the occupants of
the main building. An accessory building attached to the main building in a
substantial manner by a wall or roof shall be considered part of the main
building.
   ALLEY. A public thoroughfare which affords only a secondary means of access
to abutting property.
   APARTMENT HOUSE. See DWELLING, MULTIPLE.
   AUTOMOBILE AGENCY. A premises used for the sale, display, storage, and
repair of automobiles both new and used; provided that all repair takes place
within a building.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a building which is partly below and partly above
grade and having at least one-half of its height above grade.
   BOARDINGHOUSE. A building other than a hotel, where, for compensation and by
prearrangement for definite periods, meals or lodging and meals are provided
for three or more persons, but not exceeding 20 persons.
   BUILDABLE AREA. That part of the lot remaining to be built upon after
provision of all required front, side, and rear yards.
   BUILDABLE WIDTH. The width of the lot left to be built upon after the side
yards are provided.
   BUILDING. Any structure, including a roof supported by walls or columns, for
the shelter, support or enclosure of persons, animals, chattels or property of
any kind, and when separated by dividing walls without openings, each portion
of such building so separated, shall be deemed a separate building.
   BUILDING, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance from the grade to the highest
point of the coping of a flat roof or to the deck line of a mansard roof, or to
the mean height level between eaves and ridge of a gable, hip, or gambrel roof.
   CELLAR. Same as a basement, except that a cellar has more than one-half of
its height below grade.
   CLINIC. An establishment where patients, who are not lodged overnight are
admitted for examination and treatment by a group of physicians practicing
medicine together.
   CLUB. A building or portion thereof or premises owned or operated by a
corporation, association, person, or persons for a social, educational, or
recreational purpose, but not primarily for profit or to render a service which
is customarily carried on as a business.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A use allowed in a zoning district after a permit is
granted according to provisions of §
154.62.
   CONDOMINIUM. Individual ownership of part of a building or part of a
building complex. The land, property, and space comprising the parcel or
parcels, all improvements and structures erected, constructed, or contained
therein or thereon, including the building and all easements, rights, and
opportunities belonging thereto, and other fixtures and equipment intended for
the mutual use, benefit, or enjoyment of the unit owners, subject to the
provisions of R.C. § 5311.01 (A) and this chapter.
   COURT. An open space with or without direct street access around which is
arranged a single building or a group of related buildings.
   DISTRICT. Any section of the village for which the regulations governing the
use of buildings and premises or the height and area of buildings are uniform.
   DWELLING. Any building, or portion thereof, which is designed or used
exclusively for residential purposes.
      (1)    DWELLING, MULTIPLE. A building or portion thereof designed or used
for occupancy by three or more families.
      (2)    DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building designed or used for occupancy
by one family.
      (3)    DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building designed or used for occupancy by
two families.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms in a dwelling occupied or intended to be
occupied as separate living quarters by a single family as defined herein, with
facilities which are used or intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking,
and eating.
   FAMILY. All persons related by blood, adoption, or marriage living and
cooking together as a single housekeeping unit plus not more than two other
persons not so related living and cooking as a part of that same housekeeping
unit. Household servants shall not be deemed persons for the purposes of this
definition.
   FILLING STATION. Any building, structure, or land used for the dispensing,
sale or offering for sale at retail of any automobile fuels, oils or
accessories, including lubrication of automobiles and replacement or
installation of minor parts and accessories but not including major repair work
such as motor replacement, body and fender repair, or spray painting.
   FLOOR AREA. The gross horizontal area of each floor including basements,
cellars, and penthouses, measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls
of a building. Areas within a building used for parking and mechanical
penthouses, atriums, and landscaped decorative pedestrian areas, shall be
excluded from the area.
   FOOTPRINT. The outline of a structure at ground level, including all
portions of the structure that have foundation walls. The footprint of a
building would include roofed or enclosed porches, but not decks. The size of a
structure's footprint is the square footage of area within this outline, as
measured from the exterior face of the foundation or building walls.
   FRONTAGE. All the property on one side of a street or place between two
intersecting streets or places (crossing or terminating) measured along the
line of the street or place, or if the street or place is dead ended, then all
of the property abutting on one side between an intersecting street or place
and the dead end of the street or place.
   GARAGE.
      (1)    GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building designed or used for the
storage of motor-driven vehicles owned and used by the occupants of the
building to which it is accessory.
      (2) GARAGE, PUBLIC. A building or portion thereof, other than a private
or storage garage, designed or used for servicing, repairing, equipping,
hiring, selling, or storing motor-driven vehicles.
      (3)    GARAGE, STORAGE. A building or portion thereof designed or used
exclusively for housing four or more motor-driven vehicles.
   GRADE.
      (1)    For buildings having walls adjoining one street only, the
elevation of the sidewalk at the center of the wall adjoining the street.
      (2)    For buildings having walls adjoining more than one street, the
average of the elevation of the sidewalks at the centers of all walls adjoining
the streets.
      (3)    For buildings having no wall adjoining the street, the average
level of the finished surface of the ground adjacent to the exterior walls of
the building.
      (4)    Any wall approximately parallel to and not more than five feet
from a street line is to be considered as adjoining the street.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any occupation or profession carried on by a member of a
family, residing on the premises, in connection with which there is used no
sign other than one nonilluminated nameplate attached to the building entrance
which is not more than one square foot in area; provided that no commodity is
sold upon the premises; provided that no person is regularly employed for
commercial purposes other than a member of the immediate family residing on the
premises; and provided that no mechanical equipment is used except such that is
normally used for domestic or household purposes.
   HOSPITAL. An establishment providing physical or mental health services, in-
patient or overnight accommodations, and medical or surgical care of the sick
or injured; including sanitariums.
   HOTEL. A building in which lodging is provided and offered to the public for
compensation and in which ingress and egress to and from rooms is made through
an inside lobby or office supervised by a person in charge at all hours, and
which is open to transient guests, in contradistinction to a boardinghouse or
lodging house.
   INSTITUTION. A building or area occupied by a nonprofit corporation or a
nonprofit establishment for public use.
   LANDSCAPED SPACE. Open space on a lot more than one-half of which is devoted
to plants rooted directly in the ground or in permanent planters or to
fountains, pools or statuary and none of which is used for drives or parking
spaces for automobiles.
   LODGING HOUSE. A building where lodging only is provided for compensation to
three or more, but not exceeding 20 persons, in contradistinction to hotels
open to transients.
   LOT. A parcel of land occupied or intended for occupancy by one main
building, together with its accessory buildings, and uses customarily
incidental to it, including the open spaces required by this chapter and having
its principal frontage upon a street or upon a place that has been officially
approved by the Village Council.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting upon two or more streets at their intersection.
   LOT, DEPTH OF. The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot having a frontage on two non-intersecting
streets, as distinguished from a corner lot.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT LINES. The lines bounding a lot.
   LOT, PANHANDLE. A lot which is part of a subdivision, approved prior to
January 1, 1983, access to which is solely by means of a corridor of land
narrower than the minimum lot width established herein.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is a part of a subdivision, the map of which has
been recorded in the office of the County Recorder of Deeds, or a lot described
by metes and bounds, the description of which has been recorded in the office
of the Recorder of Deeds prior to January 1, 1983.
   MIXED-USE BUILDING. A building the use of which is devoted to both
residential and commercial purposes or a combination of office and commercial
uses.
   MOTEL. A building or group of buildings having units containing sleeping
accommodations which are available for temporary occupancy by automobile
transients.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle which is self-propelled by a motor and which is
used for the purpose of carrying persons or commodities.
   NONCONFORMING USE. Any building or land lawfully occupied by a use at the
time of passage of this chapter or amendments thereto which does not conform
after the passage of this chapter or amendment thereto with the use regulations
of the district in which it is situated.
   NURSING OR CONVALESCENT HOME. A home for the aged, chronically ill, or
incurable persons in which three or more persons not of the immediate family
are received, kept and provided with food, or shelter and care, for
compensation; but not including hospitals, clinics, or similar institutions
devoted primarily to the diagnosis, treatment, or care of the sick or injured.
   OPEN AREA. Open area is that part of a lot on which no part of a building or
structure extends above an elevation 30 inches above the highest curb elevation
of the street that bounds the lot.
   OUTDOOR WOOD FURNACE. Any equipment, device, appliance or apparatus, or any
part thereof, which is installed, affixed or situated outdoors for the primary
purpose of combustion of fuel to produce heat or energy used as a component of
a heating system, providing heat for any interior space or water source. An
OUTDOOR WOOD FURNACE may also be referred to as an outdoor wood boiler or an
outdoor wood hydronic heater.
   OUTDOOR WOOD FURNACE CHIMNEY. Any flue or stack that carries off exhaust
from an outdoor wood furnace.
   PARKING LOT. Any place, lot parcel, or yard used in whole or in part for
storing or parking of two or more vehicles.
   PARKING SPACE. A permanently surfaced rectangular area unenclosed or
enclosed within a building, with minimum dimensions of nine feet by 20 feet,
together with a permanently surfaced driveway connecting the parking space with
a street or alley and permitting ingress and egress of an automobile without
requiring another vehicle to be moved.
   PERMITTED USE. A use allowed by the district regulations of the district in
which it is located.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, association, organization, trust,
company, or corporation.
   PREMISES. A lot together with all buildings and structures thereon.
   PLACE. An open unoccupied space other than a street or alley permanently
reserved as the principal means of access to abutting property.
   PRIVATE SCHOOL. An institution offering education of a character similar to
that offered in public elementary and high schools. This does not include
nursery schools, play schools, secretarial schools, or similar limited-purpose
institutions.
   RETAIL RENTAL SELF-SERVICE LAUNDRY SHOP. A building or portion thereof
equipped with automatic type laundry machines with tubs having a rated capacity
not in excess of 25 pounds apiece, drying machines having a rated capacity not
in excess of 35 pounds per tub and ironing machines of the ordinary home type.
   SIGN. Any identification, description, illustration, or device illuminated
or nonilluminated which is visible from any public place or is located on
private property and exposed to the public and which directs attention to a
product, service, place, activity, person, institution, business, or
solicitation, including any emblem, painting, placard, or temporary sign
designed to advertise, identify, or convey information, with the exception of
window displays of items to be sold and national flags. For the purpose of
removal, signs shall also include all sign structures. Signs shall include
lettering pasted or painted on walls or windows.
   SIGN, AREA. Shall include the square feet required to accommodate the
lettering plus any separate background where of a different material than the
structure to which it is attached.
   STABLE.
      (1)   STABLE, PRIVATE.
         (a)   A stable with a capacity for not more than two horses or mules.
         (b)   A stable to be owned and operated by residents of the village.
         (c)   A stable to house horses or mules owned only by a resident.
         (d)   Horses or mules not to be for hire or for rent or for commercial
purposes.
         (e)   A village resident who owns, rents, or leases premises in the
village may keep on the premises one additional horse or mule for each two
acres of land in excess of the minimum lot area provided by this chapter in the
district in which the premises are located.
      (2)   STABLE, PUBLIC. A stable, other than a private stable, with a
capacity for more than two horses or mules.
   STREET. All property dedicated or intended for public or private street
purposes or subject to public easements therefor. Where land is used primarily
for access to a lot (such as, a panhandle lot), it shall be deemed a street,
but only for the purpose of determining front yard requirements.
   STORY. That portion of a building, other than a basement or cellar, included
between the surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it,
or, if there be no floor above it, then the space between the floor and the
ceiling next above it.
   STORY, HALF. A space under a sloping roof which has the line of intersection
of roof decking and wall face not more than three feet above the top floor
level, and in which space not more than two-thirds of the floor area is
finished off for use. A half-story containing independent apartment or living
quarters shall be counted as a full story.
   STREET LINE. A dividing line between a lot, tract, or parcel of land and a
contiguous street.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
permanent location on the ground or attached to something having a permanent
location on the ground, including, but without limiting the generality of the
foregoing, advertising signs, billboards, and poster panels.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change in the supporting members of a building,
such as bearing walls, columns, beams, or girders, or any substantial change in
the roof or in the exterior walls.
   TOURIST OR TRAILER CAMP. An area containing one or more structures designed
or intended to be used as temporary living facilities of one or more families
and intended primarily for automobile transients or providing spaces where two
or more tents or auto trailers can be parked.
   YARD. An open space at grade between a building and the adjoining lot lines,
unoccupied and unobstructed by any portion of a structure from the ground
upward, except as otherwise provided herein. In measuring a yard for the
purpose of determining the width of a side yard, the depth of a front yard or
the depth of a rear yard, the least horizontal distance between the lot line
and the main building shall be used. In computing the depth of a rear yard,
where such yard opens onto an alley, one-half of the alley width may be
included as a portion of the rear yard.
      (1)   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the front of a lot between the
side yard lines and being the minimum horizontal distance between the street
lines and the main building, or any projection thereof, other than steps,
unenclosed balconies, and unenclosed porches. Where land is used primarily for
access to a lot (such as, a panhandle lot) and is less than 50 feet wide, it
shall be deemed a street for the determination of front yard requirements.
      (2)   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the rear of a lot measured
between lot lines and being the minimum horizontal distance between the rear
lot line and the rear of the main building or any projections other than steps,
unenclosed balconies or unenclosed porches. On corner lots the rear yard shall
be considered as parallel to the street upon which the lot has its least
dimension. On both corner lots and interior lots the rear yard shall in all
cases be at the opposite end of the lot from the front yard.
      (3)   YARD, SIDE. A yard between the building and the side line of the
lot and extending from the front lot line to the rear yard line and being the
minimum horizontal distance between a side lot line and the side of the main
building or any projections other than steps, unenclosed balconies, or
unenclosed porches.
(Am. Ord. 2000-21, passed 5-1-00; Am. Ord. 2006-08, passed 3-6-06; Am. Ord.
2015-17, passed 5-4-15)
§ 154.04 COMPLIANCE WITH THE REGULATIONS.
   Except as hereinafter specifically provided:
   (A)   No land shall be used except for a purpose permitted in the district
in which it is located.
   (B)   No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed,
moved, or structurally altered, nor shall any building be used, except for a
use permitted in the district in which such building is located.
   (C)   No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed, or
structurally altered to exceed the height limit herein established for the
district in which such building is located.
   (D)   No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed, or
structurally altered except in conformity with the area regulations of the
district in which such building is located.
   (E)    Temporary buildings for construction purposes are permitted in all
districts. Portable or temporary garages, carports, shelters, canopies and the
like, generally known as tension fabric structures are not permitted in any
district with the exception of temporary tents rented for outdoor events.
   (F)    No building shall be erected or structurally altered to the extent
specifically provided hereinafter except in conformity with the off-street
parking and loading regulations of the district in which such building is
located. Off-street parking space being maintained in connection with any
existing main building or structure shall be maintained so long as the main
building or structure remains unless an equivalent number of such spaces are
provided conforming to the requirements of this chapter; provided, however,
that this regulation shall not require the maintenance of more parking space
than is required hereinafter for a new building or structure identical to the
existing building or structure.
   (G)    The minimum yards, parking spaces, and open spaces, including lot
area per family and minimum lot widths required by this chapter for each and
every building existing at the time of passage of this chapter or for any
building hereafter erected, shall not be encroached upon or considered as part
of the yard or parking space or open space or lot width required for any other
building, nor shall any lot area or lot width be reduced below the requirements
of this chapter for the district in which such lot is located.
   (H)    Every building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall be
located on a lot as herein defined and in no case shall there be more than one
main building on one lot except as specifically provided hereinafter.
   (I)    Cooperatives, condominiums, and all other forms of property ownership
do not affect the provisions of these regulations and all requirements shall be
observed as though the property were under single ownership.
   (J)    Every family shall live in a dwelling unit and in no case shall there
be more than one family living in a single dwelling unit.
   (K)    No structure or part thereof originally designed and erected for a
single-family residential use may be used for a multiple dwelling, an
institution, a school, or a commercial or industrial use unless it is remodeled
to conform with the building code, off-street parking requirements, and all
requirements of this chapter.
   (L)   Any use listed as a conditional use cannot be considered to be a
permitted use in the same district.
(Am. Ord. 2007-22, passed 8-6-07)
Penalty, see § 154.99
DISTRICTS
§ 154.11 DISTRICTS ENUMERATED.
   (A)   In order to regulate and limit the height and bulk of buildings
hereafter to be erected; to regulate and limit the intensity of the use of lot
areas, and to regulate and determine the area of open spaces, within and
surrounding such buildings; to classify, regulate, and restrict the location of
trades and industries and the location of buildings designed for specified
industrial, business, residential, and other uses; to divide the entire
municipality into districts of such number, shape, area, and of such different
classes (according to use of land and buildings, height and bulk of buildings,
intensity of the use of lot area, area of open spaces, or other classification)
as may be deemed best suited to carry out the purposes of this chapter; to fix
standards to which buildings or structures therein shall conform; to prohibit
uses, buildings, or structures incompatible with the character of such
districts; and to prevent additions to and alterations or remodeling of
existing buildings or structures which avoid the restrictions and limitations
lawfully imposed under this chapter, the village is divided into districts, of
which there shall be eight in number, known as:
   "AA-1" Single-Family Residence District
   "AA-2" Single-Family Residence District
   "A" Single-Family Residence District
   "B" Single-Family Residence District
   "C" Two-Family Residence District
   "D" Neighborhood Shop District
   "E" Central Business District
   "H" Historic District
   (B)   The "H" Historic District is an overlay district in which additional
regulations are imposed supplementing those of the other seven districts.
§ 154.12 ZONING MAP ADOPTED.
   The boundaries of the districts are shown upon the map made a part of this
chapter, which map is designated as the district map. The district map and all
the notations, references, and other information shown thereon are a part of
this chapter and have the same force and effect as if the district map and all
the notations, references, and other information shown thereon were all fully
set forth or described herein, which district map is properly attested and is
on file with the Village Clerk.
§ 154.13 AREAS NOT INCLUDED WITHIN DISTRICT.
   (A)    All the territory hereafter annexed to the village, located east of
the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad shall be in "AA-1" Single-Family Residence
District and all territory hereafter annexed to the village, located west of
the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad, shall be in the "AA-2" Single-Family Residence
District until changed by ordinance.
   (B)    Whenever any street, alley, or other public way is vacated by the
Village Council, the zoning districts adjoining each side of such street,
alley, or public way shall be automatically extended to the center of such
vacation and all area included in the vacation shall then and henceforth be
subject to all appropriate regulations of the extended districts.
§ 154.14 BOUNDARIES OF DISTRICTS; RULES WHERE UNCERTAINTY MAY ARISE.
   Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of the various
districts as shown on the map accompanying and made a part of this chapter, the
following rules apply:
   (A)    The district boundaries are either streets or alleys unless otherwise
shown, and where the districts designated on the map accompanying and made a
part of this chapter are bounded approximately by street or alley lines, the
street or alley shall be construed to be the boundary of the district.
   (B)    Where district boundaries are not otherwise indicated, and where the
property has been or may hereafter be divided into blocks and lots, the
district boundaries shall be construed to be the lot lines, and where the
districts designated on the map accompanying and made a part of this chapter
are bounded approximately by lot lines, the lot lines shall be construed to be
the boundary of the districts unless the boundaries are otherwise indicated on
the map.
   (C)    In unsubdivided property, the district boundary lines on the map
accompanying and made a part of this chapter shall be determined by use of the
scale appearing on the map.
DISTRICT REGULATIONS OF RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
§ 154.21 USE REGULATIONS.
   (A)    Permitted uses. In the "AA-1", "AA-2", "A", "B", and "C" Districts a
building or premises shall be used only for the following purposes:
      (1)   Single-family dwellings.
   (B)   Conditional uses. In the “AA-1", “AA-2", “A”, “B”, and “C” Districts
there also may be the following conditional uses:
      (1)   Two-family dwelling but only in the “C” District.
      (2)   Public or private educational institutions having a curriculum the
same as ordinarily given in public schools elementary and high.
      (3)   Any public building erected or used by any department of the
village, township, public school district, county, state, or federal
government.
      (4)   Hospitals and other medical facility.
      (5)   Cemetery.
      (6)   Community building or recreation field.
      (7)   [Intentionally deleted]
      (8)   Commercially operated greenhouses, nursery, truck garden and farm,
provided that any building in which farm animals are kept shall be located not
less than 50 feet from any property line.
      (9)   [Intentionally deleted]
      (10)   Clubs, incorporated and not operated for profit.
      (11)   Private schools, other than one offering curriculum of public
elementary and high schools, nursery, prekindergarten, kindergarten, play, and
special schools but only in the “B” and “C” Districts.
      (12)   Use of part of a lot for a private swimming pool, tennis or
platform tennis court, or handball court. Tennis, platform tennis, and handball
courts shall not be lighted when located on a lot containing a residential
building.
      (13)   [Intentionally deleted]
      (14)   Nursing or convalescent homes.
      (15)   Municipally owned and operated parks and playgrounds.
      (16)   Religious places of worship.
   (C)   Accessory uses. In the "AA-1", "AA-2", "A", "B", and "C" Districts
there also may be the following accessory uses:
      (1)   Private garage.
      (2)   Private stable.
      (3)   Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work which
buildings shall be removed upon the completion or abandonment of the
construction work.
      (4)   Home occupations.
      (5)   Accommodations for domestic persons employed and living on the
premises.
      (6)   Raising and keeping of small animals and fowl, but not on a
commercial basis.
      (7)   Garden house, pergola, ornamental fountains and pools, and tool
sheds.
      (8)   Greenhouses for non-commercial purposes, whether attached or
detached from the residence, and not covering an area greater than 25% of the
footprint of the residence.
      (9)   Radio and television antennas when not visible from a street and
not placed on a roof. Dish television antennas with a diameter of more than
three feet shall not exceed six feet in height and shall be screened from view
from adjacent property.
      (10)   Solar energy equipment may be erected on roofs or freestanding on
the ground in all districts in accordance with the following standards and
requirements:
         (a)   Solar panels shall be installed in locations that minimize
visibility from public rights-of-way. In any case, they may not be located on
the front elevation of any building or structure or visible from the front
elevation.
         (b)   Rooftop solar panels shall be installed as follows:
            1.   Solar panels shall be installed flat on the plane of the roof
and not alter the slope of the roof. In any case, they shall not project above
the ridgeline of the roof;
            2.   Solar panels and mounting systems shall be in a color
compatible with the color of the roof materials.
            3.   Solar panel installations shall be positioned behind existing
architectural features such as parapets, dormers, and chimneys to limit their
visibility.
            4.   Flat roof structures shall have solar panel installations set
back from the roof edge to minimize visibility. Pitch and elevation shall be
adjusted to minimize visibility from public rights-of-way.
            5.   All exterior electrical lines shall be in conduit painted in a
color compatible with the color of building materials adjacent to the conduit.
            6.   For rooftop mounted solar water-heater panels, all exterior
plumbing lines shall be painted in a color compatible with the color of the
building materials adjacent to the plumbing lines.
            7.   Installation of solar panels shall not permanently damage the
integrity of a pivotal or contributing building in a historic district, a
historic landmark or historic site.
            8.   For a pivotal or contributing building in a historic district,
a historic landmark or historic site, removing or otherwise altering a historic
roof configuration - parapet, dormer, chimney or other feature - to add solar
panels is prohibited.
         (c)   Ground-mounted solar panels shall be installed as follows:
            1.   Installations shall be limited to properties of one acre or
larger;
            2.   Installations shall not exceed ten feet in height and 15 feet
in width;
            3.   Installations shall be screened from public rights-of-way and
adjoining yards with fencing or vegetation;
            4.   Installations on properties in a historic district or
designated as a historic landmark or historic site shall not detract from the
historic character or destroy historic landscape materials, such as walls,
fences, fountains, and plantings;
            5.   Installations shall be subject to lot coverage limitations and
accessory structure location requirements, as defined elsewhere in code;
            6.   All exterior electrical lines shall be in conduit and shall be
buried; and
            7.   All exterior plumbing lines shall be buried.
         (d)   Solar energy equipment shall not block required parking.
         (e)   Nonfunctioning solar energy equipment shall be removed within
three months of becoming nonfunctional.
         (f)   No solar energy equipment shall be installed without first
obtaining a zoning certificate and certificate of appropriateness, if
applicable, as well as building and electrical permits.
      (11)   Outdoor wood furnaces, as defined in §
154.03 of this code, may be erected in any district only in accordance with the
following standards and requirements:
         (a)   All outdoor wood furnaces shall be constructed, established,
installed, operated and maintained in conformance with the manufacturer’s
instructions and applicable requirements of governmental agencies, including
but not limited to, the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency.
         (b)   Fuel burned in any new or existing outdoor wood furnace shall be
only natural untreated wood, wood pellets, corn products or other listed fuels
specifically permitted by the manufacturer’s instructions such as fuel oil,
natural gas or propane backup, except where such list may be in conflict with
the list of prohibited fuels below.
         (c)   The following fuels are strictly prohibited in new or existing
outdoor wood furnaces:
            1.   Wood that has been painted, varnished, or coated with similar
material and/or has been pressure treated with preservative, and/or contains
resins or glues as in plywood or other composite wood products;
            2.   Rubbish or garbage, including but not limited to food wastes,
food packaging, and food wraps;
            3.   Any plastic materials, including but not limited to nylon,
PVC, ABS polystyrene or urethane foam, synthetic fabrics, plastic films and
plastic containers;
            4.   Rubber, including but not limited to tires or other synthetic
rubber-like materials;
            5.   Newspaper, cardboard, or any paper product with ink or dyes;
            6.   Any other materials not specifically allowed by the
manufacturer or this provision.
         (d)   The minimum lot size for an outdoor wood furnace shall be five
acres.
         (e)   The location of an outdoor wood furnace shall conform to all
requirements and recommendations of the manufacturer and shall be at least 200
feet from all property lines.
         (f)   An outdoor wood furnace shall be equipped with a properly
functioning spark arrestor.
         (g)   An outdoor wood furnace chimney shall conform to the following
requirements:
            1.   The chimney shall extend either 20 feet above the ground
surface or at least two feet above the peak of any residence not served by the
outdoor wood furnace and located within 300 feet of such outdoor wood furnace,
whichever is greater.
            2.   If there is an existing outdoor wood furnace and there is new
construction of a residence not served by the outdoor wood furnace and located
within 300 feet of the outdoor wood furnace, then the owner of such outdoor
wood furnace shall conform to the chimney height requirements of this provision
within 30 days after such new construction is complete.
         (h)   All outdoor wood furnaces shall include an integral enclosing
structure or shall be enclosed in a structure, subject to the accessory
structure standards as set forth in §§
154.22,
154.32,
154.46(C)(4), and
154.55.
         (i)   The operation of an outdoor wood furnace shall not:
            1.   Create smoke that violates the standards of §
94.02 of this code;
            2.   Emit pollutants such that persons on neighboring properties
are exposed to levels deemed harmful by the Ohio Environmental Protection
Agency or the United States Environmental Protection Agency; or
            3.   Expose persons on neighboring properties to any noxious gases
or odors.
         (j)   Nonfunctioning outdoor wood furnaces shall be removed within
three months of becoming nonfunctional.
         (k)   No outdoor wood furnace shall be installed without first
obtaining a zoning certificate and certificate of appropriateness, if
applicable, as well as building and electrical permits. Before operation of an
outdoor wood furnace can begin, it must be inspected by a qualified inspector
authorized by the village. The permit requirements shall include, but not be
limited to:
            1.   Providing evidence that the outdoor wood furnace will meet all
applicable requirements of governmental agencies, including but not limited to,
the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency;
            2.   Agreeing to allow an inspection of the outdoor wood furnace
whenever the Village has reason to believe that the outdoor wood furnace is
operating in violation of this section; and
            3.   Payment of a fee of no more than $500 to defray the costs of
the initial inspection of the outdoor wood furnace.
            4.   Conformance to such other reasonable requirements as the
village may impose.
         (l)   Whoever violates any provision of this section shall be fined
not more than $100. A separate violation shall be deemed committed on each day
after the finding of a violation until such owner ceases operation of the
outdoor wood furnace or demonstrates that the violation has ceased. In addition
to the fine provided above, an owner found in violation of this section shall
be liable for the costs incurred by the village in connection with finding and
proving said violation.
(Am. Ord. 2005-26, passed 8-11-05; Am. Ord. 2006-08, passed 3-6-06; Am. Ord.
2012-49, passed 2-4-13; Am. Ord. 2015-17, passed 5-4-15; Am. Ord. 2016-18,
passed 6-6-16) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.22 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   In the “AA-1”, “AA-2”, “A”, “B”, and “C” Districts no building shall exceed
2-1/2 stories or 35 feet in height, except as provided in §
154.53 hereof. Furthermore, no accessory structures shall exceed 1-1/2 stories.
(Am. Ord. 2007-22, passed 8-6-07)
Penalty, see § 154.99
§ 154.23 LOT WIDTH AND LOT AREA REGULATIONS.
   The following minimum lot widths and lot areas shall be provided in the
residential districts for each dwelling unit:
 
DISTRICT           MINIMUM LOT WIDTH IN MINIMUM LOT AREA PER FAMILY IN
                   FEET                 SQUARE FEET
                                        SINGLE-        TWO-FAMILY DWELLING
                                        FAMILYDWELLING
AA-1 Single-family 100                  43,560         X
residence district
AA-2 Single-family 75                   22,500         X
residence district
A Single-family    60                   15,000         X
residence district
B Single-family    50                   7,500          X
residence district
C Two-family       60                   15,000         10,500
residence district
 
X- Not permitted in district.
(Ord. 2017-11, passed 1-5-17) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.24 MINIMUM FLOOR AREA REQUIREMENTS.
   Residential structures shall provide the following minimum floor area per
dwelling unit.
 
DISTRICT                              MINIMUM FLOOR AREA IN SQUARE FEET
AA-1 Single-family residence district 1,500
AA-2 Single-family residence district 1,500
A Single-family residence district    1,200
B Single-family residence district    1,000
C Two-family residence district       1,200
 
Penalty, see § 154.99
§ 154.25 YARD REGULATIONS.
   The following yards measured in feet shall be provided in the residential
districts unless modified by §
154.55:
 
DISTRICT           ONE FRONT YARD OF TWO SIDE YARDS OF AT ONE REAR YARD OF AT
                   AT LEAST          LEAST                LEAST
AA-1 Single-family 40                15                   40
residence district
AA-2 Single-family 40                15                   40
residence district
A Single-family    40                10                   40
residence district
B Single-family    30                7                    30
residence district
C Two-family       30                7                    30
residence district
 
   (A)    Provided, however, that: Where two or more lots constituting 40% or
more of a frontage have been improved with buildings that have observed a front
yard line having a variation in depth of not more than six feet, no building
shall project beyond the front yard so established, but this regulation shall
not be interpreted to require a front yard of more than 75 feet in the "AA-1"
and "AA-2" Districts; 60 feet in the "A" District; and 50 feet in the "B" and
"C" Districts.
   (B)    Corner lots shall provide a front yard on each street side but this
shall not reduce the buildable width of the lots to less than 30 feet in the
"AA-1", "AA-2", and "A" Districts or less than 28 feet in the "B" and "C"
Districts.
   (C)    Double frontage lots shall provide a front yard on both streets.
   (D)    Side yards each shall be equal to 10% of the lot width at the
building line but this shall not require a side yard greater than 25 feet in
the "AA-1" and "AA-2" Districts; 15 feet in the "A" District; 12 feet in the
"B" District; and ten feet in the "C" District.
   (E)    Rear yards shall be equal to 20% of the depth of the lot but this
shall not require a rear yard greater than 50 feet in the "AA-1" and "AA-2"
Districts; 45 feet in the "A" District; 50 feet in the "B" District; and 40
feet in the "C" District.
Penalty, see § 154.99
§ 154.26 PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For purposes of this section, the following terms are
defined:
      ABANDONED JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the meaning as in R.C. § 4513.63.
      CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT. Equipment used to construct or repair buildings,
grade landscaping, or any other equipment used for like work.
      IMPROVED SURFACE. A surface made of concrete, asphalt, crushed stone, or
pavers of sufficient strength to withhold the weight of the object parked
thereon.
      JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the meaning as in R.C. § 4513.65. The vehicle
must be three years old, or older; extensively damaged; apparently inoperable;
and have a fair market value of $1,500 dollars or less.
      PARKING, PARKED or PARK. The stopping or standing of vehicles, whether or
not occupied other than temporarily for the purpose of and while actively
engaged in loading or unloading merchandise or passengers.
      SAILBOAT and POWERCRAFT. have the meaning as in R.C. § 1547.01.
      TRUCK. Has the meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01. For purposes of this
definition the vehicle must also have current state issued license plates
attached with the designation "truck" or "commercial".
      VEHICLES, MOTOR VEHICLE, COLLECTOR'S VEHICLE, BUS, TRAILER, and
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Have the meanings as in R.C. § 4501.01
   (B)   Parking required.
      (1)   Each residential unit shall provide at least two parking spaces on
the lot. All required parking spaces may be located in a part of the main
structure, in an accessory garage or on an improved surface. Parking on other
surfaces, such as grass, is prohibited.
      (2)   Clubs shall provide one parking space for each 400 square feet of
floor area in the main building.
      (3)   Churches shall provide one parking space for each four seats in the
main auditorium or one space for each 50 square feet of floor space, whichever
is greater. The minimum parking space requirements shall be on the lot except
upon a determination by the Village Council that converting such land to
parking would be detrimental to the health, safety, convenience or general
welfare of the village as a whole and there is adequate "on street" parking
spaces or "off-street" municipal parking areas owned or leased by the village
when said municipal spaces are within 500 feet of the church property.
      (4)   Elementary schools shall provide two and high schools ten parking
spaces per classroom.
      (5)   Community centers, libraries, museums, and similar public and
semipublic buildings shall provide one parking space for each 300 square feet
of floor area in the building.
   (C)   Parking or storage restrictions.
      (1)   All motor vehicles and trailers lawfully stored or parked in open
areas, on driveways, on streets, or on parking areas, shall display current,
valid license tags unless otherwise permitted below.
      (2)   Sailboats and powercraft stored or parked in open areas must be
stored on trailers and are limited to 21 feet in length. Rowboats, kayaks, and
canoes whether or not on trailers are permitted as long as they are adequately
concealed from the view of neighboring property owners by means of buildings,
fences, vegetation, terrain, or other suitable obstruction.
      (3)   With the exception of collector's vehicles, parking or storage of
any motor vehicle, trailer, sailboat, or powercraft shall be permitted only on
an improved surface. With the exception of collector's vehicles and
recreational vehicles, the parking or storage of all motor vehicles shall be on
a parking space or driveway.
      (4)   Abandoned junk motor vehicles or junk motor vehicles may not be
parked or stored in any open areas.
      (5)   Parking of commercial tractors, trucks of more than 15,000 lbs. GVW
or with more than two axles, school buses, or buses used for commercial
purposes is not allowed in open areas public or private unless loading or
unloading.
      (6)   Parking for those vehicles conveying necessary tools, materials and
equipment to premises where labor using such tools, materials, and equipment is
to be performed during the actual time of parking shall be permitted.
   (D)   Unlicensed collectors. Unlicensed collector's vehicles, recreational
vehicles, sailboats, powercraft, trailers, junk motor vehicles, construction
equipment, riding lawn mowers or similar motorized equipment, and buses shall
be parked or stored on residential property only within an enclosed structure
or as otherwise specifically permitted as described below:
      (1)   Unless otherwise approved by the Police Chief, parking on any
public street, alley or other public property for more than 4 hours during any
24-hour period by a recreational vehicle, a sailboat, a powercraft, a trailer,
a bus, or a truck of more than 15,000 lbs. GVW or with more than two axles is
prohibited.
      (2)   Driveways in front or side yards may be used for parking a
recreational vehicle, sailboat or powercraft less than 21 feet in length on a
trailer, trailer, or bus other than a school bus or bus used for commercial
purposes during two days in any calendar week, for the limited purposes of
loading, unloading, cleaning or effecting minor repairs or maintenance.
      (3)   A maximum of two sailboats, powercraft, trailers, riding lawn
mowers or similar equipment, or a combination thereof, for a maximum of two of
the items listed, may be parked or stored in an open area of a rear yard,
provided they are adequately concealed from the view of neighboring property
owners by means of buildings, fences, vegetation, terrain, or other suitable
obstruction and are stored on an improved surface. A riding lawn mower or
similar equipment need not be stored on an improved surface.
      (4)   Unlicensed collector's vehicles may be parked or stored in an open
area of a rear yard, provided parking and storage of such a vehicle in a rear
yard is adequately concealed from the view of neighboring property owners by
means of buildings, fences, vegetation, terrain and other suitable obstruction.
      (5)   A maximum of one recreational vehicle or bus other than a school
bus or bus used for commercial purposes may be parked or stored in an open area
of a rear yard, provided parking and storage of such a vehicle in a rear yard
is adequately concealed from the view of neighboring property owners by means
of buildings, fences, vegetation, terrain and other suitable obstruction.
      (6)   Unless otherwise approved by the Police Chief for good cause shown,
no temporary or permanent human occupancy may occur within a recreational
vehicle, or bus while parked within the Village.
   (E)   Traffic.
      (1)   A traffic impact study shall be required for all conditional uses
in the AA-1, AA-2, A, B, and C districts, with the exception of the conditional
uses described in §
154.21(B)(1) and (B)(12), for which no such study shall be required. Such study
shall be completed by an independent consultant pursuant to §
154.94(6).
      (2)   All conditional uses in the AA-1, AA-2, A, B, and C districts (with
the exception of the conditional uses described in §
154.21 (B)(1) and (B)(12) shall demonstrate compliance with the following
transportation level of service standards.
         (a)   Existing levels of service at peak hour are maintained on all
arterial and collector roads and at all intersections within 1/4 mile of the
primary access to the site, or the level of service shall not fall below a
level of service (LOS) “D” as defined by the Transportation Research Board,
Highway Capacity Manual, special report 209 (Washington D.C.: National Research
Council, 1998), as amended.
         (b)   However, if the LOS on streets adjacent to the site or within 1/
4 mile thereof is currently below LOS “D”, then the applicant shall demonstrate
that the LOS will not fall below the current level.
      (3)   All development of a conditional use in the AA-1, AA-2, A, B, and C
districts (with the exception of the conditional uses described in §
154.21 (B)(1) and (B)(12) shall provide an overall access management plan that
demonstrates free-flowing access to the site and avoids unsafe congestion
conditions on adjacent public roads and streets.
      (4)   The applicant seeking a conditional use permit in the AA-1, AA-2,
A, B, and C districts (with the exception of the conditional uses described in
§
154.21 (B)(1) and (B)(12) shall be responsible for the costs required to make
the necessary improvements that will, at a minimum, maintain the LOS “D” or
other, pre-existing LOS.
      (5)   The traffic impact study shall be provided with the application for
a conditional use and at the expense of the applicant. The village may seek
outside review of the traffic impact study, and all costs and expenses
associated with such outside review shall be passed on to, and shall be fully
paid for by, the conditional use applicant.
(Ord. 2007-21, passed 10-1-07; Am. Ord. 2008-37, passed 11-3-08; Am. Ord. 2016-
18, passed 6-6-16) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.27 SIGN REGULATIONS IN THE RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   In the residential districts there may be:
   (A)    One nameplate not exceeding one square foot in area for home
occupations and for uses authorized by a conditional use permit.
   (B)    Temporary signs not exceeding nine square feet appertaining to the
lease, rental or sale of a building or premises and shall be removed
immediately upon the property lease, rental or closing. Buildings or premises
may have one sign for each full street frontage. “Sale Pending” or “Sold”
notices may be attached to the “For Sale” sign(s) until it is removed. “Open
House” signs, separate or attached to the “For Sale” sign and not exceeding
nine square feet, may be posted only in the yard of the property for sale. An
optional open house directional sign, not exceeding six square feet, may be
placed on village rights-of-way; said Open House signs and directional signs
may be posted up to two days prior to the open house and must be removed
immediately upon the end of the open house.
   (C)   Sign or bulletin board not exceeding ten square feet in area relating
to a church or school or a conditional use but only when located on the
premises of the church or school.
   (D)   Garage sale signs conforming to the requirements of §
154.51(E).
   (E)   Nonprofit village organizations, as defined and recognized by the IRS,
may, in any district, post or hang signs announcing special event(s) upon the
applicant's or public property for a period of not more than 14 days when an
application detailing quantity, size and location is reviewed and approved by
the Mayor.
   (F)   Signs of a political or religious nature are permitted on private
property on the condition that the posted sign is in good repair and does not
constitute a safety or traffic hazard by its size or placement. No political or
religious signs may be posted on public property or right-of-way in the
village.
   (G)   No ground or wall sign shall be internally illuminated. External
lighting of a sign may be permitted if the lighting is designed to shield the
light source in accordance with §
154.28 (Outdoor Lighting).
(Am. Ord. 1997-25, passed 5-6-97; Am. Ord. 2000-13, passed 2-7-00; Am. Ord.
2001-43, passed 11-5-01; Am. Ord. 2004-08, passed 6-7-04; Am. Ord. 2010-32,
passed 9-3-10) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.28 OUTDOOR LIGHTING.
   The following restrictions shall apply to any outdoor lighting located in
any district on parcels where there are parking spaces for five or more
vehicles, or where a building, sign or electrical permit is required for the
installation of lighting fixtures.
   (A)   Submission of lighting plan. For any parking area for five or more
vehicles, a lighting plan shall be provided. A lighting plan may also be
required, at the determination of the Village Engineer, when a building, sign
or electrical permit application for lighting fixtures is filed. The lighting
plan shall provide the following information, at a minimum:
      (1)   A photometric plan showing the proposed intensity levels of the
lighting throughout the site, indicating foot-candle measurement shall be
provided. The lighting plan shall include the property lines and right-of-way
lines for the site, and shall indicate all site lighting in the evaluation. The
initial output of lamp fixtures, as defined by the manufacturer, is the value
to be considered in the intensity analysis.
      (2)   The lighting plan shall indicate the locations of each of the
proposed fixtures.
      (3)   The lighting plan shall indicate the minimum, maximum and average
intensity/illumination for the site.
      (4)   Details of all proposed outdoor lighting fixtures shall be
provided, indicating manufacturer, model and style of the fixture. A graphic
representation of the fixture is requested. The fixture lamp type (i.e. low
pressure sodium, metal halide, etc.) shall be indicated on the proposed plans.
      (5)   The proposed height of the lighting fixtures shall be indicated.
      (6)   The hours of use of the lighting fixture shall be indicated on the
plans.
   (B)   Height. All outdoor lighting shall be designed, located, and mounted
at heights no greater than 12 feet above grade for non-cutoff lights and 18
feet above grade for cutoff lights. The following guidelines are provided based
on the intensity of the proposed use. Heights in excess of these guidelines may
be approved by the Planning and Historic Preservation Commission when due cause
is indicated by the property owner.
      (1)   Height range by activity level:
         (a) Low: 10 ft. to 15 ft.
         (b) Medium: 10 ft. to 18 ft.
      (2)   Examples of activity levels for open parking facilities:
         (a)   Low. Residential, education facilities, churches, local
commercial uses.
         (b)   Medium. Community and neighborhood shopping centers, office
parks, hospitals, community facilities (cultural, civic, recreational).
   (C)   Illumination. Outdoor lighting shall be designed and located with a
maximum illumination of 0.5 foot-candles at the property line. Lighting for
parking areas and where security lighting is needed shall have a minimum of 0.5
foot-candles. The guidelines for illumination levels listed below are based on
the activity levels described herein. Lighting in excess of these guidelines
may be approved by the Planning and Historic Preservation Commission when due
cause is indicated by the property owner.
      (1)   Average illuminance by activity level:
         (a)   Low: 1.0 foot-candle; or
         (b)   Medium: 2.0 foot-candle.
      (2)   Maximum illumination (foot-candles) by activity level:
         (a)   Low: 5.0 foot-candle; or
         (b)   Medium: 10.0 foot-candle.
      (3)   Uniformity of illumination (maximum/minimum foot-candle ratio)
should not exceed 15:1.
      (4)   Illumination of access drive should not exceed average foot-candles
maintained at adjacent public road.
   (D)   Light trespass. Light trespass is any form of artificial illumination
emanating from a light fixture (or illuminated sign) that penetrates other
property and creates a nuisance. A lighting plan shall be provided by the
property owner proposing the installation of outdoor lighting fixtures and
shall meet the following minimum standards for light trespass:
      (1)   Outdoor light fixtures shall be directed so that there will not be
any objectionable direct glare source visible from any property, and shall be
properly installed and thereafter maintained.
      (2)   At a height of five feet above the property line of the subject
property, illumination from light fixtures shall not exceed 0.5 footcandles in
a vertical plane on adjacent property.
      (3)   Appropriate fixture lamp types and shielding shall be installed to
prevent light trespass onto adjacent property.
   (E)   Shielding. All outdoor lighting for non-residential uses shall be
located, screened, or shielded so adjacent lots located in residential
districts are not directly illuminated. Shielding may also be required for high
intensity light fixtures to prevent glare to adjacent uses, public right-of-
ways, and drivers. Perimeter lighting should be cut-off fixtures to prevent
light trespass onto adjacent properties.
   (F)   Color and glare. No outdoor lighting shall be of such an intensity or
color distortion as to cause glare or to impair the vision of drivers,
pedestrians or adjacent properties. Shields and/or filters are required for
light fixtures with high intensity and glare potential. All lighting shall be
provided by cutoff fixtures with no extended/projected lenses.
   (G)   Factors for evaluation. The following factors shall be considered in
the evaluation of lighting plans:
      (1)   Pole height;
      (2)   Type of luminaries;
      (3)   Site coverage - average maintained;
      (4)   Uniformity:
         (a)   Maximum: Minimum
         (b)   Average: Minimum
      (5)   Intensity at property line.
   (H)    Location. Outdoor lighting need not comply with the yard requirements
of each district, except that, for visibility across corner lots, no such light
shall obstruct vision within the sight triangle formed by the points 30 feet
from the intersection along the street right-of-way lines.
   (I)   Exemptions.
      (1)   All outdoor lighting fixtures producing light directly by the
combustion of fossil fuels, such as kerosene lanterns or gas lamps, are exempt
from the requirements of this section.
      (2)   Holiday lighting shall be exempt from the requirements of this
section.
      (3)   All temporary emergency lighting needed by Police or Fire
Department or other emergency services, as well as all vehicular luminaires,
shall be exempt from the requirements of this section.
   (J)   Special approval. Search lights, laser source lights, or any similar
high-intensity light shall not be permitted, except in emergencies by Police
and Fire Department personnel or at their discretion, unless a temporary sign/
use permit is issued by the Building Official.
   (K)   Modifications. Should any outdoor light fixture or the type of light
source therein be changed after the permit has been issued, a change request
must be submitted to the Village Engineer for his approval, together with
adequate information to assure compliance with this section, which must be
received prior to substitution.
(Ord. 2006-07, passed 3-6-06)
DISTRICT REGULATIONS OF COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS
§ 154.31 USE REGULATIONS.
   (A)    Permitted uses. Permitted uses in the "D" Neighborhood Shop District
include:
      (1)   Residential uses including boarding and lodging houses but not on
the first floor.
      (2)   Barber shop or beauty parlor.
      (3)   Florist shop.
      (4)   Institutions of an educational, religious, or philanthropic nature.
      (5)   Lodge hall.
      (6)   Messenger or telegraph service station.
      (7)   Office.
      (8)   Painting and decorating shop.
      (9)   Parking lots.
      (10)    Photographer's or artist's studio.
      (11)    Restaurant.
      (12)    Sales or show room.
      (13)    Store or shop for the conduct of a retail business.
      (14)    Shoe repair shop.
      (15)    Tailor shop.
      (16)    Clinic.
   (B)   Permitted uses in the “E” Central Business District include the above
uses and:
      (1)   Theater.
      (2)   Bank.
      (3)   Bakery, whose entire products are sold at retail on the premises.
      (4)   Business or commercial school, dancing or music academy.
      (5)   Catering establishments.
      (6)   Dyeing and cleaning works employing not more than five persons on
the premises and which use a cleaning fluid whose base is a material other than
petroleum.
      (7)   Electric repair shop.
      (8)   Hospitals and clinics for animals.
      (9)   Laundry employing not more than five persons on the premises.
      (10)    Plumbing shop.
      (11)    Printing shop.
      (12)    Public garage and automobile sales room.
      (13)    Tavern.
      (14)    Tinsmithing shop.
      (15)    Tire repair shop.
   (C)   Conditional uses in the “D” Neighborhood Shop District include:
      (1)   Any public building erected and used by the department of the
village, township, county, state, or federal government.
      (2)   Clubs, incorporated and not operated for profit.
      (3)   Filling stations.
      (4)   Retail rental self-service laundry shop.
   (D)   Conditional uses in the “E” Central Business District include the
above uses and:
      (1)   Used car sales or storage lots.
      (2)   Undertaking establishments.
   (E)   Accessory uses. Permitted and conditional uses in the Commercial
Districts may have not more than 40% of the floor area devoted to industry or
storage purposes incidental to the primary use; provided that not more than
five employees shall be employed at any time on the premises in any such
incidental use.
Penalty, see § 154.99
§ 154.32 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building or structure in the “D” District shall exceed 2-1/2 stories or
35 feet in height except as provided in §
154.53. No building or structure in the “E” District shall exceed 3 stories or
40 feet in height except as provided in §
154.53.
(Am. Ord. 1996-15, passed 5-7-96)
Penalty, see § 154.99
§ 154.33 LOT WIDTH AND LOT AREA REGULATIONS.
   Where residential units are built on the second floors of buildings the lot
shall provide not less than 5,000 square feet per family and shall have an
average width of not less than one-fourth the average depth, provided that this
shall not require a lot to be wider than 50 feet.
Penalty, see § 154.99
§ 154.34 MINIMUM FLOOR AREA REQUIREMENTS.
   Where residential units are built on the second floors of buildings, each
unit shall provide at least 1,000 square feet of floor area.
Penalty, see § 154.99
§ 154.35 YARD REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Front yard.
      (1)   In the “D” Neighborhood Shop District there shall be a front yard
of 30 feet, unless existing buildings within the particular "D" district have
already established a setback, in which case new construction should have a
setback consistent with that previously established.
      (2)   In the “E” Central Business District no front yard shall be
required.
   (B)   Side yard. No side yard is required except that where a lot adjoins a
residence district there shall be one side yard at least seven feet wide.
   (C)   Rear yard. There shall be a rear yard having a depth of 20 feet in the
“D” Neighborhood Shop District and 15 feet in the “E” Central Business District
unless the lot was a lot of record on July 7, 1943 and has a depth of less than
125 feet in which event the rear yard need not be deeper than 10% of the lot
depth.
(Am. Ord. 1996-15, passed 5-7-96; Am. Ord. 2009-37, passed 9-14-09)
Penalty, see § 154.99
§ 154.36 PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever a structure is used for residential purposes or where
residential units are erected above stores, two parking spaces shall be
provided on the lot for each dwelling unit in the structure.
   (B)   Parking shall be required, based upon the following use, in the “D”
and “E” business districts:
      (1)   Office: one space for every 300 sq. ft. of floor space;
      (2)   Retail: one space for every 200 sq. ft. of floor space; and
      (3)   Barber/beauty shop: one space for every beautician, barber or
technician chair plus one for each two employees on the premises. All other
commercial buildings that are erected, converted or structurally altered shall
provide one parking space for each 200 square feet of floor space in the
building, and any restaurant or establishment that serves meals, lunches, or
drinks to patrons either in cars or in the building shall also provide one
parking space for each 200 square feet of floor space in the building,
provided, however, that a restaurant, carry-out restaurant, or any
establishment serving meals or beverages, alcoholic or nonalcoholic, to its
customers on the premises shall provide on the premises not less than one
parking space for each three seats plus one parking space for each two
employees.
   (C)   Properties within the "D" and "E" Business Districts, when applying
for a zoning certificate and when having lands upon their property that lends
itself to potential additional parking, the landlord shall be required to
develop said land into off-street parking to meet their minimum parking space
requirements except upon a determination by the Village Council that converting
such land to parking would be detrimental to the health, safety, convenience or
general welfare of the village as a whole.
   (D)   Properties in the "D" and "E" Business Districts may include "on
street" parking spaces, when such spaces are within the commercial districts or
off-street parking municipal areas owned or leased by the village when said
municipal spaces are within 500 feet of their property. The village will
inventory both municipal and on-street parking spaces, record assignment of
same upon application, issue a certificate of occupancy to verify compliance
with parking regulations upon application, and not exceed an allocation of
greater than 175% at any time.
   (E)   The village may provide necessary parking space upon a public parcel
of land to satisfy parking requirements within the "D" District (see division
(D)) or the "E" District and within 500 feet of the establishment and an annual
agreement (contract) will be required. All parking spaces contracted with the
village for specific business locations are an agreement between the landlord
of the building and the village, and do not transfer with a specific business.
In addition, should the use of a business cease to require said contracted
parking spaces for a continuous period exceeding one year (12 months), the
agreement between the village and a landlord will cease and said spaces will
become available for other agreements; said cancellation of agreement subject
to an appeal to Council within ten days of notice. At no time may the village
lease more than 125% of available spaces.
(Am. Ord. 1999-23, passed 9-13-99; Am. Ord. 2001-36, passed 11-5-01)
Penalty, see § 154.99
§ 154.37 RESERVED.
HISTORIC DISTRICT
§ 154.41 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to preserve and protect the historic
character of the entire National Historic Landmark District in the village, and
any subsequently designated local historic district(s), identified landmarks,
pivotal buildings, historic sites and contributing buildings; as well as
landmark and historic sites that may be located in or outside of the National
Historic Landmark District. The existing National Historic Landmark District
includes that portion of Glendale which is the Glendale Historic District
listed in the National Register on July 20, 1976 and designated as a National
Historic Landmark on May 5, 1977. In order to preserve and protect the historic
character of existing and future historic districts and landmarks, both in or
outside of the Historic District, the regulations of this section are imposed
in addition to those of the other zoning regulations.
   (B)   The character of the village is directly linked to the economic,
social, historical and cultural health and well being of the community. This
section, therefore, establishes procedures to maintain the historic character
of the village and obtain the following objectives:
      (1)   To maintain and enhance the distinctive village plan and pattern of
development and the character of historic districts and landmarks in the
village.
      (2)   To safeguard the architectural integrity of the village's pivotal
buildings and contributing buildings within the historic district(s).
      (3)   To safeguard the heritage of the village by preserving sites,
buildings, objects, landscapes and works of art that reflect elements of the
village's cultural, social, economic, political or architectural heritage.
      (4)   To seek alternatives to demolition or incompatible alterations
within the historic district(s), and to landmarks, pivotal buildings and
contributing buildings before such acts are performed.
      (5)   To afford the widest possible scope of continuing vitality through
private renewal and architectural creativity within appropriate controls and
standards.
      (6)   To encourage the use or appropriate development of vacant
properties in accordance with the character of the historic district(s),
landmarks and pivotal building.
      (7)   To combat urban blight caused by neglect of aging buildings, sites
and districts and their setting.
      (8)   To encourage investment in historic resources and strengthening of
the village's economy.
      (9)   To enhance the environmental and aesthetic quality of the village.
      (10)   To stabilize and improve property values.
      (11)   To promote preservation and continued use of pivotal public
buildings such as school, railroad depot, town hall, police station and others.
      (12)   To protect public health, safety, prosperity, and welfare.
   (C)   It is the further intent of this section to discourage the
construction of major new buildings on lots containing pivotal buildings and
the subdivision of lots containing pivotal buildings for the construction of
new buildings in close proximity to any pivotal buildings.
(Ord. 1993-52, passed 11-4-93; Am. Ord. 2001-40, passed 4-1-02; Am. Ord. 2004-
09, passed 6-7-04)
§ 154.42 DEFINITION.
   The following definitions shall apply to this section of the zoning
ordinance and are in addition to the definitions found in §
154.03 of this chapter.
   ADDITION. Any act or process that changes one or more of the exterior
architectural features of a building or structure and increases the floor area
of the building or structure.
   ALTER or ALTERATION. Any act or process that changes one or more of the
currently existing exterior architectural features of any building or structure
or that results in any change to an archaeological feature of the premises,
including a change or rearrangement in the structural parts or an addition,
whether by extending a side or by increasing height. Alteration shall include a
change in design, material or exterior architectural feature, but shall not
include ordinary maintenance to correct any deterioration or damage to a
structure or to restore the structure to its condition prior to such
deterioration or damage provided such work does not involve a change in design,
material or currently existing exterior architectural feature.
   APPLICANT. Any owner, association, partnership, corporation, or agents
thereof, who applies for a certificate of appropriateness in order to undertake
any change on a premises subject to the regulations of this section.
   CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS. A document issued by the Planning and
Historic Preservation Commission (hereinafter referred to as GPHPC), as
prescribed by §
154.46(B), signifying that the proposed construction, reconstruction,
alteration, demolition, or removal of a structure subject to the provisions of
this section and within an historic district or the subdivision of a lot
containing a landmark or pivotal building has been reviewed and found to be in
compliance with these regulations.
   CHANGE. Any alteration, demolition, removal, construction or reconstruction
involving any property subject to the provisions of this section.
   CONTRIBUTING BUILDING. Any building designated as such pursuant to §
154.45 which is at least 50 years old, has more than ordinary architectural or
historical merit, generally contributes to the historical fabric of the
village, and is located in an historic district.
   DEMOLISH or DEMOLITION. Any act or process, whether by action or inaction,
that razes or destroys, in whole or in part, any building subject to the
provisions of this section.
   EXTERIOR ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE. A function or decorative element of a
building including, but not limited to doors, windows, shutters, cornices,
chimneys, latticework, walls, roofs, eaves, porches, gutters, downspouts, stair
rails and similar features.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT.  An area designated as such pursuant to §
154.45 so as to maintain the historic character and integrity of pivotal and
contributing buildings.
   HISTORIC SITE. A premises that contains something of archaeological or
historical significance, may or may not include a pivotal or contributing
building, or be wholly within an historic district, and is designated by the
procedures in §
154.45. An historic site may comprise one or more properties.
   LANDMARK. Any building, structure, site or object that is at least 50 years
old and has special character or special historical or aesthetic value as part
of the development, heritage or cultural characteristics of the village or the
United States and which has been designated as a landmark pursuant to the
provisions of §
154.45, provided, however, that the term landmark may also include the
premises, or part thereof, on which the landmark is situated.
   MAINTENANCE. Ordinary repairs and refurbishing to correct any deterioration
or damage to a structure or to restore the structure to its condition prior to
such deterioration or damage provided such work does not involve a change in
design, material or exterior architectural feature. Maintenance of a structure
includes, but is not limited to, normal procedures to keep the structure in
good condition. Maintenance includes cleaning, painting, patching, tuck-
pointing, replacing of a worn part with a new one of the same material and
design.
   NATIONAL HISTORIC LANDMARK. A site, building, or object in private or public
ownership, judged by the Secretary of the Interior to possess national
significance in American history, architecture, archeology, or culture.
   NON-CONTRIBUTING BUILDING. A building that does not contribute to the
distinctive character of an historic district. Typically constructed after most
of the buildings in an historic district were built, NON-CONTRIBUTING BUILDINGS
are usually of a different character than the contributing buildings due to
their age and the difference in their scale, massing, material, and detailing.
All buildings not identified as landmarks (§
154.45(J)), pivotal (§
154.45(K)) or contributing (§
154.45(M)) within an historic district are considered to be non-contributing
buildings.
   PIVOTAL BUILDING. Any building that is designated as a pivotal structure
pursuant to §
154.45, which was built prior to 1900 and which is representative of the
original development of Glendale and therefore of higher architectural and
historical significance.
   PRESERVE or PRESERVATION. The process, including maintenance, of treating an
existing building to arrest or slow further deterioration, stabilize the
landmark and provide structural safety without changing or adversely affecting
the character or appearance of the landmark.
   RECONSTRUCTION. The reproducing by new construction of the exact form and
detail of a vanished structure, or a part thereof, as it appeared at a specific
period of time, as detailed in the Secretary of the Interior's Guidelines.
   REMOVAL. Any relocation of a pivotal or contributing building on its
premises or to another premises.
   RIBBON DRIVEWAY. Two strips of impervious surface separated by one pervious
surface.
      (1)   A seven-foot-wide RIBBON DRIVEWAY shall consist of two two-foot,
six-inch-wide impervious surfaces separated by one two foot wide pervious
surface.
      (2)   An eight-foot-wide RIBBON DRIVEWAY shall consist of two three-foot-
wide impervious surfaces separated by one two-foot pervious surface.
   SITE IMPROVEMENTS. Any improvements made to property other than a dwelling
or principal building, including but not limited to signs, accessory buildings
and walls, fences, paving and parking areas, landscaping and street fixtures
such as gaslights, benches, street signs, fountains, and sidewalks.
(Ord. 1993-52, passed 11-4-93; Am. Ord. 2001-40, passed 4-1-02; Am. Ord. 2004-
15, passed 6-15-04; Am. Ord. 2009-40, passed 9-14-09; Am. Ord. 2010-49, passed
12-6-10; Am. Ord. 2022-03, passed 4-4-22)
§ 154.43 GLENDALE PLANNING AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION.
   The Glendale Planning and Historic Preservation Commission shall serve as
the official Historic Preservation Commission for the village. The membership
of the Commission and its responsibilities are outlined in
Chapter 32 of the village code.
(Ord. 1993-52, passed 11-4-93; Am. Ord. 2001-40, passed 4-1-02)
§ 154.44 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE GLENDALE PLANNING AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION
COMMISSION.
   The powers and duties of the Glendale Planning and Historic Preservation
Commission relative to historic preservation are outlined in §
32.55 of
Chapter 32 of the village code.
(Ord. 1993-52, passed 11-4-93; Am. Ord. 2001-40, passed 4-1-02)
§ 154.45 DESIGNATION OF HISTORIC DISTRICTS, LANDMARKS, PIVOTAL BUILDINGS,
HISTORIC SITES AND CONTRIBUTING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   General.  The Village Council may, from time to time, designate
specific properties as landmarks, pivotal buildings, historic sites,
contributing buildings or portions of the village as historic districts. Upon
designation by the Village Council of any historic district, landmark, pivotal
building, historic site or contributing building, said designation shall be
numbered and listed in this section. In order to ensure that the intent of
proposed designations are met during the review process, any historic district,
landmark, pivotal building, historic site or contributing building for which an
application has been received or proposed by the Village Council in accordance
with division (B) of this section shall be considered temporarily adopted
during the review process for up to a maximum of 180 days or until approved or
rejected, whichever is earlier. Otherwise such designations shall occur after
receiving recommendations from the Glendale Planning and Historic Preservation
Commission (GPHPC) and shall follow the procedures of divisions (C) and (D) of
this section.
   (B)   Applications.
      (1)   An application, to designate a portion of the village as an
historic district shall be initiated by 51% of the property owners of the
proposed district or by the Village Council.
      (2)   An application to designate a property as a landmark, pivotal
building, historic site or contributing building shall be initiated by the
owners of the property or by the Village Council.
   (C)   Review of application.
      (1)   Any application to designate an historic district, a landmark,
pivotal building, historic site or contributing building shall be referred to
the GPHPC for review and recommendation. GPHPC shall complete and make its
recommendations to the Village Council within 60 days after referral. Upon
request by the GPHPC, the Village Council may grant an extension of one
additional 30-day period for review of the application. Should no
recommendation be rendered by the GPHPC within the aforesaid approved time
frame, the application shall be considered approved and forwarded to Village
Council.
      (2)   After the receipt of the GPHPC's recommendation, or should no
recommendation be rendered by the GPHPC within the allotted time frame, the
Village Council shall convene a public hearing within 60 days of receipt and
shall notify property owners of the proposed historic district, landmark,
pivotal building, historic site or contributing building by certified mail at
least 30 days prior to holding the public hearing to consider such designation.
Applications for contributing buildings, when including 25 or more
applications, may waive the certified mail notice and instead advertise via
legal notice published in a newspaper of general circulation at least 30 days
in advance. All hearing(s) under this division (C)(2) shall be published at
least 15 days in advance of such hearing, in a newspaper of general circulation
in the village.
   (D)   Decision of the Council.  Within 30 days following such hearing, the
Village Council shall take action on the designation by approving or
disapproving the application.
   (E)   Criteria. In acting on such designation, the Village Council shall
consider the recommendations of the GPHPC, the public hearing and the following
criteria of the property.
      (1)   Its character, interest or value as part of the development,
heritage or cultural characteristics of the village, the state or the United
States.
      (2)   Its association with a significant historic event.
      (3)   Its identification with a person or persons who significantly
contributed to the culture and development of the village.
      (4)   Its exemplification of the cultural, economic, social or historic
heritage of the village.
      (5)   Its embodiment of distinguishing characteristics of an
architectural type or specimen.
      (6)   Its identification as the work of an architect or master builder
whose work has influenced the development of the village.
      (7)   Its embodiment of elements of architectural design, detail,
materials or craftsmanship which represent a significant architectural
innovation.
      (8)   Its relationship to other distinctive areas which are eligible for
preservation according to a plan based on an historic, cultural or
architectural motif.
      (9)   Its unique location or singular physical characteristic
representing an established and familiar visual feature of a neighborhood or
the village.
      (10)   It has yielded, or is likely to yield information important to
historic understanding.
   (F)   Zoning District Map. Upon the designation of a historic district,
landmark, pivotal building, historic site or contributing building by
ordinance, the zoning district map of the village shall be revised by the
village to indicate by an appropriate symbol or device that the parcel so
marked is subject to the listed designation, and the Clerk of the Council shall
send a certified copy of the ordinance by registered mail to the owner(s) of
record.
   (G)   Limitations. The Village Council may designate historic districts,
landmarks, pivotal buildings, historic sites or contributing buildings without
limitation as to number or period when designation proceeds from an application
for the same.
   (H)   Lists. Any area, building, structure, premises, etc. that is
designated as an historic district, landmark, pivotal building, historic site
or contributing building shall be numbered and listed on the appropriate list:
      (1)   Historic districts;
      (2)   Landmarks;
      (3)   Pivotal building;
      (4)   Historic sites;
      (5)   Contributing building.
   (I)   Historic districts.
      (1)   Glendale Historic District.
   (J)   Landmarks.  
 
Structure Address            Description
1         500 Greenwood Ave. H.H. Lippelman House
2         123 W. Sharon Ave. Edward Haverland House
3         67 W. Sharon Ave.  Reva Rath/Katherine L. Rath House
4         965 Laurel Ave.    Smokehouse
 
   (K)   Pivotal buildings.
Structure Address Description
Structure Address                Description
1         28-30 Oak Street       Woodward-Garber House
2         35 Coral Avenue        Mt. Zion Baptist Church (Since Burned)
3         48 W. Sharon Avenue    St. Gabriel Church Rectory
4         Sharon & Congress      Corcoran's Corner
5         20 Erie Avenue         Johnston House
6         56 E. Sharon Avenue    Brown House
7         Forest & Erie Avenues  Christ Episcopal Church
8         60 E. Sharon Avenue    Lundy House
9         80 E. Sharon Avenue    Town Hall
10        940 Forest Avenue      Original Episcopal Rectory
11        100 E. Sharon Avenue   Cilley House
12        110 E. Sharon Avenue   Fosdick-Spooner House
13        965 Laurel Avenue      Harkness House
14        985 Laurel Avenue      Warwick Glenn House
15        140 E. Sharon Avenue   DeCamp House
16        160 E. Sharon Avenue   Crawford House
17        1045 Willow Avenue     Giauque House
18        200 E. Sharon Avenue   Spinning House
19        980 Willow Avenue      Douglas House
20        960 Willow Avenue      Bartlett House
21        20-29 Village Square   Willis & Dooley Block
22        40 Village Square      Bracker Tavern
23        845 Congress Avenue    Church of New Jerusalem
24        865 Congress Avenue    The Lyceum
25        825 Congress Avenue    Glenn Farm
26        20 Wood Avenue         Dietrich House
27        2 Forest Place         Davis House
28        930 Forest Avenue      McGrew House
29        100 E. Fountain Avenue Miner House
30        95 E. Fountain Avenue  Goldsmith House
31        125 E. Fountain Avenue Matthews House
32        120 E. Fountain Avenue Probasco House
33        140 E. Fountain Avenue Wright House
34        160 E. Fountain Avenue Grandin House
35        155 E. Fountain Avenue First Presbyterian Church
36        175 E. Fountain Avenue Keys-Moulton House
37        195 E. Fountain Avenue French House
38        11 Village Square      Lehrer Store
39        895 Greenville Avenue  Parker House
40        40 W. Fountain Avenue  Porter House
41        25 W. Fountain Avenue  S.B. Allen House
42        780 Congress Avenue    C.H. Allen House
43        40 E. Fountain Avenue  Marston Allen House
44        50 E. Fountain Avenue  Roberts House
45        715 Ivy Avenue         Thompson House
46        745 Ivy Avenue         Bailey House
47        740 Ivy Avenue         Bateman House
48        820 Ivy Avenue         Gunnison House
49        780 Ivy Avenue         Robbins House
50        800 Woodbine Avenue    Mrs. J.P. McLaren's House
51        745 Greenville Avenue  Amundsen House
52        815 Greenville Avenue  McLaren House
53        825 Greenville Avenue  Hughes House
54        845 Greenville Avenue  Gallager House
55        305 E. Sharon Avenue   Police Station
56        1060 N. Troy Avenue    Railroader's House
57        400 E. Sharon Avenue   H.B. Morse House
58        313 E. Willow Avenue   Quinn Chapel
59        44 Village Square      Railroad Depot
 
   (L)   Historic sites. (reserved)
   (M)   Contributing buildings.
Structure Address Description
Structure Address                   Description
1         305 Albion Avenue         Albion Garage
2         309 Albion Avenue
3         1025 Church Avenue
4         1035 Church Avenue        Oscar Kotter House
5         1045 Church Avenue
6         1050 Church Avenue        St. Gabriel Parish House
7         1055 Church Avenue
8         1060 Church Avenue
9         1065 Church Avenue
10        1079 Church Avenue        Clifford Allen House
11        1105 Church Avenue
12        1120 Church Avenue
13        1125 Church Avenue        Frank Bickley House
14        304 Cleveland Avenue East James J. Kloth House
15        305 Cleveland Avenue East Gustav Henschen House
16        316 Cleveland Avenue East Dennis Reardon House
17        328 Cleveland Avenue East
18        333 Cleveland Avenue East Maude Saunders House
19        345 Cleveland Avenue East
20        349 Cleveland Avenue East George Floyd House
21        363 Cleveland Avenue East
22        364 Cleveland Avenue East
23        740 Congress Avenue       Edith M. Allen House
24        775 Congress Avenue       Katherine Igler House
25        785 Congress Avenue       Sophia W. Igler House
26        795 Congress Avenue       Mary Brock House
27        800 Congress Avenue
28        805 Congress Avenue
29        815 Congress Avenue
30        830 Congress Avenue
31        835 Congress Avenue       Swedenborgian Church Parsonage
32        885 Congress Avenue       E. Clark Hall Jr. House
33        925 Congress Avenue
34        930 Congress Avenue       Glendale School
35        935 Congress Avenue       Marie Vail House
36        941 Congress Avenue
37        945 Congress Avenue
38        965 Congress Avenue
39        969 Congress Avenue
40        970 Congress Avenue
41        985 Congress Avenue       Friendly Stop
42        1065 Congress Avenue
43        1085 Congress Avenue
44        1095 Congress Avenue
45        1100 Congress Avenue
46        1105 Congress Avenue      Thomas Gill House
47        1115 Congress Avenue
48        1125 Congress Avenue      Even Food Market
49        1140 Congress Avenue      Gaslight Café
50        1150 Congress Avenue
51        1154 Congress Avenue
52        1155 Congress Avenue
53        1160 Congress Avenue      James Winston House
54        1166 Congress Avenue
55        1175 Congress Avenue      John Fahey House
56        1185 Congress Avenue      Annie Donahue House
57        1195 Congress Avenue
58        1205 Congress Avenue      Mary Rosselot House
59        1215 Congress Avenue
60        25 Coral Avenue
61        28 Coral Avenue
62        29 Coral Avenue
63        41 Coral Avenue
64        55 Coral Avenue           Rease Warfield House
65        65 Coral Avenue           Adolf Michelson House
66        75 Coral Avenue           Herman House
67        1035 Depot Lane
68        185 Elk Avenue
69        30 Erie Avenue            Hubbard House
70        35 Erie Avenue            Richardson House
71        36 Erie Avenue            Frances McLaren House
72        45 Erie Avenue
73        46 Erie Avenue
74        55 Erie Avenue            Thomas Kite House
75        885 Forest Avenue         I. & R. Sears House
76        890 Forest Avenue         Sterritt Carriage House
77        945 Forest Avenue         James Carruthers House
78        950 Forest Avenue
79        960 Forest Avenue
80        985 Forest Avenue
81        1 Forest Place            Jane R. Rodgers House
82        3 Forest Place            A.C. Denison House
83        4 Forest Place            Matthews House
84        15 Fountain Avenue East   Guy B. Taylor House
85        25 Fountain Avenue East   T.H. Johnston House
86        45 Fountain Avenue East   Broad Oak
87        55 Fountain Avenue East   Mary B. Moore House
88        60 Fountain Avenue East   Matthews House
89        75 Fountain Avenue East
90        90 Fountain Avenue East
91        110 Fountain Avenue East  Lars Hammel House
92        145 Fountain Avenue East  Sarah E. Darnall House
93        165 Fountain Avenue East  Presbyterian Manse
94        170 Fountain Avenue East
95        180 Fountain Avenue East
96        185 Fountain Avenue East  Babbitt House
97        30 Fountain Avenue West   Alfred M. Allen House
98        705 Greenville Avenue
99        755 Greenville Avenue
100       785 Greenville Avenue     McLaren House
101       795 Greenville Avenue
102       855 Greenville Avenue     Marie Petty House
103       865 Greenville Avenue     Edward Dooley House
104       875 Greenville Avenue     Probasco House
105       885 Greenville Avenue
106       905 Greenville Avenue     Thos. W. White House
107       915 Greenville Avenue
108       925 Greenville Avenue     Frank W. Mills House
109       1021 Greenville Avenue    Robert Bustle House
110       1031 Greenville Avenue
111       1037 Greenville Avenue
112       1043 Greenville Avenue
113       1055 Greenville Avenue    Perry C. Pauley House
114       710 Ivy Avenue            Edward Danson House
115       720 Ivy Avenue
116       725 Ivy Avenue
117       760 Ivy Avenue            Werk House
118       765 Ivy Avenue            L.C. Thomas House
119       800 Ivy Avenue            Charlotte Smith House
120       805 Ivy Avenue
121       835 Ivy Avenue            John E. Robertson House
122       24 Lake Avenue North
123       28 Lake Avenue North
124       32 Lake Avenue North      Mary Hageman House
125       40 Lake Avenue North
126       46 Lake Avenue North
127       15 Lake Avenue South      Charles Cook House
128       25 Lake Avenue South      George A. Gerling House
129       45 Lake Avenue South      Mary B. Moore House
130       55 Lake Avenue South
131       925 Laurel Avenue         Ruth Gordon House
132       930 Laurel Avenue
133       950 Laurel Avenue
134       955 Laurel Avenue
135       960 Laurel Avenue
136       975 Laurel Avenue
137       1025 Laurel Avenue        Harry Hake Jr. House
138       1045 Laurel Avenue
139       1060 Laurel Avenue
140       1065 Laurel Avenue
141       140 Magnolia Avenue       Wherrett House
142       165 Magnolia Avenue
143       170 Magnolia Avenue
144       175 Magnolia Avenue
145       180 Magnolia Avenue       Bertha Bahlman House
146       185 Magnolia Avenue
147       190 Magnolia Avenue       Hazel K. Payne House
148       195 Magnolia Avenue       Frank A. Wagner House
149       200 Magnolia Avenue
150       225 Magnolia Avenue
151       1036 Morse Avenue
152       1044 Morse Avenue
153       1060 Morse Avenue
154       20 Oak Road               Richard L. Warner House
155       75 Oak Road               Carl B. Lehman House
156       110 Oak Road              Aeolian Cottage
157       120 Oak Road              Angeline L. Faran House
158       130 Oak Road
159       160 Oak Road
160       170 Oak Road
161       3 Sharon Avenue East      J.J. Kelly's Tavern
162       15 Sharon Avenue East     Clarence Rosselot House
163       17 Sharon Avenue East
164       20 Sharon Avenue East
165       21 Sharon Avenue East
166       23 Sharon Avenue East     George W. Dollman House
167       24 Sharon Avenue East
168       30 Sharon Avenue East
169       36 Sharon Avenue East
170       38 Sharon Avenue East
171       44 Sharon Avenue East     Dorsey House
172       45 Sharon Avenue East
173       50 Sharon Avenue East     Glendale Bakery
174       95 Sharon Avenue East
175       180 Sharon Avenue East    Harriet R. Keller House
176       205 Sharon Avenue East    St. Edmund's Chapel
177       205 Sharon Avenue East    Community House
178       220 Sharon Avenue East    Glendale Interiors
179       230 Sharon Avenue East    Glendale Salon
180       240 Sharon Avenue East    Lovatt House
181       265 Sharon Avenue East    Track Side Deli
182       270 Sharon Avenue East
183       280 Sharon Avenue East    John Walsh House
184       310 Sharon Avenue East
185       315 Sharon Avenue East
186       316 Sharon Avenue East
187       320 Sharon Avenue East    John Wallace House
188       324 Sharon Avenue East    E.B. Graves House
189       325 Sharon Avenue East    Anna F. Kloth House
190       329 Sharon Avenue East    Middlecamp House
191       330 Sharon Avenue East
192       332 Sharon Avenue East
193       335 Sharon Avenue East
194       339 Sharon Avenue East
195       340 Sharon Avenue East
196       345 Sharon Avenue East
197       349 Sharon Avenue East
198       350 Sharon Avenue East
199       355 Sharon Avenue East
200       359 Sharon Avenue East
201       360 Sharon Avenue East
202       361 Sharon Avenue East
203       367 Sharon Avenue East    Wm. McGuigan House
204       369 Sharon Avenue East    Mulhall House
205       370 Sharon Avenue East
206       375 Sharon Avenue East    Naomi P. Showers House
207       380 Sharon Avenue East
208       410 Sharon Avenue East
209       420 Sharon Avenue East    Phoebe F. Joerger House
210       430 Sharon Avenue East
211       440 Sharon Avenue East
212       460 Sharon Avenue East    Wm. Bucheit House
213       470 Sharon Avenue East
214       490 Sharon Avenue East    George Morse House
215       11 Sharon Avenue West     Weisbrod Pharmacy
216       18 Sharon Avenue West     St. Gabriel School
217       33 Sharon Avenue West     Frederick Fielder House
218       41 Sharon Avenue West
219       47 Sharon Avenue West     Raymond House
220       54 Sharon Avenue West
221       55 Sharon Avenue West     Marie Egbers House
222       57 Sharon Avenue West
223       58 Sharon Avenue West
224       62 Sharon Avenue West
225       63 Sharon Avenue West
226       1044 Troy Avenue North    Fred Sulfsted House
227       1054 Troy Avenue North
228       1066 Troy Avenue North    Annie McLaughlin House
229       1070 Troy Avenue North
230       1084 Troy Avenue North    John McNamara House
231       1096 Troy Avenue North
232       1110 Troy Avenue North    John McNamara House
233       1140 Troy Avenue North
234       1156 Troy Avenue North
235       1170 Troy Avenue North
236       810 Troy Avenue South     W. Chapman House
237       820 Troy Avenue South
238       830 Troy Avenue South     W. Chapman House
239       870 Troy Avenue South     Harkness House
240       880 Troy Avenue South     Harkness House
241       890 Troy Avenue South
242       900 Troy Avenue South
243       910 Troy Avenue South
244       916 Troy Avenue South
245       920 Troy Avenue South
246       930 Troy Avenue South     Edward K. Lea House
247       3 Village Square          O'Neill House
248       5 Village Square
249       9 Village Square           
250       30 Village Square         Glendale Municipal Bldg.
251       38 Village Square         Boy Scout House
252       18 Washington Avenue
253       28 Washington Avenue
254       36 Washington Avenue
255       42 Washington Avenue      Eckstein School
256       50 Washington Avenue      Sarah Graveson House
257       60 Washington Avenue
258       64 Washington Avenue      Brickyard Office
259       67 Washington Avenue      Thomas Gill House
260       79 Washington Avenue      Anna J. Wroot House
261       83 Washington Avenue      Frank Lee House
262       100 Washington Avenue     John Ross House
263       105 Washington Avenue
264       111 Washington Avenue
265       117 Washington Avenue
266       123 Washington Avenue
267       970 Willow Avenue         Walter Schatzman House
268       975 Willow Avenue         N.R. Whitney House
269       985 Willow Avenue         F.M. Douglas House
270       1030 Willow Avenue        Frederick Brucker House
271       1050 Willow Avenue        Meagher House
272       1055 Willow Avenue        Peter Ritterath House
273       1060 Willow Avenue        Anna B. Dooley House
274       1065 Willow Avenue        Adolph Gutting House
275       1070 Willow Avenue        Jenne Godwin House
276       1075 Willow Avenue
277       1085 Willow Avenue        Clifford B. Sears House
278       1095 Willow Avenue
279       1100 Willow Avenue        Edmund Burke House
280       310 Willow Avenue East
281       314 Willow Avenue East
282       320 Willow Avenue East
283       321 Willow Avenue East    George H. White House
284       322 Willow Avenue East
285       324 Willow Avenue East
286       330 Willow Avenue East
287       341 Willow Avenue East
288       347 Willow Avenue East    Fred McFarren House
289       361 Willow Avenue East    J. Johnson House
290       25 Wood Avenue            Ann Mulhauser House
291       50 Wood Avenue            Alice W. Burton House
292       715 Woodbine Avenue       Charles Stevenson House
293       725 Woodbine Avenue
294       735 Woodbine Avenue       Benjamin Glaser House
295       740 Woodbine Avenue       Dorothy Stewart House
296       745 Woodbine Avenue
297       750 Woodbine Avenue
298       755 Woodbine Avenue
299       760 Woodbine Avenue
300       765 Woodbine Avenue
301       775 Woodbine Avenue
302       785 Woodbine Avenue
303       810 Woodbine Avenue       Edgar M. Moeser House
304       815 Woodbine Avenue       Elizabeth Cleveland House
305       820 Woodbine Avenue
306       830 Woodbine Avenue       Veit Schoenberger House
307       835 Woodbine Avenue
308       840 Woodbine Avenue       Matilda V. Igler House
309       850 Woodbine Avenue
310       860 Woodbine Avenue       Stanley Newton House
311       870 Woodbine Avenue       Lehrer House
 
(Ord. 1993-52, passed 11-4-93; Am. Ord. 2001-40, passed 4-1-02; Am. Ord. 2004-
10, passed 6-7-04; Am. Ord. 2004-12, passed 9-7-04; Am. Ord. 2004-15, passed 6-
15-05; Am. Ord. 2009-13, passed 4-6-09; Am. Ord. 2010-32, passed 9-3-10; Am.
Ord. 2016-50, passed 11-7-16)
§ 154.46 REGULATIONS GOVERNING EXISTING BUILDINGS, NEW BUILDINGS, ADDITIONS,
DEMOLITIONS AND REMOVAL OF BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Limitations on issuance of building and demolition permits. No
construction, reconstruction, addition, demolition or removal of any building
or significant exterior architectural feature thereof to any pivotal building,
contributing building, non-contributing building, or any other structure within
an historic district over 150 square feet in floor area; as well as listed
landmarks or historic sites in or outside of an historic district shall be
undertaken prior to obtaining a certificate of appropriateness from the
Glendale Planning and Historic Preservation Commission (GPHPC) and a zoning
certificate from the Zoning Administrator, if applicable. No zoning certificate
shall be issued by the Zoning Administrator for the construction, addition,
demolition or removal of a listed pivotal building, contributing building or
non-contributing building; as well as landmark and historic sites in or outside
of an historic district, except in cases falling within the exclusion set forth
in this section, unless the application for such permit is approved by the
GPHPC through the issuance of a certificate of appropriateness in the manner
prescribed herein.
   (B)   Certificate of appropriateness.
      (1)   Applicability.
         (a)   When the owner of a pivotal building, contributing building or
non-contributing building; as well as landmark or historic site in or outside
of an historic district intends to construct, reconstruct, alter or demolish
any exterior architectural feature of such building or an accessory building
exceeding 150 square feet in floor area located on the same lot as the
landmark, pivotal contributing or non-contributing building, unless said
building is designated as an historic site, or when the owner of a pivotal
building intends to subdivide the lot containing the pivotal building they
shall first apply for and secure a certificate of appropriateness. A
certificate of appropriateness is required for any exterior change to the
building or its property, as otherwise regulated by this section.
            1.   The GPHPC shall follow the design requirements as they appear
in these ordinances. In addition, the Historic Preservation Guidelines approved
by the Village Council on May 3, 2004, along with subsequent revisions, shall
be a guide to the GPHPC in its determination of appropriateness.
            2.   The application for a certificate of appropriateness shall be
filed with the Village Zoning Administrator with such plans, specifications,
and other materials as the village requires.
         (b)   When the owner of a pivotal building or contributing building;
as well as landmark or historic site in or outside of an historic district
intends to construct, reconstruct, alter or demolish any exterior architectural
feature of such building or accessory building exceeding 150 square feet in
floor area, the GPHPC shall follow the design requirements as outlined in
divisions (C), (D) and (E) of this section. In addition, the Historic
Preservation Guidelines approved by the Village Council on May 3, 2004, along
with subsequent revisions, shall be a guide to GPHPC in its determination of
appropriateness.
         (c)   When the owner of a non-contributing building within an historic
district intends to construct, reconstruct or alter any exterior portion of a
principal building or accessory building exceeding 150 square feet in floor
area, the GPHPC shall follow the design requirements for non- contributing
buildings in historic districts in division (F) of this section and comply with
the design requirements for site improvements and demolition.
      (2)   Procedure.
         (a)   Once an application for a certificate of appropriateness is
filed with the Zoning Administrator, it shall be scheduled on the agenda of the
next available meeting of the GPHPC, except, however, that such application
shall be heard within 45 days of the receipt of the completed application and
necessary attachments by the village. At the hearing, the GPHPC shall approve
the application or make suggestions to modify the application for approval at
its next meeting.
         (b)   Within 75 days of the receipt of the completed application and
necessary attachments by the village, the GPHPC shall file a report approving
the certificate of appropriateness, approving the certificate of
appropriateness with conditions, or denying the application.
         (c)   If the application is not heard by the GPHPC within 45 days or
no report is filed within 75 days of the receipt of the completed application
and the necessary attachments by the village, the certificate of
appropriateness shall be considered approved by the GPHPC.
         (d)   An application shall be deemed filed only when it contains the
plans, specifications, and other materials prescribed by the village.
         (e)   A denial of a certificate of appropriateness application may be
appealed to the Village Council according to the provisions of §
154.47.
      (3)   Design guidelines. The GPHPC shall supplement the design
requirements listed in the following sections by issuing design guidelines.
These guidelines are meant to assure that any alteration, demolition, or
removal of landmarks, historic sites, and pivotal or contributing buildings
preserves and protects the historic character of the entire historic district.
These guidelines shall then be submitted to the Village Council for review and
approval prior to their becoming effective. Once approved, the guidelines shall
be made available by the village to interested parties in order to provide them
guidance in designing work scope and submitting requests. GPHPC shall review
and update the design guidelines during the first GPHPC meeting of each year
and then immediately submit same to the Village Council for approval.
   (C)   Design requirements and guidelines for existing landmarks, pivotal or
contributing buildings.
      (1)   (a)   Alteration of exterior design without an addition. Major
design alterations to the front facade of existing buildings are not permitted.
Design alterations to side or rear facades readily visible from a street are
limited to 10% of the surface area. Design alterations to a side or rear
facade, not readily visible from a street, are limited to 50% of the surface
area. Change beyond these restrictions can be allowed if such change is a
restoration of the structure to its historic appearance or is deemed an
appropriate improvement by the Planning and Historic Preservation Commission to
a structure previously altered.
         (b)   Alteration of exterior design with an addition. The above
percentage restrictions regarding design alterations to existing exterior
architectural features still apply, however, the Commission may issue a
certificate of appropriateness based on the architectural merits of the
proposed addition.
      (2)   Additions. Additions to existing buildings must preserve the form,
significant materials and features of the building; and additions must be
compatible with the existing building's massing, size, scale, materials and
architectural features.
      (3)   Materials. Buildings shall have exterior material of painted wood,
material that simulates painted wood, brick, stucco, or stone masonry. Windows
shall be similar to those of adjacent pivotal or background structures.
      (4)   Accessory buildings. Accessory buildings exceeding 300 square feet
of floor area shall be of the same architectural style and same exterior
material as the main building unless the accessory building is a reconstruction
of an accessory building that previously existed on the lot, in which case
substantial freedom shall be afforded the applicant to replicate the structure
as it previously existed.
      (5)   Scale and massing. Overall building height to width ratios, chimney
construction, roof pitch, footprint size, both absolute footprint size and size
relative to lot size, placement and orientation, and other pertinent data, as
deemed important to the overall building appearance, to assure reasonable
adherence to the pivotal or contributing buildings adjacent shall be considered
in the design of any addition, alteration or replacement of existing
structures.
   (D)   Design requirements for new buildings in historic districts.
      (1)   Scale and massing. New buildings shall be similar in size, scale,
mass and architectural style as the surrounding pivotal and contributing
buildings. Overall building height to width ratios, chimney construction, roof
pitch, footprint size, both absolute footprint size and size relative to lot
size, placement and orientation, and other pertinent data, as deemed important
to the overall building appearance including that which is outlined in the
Historic Preservation Guidelines, to assure reasonable adherence to the pivotal
or contributing buildings adjacent shall be considered in the design of any new
or replacement structures.
      (2)   Materials. New buildings shall have exterior material of painted
wood, material that simulates painted wood, brick, stucco, or stone masonry.
Windows shall be similar to those of adjacent pivotal or contributing
buildings.
      (3)   Accessory buildings. Accessory buildings exceeding 300 square feet
of floor area shall be of the same architectural style and same exterior
material as the main building unless the accessory building is a reconstruction
of an accessory building that previously existed on the lot, in which case
substantial freedom shall be afforded the applicant to replicate the structure
as it previously existed.
      (4)   Chimneys. New buildings, other than accessory building of less than
500 square feet, shall include one or more chimneys (whether operational or
ornamental), except garages, which may include cupolas instead of chimneys,
unless one-third or more of the buildings on adjacent lots do not contain
chimneys.
      (5)   Building footprint. To maintain the stature of pivotal buildings,
the footprint of any new building erected on a lot adjacent to a lot containing
a pivotal building shall not exceed the footprint of the pivotal building.
      (6)   Site location of new buildings. In order to maintain historic
landscapes around landmarks, and pivotal or contributing buildings, no new
buildings shall be built on contiguous lots in front of landmarks, historic
sites, and pivotal or contributing buildings. New buildings are permitted on
lots next to or behind landmarks, and pivotal or contributing buildings.
      (7)   Garages. In order to maintain the characteristics of the historic
districts, no new house may be built with garage doors on the front elevation
of said house facing the street. For corner lots, garage doors may face the
street on the side elevation. Detached garages built behind the rear elevation
of new or existing houses may have garage doors facing the front or side of the
lot.
   (E)   Design guidelines for site improvements to properties in historic
districts.
      (1)   Building signage. Any sign, requiring a permit from the village,
which is proposed to be attached to a landmark, pivotal building or
contributing building shall be of material and style harmonious to the overall
theme of the area. All such signs shall be presented to the GPHPC for
certificate of appropriateness approval prior to initiation or erection of such
sign.
      (2)   Parking and paving.
         (a)   Reducing green space by adding additional pavement for driveways
or parking areas should be limited whenever possible. New driveways and parking
areas shall respect existing contours and natural features and be set back from
adjoining property lines at least five feet.
         (b)   Exceptions. In Districts A, B and C where a setback of five feet
from adjoining property lines would not accommodate a usable driveway, then in
such case an eight-foot maximum width/seven-foot minimum width impervious
materials “ribbon driveway” may be constructed or, if using pervious materials,
the maximum width allowed may be utilized.
            1.   Positioning. Driveways shall be centered on available space
between house and adjoining property line to ensure maximum setback to
adjoining property line; however, driveway placement may shift toward house
without increasing maximum driveway width allowed.
            2.   Slope. Ribbon driveway impervious surfaces shall be sloped
toward center pervious surface to ensure water runoff is captured on owner’s
property.
            3.   Transition to accessory structures (garages). Accessory
structures require a five foot setback from adjoining property lines per §
154.55(A), therefore any new driveway shall begin transition to said accessory
structure once past rear of house (including porches, patios, or other
landscaping impediments).
            4.   Non-conforming lots. Existing driveways on non-conforming lots
are exempt from the requirements of this section.
            5.   Example. Reference drawing “Ribbon Driveway setback examples-
rev 210326”).
   (F)   Non-contributing buildings. Additions and alterations to, and
rehabilitations of non-contributing buildings should either be compatible with
the style and character of the non-contributing buildings or should cause the
buildings to become more compatible with the district.
   (G)   Demolition. The demolition of existing buildings shall not be
unreasonably denied. The GPHPC shall consider the following criteria in
evaluating applications for demolition.
      (1)   Public safety. Demolition has been ordered by the Building
Inspector for public safety because of an unsafe or dangerous condition that
constitutes an emergence.
      (2)   Commercial property. The owner can demonstrate to the satisfaction
of the GPHPC that the building cannot be reused nor can a reasonable economic
return be gained from the use of all or part of the building proposed for
demolition.
      (3)   Dwellings and accessory buildings. The owner can demonstrate to the
satisfaction of the GPHPC that the building can not be economically restored
and will not adversely affect the character of the village.
      (4)   Non-significant items. The demolition request is for an
inappropriate addition or a non-significant portion of building and the
demolition will not adversely affect those parts of the building that are
significant as determined by the GPHPC.
      (5)   Non-contributing buildings. Non-contributing buildings may be
demolished if the demolition will not adversely affect the character of the
district. Any new construction on the cleared site will be subject to the
guidelines for new construction and site improvements.
   (H)   Subdivision of lots containing landmarks or pivotal buildings.
      (1)   The subdivision of any lot containing a landmark or pivotal
building shall be accomplished in such way that both the new lot and reduced
lot conform to the minimum lot size in the zoning district and shall provide
sufficient space so that a minimum 30 foot distance is maintained between any
landmark or pivotal building and any structure proposed on the new lot.
      (2)   Any new lot created from the subdivision of a lot containing a
landmark or pivotal building must be at least one-half the size of the
remaining portion of the lot containing the landmark or pivotal building.
(Ord. 1993-52, passed 11-4-93; Am. Ord. 1993-70, passed 12-6-93; Am. Ord. 2001-
40, passed 4-1-02; Am. Ord. 2004-15, passed 6-15-04; Am. Ord. 2006-08, passed
3-6-06; Am. Ord. 2009-38, passed 9-14-09; Am. Ord. 2009-56, passed 9-14-09; Am.
Ord. 2010-32, passed 9-3-10; Am. Ord. 2011-28, passed 8-1-11; Am. Ord. 2022-03,
passed 4-4-22)
§ 154.47 APPEAL PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Within 30 days of any Glendale Planning and Historic Preservation
Commission decision, any affected party may appeal the decision to the Village
Council by filing notice thereof with the Clerk of the Council.
   (B)   The Village Council shall schedule a public hearing within 45 days of
the date the appeal is received. At the public hearing, the Council shall hear
all interested parties. Within 30 days of the public hearing, the Council shall
pass a resolution either confirming, rejecting, amending, or remanding the
decision of the Glendale Planning and Historic Preservation Commission. The
Clerk of Council shall notify the owner of any property involved of the Council
action by regular first class mail. If remanded to the Glendale Planning and
Historic Preservation Commission, the remand must be resolved or returned to
the Village Council within 45 days of the remand.
(Ord. 1993-52, passed 11-4-93; Am. Ord. 2001-40, passed 4-1-02)
§ 154.48 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of this subchapter by failing to
perform any act required by this section or by performing any act which is
prohibited by this section shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $100 for each
offense. Every day on which a violation exists shall constitute a separate
violation and a separate minor misdemeanor.
   (B)   In case any building or structure is erected, constructed, altered,
added to or demolished in violation of this section, the Zoning Administrator,
the Glendale Planning and Historic Preservation Commission (GPHPC) or any other
person designated by the Village Council may institute appropriate action or
proceeding to prevent such unlawful action. The imposition of any penalty
hereunder shall not preclude the village, the GPHPC, a neighborhood or adjacent
property owner or any proper person from instituting any proper action or
proceeding to require compliance with the provisions of this section and with
administrative orders and determination made hereunder.
   (C)   Any person, who demolishes, whether by action or inaction, alters or
constructs a building or structure in violation of this section shall be
required to restore the building or structure and its site to its appearance
prior to the violation. Any action to enforce the subsection may be brought by
the Zoning Administrator, the GPHPC or any other person designated by the
Village Council. This civil remedy shall be in addition to and not in lieu of
any criminal prosecution and penalty.
   (D)   The GPHPC on its initiative may file a petition with the Zoning
Administrator to take action against any owner which, in the opinion of the
GPHPC, is in violation of the subchapter.
   (E)   An applicant who demolishes, alters or constructs a building or
structure in violation of this section shall also be deemed in violation of the
Zoning Code of the Village of Glendale.
(Ord. 1993-52, passed 11-4-93; Am. Ord. 2001-40, passed 4-1-02; Am. Ord. 2009-
40, passed 9-14-09)
SUPPLEMENTARY DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 154.51 ADDITIONAL USE REGULATIONS.
   The following regulations qualify or supplement the use regulations
appearing elsewhere in this chapter.
   (A)    Uses prohibited. The only uses permitted are those listed in §§
154.21 and
154.31. Notwithstanding the following uses are expressly prohibited within any
zoning district.
      (1)    Any industrial use or any manufacturing
      (2)    Drive-through auto washing facilities
      (3)    Massage parlors
      (4)    Commercial pool parlors and game rooms
      (5)   Multiple dwellings except when erected above commercial uses in the
“D” or “E” Districts or except when provided as parts of approved community
unit plans or approved Planned Development Overlay Districts.
      (6)   Extraction of gravel, sand, and other raw materials.
      (7)   Motels, tourist and trailer camps.
      (8)    Flashing, intermittent, and moving signs.
      (9)    Any use locating on a panhandle lot except for those lots included
in subdivisions recorded prior to January 1, 1983.
   (B)    Community unit plans.
      (1)    The owner of any tract of land comprising an area of not less than
ten acres may submit to the Council a plan for the use and development of all
of the tract of land for residential purposes or for the repair and alteration
of any existing housing development on an area comprising ten acres or more.
The plan shall conform to the requirements of §
154.63. The plan shall include proposals for rental or ownership of the
dwelling units. The development or alteration plan shall be referred to the
Village Planning Commission for study and report and for public hearing. If the
Commission approves the plans, they shall then be submitted to the Village
Council for consideration and approval. The approval and recommendations of the
Commission shall be accompanied by a report stating the reasons for approval of
the application and specific evidence and facts showing that the proposed meets
the following conditions:
         (a)    That property adjacent to the area included in the plan will
not be adversely affected.
         (b)    That the plan is consistent with the intent and purpose of this
chapter to promote public health, safety, morals, and general welfare.
         (c)    That the buildings shall be used only for residential purposes
and the usual accessory uses, such as garages, storage space, or community
activities, including churches.
         (d)    That the average lot area per family contained in the site,
exclusive of the area occupied by streets, will be not less than the lot area
per family required in the district in which the development is located.
         (e)   That community unit plan subdivisions (private subdivisions)
will be required to conform to the minimum infrastructure requirements
pertaining to streets, curbs, storm water, sidewalks or other improvements as
may be required by the Village Engineer of dedicated residential subdivisions.
      (2)    If the Village Council approves the plans, building permits, and
certificates of occupancy may be issued even though the use of land and the
location of the buildings to be erected in the area and the yards and open
spaces contemplated by the plan do not conform in all respects to the district
regulations of the district in which it is located. Approval of the plan shall
include proposals for rental or ownership of dwelling units.
      (3)   Community unit plans are a discontinued use and no application to
create a community unit plan shall be approved by the village after December
31, 2014, provided that this change shall not affect the legal standing of any
development or other entity in the village that was created under the rules and
procedures for a community unit plan prior to December 31, 2014. Any
modification to a community unit plan that was approved prior to December 31,
2014 shall be subject to the provisions of divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) above.
   (C)    Condominiums. Conversion of existing residential units to
condominiums shall require a modification of an approved community unit plan if
originally constructed under such a plan. Institution of any condominium form
of ownership shall be a subdivision of land and shall conform with Chapter 153
hereof. The village shall mail notices of the public hearing on such a
conversion to residents of the property to be converted at least 30 days prior
to the hearing. If it appears at the hearing that the proposed conversion would
result in unusual hardship to many of the residents, the conversion may be
disapproved or the Village Council may agree with the proponent on a schedule
for the conversion or such other measures as would substantially mitigate the
hardship.
   (D)    Nonconforming uses.
      (1)    The lawful use of land in the "AA-1," "AA-2," "A," and "B" Single-
Family Residence Districts and the "C" Two-Family Residence District which does
not conform to the use provisions of this chapter shall be discontinued within
one year from the effective date of this chapter and provided, further, that
the use of land which becomes nonconforming by reason of a subsequent change in
this chapter shall also be discontinued within one year from the date of the
change.
      (2)    The lawful use of a building existing at the time of the effective
date of this chapter may be continued, although such use does not conform to
the use provisions hereof. If no structural alterations are made, a
nonconforming use of a building may be changed to another nonconforming use of
a more restricted classification. Whenever a nonconforming use has been changed
to a more restricted use or to a conforming use, such use shall not thereafter
be changed to a less restricted use.
      (3)    Whenever the use of a building becomes nonconforming through a
change in the zoning ordinance or district boundaries, such use may be
continued and if no structural alterations are made, it may be changed to
another nonconforming use of a more restricted classification.
      (4)    In the event that a nonconforming use of any building or premises
is discontinued for a period of two years, the use of the same shall thereafter
conform to the use permitted in the district in which it is located.
      (5)    No existing building or premises devoted to a use not permitted by
this chapter in the district in which such building or premises is located,
except when required to do so by law or ordinance, shall be enlarged, extended,
reconstructed, or structurally altered, unless such use is changed to a use
permitted in the district in which such building or premises is located.
      (6)    A nonconforming building that is partially destroyed or damaged
(exclusive of the foundation) to an extent of less than 50% of its reproduction
value at the time of damage, by fire, flood, earthquake, explosion, war, riot,
or act of God or act of the public enemy may be restored and the use of the
building resumed in accordance with the other provisions of this section;
provided that the restoration and resumption shall take place within six months
of the time of such damage or destruction.
      (7)    Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as authorization for
or approval of the continuance of the use of a building or premises in
violation of zoning regulations in effect at the time of the effective date of
this chapter.
   (E)    Garage sales. Sales of surplus household goods (garage sales) in
residential districts are allowed under the following conditions.
      (1)    A special permit is obtained. (See §
154.67.)
      (2)    Only previously owned and used articles are sold by a resident
family that has occupied the premises for at least six months.
      (3)    Only two standard signs provided by the village are used to
announce the sale. These signs shall be returned to the village upon conclusion
of the sale.
      (4)    The sale is permitted once a year on both Friday and Saturday from
8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
(Am. Ord. 1984-23, passed 7-2-84; Am. Ord. 1993-42, passed 8-2-93; Am. Ord.
2014-47, passed 12-1-14; Am. Ord. 2014-48, passed 12-1-14) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.52 LARGE SCALE DEVELOPMENT COMPATIBILITY.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The purpose of this section is to preserve and
protect the historic character of the village by ensuring that new large-scale
developments are compatible with the historic character of the village, have an
architectural style comparable in quality to the architecture of surrounding
buildings, and that there is meticulous attention to detail in carrying out
such developments. It is further intended to protect the aesthetic and
historical character of the village, protect the attractiveness of existing
developments and inhibit the intrusion of large or unattractive buildings into
established areas.
   (B)   Applicability. The provisions of this section shall apply to any
development or redevelopment of parcels of land of three acres or larger in
size, and shall apply to any development or redevelopment containing three or
more contiguous lots. Any application for a development order, subject to the
requirements of this section shall be subject to a fee as established by the
Village Administrator and approved by the Mayor.
   (C)   Availability of infrastructure. Prior to receiving preliminary
subdivision plat approval or any other development order, any proposed
development subject to the provisions of this section shall provide a report on
existing and proposed infrastructure to support the proposed development. This
infrastructure report shall be reviewed and approved by the Village Engineer.
      (1)   For developments of less than five acres, the infrastructure report
shall document all major existing water, sewer and other utility lines, and
roads on the property and within 1,000 feet of the property, and shall provide
sufficient analysis to determine whether or not the existing infrastructure is
adequate to sustain the proposed development. If any infrastructure outside of
the property is insufficient to handle the proposed development, the applicant
shall provide information on how the infrastructure will be upgraded at the
applicant's expense to meet infrastructure demands.
      (2)   For proposed developments occupying five or more acres, the
infrastructure report shall be expanded to include the analysis required by
subdivision (C)(1) and shall document all village roads, and village water and
sewer mains within one-half mile of the site and determine whether or not the
existing infrastructure is adequate to sustain the proposed development. This
analysis shall include an analysis of water and sewer plant capacity to handle
the increased demands created by the new development. If any infrastructure
outside of the property is insufficient to handle the proposed development, the
applicant shall provide information on how the infrastructure will be upgraded
at applicant's expense to meet infrastructure demands.
   (D)   Certificate of architectural conformance. Every application for a
building permit for a new structure within any development subject to the
requirements of this section shall first submit an application for a
certificate of architectural conformance along with plans, elevations, detail
drawings and specifications to the Planning and Historic Preservation
Commission.
      (1)   Once an application for a certificate of architectural conformance
is filed with the Village Clerk, it shall be scheduled on the agenda of the
next available meeting of the Planning and Historic Preservation Commission,
except, however; that such application shall be heard within 45 days of the
receipt of the completed application and necessary attachments by the village.
      (2)   At the hearing, the Planning and Historic Preservation Commission
shall approve the application or make suggestions to modify the application for
approval at its next meeting, if in its opinion, the proposed structure(s) will
conform to proper architectural standards of appearance and design, will be in
general conformity with the style, quality and design of surrounding
structures, will be conducive to the proper architectural and aesthetic
development of the village, and meets all requirements of division (E) of this
section.
      (3)   Within 75 days of the receipt of the completed application and
necessary attachments by the village, the Planning and Historic Preservation
Commission shall file a report approving the certificate of architectural
conformance, approving the certificate of architectural conformance with
conditions, or denying the application. If the application is not heard by the
Planning and Historic Preservation Commission within 45 days or no report is
filed within 75 days of the receipt of the completed application and necessary
attachments by the village, the certificate of architectural conformance shall
be considered approved by the Planning and Historic Preservation Commission. A
denial of a certificate of architectural conformance application may be
appealed to the Village Council according to the provisions of division (F) of
this section.
   (E)   Design requirements.
      (1)   New buildings shall be similar in size, scale, and mass as the
buildings on surrounding properties and shall have a harmonious architectural
style.
      (2)   While considerable latitude is provided to the designer of proposed
buildings, such buildings must be comparable to existing buildings with the
village and not attempt to introduce an architectural style not found in the
village and/or a style which would be incompatible with the historical and
aesthetic development of the village.
   (F)   Appeal of Planning and Historic Preservation Commission decision.
Within 30 days of any Planning and Historic Preservation Commission decision,
any affected party may appeal the decision to the Village Council by filing
notice thereof with the Clerk of the Council.
   (G)   Village Council hearing. The Village Council shall schedule a public
hearing within 45 days of the date the appeal is received. At the public
hearing, the Council shall hear all interested parties. Within 30 days of the
public hearing, the Council shall pass a resolution either confirming,
rejecting, or amending the decision of the Planning and Historic Preservation
Commission. The Clerk of Council shall notify the owner of any property
involved of the Council action by regular first class mail.
(Ord. 1994-55, passed 1-3-95)
§ 154.53 ADDITIONAL HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   Building heights established in the district regulations may be exceeded
following instances:
   (A) Public, semi-public, or public service buildings, hospitals,
institutions, or schools, when permitted in a district, may be erected to a
height not exceeding 60 feet, and churches and temples may be erected to a
height not exceeding 75 feet if the building is set back from each yard line at
least one foot for each foot of additional building height above the height
limit otherwise provided in the district in which the building is built.
   (B) Single-family dwellings and two-family dwellings may be increased in
height by not more than ten feet when the side and rear yards are increased
over the yard requirements of the district in which they are located by not
less than ten feet, but shall not exceed three stories in height.
   (C) Chimneys, cooling towers, elevator bulkheads, fire towers, monuments,
stacks, stage towers, or scenery lofts, tanks, water towers, ornamental towers
and spires, church steeples, radio towers, or necessary mechanical
appurtenances, may be erected to a height in accordance with existing or
hereafter adopted ordinance of the village.
   (D) Existing buildings in violation of height regulations may be repaired
and maintained but may not be replaced or structurally altered.
Penalty, see § 154.99
§ 154.54 EXCEPTIONS TO LOT WIDTH AND LOT AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A) In the "AA-1" and "AA-2" Districts. If a parcel of land has less area
than herein required and its boundary lines along their entire length touched
lands under other ownership prior to August 6, 1934 and have not since been
changed, such parcel may be used for a single-family dwelling. If the boundary
lines of such parcel along their entire length between August 6, 1934 and July
7, 1943, touched lands under other ownership, and have not since been changed,
and such parcel has an area of 15,000 square feet and an average width of not
less than one-fourth of its average depth, such parcel may be used for a
single-family dwelling.
   (B)   In the "A" District, if a parcel of land has less area than herein
required, and its boundary lines along their entire length touched lands under
other ownership prior to August 6, 1934, and have not since been changed, such
parcel of land may be used for a single-family dwelling.
   (C)   In the "B" District, if a parcel of land has less area than herein
required, and its boundary lines along their entire length touched lands under
other ownership prior to October 18, 1940, and have not since been changed,
such parcel of land may be used for a single-family dwelling.
   (D)   In the "C" District, if a parcel of land has less area than herein
required and its boundary lines along their entire length touched lands under
other ownership prior to August 6, 1934, and have not since been changed, such
parcel of land may be used for a single-family dwelling.
   (E)   For any residence on a cul-de-sac in residence districts "AA," "AA-2",
"A," "B", and "C," the required frontage may be taken at the building line but
in no case shall the street frontage be less than 50 feet, except for lots of
record.
   (F)   Lands used primarily for access to a lot of record where less than 50
feet wide may not be included in determining the area of a lot.
Penalty, see § 154.99
§ 154.55 ADDITIONAL YARD REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Accessory buildings may be built in a required rear yard within five
feet of the rear or side lot line, provided that:
      (1)   70% of the rear yard remains free of any accessory buildings.
      (2)   The total footprint size for accessory buildings on a property
added together cannot exceed one-half the footprint of the main building or 750
square feet, whichever is larger.
      (3)   Accessory buildings will maintain a minimum of 12.5 feet separation
from a building used as a dwelling.
   (B)   No accessory building, which is not a part of the main building, shall
be constructed upon a lot until the construction of 50% or more of the main
building has been completed and no accessory building shall be used unless the
main building on the lot is also being used.
   (C)   Every part of a required yard shall be open to the sky, unobstructed,
except for accessory buildings in a rear yard, and except for the ordinary
projections of skylights, sills, belt courses, cornices, and ornamental
features projecting not to exceed 18 inches.
   (D)   Open or lattice-enclosed fire escapes, fire-proof outside stairways,
and balconies openings upon fire towers projecting into a rear yard not more
than five feet, and the ordinary projection of chimneys and flues may be
permitted by the Building Commissioner.
   (E)   An open unenclosed porch or paved terrace may project into a front
yard for a distance not exceeding ten feet.
   (F)   For the purpose of the side yard regulations, a two-family or a
multiple dwelling shall be considered as one building occupying one lot.
   (G)   Where a residence existed on July 7, 1943, and extends into the
required front yard, and inset portion of such residence may, nonetheless, be
extended to coincide with existing front building line thereof, provided that
such inset is less than one-half of the total width of the building front. Such
insets may be reconstructed and structurally altered.
   (H)   There may be more than one main building on a lot used for public,
institutional, or commercial purposes provided that required yards be
maintained around the group of buildings.
   (I)   Fences may be constructed in yards subject to the following
limitations.
      (1)   No fences may be built on corner lots within the triangle formed by
points 30 feet from the intersection along the street lines and the
intersection.
      (2)   Fences not in excess of four feet in height may be built in the
front and side yards provided that they are located no closer than three feet
to the street line and have 50% or more open area when measured in a horizontal
plane.
      (3)   Fences not in excess of six feet may be built in a rear yard.
      (4)   Fences at least four feet in height with secure gates shall enclose
all swimming pools.
      (5)   Open wire mesh fences surrounding tennis courts may be erected to a
height of 12 feet but shall enclose only a standard court or courts; shall be
at least 12 feet from all lot lines and screened by planting or vines.
      (6)   Fences between residential properties shall be erected with the
post side facing inward to the property in which the fence is erected and the
finished side of the fence shall face outward.
      (7)   In the D and E Business District, fence regulations shall be the
same as residential fence regulations, with the following exceptions; Business
District side yard fences may be solid, up to six feet in height and the good
side to face as determined in the appropriateness review, which may include a
requirement for a two sided fence. The same exceptions also apply to the
property line of residential lots abutting (1) the D and E Business Districts
or (2) parking lots allowed on residential properties.
   (J)   Existing buildings in violation of yard regulations may be repaired
and maintained but may not be replaced or structurally altered.
(Am. Ord. 2006-08, passed 3-6-06; Am. Ord. 2007-22, passed 8-6-07; Am. Ord.
2010-47, passed 12-6-10; Am. Ord. 2010-63, passed 1-10-11) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.56 ADDITIONAL PARKING AND LOADING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Rules for computing parking spaces. In computing the number of
required off-street parking spaces, the following rules shall apply:
      (1)   Floor area shall mean the gross floor area of the entire building
of the specific use, excluding any floor or portion thereof used for parking,
as defined in this chapter.
      (2)   Where fractional spaces result, the parking spaces required shall
be the next greater whole number.
      (3)   In the case of mixed uses, the parking spaces required shall be
computed separately for each use.
      (4)   Whenever a building or use constructed or established after the
effective date of this chapter is changed or enlarged in floor area, number of
employees, number of dwelling units, seating capacity or otherwise, parking
spaces shall be provided on the basis of the enlargement or change. Whenever a
building or use existing prior to the effective date of this chapter is
reconstructed or is enlarged to the extent of 20% or more in floor area, the
building or use in its entirety shall then and thereafter comply with the
parking requirements set forth herein. Any enlargement or change in use of less
than 20% of the gross floor area shall be provided with parking based on the
enlargement or change. Existing buildings in violation of parking requirements
shall not be enlarged.
      (5)   All required parking shall be available at all times for the use
for which the parking is required. No spaces shall be used for any other
parking, for storage or for any other purpose. Commercial trucks and vehicles
shall be parked at the rear of the premises during nonbusiness hours.
   (B)   Minimum improvements and maintenance standards. Required parking
facilities other than residential spaces shall conform with the following
improvements and maintenance standards.
      (1)   Parking lots shall be paved in accordance with village standards.
      (2)   Adequate provision shall be made for the disposal of storm or
surface water.
      (3)   At least 10% of the parking area shall be devoted to landscaped
space. Trees or shrubs shall be planted and maintained to substantially screen
all off-street parking areas on such property from the view of adjoining
property in a residential district.
      (4)   There shall not be more than one entrance and one exit, or one
combined entrance, or exit, along any one street unless same is deemed
necessary by the Council for the alleviation of traffic congestion and
interference of traffic movement along such street.
      (5)   The location of each parking space and the location and direction
of movement along the driveways providing access thereto shall be indicated by
painting upon the surface by raised directional signs, or by markers or other
similar measures placed in the surfacing.
      (6)   The parking area shall be maintained in a manner to keep it as free
as practicable from dust, paper, and other loose particles, and snow and ice
shall be promptly removed by the operator. All adjacent sidewalks shall be kept
free from dirt, ice, sleet, and snow and in a safe condition for use by
pedestrians. All signs, markers, or any other method used to indicate direction
of traffic movement and location of parking spaces shall be maintained in a
neat and legible condition. Likewise, any walls, trees, shrubbery, as well as
surfacing of the parking areas, shall be maintained in good condition
throughout its use for parking purposes. The Building Commissioner shall have
the authority to prohibit the use of the area for parking purposes unless and
until proper maintenance, repair, or rehabilitation is completed.
   (C)   Off-street loading requirements.
      (1)   There shall be provided at the time any building is erected or
structurally altered off-street loading space in accordance with the following
requirements:
USE GROSS FLOOR AREA OF BUILDING IN SQUARE FEET REQUIRED LOADING SPACES
USE             GROSS FLOOR AREA OF BUILDING IN SQUARE REQUIRED LOADING SPACES
                FEET
                Less than 5,000                        None
Office building 5,000 to 50,000                        1
                50,000 to 200,000                      2
                Each 75,000 over 200,000               1
                Less than 2,000                        None
Retail use      2,000 to 20,000                        1
                20,000 to 100,000                      2
                Each 75,000 over 100,000               1
      (2)   In all cases where the required off-street loading space is located
in a manner that a truck must back directly from a major street into a loading
space, a maneuvering space of not less than 50 feet shall be provided on the
lot on which the use is located.
      (3)   All required off-street loading spaces shall be paved and shall be
screened from the front yard area of the lot and from adjoining property in a
residential district.
(Am. Ord. 2006-07, passed 3-6-06; Am. Ord. 2007-22, passed 8-6-07)
Penalty, see § 154.99
§ 154.57 FLOOD PLAIN REGULATIONS.
   154.57(A)   Statutory authorization. Article XVIII, Section 3, of the Ohio
Constitution grants municipalities the legal authority to adopt land use and
control measures for promoting the health, safety, and general welfare of its
citizens. Therefore, the Village Council of Glendale, State of Ohio, does
ordain the following floodplain regulations.
   154.57(B)   Findings of fact. The village has special flood hazard areas
that are subject to periodic inundation which may result in loss of life and
property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental
services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief,
and impairment of the tax base. Additionally, structures that are inadequately
elevated, floodproofed, or otherwise protected from flood damage also
contribute to the flood loss. In order to minimize the threat of such damages
and to achieve the purposes hereinafter set forth, these regulations are
adopted.
   154.57(C)   Statement of purpose.  It is the purpose of this section to
promote the public health, safety and general welfare, and to:
      (1)   Protect human life and health;
      (2)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      (3)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      (4)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      (5)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located
in areas of special flood hazard;
      (6)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the proper use and
development of areas of special flood hazard so as to protect property and
minimize future flood blight areas;
      (7)   Ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard
assume responsibility for their actions;
      (8)   Minimize the impact of development on adjacent properties within
and near flood prone areas;
      (9)   Ensure that the flood storage and conveyance functions of the
floodplain are maintained;
      (10)   Minimize the impact of development on the natural, beneficial
values of the floodplain;
      (11)   Prevent floodplain uses that are either hazardous or
environmentally incompatible; and
      (12)   Meet community participation requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Program.
   154.57(D)   Methods of reducing flood loss. In order to accomplish its
purposes, these regulations include methods and provisions for:
      (1)   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health,
safety, and property due to water hazards, or which result in damaging
increases in flood heights or velocities;
      (2)   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities
which serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      (3)   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels,
and natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel flood
waters;
      (4)   Controlling filling, grading, dredging, excavating, and other
development which may increase flood damage; and,
      (5)   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers which
will unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards in
other areas.
   154.57(E)   Lands to which these regulations apply.  These regulations shall
apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the jurisdiction of the
village as identified in division (F) below, including any additional areas of
special flood hazard annexed by the village.
   154.57(F)   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard. For
the purposes of these regulations, the following studies and/or maps are
adopted:
      (1)   A FIRM (Flood Insurance Rate Map) for Hamilton County, Ohio and the
Incorporated Areas, final date of May 17, 2004.
      (2)   Other studies and/or maps which may be relied upon for
establishment of flood protection elevation, delineation of the 100-year
floodplain, floodways or delineation of other areas of special flood hazard
include: Flood Insurance Study for Hamilton County, Ohio and Incorporated
Areas, printed May 17, 2004; and,
      (3)   Any hydrologic and hydraulic engineering analysis authored by a
registered professional engineer in the State of Ohio that has been approved by
the village as required by division (M)(3) of this section. Any revisions to
the aforementioned maps and/or studies are hereby adopted by reference and
declared to be a part of these regulations. Such maps and/or studies are on
file at the fire station located at 80 East Sharon Avenue, Glendale, Ohio.
   154.57(G)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. These regulations are not
intended to repeal any existing ordinances (or resolutions) including
subdivision regulations, zoning or building codes. In the event of a conflict
between these regulations and any other ordinance (or resolution), the more
restrictive shall be followed. These regulations shall not intend to impair any
deed restriction, covenant or easement but the land subject to such interests
shall also be governed by the regulations.
   154.57(H)   Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of these
regulations, all provisions shall be:
      (1)   Considered as minimum requirements;
      (2)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and,
      (3)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes. Where a provision of these regulations may be in conflict with
a state or federal law, such state or federal law shall take precedence over
these regulations.
   154.57(I)   Warning and disclaimer of liability.  The degree of flood
protection required by these regulations is considered reasonable for
regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering considerations.
Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood heights may be
increased by man-made or natural causes. These regulations do not imply that
land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted within such
areas will be free from flooding or flood damage. These regulations shall not
create liability on the part of the village, any officer or employee thereof,
or the Federal Emergency Management Agency, for any flood damage that results
from reliance on these regulations or any administrative decision lawfully made
thereunder.
   154.57(J)   Separability.  Should any section or provision of these
regulations be declared by the courts to be unconstitutional or invalid, such
decision shall not affect the validity of the regulations as a whole, or any
part thereof other than the part so declared to be unconstitutional or invalid.
   154.57(K)   Definitions. Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases
used in these regulations shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning
they have in common usage and to give these regulations the most reasonable
application.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE.  A structure on the same lot with, and of a nature
customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal structure.
   APPEAL. A request for review of the Floodplain Administrator's
interpretation of any provision of these regulations or a request for a
variance.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a one percent chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. The base flood may also be referred to as the 1%
chance annual flood or 100 year flood.
   BASE (100-YEAR) FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE).  The water surface elevation of the
base flood in relation to a specified datum, usually the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum of 1929 or the North American Vertical Datum of 1988, and
usually expressed in Feet Mean Sea Level (MSL). In Zone AO areas, the base
flood elevation is the natural grade elevation plus the depth number (from 1 to
3 feet).
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor sub-glade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ENCLOSURE BELOW THE LOWEST FLOOR. See LOWEST FLOOR.
   EXECUTIVE ORDER 11988 (FLOOD PLAIN MANAGEMENT). Issued by President Carter
in 1977, this order requires that no federally assisted activities be conducted
in or have the potential to affect identified special flood hazard areas,
unless there is no practicable alternative.
   FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (FEMA).  The agency with the overall
responsibility for administering the National Flood Insurance Program.
   FILL.  A deposit of earth material placed by artificial means.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters, and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM).  Usually the initial map, produced by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency, or U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development, for a community depicting approximate special flood hazard areas.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM).  An official map on which the Federa1
Emergency Management Agency or the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development has delineated the areas of special flood hazard.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RISK ZONES.  Zone designations on FHBMs and FIRMs that
indicate the magnitude of the flood hazard in specific areas of a community.
Following are the zone definitions:
      (1)   Zone A: Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year flood;
base flood elevations are not determined.
      (2)   Zones A1-30 and Zone AE: Special flood hazard areas inundated by
the 100-year flood: base flood elevations are determined.
      (3)   Zone AO: Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year
flood: with flood depths of 1 to 3 feet (usually sheet flow on sloping
terrain); average depths are determined.
      (4)   Zone AH: Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year
flood; flood depths of 1 to 3 feet (usually areas of ponding); base flood
elevations are determined.
      (5)   Zone A99: Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year
flood to be protected from the 100-year flood by a federal flood protection
system under construction; no base flood elevations are determined.
      (6)   Zone B and Zone X (shaded): Areas of 500-year flood; areas subject
to the 100-year flood with average depths of less than 1 foot or with
contributing drainage area less than 1 square mile; and areas protected by
levees from the base flood.
      (7)   Zone C and Zone X (un-shaded): Area determined to be outside the
500-year floodplain.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official report in which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency or the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development has provided flood profiles, floodway boundaries (sometimes shown
on Flood Boundary and Floodway Maps), and the water surface elevations of the
base flood.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. The Flood Protection Elevation, or FPE, is the
base flood elevation plus [X] feet of freeboard. In areas where no base flood
elevations exist from any authoritative source, the flood protection elevation
can be historical flood elevations, or base flood elevations determined and/or
approved by the Floodplain Administrator.
   FLOODWAY. A floodway is the channel of river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that have been reserved in order to pass the base flood
discharge. A floodway is typically determined through a hydraulic and
hydrologic engineering analysis such that the cumulative increase in the water
surface elevation of the base flood discharge is no more than a designated
height. In no case shall the designated height be more than one foot at any
point within the community. The floodway is an extremely hazardous area, and is
usually characterized by any of the following: Moderate to high velocity flood
waters, high potential for debris and projectile impacts, and moderate to high
erosion forces.
   FREEBOARD.  A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for the purposes of floodplain management. Freeboard tends to compensate for
the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than
the height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such
as wave action, obstructed bridge openings, debris and ice jams, and the
hydrologic effect of urbanization in a watershed.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE.  Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listings on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district; or
      (3)   Individually listed on the State of Ohio's inventory of historic
places maintained by the Ohio Historic Preservation Office.
   HYDROLOGIC AND HYDRAULIC ENGINEERING ANALYSIS. An analysis performed by a
professional engineer, registered in the State of Ohio, in accordance with
standard engineering practices as accepted by FEMA, used to determine flood
elevations and/or floodway boundaries.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC).  Letter of Map Change is an official FEMA
determination, by letter, to amend or revise effective Flood Insurance Rate
Maps, Flood Boundary and Floodway Maps, and Flood Insurance Studies. LOMC's are
broken down into the following categories:
      (1)   Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA). A revision based on technical data
showing that a property was incorrectly included in a designated special flood
hazard area. A LOMA amends the current effective Flood Insurance Rate Map and
establishes that a specific property is not located in a special flood hazard
area.
      (2)   Letter of Map Revision (LOMR). A revision based on technical data
that, usually due to manmade changes, shows changes to flood zones, flood
elevations, floodplain and floodway delineations, and planimetric features. One
common type of LOMR, a LOMR-F, is a determination concerning whether a
structure or parcel has been elevated by fill above the base flood elevation
and is, therefore, excluded from the special flood hazard area.
      (3)   Conditioned Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR). A formal review and
comment by FEMA as to whether a proposed project complies with the minimum
National Flood Insurance Program floodplain management criteria. A CLOMR does
not amend or revise effective Flood Insurance Rate Maps, Flood Boundary and
Floodway Maps, or Flood Insurance Studies.
   LOWEST FLOOR.  The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement) of a structure. This definition excludes an "enclosure below the
lowest floor" which is an unfinished or flood resistant enclosure usable solely
for parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, provided that such enclosure is built in accordance with the
applicable design requirements specified in these regulations for enclosures
below the lowest floor.
   MANUFACTURED HOME.  A structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a "recreational vehicle". For the purposes
of these regulations, a manufactured home includes manufactured homes and
mobile homes as defined in R.C. Chapter 3733.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. As specified in the Ohio Administrative Code 3701-
27-01, a manufactured home park means any tract of land upon which three or
more manufactured homes, used for habitation are parked, either free of charge
or for revenue purposes, and includes any roadway, building, structure,
vehicle, or enclosure used or intended for use as part of the facilities of the
park. A tract of land that is subdivided and the individual lots are not for
rent or rented, but are for sale or sold for the purpose of installation of
manufactured homes on the lots, is not a manufactured home park, even though
three or more manufactured homes are parked thereon, if the roadways are
dedicated to the local government authority.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP).  The NFIP is a federal program
enabling property owners in participating communities to purchase insurance
protection against losses from flooding. This insurance is designed to provide
an insurance alternative to disaster assistance to meet the escalating costs of
repairing damage to buildings and their contents caused by floods.
Participation in the NFIP is based on an agreement between local communities
and the federal government that states if a community will adopt and enforce
floodplain management regulations to reduce future flood risks to all
development in special flood hazard areas, the federal government will make
flood insurance available within the community as a financial protection
against flood loss.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION.  Structures for which the "start of construction"
commenced on or after the initial effective date of the Village of Glendale
Flood Insurance Rate Map, and includes any subsequent improvements to such
structures.
   PERSON.  Includes any individual or group of individuals, corporation,
partnership, association, or any other entity, including state and local
governments and agencies. An agency is further defined in R.C. § 111.15 as any
governmental entity of the state and includes, but is not limited to, any
board, department, division, commission, bureau, society, council, institution,
state college or university, community college district, technical college
district, or state community college. "Agency" does not include the general
assembly, the controlling board, the adjutant general's department, or any
court.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is built on a single chassis, 400
square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection,
designed to be self- propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck,
and designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ARCHITECT.  A person registered to engage in the
practice of architecture under the provisions of R.C. §§ 4703.01 to 4703.19.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER.  A person registered as a professional
engineer under R.C. Chapter 4733.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL SURVEYOR. A person registered as a professional
surveyor under R.C. Chapter 4733.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA.  Also known as "areas of Special Flood Hazard",
it is the land in the floodplain subject to a one percent or greater chance of
flooding in any given year. Special flood hazard areas are designated by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency on Flood Insurance Rate Maps, Flood
Insurance Studies, Flood Boundary and Floodway Maps and Flood Hazard Boundary
Maps as Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A1-30, and A99. Special flood hazard areas may
also refer to areas that are flood prone and designated from other federal,
state or local sources of data including but not limited to historical flood
information reflecting high water marks, previous flood inundation areas, and
flood prone soils associated with a watercourse.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. The date the building permit was issued, provided the
actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement, or other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The
actual start means either the first placement of permanent construction of a
structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation
of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of
excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent
construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and
filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor
does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or
the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the
property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial
improvement, the actual start of construction means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of a building.
   STRUCTURE.  A walled and roofed building, manufactured home, or gas or
liquid storage tank that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.  Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the "start of construction" of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred "substantial
damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include:
      (1)   Any improvement to a structure which is considered "new
construction;"
      (2)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified prior to the application for a development permit by
the local code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
      (3)   Any alteration of a "historic structure," provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
"historic structure."
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the standards of these regulations
consistent with the variance conditions herein.
   VIOLATION.  The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with these regulations.
   154.57(L)   Administration.
      (1)   Designation of the Floodplain Administrator. The Floodplain
Administrator is hereby appointed to administer and implement these regulations
and is referred to herein as the Floodplain Administrator.
      (2)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator. The
duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall include but
are not limited to:
         (a)   Evaluate applications for permits to develop in special flood
hazard areas.
         (b)   Interpret floodplain boundaries and provide flood hazard and
flood protection elevation information.
         (c)   Issue permits to develop in special flood hazard areas when the
provisions of these regulations have been met, or refuse to issue the same in
the event of noncompliance.
         (d)   Inspect buildings and lands to determine whether any violations
of these regulations have been committed.
         (e)   Make and permanently keep all records for public inspection
necessary for the administration of these regulations including Flood Insurance
Rate Maps, Letters of Map Amendment and Revision, records of issuance and
denial of permits to develop in special flood hazard areas, determinations of
whether development is in or out of special flood hazard areas for the purpose
of issuing floodplain development permits, elevation certificates, variances,
and records of enforcement actions taken for violations of these regulations.
         (f)   Enforce the provisions of these regulations.
         (g)   Provide information, testimony, or other evidence as needed
during variance hearings.
         (h)   Coordinate map maintenance activities and FEMA follow-up.
         (i)   Conduct substantial damage determinations to determine whether
existing structures, damaged from any source and in special flood hazard areas
identified by FEMA, must meet the development standards of these regulations.
      (3)   Floodplain development permits. It shall be unlawful for any person
to begin construction or other development activity including but not limited
to filling; grading; construction; alteration, remodeling, or expanding any
structure; or alteration of any watercourse wholly within, partially within or
in contact with any identified special flood hazard area, as established in
division (F) of this section, until a floodplain development permit is obtained
from the Floodplain Administrator. Such floodplain development permit shall
show that the proposed development activity is in conformity with the
provisions of these regulations. No such permit shall be issued by the
Floodplain Administrator until the requirements of these requirements have been
met.
      (4)   Application required. An application for a floodplain development
permit shall be required for all development activities located wholly within,
partially within, or in contact with an identified special flood hazard area.
Such application shall be made by the owner of the property or his or her
authorized agent, herein referred to as the applicant, prior to the actual
commencement of such construction on a form furnished for that purpose. Where
it is unclear whether a development site is in a special flood hazard area, the
Floodplain Administrator may require an application for a floodplain
development permit to determine the development's location. Such applications
shall include, but not be limited to:
         (a)   Site plans drawn to scale showing the nature, location,
dimensions, and topography of the area in question; the location of existing or
proposed structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage facilities, and the
location of the foregoing.
         (b)   Elevation of the existing, natural ground where structures are
proposed.
         (c)   Elevation of the lowest floor, including basement, of all
proposed structures.
         (d)   Such other material and information as may be requested by the
Floodplain Administrator to determine conformance with, and provide enforcement
of these regulations.
         (e)   Technical analyses conducted by the appropriate design
professional registered in the State of Ohio and submitted with an application
for a floodplain development permit when applicable:
            1.   Floodproofing certification for non-residential floodproofed
structure as required in division (M)(5) of this section.
            2.   Certification that fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor
of a structure not meeting the design requirements of division (M)(4)(e) of
this section are designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood force.
            3.   Description of any watercourse alteration or relocation that
the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse will not be diminished, and
maintenance assurances as required in division (M)(9)(c) of this section.
            4.   A hydrologic and hydraulic analysis demonstrating that the
cumulative effect of proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood by more than one foot in special flood hazard areas
where the Federal Emergency Management Agency has provided base flood
elevations but no floodway as required by division (M)(9)(b) of this section.
            5.   A hydrologic and hydraulic engineering analysis showing impact
of any development on flood heights in an identified floodway as required by
division (M)(9)(a) of this section.
            6.   Generation of base flood elevation(s) for subdivision and
large scale developments as required by division (M)(3) of this section.
         (f)   A fee shall be charged by the village for each application as
exhibited in the Floodplain Fee Schedule, attached to Ordinance No. 2003-12,
passed June 2, 2003.
      (5)   Review and approval of a floodplain development permit application.
         (a)   Review.
            1.   After receipt of a complete application, the Floodplain
Administrator shall review the application to ensure that the standards of
these regulations have been met. No floodplain development permit application
shall be reviewed until all information required in division (L)(4) of this
section has been received by the Floodplain Administrator.
            2.   The Floodplain Administrator shall review all floodplain
development permit applications to assure that all necessary permits have been
received from those federal, state or local governmental agencies from which
prior approval is required. The applicant shall be responsible for obtaining
such permits as required including permits issued by the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers under Section 10 of the Rivers and Harbors Act and Section 404 of the
Clean Water Act, and the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency under Section 401
of the Clean Water Act.
         (b)   Approval. Within thirty days after the receipt of a complete
application, the Floodplain Administrator shall either approve or disapprove
the application. If an application is approved, a floodplain development permit
shall be issued. All floodplain development permits shall be conditional upon
the commencement of work within one year. A floodplain development permit shall
expire one year after issuance unless the permitted activity has been
substantially begun and is thereafter pursued to completion.
      (6)   Inspections. The Floodplain Administrator shall make periodic
inspections at appropriate times throughout the period of construction in order
to monitor compliance with permit conditions.
      (7)   Post-construction certifications required. The following as-built
certifications are required after a floodplain development permit has been
issued:
         (a)   For new or substantially improved residential structures, or
nonresidential structures that have been elevated, the applicant shall have a
Federal Emergency Management Agency Elevation Certificate completed by a
registered surveyor to record as-built elevation data. For elevated structures
in Zone A and Zone AO areas without a base flood elevation, the elevation
certificate may be completed by the property owner or owner's representative.
         (b)   For all development activities subject to the standards of
division (L)(10) of this section, a Letter of Map Revision.
      (8)   Revoking a floodplain development permit. A floodplain development
permit shall be revocable, if among other things, the actual development
activity does not conform to the terms of the application and permit granted
thereon. In the event of the revocation of a permit, an appeal may be taken to
the Appeals Board in accordance with division (N) of this section.
      (9)   Exemption from filing a development permit.
         (a)   An application for a floodplain development permit shall not be
required for:
            1.   Maintenance work such as roofing, painting, and basement
sealing, or for small nonstructural development activities (except for filling
and grading) valued at less than $5,000;
            2.   Development activities in an existing or proposed manufactured
home park. Such activities are under the authority of the Ohio Department of
Health and subject to the flood damage reduction provisions of the Ohio
Administrative Code Section 3701;
            3.   Major utility facilities permitted by the Ohio Power Siting
Board under R.C. Chapter 4906;
            4.   Hazardous waste disposal facilities permitted by the Hazardous
Waste Siting Board under R.C. Chapter 3734; or,
            5.   Development activities undertaken by a federal agency and
which are subject to Federal Executive Order 11988 - Floodplain Management.
         (b)   Any proposed action exempt from filing for a floodplain
development permit is also exempt from the standards of these regulations.
      (10)   Map maintenance activities. To meet National Flood Insurance
Program minimum requirements to have flood data reviewed and approved by FEMA,
and to ensure that Glendale flood maps, studies and other data identified in
division (F) of this section accurately represent flooding conditions so
appropriate floodplain management criteria are based on current data, the
following map maintenance activities are identified:
         (a)   Requirement to submit new technical data.
            1.   For all development proposals that impact floodway
delineations or base flood elevations, the community shall ensure that
technical data reflecting such changes be submitted to FEMA within six months
of the date such information becomes available. These development proposals
include:
               a.   Floodway encroachments that increase or decrease base flood
elevation or alter floodway boundaries;
               b.   Fill sites to be used for the placement of proposed
structures where the applicant desires to remove the site from the special
flood hazard area;
               c.   Alteration of watercourses that result in a relocation or
elimination of the special flood hazard area, including the placement of
culverts; and
               d.   Subdivision or large scale development proposals requiring
the establishment of base flood elevations in accordance with division (M)(3)
of this section.
            2.   It is the responsibility of the applicant to have technical
data, required in accordance with this subdivision (L)(10)(a), prepared in a
format required for a Conditional Letter of Map Revision or Letter of Map
Revision, and submitted to FEMA. Submittal and processing fees for these map
revisions shall be the responsibility of the applicant.
            3.   The Floodplain Administrator shall require a Conditional
Letter of Map Revision prior to the issuance of a floodplain development permit
for:
               a.   Proposed floodway encroachments that increase the base
flood elevation; and
               b.   Proposed development which increases the base flood
elevation by more than one foot in areas where FEMA has provided base flood
elevations but no floodway.
            4.   Floodplain development permits issued by the Floodplain
Administrator shall be conditioned upon the applicant obtaining a Letter of Map
Revision from FEMA for any development proposal subject to subdivision (L)(10)
(a)1. above.
         (b)   Right to submit new technical data. The Floodplain Administrator
may request changes to any of the information shown on an effective map that
does not impact floodplain or floodway delineations or base flood elevations,
such as labeling or planimetric details. Such a submission shall include
appropriate supporting documentation made in writing by the Mayor of the
village, and may be submitted at any time.
         (c)   Annexation/detachment. Upon occurrence, the Floodplain
Administrator shall notify FEMA in writing whenever the boundaries of the
village have been modified by annexation or the community has assumed authority
over an area, or no longer has authority to adopt and enforce floodplain
management regulations for a particular area. In order that the Glendale Flood
Insurance Rate Map accurately represent the village boundaries, include within
such notification a copy of a map of the village suitable for reproduction,
clearly showing the new corporate limits or the new area for which the village
has assumed or relinquished floodplain management regulatory authority.
      (11)   Data use and flood map interpretation. The following guidelines
shall apply to the use and interpretation of maps and other data showing areas
of special flood hazard:
         (a)   In areas where FEMA has not identified special flood hazard
areas, or in FEMA identified special flood hazard areas where base flood
elevation and floodway data have not been identified, the Floodplain
Administrator shall review and reasonably utilize any other flood hazard data
available from a federal, state, or other source.
         (b)   Base flood elevations and floodway boundaries produced on FEMA
flood maps and studies shall take precedence over base flood elevations and
floodway boundaries by any other source that reflect a reduced floodway width
and/or lower base flood elevations. Other sources of data, showing increased
base flood elevations and/or larger floodway areas than are shown on FEMA flood
maps and studies, shall be reasonably used by the Floodplain Administrator.
         (c)   When Preliminary Flood Insurance Rate Maps and/or Flood
Insurance Study have been provided by FEMA:
            1.   Upon the issuance of a Letter of Final Determination by the
FEMA, the preliminary flood hazard data shall be used and replace all
previously existing flood hazard data provided from FEMA for the purposes of
administering these regulations.
            2.   Prior to the issuance of a Letter of Final Determination by
FEMA, the use of preliminary flood hazard data shall only be required where no
base flood elevations and/or floodway areas exist or where the preliminary base
flood elevations or floodway area exceed the base flood elevations and/or
floodway widths in existing flood hazard data provided from FEMA. Such
preliminary data may be subject to change and/or appeal to FEMA.
         (d)   The Floodplain Administrator shall make interpretations, where
needed, as to the exact location of the flood boundaries and areas of special
flood hazard. A person contesting the determination of the location of the
boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation
as provided in division (N) of this section.
         (e)   Where a map boundary showing an area of special flood hazard and
field elevations disagree, the base flood elevations or flood protection
elevations (as found on an elevation profile, floodway data table, established
high water marks, etc.) shall prevail.
      (12)   Substantial damage determinations.
         (a)   Damages to structures may result from a variety of causes
including tornado, wind, heavy snow, flood, fire, etc. After such a damage
event, the Floodplain Administrator shall:
            1.   Determine whether damaged structures are located in special
flood hazard areas;
            2.   Conduct substantial damage determinations for damaged
structures located in special flood hazard areas; and
            3.   Make reasonable attempt to notify owners of substantially
damaged structures of the need to obtain a floodplain development permit prior
to repair, rehabilitation, or reconstruction.
         (b)   Additionally, the Floodplain Administrator may implement other
measures to assist with the substantial damage determination and subsequent
repair process. These measures include issuing press releases, public service
announcements, and other public information materials related to the floodplain
development permits and repair of damaged structures; coordinating with other
federal, state, and local agencies to assist with substantial damage
determinations; providing owners of damaged structures materials and other
information related to the proper repair of damaged structures in special flood
hazard areas; and assist owners of substantially damaged structures with
increased cost of compliance insurance claims.
   154.57(M)   Use and development standards for flood hazard reduction.  The
following use and development standards apply to development wholly within,
partially within, or in contact with any special flood hazard area as
established in divisions (F) or (L)(11)(a) of this section.
      (1)   Use regulations.
         (a)   Permitted uses. All uses not otherwise prohibited in this
section or any other applicable land use regulation adopted by the village are
allowed, provided they meet the provisions of these regulations.
         (b)   Prohibited uses.
            1.   Private water supply systems in all special flood hazard areas
identified by FEMA, permitted under R.C. Chapter 3701; and,
            2.   Infectious waste treatment facilities in all special flood
hazard areas, permitted under R.C. Chapter 3734.
      (2)   Water and wastewater systems. The following standards apply to all
water supply, sanitary sewerage and waste disposal systems not otherwise
regulated by the Ohio Revised Code:
         (a)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed
to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems;
         (b)   New and replacement sanitary sewerage systems shall be designed
to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharge from the systems into flood waters; and,
         (c)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid
impairment to or contamination from them during flooding.
      (3)   Subdivisions and large developments.
         (a)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage and are subject to all applicable standards in these
regulations;
         (b)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and
constructed to minimize flood damage;
         (c)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided
to reduce exposure to flood damage;
         (d)   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation
data are not available, the applicant shall provide a hydrologic and hydraulic
engineering analysis that generates base flood elevations for all subdivision
proposals and other proposed developments containing at least 50 lots or 5
acres, whichever is less; and
         (e)   The applicant shall meet the requirement to submit technical
data to FEMA in division (L)(10)(a) of this section when a hydrologic and
hydraulic analysis is completed that generates base flood elevations as
required by subdivision (d) above.
      (4)   Residential structures.
         (a)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored
to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure resulting
from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
Where a structure, including its foundation members, is elevated on fill to or
above the base flood elevation, the requirements for anchoring and construction
materials resistant to flood damage are satisfied.
         (b)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with methods and materials resistant to flood damage.
         (c)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
elevated so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding.
         (d)   New construction and substantial improvement of any residential
structure, including manufactured homes, shall have the lowest floor, including
basement, elevated to or above the flood protection elevation. In Zone AO areas
with no elevations specified, the structure shall have the lowest floor,
including basement, elevated at least two feet above the highest adjacent
natural grade.
         (e)   New construction and substantial improvements, including
manufactured homes, that do not have basements and that are elevated to the
flood protection elevation using pilings, columns, posts, or solid foundation
perimeter walls with openings sufficient to allow unimpeded movement of flood
waters may have an enclosure below the lowest floor provided the enclosure
meets the following standards:
            1.   Be used only for the parking of vehicles, building access, or
storage;
            2.   Be designed and certified by a registered professional
engineer or architect to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on
exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of flood waters: or
            3.   Have a minimum of two openings on different walls having a
total net area not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed
area, and the bottom of all such openings being no higher than one foot above
grade. The openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other coverings
or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of flood
waters.
         (f)   Manufactured homes shall be affixed to a permanent foundation
and anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the
structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the
effects of buoyancy. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to,
use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors.
         (g)   Repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon a
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure's continued designation as a historic structure and is the minimum
necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the structure, shall
be exempt from the development standards of this division (M)(4).
         (h)   In AO Zones, new construction and substantial improvement shall
have adequate drainage paths around structures on slopes to guide flood waters
around and away from the structure.
      (5)   Nonresidential structures.
         (a)   New construction and substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial or other nonresidential structure shall meet the requirements of
division (M)(4)(a) through (c), (e) and (g) of this section.
         (b)   New construction and substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial or other nonresidential structure shall either have the lowest
floor, including basement, elevated to or above the level of the flood
protection elevation; or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, shall meet all of the following standards:
            1.   Be dry floodproofed so that the structure is watertight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water to the level of the
flood protection elevation;
            2.   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic
and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and,
            3.   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect, through the use of a Federal Emergency Management Floodproofing
Certificate, that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with
subdivision 1. and 2. above.
         (c)   In Zone AO areas with no elevations specified, the structure
shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated at least two feet
above the highest adjacent natural grade.
      (6)   Accessory structures. Relief to the elevation or dry floodproofing
standards may be granted for accessory structures containing no more than 600
square feet. Such structures must meet the following standards:
         (a)   They shall not be used for human habitation;
         (b)   They shall be constructed of flood resistant materials;
         (c)   They shall be constructed and placed on the lot to offer the
minimum resistance to the flow of flood waters;
         (d)   They shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation;
         (e)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment
shall be elevated or floodproofed to or above the level of the flood protection
elevation; and,
         (f)   They shall meet the opening requirements of division (M)(4)(e)3.
of this section.
      (7)   Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicles must meet at least one
of the following standards:
         (a)   They shall not be located on sites in special flood hazard areas
for more than 180 days;
         (b)   They must be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or,
         (c)   They must meet all standards of division (M)(4) of this section.
      (8)   Above ground gas or liquid storage tanks. All above ground gas or
liquid storage tanks shall be anchored to prevent flotation or lateral movement
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads.
      (9)   Assurance of flood carrying capacity. Pursuant to the purpose and
methods of reducing flood damage stated an these regulations, the following
additional standards are adopted to assure that the reduction of the flood
carrying capacity of watercourses is minimized:
         (a)   Development in floodways.
            1.   In floodway areas, development shall cause no increase in
flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge. Prior to
issuance of a floodplain development permit, the applicant must submit a
hydrologic and hydraulic analysis, conducted by a registered professional
engineer, demonstrating that the proposed development would not result in any
increase in the base flood elevation; or
            2.   Development in floodway areas causing increases in the base
flood elevation may be permitted provided all of the following are completed by
the applicant:
               a.   Meet the requirements to submit technical data in division
(L)(10)(a) of this section;
               b.   An evaluation of alternatives which would not result in
increased base flood elevations and an explanation why these alternatives are
not feasible;
               c.   Certification that no structures are located in areas which
would be impacted by the increased base flood elevation;
               d.   Documentation of individual legal notices to all impacted
property owners within and outside the community, explaining the impact of the
proposed action on their property; and,
               e.   Concurrence of the Mayor and the Chief Executive Officer of
any other communities impacted by the proposed actions.
         (b)   Development in riverine areas with base flood elevations but no
floodways.
            1.   In riverine special flood hazard areas identified by FEMA
where base flood elevation data are provided but no floodways have been
designated, the cumulative effect of any proposed development, when combined
with all other existing and anticipated development, shall not increase the
base flood elevation more than one foot at any point. Prior to issuance of a
floodplain development permit, the applicant must submit a hydrologic and
hydraulic analysis, conducted by a registered professional engineer,
demonstrating that this standard has been met; or,
            2.   Development in riverine special flood hazard areas identified
by FEMA where base flood elevation data are provided but no floodways have been
designated causing more than one foot increase in the base flood elevation may
be permitted provided all of the following are completed by the applicant:
               a.   An evaluation of alternatives which would result in an
increase of one foot or less of the base flood elevation and an explanation why
these alternatives are not feasible; and,
               b.   Division (M)(9)(a)1.a. and c. through e. above.
         (c)   Alterations of a watercourse. For the purpose of these
regulations, a watercourse is altered when any change occurs within its banks.
The extent of the banks shall be established by a field determination of the
"bankfull stage." The field determination of "bankfull stage" shall be based on
methods presented in Chapter 7 of the USDA Forest Service General Technical
Report RM-245, Stream Channel Reference Sites: An Illustrated Guide to Field
Technique or other applicable publication available from a federal, state, or
other authoritative source. For all proposed developments that alter a
watercourse, the following standards apply:
            1.   The bankfull flood carrying capacity of the altered or
relocated portion of the watercourse shall not be diminished. Prior to the
issuance of a floodplain development permit, the applicant must submit a
description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered or relocated
as a result of the proposed development, and certification by a registered
professional engineer that the bankfull flood carrying capacity of the
watercourse will not be diminished.
            2.   Adjacent communities, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and
the Ohio Department of Natural Resources, Division of Water, must be notified
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse. Evidence of such
notification must be submitted to the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
            3.   The applicant shall be responsible for providing the necessary
maintenance for the altered or relocated portion of said watercourse so that
the flood carrying capacity will not be diminished. The Floodplain
Administrator may require the permit holder to enter into an agreement with the
village specifying the maintenance responsibilities. If an agreement is
required, it shall be made a condition of the floodplain development permit.
            4.   The applicant shall meet the requirements to submit technical
data in division (L)(10)(a)1.c. of this section when an alteration of a
watercourse results in the relocation or elimination of the special flood
hazard area, including the placement of culverts.
   154.57(N)   Appeals and variances.
      (1)   Powers and duties.
         (a)   The Glendale Appeals Board shall hear and decide appeals where
it is alleged there is an error in any order, requirement, decision or
determination made by the Floodplain Administrator in the administration or
enforcement of these regulations.
         (b)   Authorize variances in accordance with division (N)(4) of these
regulations.
      (2)   Appeals. Any person affected by any notice and order, or other
official action of the Floodplain Administrator may request and shall be
granted a hearing on the matter before the Appeals Board provided that such
person shall file, within ten days of the date of such notice and order, or
other official action, a brief statement of the grounds for such hearing or for
the mitigation of any item appearing on any order of the Floodplain
Administrator's decision. Such appeal shall be in writing, signed by the
applicant, and be filed with the Clerk Treasurer of the village. Appeal
procedures, timelines and process will be followed as described in §
154.65.
      (3)   Variances. Any person believing that the use and development
standards of these regulations would result in unnecessary hardship may file an
application for a variance. The Appeals Board shall have the power to
authorize, in specific cases, such variances from the standards of these
regulations, not inconsistent with federal regulations, as will not be contrary
the public interest where, owning to special conditions of the lot or parcel, a
literal enforcement of the provisions of these regulations would result in
unnecessary hardship.
         (a)   Application for a variance.
            1.   Any owner, or agent thereof, of property for which a variance
is sought shall make an application for a variance by filing it with the
Floodplain Administrator, who upon receipt of the variance shall transmit it to
the Appeals Board.
            2.   Such application at a minimum shall contain the following
information: name, address, and telephone number of the applicant; legal
description of the property; parcel map; description of the existing use;
description of the proposed use; location of the floodplain; description of the
variance sought; and reason for the variance request.
         (b)   Notice for public hearing. The Appeals Board shall schedule and
hold a public hearing within 30 days after the receipt of an application for a
variance from the Floodplain Administrator. Prior to the hearing, a notice of
such hearing shall be given in one or more newspapers of general circulation in
the community at least ten days before the date of the hearing.
         (c)   Public hearing. At such hearing the applicant shall present such
statements and evidence as the Appeals Board requires. In considering such
variance applications, the Appeals Board shall consider and make findings of
fact on all evaluations, all relevant factors, standards specified in other
sections of these regulations and the following factors:
            1.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others.
            2.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage.
            3.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents
to flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner.
            4.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed
facility to the community.
            5.   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use
which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage.
            6.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable.
            7.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development.
            8.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for that area.
            9.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles.
            10.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site.
            11.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
         (d)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
            1.   A showing of good and sufficient cause.
            2.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship due to the physical characteristics of the
property. Increased cost or inconvenience of meeting the requirements of these
regulations do not constitute an exceptional hardship to the applicant.
            3.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not
result in increased flood heights beyond that which is allowed in these
regulations; additional threats to public safety; extraordinary public expense,
nuisances, fraud on or victimization of the public, or conflict with existing
local laws.
            4.   A determination that the structure or other development is
protected by methods to minimize flood damages.
            5.   A determination that the variance is the minimum necessary,
considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
            6.   Upon consideration of the above factors and the purposes of
these regulations, the Appeals Board may attach such conditions to the granting
of variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of these
regulations.
         (e)   Other conditions for variances.
            1.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway
if any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
            2.   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood level, providing items in division (M)(3)(c)1. to 11.
above have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond one-half
acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.
            3.   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given
written notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with a lowest
floor elevation below the base flood elevation and the cost of flood insurance
will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest
floor elevation.
      (4)   Procedure at hearings.
         (a)   All testimony shall be given under oath.
         (b)   A complete record of the proceedings shall be kept, except
confidential deliberations of the Board, but including all documents presented
and a verbatim record of the testimony of all witnesses.
         (c)   The applicant shall proceed first to present evidence and
testimony in support of the appeal or variance.
         (d)   The administrator may present evidence or testimony in
opposition to the appeal or variance.
         (e)   All witnesses shall be subject to cross-examination by the
adverse party or their counsel.
         (f)   Evidence that is not admitted may be proffered and shall become
part of the record for appeal.
         (g)   The Board shall issue subpoenas upon written request for the
attendance of witnesses. A reasonable deposit to cover the cost of issuance and
service shall be collected in advance.
         (h)   The Board shall prepare conclusions of fact supporting its
decision. The decision may be announced at the conclusion of the hearing and
thereafter issued in writing or the decision may be issued in writing within a
reasonable time after the hearing.
      (5)   Appeal to the court. Those aggrieved by the decision of the Appeals
Board may appeal such decision to the Hamilton County Court of Common Pleas, as
provided in R.C. Chapter 2506.
   154.57(O)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Compliance required.
         (a)   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, erected,
constructed, reconstructed, repaired, extended, converted, enlarged or altered
without full compliance with the terms of these regulations and all other
applicable regulations which apply to uses within the jurisdiction of these
regulations, unless specifically exempted from filing for a development permit
as stated in division (L)(9) of this section.
         (b)   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit shall be a
violation of these regulations and shall be punishable in accordance with
division (O)(3) of this section.
         (c)   Floodplain development permits issued on the basis of plans and
applications approved by the Floodplain Administrator authorize only the use,
and arrangement, set forth in such approved plans and applications or
amendments thereto. Use, arrangement, or construction contrary to that
authorized shall be deemed a violation of these regulations and punishable in
accordance with division (O)(3) of this section.
      (2)   Notice of violation. Whenever the Floodplain Administrator
determines that there has been a violation of any provision of these
regulations, he or she shall give notice of such violation to the person
responsible therefore and order compliance with these regulations as
hereinafter provided. Such notice and order shall:
         (a)   Be put in writing on an appropriate form;
         (b)   Include a list of violations, referring to the section or
sections of these regulations that have been violated, and order remedial
action which, if taken, will effect compliance with the provisions of these
regulations;
         (c)   Specify a reasonable time for performance;
         (d)   Advise the owner, operator, or occupant of the right to appeal;
or,
         (e)   Be served on the owner, occupant, or agent in person. However,
this notice and order shall be deemed to be properly served upon the owner,
occupant, or agent if a copy thereof is sent by registered or certified mail to
the person's last known mailing address, residence, or place of business, and/
or a copy is posted in a conspicuous place in or on the dwelling affected.
      (3)   Penalties. Whoever violates any provisions and requirements of this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a first offense with escalation
penalty provisions as described in
§ 154.99. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the village from taking such
other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. The
village shall prosecute any violation of these regulations in accordance with
the penalties stated herein and in
§ 154.99.
(Ord. 2003-12, passed 6-2-03; Am. Ord. 2004-17, passed 5-3-04)
§ 154.58 FACILITIES FOR PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICES.
   (A)   Purpose. These regulations are established to provide for the
construction and use of wireless telecommunication facilities in the village.
The regulations allow wireless telecommunication facilities as a permitted use,
conditional use, or accessory use depending upon the specific land areas of the
village in which, and circumstances under which, they are proposed to be
located. The purpose of these regulations is to balance the competing interests
created by the Federal Telecommunications Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-104,
codified at 47 U.S.C. §§ 151 et seq.) and the interests of the village in
regulating wireless telecommunication facilities for the following reasons:
      (1)   To provide for orderly development within the village;
      (2)   To protect property values;
      (3)   To maintain the aesthetic appearance of the village, including, but
not limited to, its National Historic Landmark status, its unique residential
character, unobstructed open spaces and attractive neighborhood commercial
area;
      (4)   To protect residential properties, historical areas, parks, open
spaces and the commercial areas which are characteristic of the village from
the adverse effects of towers and related facilities;
      (5)   To promote collocation of wireless telecommunications facilities in
order to decrease the total number of towers in the village;
      (6)   To provide for and protect the health, safety and general welfare
of the residents and visitors of the village; and
      (7)   To maintain, where possible, the integrity of the existing zoning
regulations contained in the code.
      (8)   The regulations establish a hierarchy of acceptable land areas for
the location of wireless telecommunication facilities through the establishment
of such use as a permitted use on certain properties, as a conditional use in
certain zoning districts, or as a permitted accessory use for erection of
antennas only, which determination is dependent upon the location and
characteristics of such land areas.
   (B)   Definitions.
      COLLOCATION. The use of a wireless telecommunications facility by more
than one wireless telecommunications provider.
      LATTICE TOWER. A support structure constructed of vertical metal struts
and cross braces forming a triangular or square structure which tapers from the
foundation.
      MONOPOLE. A support structure constructed of a single, self-supporting
hollow metal tube securely anchored to a foundation.
      PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICES. Commercial mobile services, unlicensed
wireless services, and common carrier wireless exchange access services as
defined by federal law at 47 U.S.C. § 332(c)(7).
      TECHNICALLY SUITABLE. The location of a wireless telecommunication
antenna(s) reasonably serves the purpose for which it is intended within the
band width of frequencies for which the owner or operator of the antenna(s) has
been licensed by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to operate without
a significant loss of communication capability within developed areas of the
village.
      TELECOMMUNICATION(S). The technology that enables information to be
exchanged through the transmission of voice, video, or data signals by means of
electrical or magnetic systems and includes the term "Personal Wireless
Services."
      WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION ANTENNA or ANTENNA ARRAY. The physical device
or an array of elements constituting a physical device through which
electromagnetic, wireless telecommunications signals authorized by the FCC are
transmitted or received. Antennas used by amateur radio operators are excluded
from this definition.
      WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT SHELTER or EQUIPMENT SHELTER. The
structure or cabinet in which the electronic receiving and relay equipment for
a wireless telecommunications facility is housed.
      WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITY or FACILITY. A facility consisting of
the equipment and structures involved in receiving telecommunications or radio
signals from a mobile radio communications source and transmitting those
signals to a central switching computer which connects the mobile unit with the
land-based telephone lines for the provision of "Personal Wireless Services."
      WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION TOWER or TOWER. A structure, other than a
building, that elevates the wireless telecommunication antenna and may include
accessory transmission and receiving equipment.
   (C)   Applicability. No person shall construct, erect, maintain, extend or
remove a wireless telecommunication facility in the Village without compliance
with the provisions of this Section.
   (D)   Use Regulations.
      (1)   Prohibited use. Wireless telecommunication towers are expressly
prohibited within the National Historic Landmark District, within any
designated local historic district, within any Historic District "H" overlay
district, and on any property containing a national historic landmark or
designated local landmark.
      (2)   Permitted use. A wireless telecommunication tower shall be
permitted in any interstate highway right-of-way pursuant to the provisions as
set forth in this section, where applicable.
      (3)   Conditionally permitted use – towers. Unless prohibited under §
154.58(D)(1) above, a wireless telecommunication tower may be permitted as a
conditional use in any residential district. Such use may be approved under the
procedure set forth in §
154.62, provided the applicant demonstrates compliance with the requirements of
this section and all other applicable provisions of the zoning code, and of all
applicable federal and state statutes and regulations.
      (4)   Conditionally permitted use – antennas.
         (a)   A wireless telecommunication antenna may be permitted as a
conditional use in any district. Such use may be approved under the procedure
set forth in §
154.62, provided the applicant demonstrates compliance with the requirements of
this section and all other applicable provisions of the zoning code, and of all
applicable federal and state statutes and regulations. Such conditionally
permitted antennas may be approved for installation on existing buildings and
structures that are four or more stories above grade provided that no more than
two antennas or antenna arrays shall be installed on any building or structure,
the antennas or antenna arrays are not visible and do not extend above the
highest point of the roof, and all electronic and relay equipment for the
antenna are housed within the existing building or structure or in an equipment
shelter that is screened so as not to be visible from neighboring properties,
public rights-of-way, and other public areas;
         (b)   To the extent the remaining standards of this section are
applicable to the installation of a wireless telecommunication antenna on an
existing building or structure, such standards shall govern the installation.
   (E)   Minimum Standards for Construction Erection, Maintenance and Removal.
Except as otherwise provided in this Section, all wireless telecommunication
towers and their related facilities shall comply with the following standards:
      (1)   Spacing. There shall be a separation of a minimum of 1/4-mile
between wireless telecommunication towers, including a separation of at least
1/4-mile from any such tower located outside the village's corporate limits at
the time an application is made for a tower to be located within the village.
      (2)   Height.
         (a)   The maximum height of a free-standing wireless telecommunication
tower, including its antenna and all appurtenances, shall be 150 feet above the
approved grade.
         (b)   The height of any equipment shelter shall not exceed 15 feet
from the approved grade.
      (3)   Setbacks.
         (a)   Except as provided in division (b) below, all wireless
telecommunication towers shall be set back from property lines a distance of at
least 300 feet from other residentially zoned property. Otherwise, the tower
and related facilities shall comply with the required setbacks for the zoning
district in which they are located. In no event shall a wireless
telecommunication tower or facility be located in front of the principal
building on the lot, if any.
         (b)   All wireless telecommunication towers located on an interstate
highway right-of-way shall be setback from a dwelling unit a distance of 110%
of the height of the tower.
      (4)   Lot Size. The minimum lot size for new wireless telecommunication
towers shall be one acre.
      (5)   Design.
         (a)   All wireless telecommunication towers shall be of a monopole
design, as opposed to a lattice design. No guy wired towers shall be permitted.
         (b)   All wireless telecommunication facilities shall be subject to
review the procedure set forth in §
154.62 for the purpose of enhancing the compatibility of the facilities with
their surroundings. The color of a wireless telecommunication tower including
any antenna(s) attached thereon shall be as determined by the Village Council
upon recommendation of the Glendale Planning Historic Preservation Commission
(GPHPC) for the purpose of minimizing its visibility, unless otherwise required
by the FCC or the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA).
         (c)   The wireless telecommunication antenna(s) shall be of a panel
design and mounted flush to the tower, building or structure which elevates the
antenna(s), unless the applicant can demonstrate that it is not feasible from
an engineering standpoint to use such antenna(s) or to mount them in such a
fashion.
      (6)   Landscaping. A landscaped buffer area of not less than fifteen feet
in depth shall be placed between the wireless telecommunication facilities and
the public rights-of-way and any adjacent properties from which a direct view
can be had of the facilities, other than the tower itself. The fifteen 15-foot
landscaped buffer shall have a tight screen fence of hardy evergreen shrubbery
not less than six feet in height. The landscaping shall be continuously
maintained and promptly restored, if necessary.
      (7)   Engineering report. A report shall be prepared and submitted by a
qualified and licensed professional engineer and shall provide proof of
compliance with all applicable Federal, State, County, and Village regulations.
The report shall include a detailed description of the wireless
telecommunication tower, antenna(s), equipment shelter, and appurtenances, and
shall certify that radio frequency emissions are in compliance with the
regulations of the FCC and shall certify that the use of the facilities will
not adversely affect or interfere with radio transmissions for public safety
purposes. The Village may, at its option, retain a qualified outside consultant
to review technical information provided by the applicant, and the costs, fees
and expenses of such an outside consultant shall be borne wholly by the
applicant.
      (8)   SHPO materials. All materials submitted to the State Historic
Preservation Office (SHPO) for review pursuant to Section 106 of the National
Historic Preservation Act of 1966, shall be submitted by the applicant prior to
approval by the SHPO.
      (9)   Photosimulations. An applicant for a permit to construct or
otherwise install personal wireless telecommunications facilities must submit
photosimulations of the proposed facility as it would be seen from residential
areas, public rights-of-way, public parks, and other sites deemed appropriate
by the GPHPC.
      (10)   Collocation.
         (a)   With the application, the applicant shall list the location of
every tower, building or structure (including those outside the corporate
boundaries of the Village) that could support the proposed antenna(s) or arrays
where it would be technically suitable to locate so as to allow it to serve its
intended function. The applicant must demonstrate that a technically suitable
location is not reasonably available on an existing tower, building or
structure. If another existing tower, building or structure is technically
suitable, the applicant must demonstrate that it has requested to collocate on
the existing tower, building or structure and the collocation request was
rejected by the owner of the tower, building or structure. In all
circumstances, owners of existing towers, buildings or structures shall
promptly respond in writing to requests for collocation, but in no event shall
they respond more than thirty (30) days from the date of receipt of a written
request for collocation. If another tower, building or structure is technically
suitable, the applicant must further show that it has offered to allow the
owner of that other tower, building or structure to collocate an antenna(s) on
another tower, building or structure which is owned or controlled by the
applicant, if any, on reasonably reciprocal terms and the offer was not
accepted; and
         (b)   All applicants for construction or erection of wireless
telecommunication towers shall be required to construct on a base tower
structure and structure foundation that is designed to be buildable up to 150
feet above grade. Such structure shall be designed to have sufficient
structural loading capacity to accommodate at least three antenna or antenna
array platforms of equal loading capacity for three separate providers of
service to be located on the structure when constructed to the maximum
allowable height. The wireless telecommunication facility shall also be
designed to show that the applicant has enough space on its site plan for an
equipment. shelter large enough to accommodate at least three separate users of
the facility. If an equipment shelter is initially constructed to accommodate
only one user, space shall be reserved on site for equipment shelter expansions
to accommodate up to at least three separate users. Agreement to the provisions
of this subsection must be included in the applicant's lease with the
landowner, if different from the owner/user of the tower. Written documentation
must be presented to the Village Administrator evidencing that the landowner of
the property on which the tower is to be located has agreed to the terms of
this subsection. As an additional condition of issuing a conditional use
permit, the owner/user shall respond in writing to any inquiries regarding
collocation of another user of the facility within 30 days after receipt of a
written inquiry. Copies of all written requests to collocate and all written
responses shall be sent to the Village Administrator.
      (11)   Maintenance.
         (a)   The applicant shall submit a plan documenting how the wireless
telecommunication facility will be maintained on the site in an ongoing manner
that meets industry standards.
         (b)   On each biennial anniversary of the issuance of the use permit
for a wireless telecommunication facility, or not more than ninety (90) days
prior thereto, the owner/user shall submit to the village a report prepared by
a licensed professional engineer which shall verify continued compliance of the
facility with all governmental requirements including, but not limited to, the
structural integrity and stability of any towers or antennas, electrical safety
standards, and auxiliary power source safety standards.
      (12)   Lighting.
         (a)   All wireless telecommunication antennas or towers 100 feet in
height or greater shall be illuminated for aviation purposes by the most
visually nonobtrusive "state-of-the-art" lighting available, unless otherwise
required by the FAA. Lighting fixtures or signs shall not be attached to the
antenna or tower.
         (b)   Unless required by law, all antennas or towers less than 100
feet in height shall not be illuminated and lighting fixtures or signs shall
not be attached to the antenna or tower. If lighting is required by FAA
regulations, the most visually nonobtrusive "state-of-the-art" lighting
available shall be used, unless otherwise required by the FAA.
      (13)   Security.
         (a)   A security fence not less than six feet above grade but not
greater than eight feet above grade in height shall fully enclose those
portions of the wireless telecommunication facility which come in contact with
the ground. The fence shall be construed such that at least fifty percent (50%)
of any linear foot of such fence is open for the through passage of light and
air. Gates shall be locked at all times.
         (b)   A permanent warning sign with a minimum size of one square foot
and a maximum size of three square feet shall be posted on the site, containing
an emergency telephone number of the owner/user of each set of antennas on the
site. The owner/user shall also provide the Village Administrator, the Fire
Department and the Police Department, with the names, addresses, and telephone
numbers of persons to contact in the event of an emergency.
      (14)   Advertising Prohibited. No advertising sign or device shall be
permitted anywhere on a wireless telecommunication facility site.
      (15)   Outdoor Storage. There shall be no outdoor storage of equipment or
other items on the wireless telecommunication facility site except during the
facility construction period and to supply temporary emergency power to the
facility only during a power outage.
      (16)   Access to facility. The access driveway to the wireless
telecommunication facility shall, whenever feasible, be provided along with
circulation driveways of the existing use on the lot, if any. Where use of an
existing driveway is not feasible, the driveway to the facility shall be a
maximum of 18 feet in width and shall be set back a minimum of 20 feet from the
nearest side or rear lot line. This driveway shall meet the load limitations
for fire equipment. If the access road to the facility is more than 1,500 feet
from the public right-of-way, a turnaround shall be provided for emergency
vehicles at the site. There shall be a maximum of one off-street parking space
on the facility site.
      (17)   Accessory equipment shelter.
         (a)   The maximum cumulative total size of all equipment shelters
accessory to a wireless telecommunication tower or antenna on a lot shall be
750 square feet and their maximum height shall not exceed 15 feet above the
approved grade at the site for an equipment shelter with a pitched roof and a
maximum height of ten feet above the approved grade at the site for an
equipment shelter with a flat roof. Only one equipment shelter, or the
configuration of more than one equipment shelter constructed to appear that
there is only one equipment shelter, shall be permitted on a lot. The roof and
facade of the equipment shelter shall be compatible with architectural design
and materials with the principal building on the lot, if any, and shall
otherwise be comparable to existing buildings within the village and shall not
attempt to introduce an architectural style not found in the village and/or a
style which would be incompatible with the historical and aesthetic development
of the village.
         (b)   Where it is technically feasible and reasonably practical, an
existing building or structure on a lot shall be used to shelter the equipment
associated with a wireless telecommunication facility.
      (18)   Utilities to be underground. All utility lines from the utility
source to the wireless telecommunication facility shall be underground.
      (19)   Time limit for commencement and completion. After issuance of a
building permit to construct a wireless telecommunication facility, the
applicant shall commence construction within six months and shall complete
construction within one year or the permit shall expire.
      (20)   Abandonment and removal of facilities.
         (a)   If at any time the use of the wireless telecommunication
facility is discontinued for 180 consecutive days, the facility shall be deemed
abandoned. The Village Administrator shall notify the owner/user in writing and
advise that the facility must be reactivated within 90 days, or it must be
dismantled and removed from the site and the site restored to a landscaped
condition within that same 90 day period, all at the cost of the owner/user.
The owner/user of the wireless telecommunication facility shall, on no less
than an annual basis from the date of issuance of the use permit, file a
declaration with the Village Administrator as to the continuing operation of
each of its facilities within the village.
         (b)   The applicant for a wireless telecommunication tower and/or the
property owner shall be required as a condition of issuance of a building
permit to post a cash or surety bond of not less than $75,000 to assure the
faithful performance of the terms and conditions of this section and of any
permit issued pursuant to this section. The applicant for a wireless
telecommunication antennas and/or the property owner shall be required as a
condition of issuance of a building permit to post a cash or surety bond of not
less than $25,000 to assure the faithful performance of the terms and
conditions of this ordinance and of any permit issued pursuant to this section.
The full amount of the bond shall remain in full force and effect throughout
the term of the permit and/or until any necessary work is completed to restore
the site to a condition comparable to that which existed prior to the issuance
of the original permit.
         (c)   If an access drive which is separate from an existing access
drive on the property is required to be constructed for a wireless
telecommunication facility, the owner/operator of the facility shall also be
required as a condition of issuance of a building permit to post a cash or
surety bond of not less than $30.00 per linear foot of access drive. The bond
(s) shall insure that an unused, abandoned, obsolete or destroyed wireless
telecommunication facility and/or access drive shall be removed within 180 days
of cessation of use or abandonment. Any successor-in-interest or assignee of
the applicant shall be required to additionally execute such bond, as
principal, to insure that the bond will be in place during the period of time
that the successor-in-interest or assignee occupies or operates the facility.
      (21)   Fees.
         (a)   The non-refundable zoning application fee for a new tower is
$5,000. The non-refundable zoning application fee for new telecommunication
antennas not located on a new tower is $2,500. The application fee for a
building permit shall be as established by separate ordinance.
         (b)   If the village, at its option, retains a qualified outside
consultant to review technical information provided by the applicant, the
applicant shall make an initial deposit with the village of $8,500 to reimburse
the village for all anticipated reasonable costs of consultants and expert
evaluation and consultation to the village. The village will maintain a
separate escrow account for all such funds. The village's consultants/experts
shall invoice the village for the services in reviewing the application. If at
any time during the process this escrow account has a balance less than $2,500,
the applicant shall immediately, upon notification by the village, replenish
said escrow account so that it has a balance of at least $5,000. Such
additional escrow funds shall be deposited with the Village before any further
action or consideration is taken on the application. In the event that the
amount held in escrow by the village is more than the amount of the actual
invoicing at the conclusion of the project, the remaining balance shall be
promptly refunded to the applicant.
   (F)   Exemption of certain village property. Notwithstanding the provisions
of this section, a wireless telecommunication facility may be permitted on any
property owned or controlled by the village and used for public services and
shall be constructed, erected, maintained, extended and removed under such
conditions, standards and regulations as required by Village Council.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 6-5-06)
§ 154.59 SIGNS.
   (A)   Intent/purpose. The purpose of this section is to promote and protect
the public health, convenience, comfort, prosperity, general welfare, and
safety by encouraging safe and effective placement of signs which are visible
from outdoors within the village. It is the intent of this section to provide
businesses in the village with equitable sign standards in accord with fair
competition and aesthetic standards acceptable to the community, to provide the
public with a safe and effective means of conveying information and ideas as
well as locating businesses, services and points of interest within the
village, and to provide for a safe vehicular and pedestrian traffic
environment. This section is based on the premise that signs, if not regulated,
can become a nuisance to adjacent properties or the community in general, can
depreciate the value of other properties within the community, and can create
distractions and obstructions that may contribute to traffic accidents. In this
section, the village intends to reduce and eliminate whenever possible these
adverse effects of signs through objective, reasonable, content-neutral
regulations as to the type, size, and location of signs while maintaining and
preserving individual rights to commercial and noncommercial forms of
expression.
   (B)   Severability. This section must be interpreted in a manner consistent
with the First Amendment guarantee of free speech. If any provision of this
section is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, such
finding shall not affect the validity of other provisions of this section which
can be given effect without the invalid provision.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABANDONED SIGN. A sign showing signs of weathering; rust; corrosion;
exposed wiring; chipped paint; cracked, broken, torn, or missing faces; loose
materials; or other evidence of disrepair; or a sign which remains after a
business operation has been closed to the public for at least 90 consecutive
days.
      ANIMATED SIGN. A sign that uses movement or change of artificial and
natural lighting or noise to depict action or create a special effect or scene.
      AWNING SIGN. A sign constructed, in whole or in substantial part, of
cloth, metal or other material affixed to a building in such a matter that the
structure is raised away from the building regardless of whether it can or
cannot be retracted to a flat position against the building.
      BANDIT SIGN. A sign constructed, in whole or in substantial part, of
paper, cloth, canvas, plastic sheet, cardboard, wallboard, plywood, or other
like material that is generally less than six square feet, typically lasts less
than 60 days without significant damage or deterioration, and which is placed
within a public right-of-way or on public property.
      BANNER (FLAG). A non-freestanding, non-rigid cloth, plastic, paper, or
canvas sign with a design, picture, or writing on it.
      BENCH SIGN. Any sign painted on, located on, or attached to any part of
the surface of a bench, seat, or chair placed on or adjacent to a public
roadway.
      CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN (MANUAL). A sign designed so that the characters,
letters or illustrations can be changed or rearranged manually without altering
the face or surface of the sign. Electronic signs as defined below are not
considered to be CHANGEABLE COPY SIGNS.
      CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN (MECHANICAL/ELECTRICAL). A sign designed so that the
characters, letters or illustrations can be changed or rearranged mechanically
or electronically without altering the face or surface of the sign. Electronic
signs as defined below are not considered to be CHANGEABLE COPY SIGNS.
      DETERIORATED. Showing signs of weathering; rust; corrosion; exposed
support materials or wiring; chipped paint; cracked, bent, broken, torn, or
missing faces; loose materials; or other evidence of disrepair or safety
concerns.
      ELECTRONIC SIGN. A sign, or any portion of a sign, that displays an
electronic image or video, which may or may not include text, including, but
not limited to, television screens, plasma screens, digital screens, LED
screens, video boards, holographic displays, and other similar media.
      ESTABLISHED GRADE LINE. The average finished grade for that area of the
site where the sign is to be located, provided however that the height of the
sign shall not be artificially increased by the use of mounding. All references
to sign height are from the ESTABLISHED GRADE LINE unless otherwise noted.
      EXTENSION. A wall or other structure which is connected to, and extended
from, a building.
      FLASHING SIGN. A directly or indirectly illuminated sign that exhibits
changing natural or artificial light or color effects by any means.
      FREESTANDING SIGN. Any sign other than a portable or monument sign, that
is supported by structures or supports in or upon the ground and independent of
support from any building; includes pole signs.
      ILLUMINATED SIGN. Any sign lighted by or exposed to artificial lighting
either by light on or in the sign or directed toward the sign.
      LOT. A platted parcel or other tract of land separately identified with
unique identification in the County Auditor’s records.
      MONUMENT SIGN. A sign supported by direct contact with the ground,
generally attached to a wall or permanent base, constructed specifically for
the display of the sign.
      MOTION SIGN. A sign or portion of a sign which moves.
      NONCONFORMING SIGN. A pre-existing legal or illegal sign which does not
conform to the standards set forth in this section.
      OFF-PREMISES SIGN. A sign that displays any message directing attention
to a business, product, service, profession, commodity, activity, event,
person, institution, or other commercial message which is generally conducted,
sold, manufactured, produced, offered, or occurs elsewhere than on the premises
where the sign is located.
      PENNANT SIGN. A triangular or irregular piece of fabric or other
material, commonly attached in strings or strands, or supported on small poles
intended to flap in the wind.
      PERMANENT SIGN. Any permitted or legal nonconforming sign, intended to
remain in place until a change of occupancy occurs, that is securely attached
or installed upon a building, structure, or the monument and is constructed of
materials protected from exposure to the natural elements, typically for more
than one year, or is made of materials that are weather-resistant for multiple
years without significant damage or deterioration due to exposure to the
elements or normal wear and tear. PERMANENT SIGNS are considered accessory uses
to a principal use established by this Zoning Code.
      POLE SIGN. A sign supported by or suspended from posts, pillars, columns
or other structures which are not a building or attached to a building.
      PORTABLE SIGN. Any sign that is designed to be, or capable of, being
moved or transported (often with wheels) and not affixed or attached to any
building, structure, or ground. Sidewalk signs are not considered to be
PORTABLE SIGNS for purposes of this section.
      PROJECTED IMAGE. An image projected onto a building, structure or sign.
      REFACING. Any alteration to the face of a sign involving the replacement
of materials or parts. REFACING does not refer to replacing the entire sign
structure or the removal of the sign.
      REFLECTIVE SIGN. A sign containing any material or device which has the
effect of intensifying reflected light.
      ROOF SIGN. Any sign erected on or above the roof line of a building.
      SECTION. Refers to §
154.59, in its entirety.
      SIDEWALK SIGN. Any temporary sign, typically in the shape of an “A” or a
“T”, or some variation thereof, which is readily moveable and not permanently
attached to the ground or any structure. Sidewalk signs are generally placed on
the sidewalk or right-of-way in front of businesses.
      SIGN FACE. The surface intended for the display of information, whether
written or graphical, on the sign, including blank spaces.
      SIGN STRUCTURE. The supporting unit of a sign face, including but not
limited to frames, braces and poles.
      SNIPE SIGN. A sign that is tacked, nailed, posted, pasted, glued, or
otherwise attached to trees, poles, fences, or other objects and that is not
otherwise defined or authorized by the provisions of this section, or other
village ordinances.
      STREAMER. A ribbon-shaped or cord-like rope which may have pennants or
attached banners (or both) and which is stretched or hung between two or more
supports.
      TEMPORARY SIGN. Any exterior sign that is not intended for permanent
display by virtue of its construction from paper, cloth, canvas, light fabric,
cardboard, wallboard or other light materials, and which is erected on stakes,
wire, plastic, or cord or by way of its attachment to the ground or a structure
in a non-permanent manner.
      TRAILER SIGN. Any sign which is attached to, supported by, or part of a
structure, where the structure’s primary purpose is the display of such sign,
and where the structure is designed to move on trailer wheels, skids, or other
similar devices, or transported, pushed, or pulled by a motor vehicle, whether
or not such trailer is parked or being towed.
      WALL SIGN, MOUNTED. A sign that is attached to, erected against or
painted on the outside wall of a building or structure, with the exposed
display surface of the sign in a plane parallel to the plane of the building or
structure.
      WALL SIGN, PROJECTING. A double-sided sign, with two faces, that is
attached to the outside wall of a building or structure, generally by means of
a bracket or decorative hardware, with the exposed display surfaces of the sign
on a plane perpendicular to the building or structure.
      WINDOW SIGN. Any sign attached to the window of a building or erected on
the inside of the building and visible from the exterior of the building.
      YARD SIGN. See “temporary sign”.
   (D)   Permit required. All signs located on land within or hereafter annexed
to the village shall comply with this section. No person shall locate or retain
any sign, or cause a sign to be located, relocated, altered, modified, or
retained unless all provisions of this section have been met. To ensure
compliance with these regulations, a sign permit shall be secured from the
Village Zoning Administrator or his/her designee for each for all signs except
those listed in divisions (J) and (K). Unless otherwise established in this
section or otherwise in this Zoning Code, no person shall locate, alter,
modify, or retain a sign in the Historic District without first applying for,
and obtaining, a certificate of appropriateness, in addition to any other
required permit under this section. Where applicable, sign permits shall not be
issued until after a certificate of appropriateness is issued. In addition,
some signs may require a building permit, and such signs may not be erected
until such a permit is granted.
   (E)   Permit application requirements. Persons wishing to locate or cause a
sign to be located, relocated, or altered in the village shall apply for a sign
permit. No application fee shall be required, unless otherwise established by
Village Council. A written application shall be required and the following
materials must be submitted:
      (1)   Scale elevation drawing(s) of proposed sign(s);
      (2)   Foundation and anchoring drawing(s) of proposed sign(s);
      (3)   A dimensioned site plan showing the location of proposed sign(s)
and adjacent buildings or other structures;
      (4)   Descriptions and specifications related to proposed materials;
      (5)   For wall signs, a building elevation drawn to scale showing the
proposed wall sign and the dimension from established grade to the top of the
sign;
      (6)   For monument and freestanding signs, a sign base landscaping plan;
and
      (7)   Written consent signed by the owner of the property on which the
sign is proposed to be located indicating his/her approval of the sign.
   (F)   Permit application review process and timing. A request for a sign
permit will be approved or denied within 60 business days of receipt of a
completed sign permit application, including all submittals required by
division (E). For signs which require a certificate of appropriateness, the
time period to approve or deny the permit application shall not begin until
after the certificate of appropriateness is granted. Permits shall be approved
if the sign type, size, and location meet the requirements of this section.
Permit applications which are neither denied nor approved within 60 business
days of receipt of a completed sign application (and granting of a certificate
of appropriateness where applicable) shall be deemed approved.
   (G)   Relief from this section. Any party aggrieved from the provisions of
this section by way of interpretation, enforcement, or other action, or who
otherwise wishes to seek a variation from the requirements of this Zoning Code,
may apply to the Village Board of Appeals pursuant to §
154.65 of this Zoning Code.
   (H)   Expiration of sign approval. Signs must be erected as specified in the
permit application within one year of the permit issuance date. Permits for
which a sign is not erected within one year will expire and a new application
will be required before the sign may be erected.
   (I)   Sign permit fee. A sign permit fee will be required only if a permit
is approved. The sign permit fee shall be established each year by the Village
Council. The sign permit fee must be received prior to the issuance of the sign
permit. No permit shall be issued until the sign permit fee has been received.
   (J)   Signs exempt from permitting requirements. The following signs are
exempt from the permitting requirements of this section and are permitted in
any zoning district:
      Temporary signs which are nine square feet per face or less, subject to
location and other restrictions contained in this section.
   (K)   Prohibited sign types and locations. In order to achieve the intents
and purposes of this section, to reduce undue distraction to motorists and
pedestrians, to reduce potential traffic hazards, and to ensure the
effectiveness of traffic and other governmental signs needed to direct the
public, the following signs types and sign locations are prohibited:
      (1)   Prohibited sign locations.
         (a)   In any public park or on any public property or right-of-way,
unless otherwise expressly permitted within this Zoning Code, the Village Code
of Ordinances or pursuant to a formally-adopted village policy;
         (b)   On any traffic control sign, utility pole, fences, or street
sign; on any tree, or other natural object; or in any location where the view
of approaching or intersecting traffic or pedestrians would be obstructed;
         (c)   In any location which interferes with the safe movement of
vehicles or pedestrians entering, leaving, crossing, or traversing a public
right-of-way or sidewalk;
         (d)   In any locations where the illumination of the sign is directed
or beamed upon a public thoroughfare, highway, sidewalk, or adjacent premises;
         (e)   On private property without the permission of the owner;
         (f)   On any fire escape or any door or window giving access to any
fire escape; and
         (g)   On any chimney, smokestack, or stair tower.
      (2)   Prohibited sign types in all districts.
         (a)   Signs which move or rotate, such as: motion signs, balloons, gas
inflated signs or similar inflated signs, searchlights, streamers, animated
signs, pennant signs, spinners, flags, or any other similar devices;
         (b)   Internally illuminated signs;
         (c)   Electronic signs;
         (d)   Bench signs;
         (e)   Flashing signs;
         (f)   Reflective signs;
         (g)   Projected images;
         (h)   Roof signs;
         (i)   Trailer signs;
         (j)   Bandit signs, except as otherwise permitted;
         (k)   Snipe signs;
         (l)   Portable signs;
         (m)   Signs requiring a permit in accordance with this section which
do not have a permit;
         (n)   Abandoned signs;
         (o)   Neon signs; and
         (p)   Off-premises signs, except that off-premises signs not exceeding
11 inches by 17 inches (11” x 17”) in size are permitted as temporary window
signs.
   (L)   General requirements for all signs in all districts. All signs placed
or posted in the village must meet the following criteria:
      (1)   Illuminated signs. Signs shall be illuminated only by the following
means:
         (a)   By a white, steady, stationary light of reasonable intensity,
directed solely at the sign or otherwise prevented from beaming directly onto
adjacent properties, roadways or rights-of-way.
         (b)   The level of illumination directed to the sign shall not be of
an intensity sufficient to constitute a demonstrable hazard to vehicular
traffic on any right-of-way, roadway, or parking lot from which the sign may be
viewed.
         (c)   No exposed light sources are permitted. All light fixtures shall
be screened from view by site grading or evergreen shrubs.
         (d)   All wiring, fittings and materials used in the construction,
connection and operation of illuminated signs shall be in accordance with the
provisions of the local electric code. All illuminated signs shall be properly
grounded.
      (2)   Safe installation. All signs must be installed in a safe manner and
shall not be in danger of falling.
      (3)   Properly maintained/not deteriorated. All signs shall be properly
maintained and shall not show signs of deterioration. The structural integrity
of all sign foundations must be maintained.
      (4)   Required set-back. All signs shall be set back at least eight feet
from the curb/edge of the street, road, or state route or at least two feet
from the edge of the sidewalk farthest from the street, road, or state route,
whichever is greater.
      (5)   Design. Signs shall be designed to fully integrate with the
building architecture and overall site design. Signs shall not resemble the
color, shape, or other characteristic of traffic control devices or warning
signs. Signs shall be limited to three colors, three typefaces/fonts, and three
lines per sign.
   (M)   Requirements for temporary signs. Temporary signs:
      (1)   Shall not be mounted, attached, affixed, installed or otherwise
secured in a manner that will make the sign a permanent sign;
      (2)   Shall not be illuminated;
      (3)   Shall not include, be attached to, or incorporate any other sign
type prohibited by this section;
      (4)   Shall not be placed in a prohibited location as established by this
section; and
      (5)   Shall be removed or replaced when they are deteriorated.
   (N)   Measurement of sign area. The surface area of a sign shall be computed
as including the face of the entire display area not including the bracing,
framing and structural supports of the sign, unless such support members are
made part of the message or face of the sign. Where a sign has two or more
display faces, the area of all faces of the sign shall be included in
determining the area of the sign, unless the two faces are joined back-to-back,
are parallel to each other and are not more than four inches apart. The area of
a sign consisting of individual letters or symbols, either freestanding or
ground, or attached to or painted on a surface, building, wall, or window,
shall be considered to be that of the smallest single rectangle which
encompasses all the letters and symbols.
   (O)   Sign standards in residential districts (residential uses/dwellings).
      (1)   The following signs are permitted for properties containing
dwellings used for residential purposes, as defined by §
154.03, in all residential districts (AA-1; AA-2; A, B, and C):
         (a)   Mounted wall signs; and
         (b)   Temporary signs with a maximum area of four square feet.
      (2)   Permitted number, height, area and location. Each lot may erect and
maintain signs up to a maximum of 20 square feet of signage, provided that
multiple temporary signs must be separated by at least two feet, and all signs
must meet the standards as outlined below:
         (a)   Mounted wall signs.
            1.   Maximum height above established grade: eight feet.
            2.   Maximum area: one square foot.
            3.   Location: cannot protrude more than two inches from wall or
building to which it is attached.
            4. External illumination permitted: no.
         (b)   Temporary signs.
            1.   Maximum height above established grade when ground-mounted:
three feet.
            2.   Maximum height when wall-mounted: below the roof parapet line.
            3.   Location: set back minimum of eight feet from curb/edge of
roadway or two feet from edge of sidewalk farthest from the roadway, whichever
is greatest.
            4.   External illumination permitted: no.
            5.   Other restrictions: per (K)(1), temporary signs which are four
square feet per face or less, subject to location and other restrictions
contained in this section do not require a permit, but any temporary sign which
does not meet all parameters with respect to size and location to be exempt
from permitting shall require a permit.
   (P)   Sign standards in residential districts (non-residential uses).
      (1)   The following signs are permitted on properties containing non-
residential primary uses in all residential districts (AA-1; AA-2; A, B, and
C). Non-residential uses are all uses which do not fall qualify as a “dwelling”
used for residential purposes, as defined by §
154.03:
         (a)   Mounted wall signs;
         (b)   Monument signs; and
         (c)   Temporary signs with a maximum area of nine square feet.
      (2)   Permitted number, height, area and location. Each lot may erect and
maintain a maximum of three signs per lot, up to a maximum of 30 square feet of
signage, as outlined below:
         (a)   Mounted wall sign.
            1.   Maximum height above established grade: eight feet.
            2.   Maximum area: one square foot.
            3.   Location: cannot protrude more than two inches from wall or
building to which it is attached.
            4.   External illumination permitted: yes.
         (b)   Monument sign.
            1.   Maximum height above established grade: five feet.
            2.   Maximum area: 30 square feet.
            3.   Location: set back a minimum of eight feet from curb/edge of
roadway or two feet from edge of sidewalk farthest from the roadway, whichever
is greatest.
            4.   External illumination permitted: yes.
            5.   Other restrictions: may include a manual changeable copy sign.
         (c)   Temporary signs.
            1.   Maximum height above established grade when ground-mounted:
three feet.
            2.   Maximum height when wall-mounted: below the roof parapet line.
            3.   Location: set back a minimum of eight feet from curb/edge of
roadway or two feet from edge of sidewalk farthest from the roadway, whichever
is greatest.
            4.   External illumination permitted: no.
            5.   Other restrictions: per (K)(1), temporary signs which are nine
square feet per face or less, subject to location and other restrictions
contained in this section do not require a permit, but any temporary sign which
does not meet all parameters with respect to size and location to be exempt
from permitting, shall require a permit.
   (Q)   Sign standards in business districts.
      (1)   The following signs are permitted in Zoning Districts “D” and “E”:
         (a)   Wall signs (mounted and projecting);
         (b)   Monument signs;
         (c)   Window signs;
         (d)   Freestanding signs;
         (e)   Awning signs;
         (f)   Sidewalk signs; and
         (g)   Temporary signs with a maximum area of nine square feet.
      (2)   Permitted number, height, area and location. Each lot may erect and
maintain a maximum of three signs per lot, up to a maximum of 30 square feet of
signage, as outlined below:
         (a)   Mounted wall sign.
            1.   Maximum height above established grade: eight feet.
            2.   Maximum area: one and one-half square feet for every linear
foot of width of the building face to which the sign is attached.
            3.   Location: cannot protrude more than two inches from wall or
building to which it is attached.
            4.   External illumination permitted: yes.
         (b)   Projecting wall or extension sign.
            1.   Maximum height above established grade: two feet below the
highest point on the building on which the sign is mounted.
            2.   Maximum area: one and one-half square feet for every linear
foot of width of the building face or extension to which the sign is attached.
            3.   Location: cannot protrude more than three feet from wall or
building to which it is attached
            4.   External illumination permitted: a projecting sign is limited
to external illumination by indirect lighting methods such as gooseneck
lighting.
            5.   Other restrictions: minimum eight feet above sidewalk;
decorative supporting structures are not calculated in maximum square footage
of sign.
         (c)   Monument sign.
            1.   Maximum height above established grade: five feet.
            2.   Maximum area: one-half square foot for every linear foot of
frontage of the lot, with a maximum area of 30 square feet.
            3.   Location: set back minimum of eight feet from curb/edge of
roadway or two feet from edge of sidewalk farthest from the roadway, whichever
is greatest.
            4.   External illumination permitted: yes.
            5.   Other restrictions: may include a manual changeable copy sign.
         (d)   Window sign.
            1.   Maximum height above established grade: ground/first floor
only.
            2.   Maximum area of a window sign: one-half of the total area of
the window upon which the sign is attached, or in which the sign is visible.
            3.   Location: ground/first floor of a building.
            4.   External illumination permitted: no.
            5.   Application: window signs may only be applied to the interior
of the glazing.
         (e)   Freestanding sign.
            1.   Maximum height above established grade: five feet.
            2.   Maximum area: one square foot per linear foot of frontage of
the premises, with a maximum of 30 square feet.
            3.   Location: set ack minimum of eight feet from curb/edge of
roadway or two feet from edge of sidewalk furthest from the roadway, whichever
is greatest.
            4.   External illumination permitted: yes.
         (f)   Awning sign.
            1.   Minimum height above established grade: eight feet above the
sidewalk; 16 feet above any driveway or parking lot.
            2.   Maximum area: text and graphics on awning may not be greater
than 15 square feet.
            3.   Location: may only have text or graphics on the front portion
of awning.
            4.   External illumination permitted: no.
         (g)   Sidewalk sign.
            1.   Maximum height above established grade: three feet.
            2.   Maximum area: six square feet.
            3.   Location: must be on paved public or private sidewalk or
walkway; cannot be in landscaped areas or areas used for vehicles; may only be
placed where the width and location of the sign allows for a minimum width of
five feet of clear and passable sidewalk/walkway for pedestrians; may not be
placed so as to obstruct access to parking meters, bicycle racks, and other
features legally in the right-of-way; may not interfere with the opening of car
doors in legal parking spaces, or with the operation of wheelchair lifts and
ramps; may only be placed on the sidewalk/walkway from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
            4.   External illumination permitted: no.
            5.   Other restrictions: signs must be weighted to be stable and
windproof to resist wind gusts.
         (h)   Temporary signs.
            1.   Maximum height above established grade when ground-mounted:
three feet.
            2.   Maximum height when wall-mounted: below the roof parapet line.
            3.   Location: set back a minimum of eight feet from curb/edge of
roadway or two feet from edge of sidewalk farthest from the roadway, whichever
is greatest.
            4.   External illumination permitted: no.
            5.   Other restrictions: per (K)(1), temporary signs which are nine
square feet per face or less, subject to location and other restrictions
contained in this section do not require a permit, but any temporary sign which
does not meet all parameters with respect to size and location to be exempt
from permitting shall require a permit.
   (R)   Nonconforming signs.
      (1)   All pre-existing permanent legal signs that that conformed to the
standards of the previous ordinance, but do not conform to the standards of
this section must be brought into conformity upon the occurrence of any of the
following events:
         (a)   Any change in the use of the property following the date that
this section became effective;
         (b)   The discontinuance of the use of property for a period of more
than six consecutive months;
         (c)   The damage or destruction of the sign amounting to a reduction
of 50% or more of the market value of the sign (as determined by two
established sign companies located in Ohio selected by the village);
         (d)   The structural alteration, rebuilding, enlargement, extension,
or relocation of the existing nonconforming sign. However, the repainting or
refacing of an existing nonconforming sign is not considered an alteration
within the meaning of this section; or
         (e)   The nonconforming sign or sign structure is determined by the
Village Zoning Administrator to be unsafe, insecure, or otherwise to constitute
a nuisance to the public.
      (2)   All signs which lose their legal nonconforming status must be
removed or brought into compliance with this section within 30 days of the date
of the event which resulted in the loss of that status.
      (3)   All pre-existing temporary signs that that conformed to the
standards of the previous ordinance, but do not conform to the standards of
this section must be brought into conformity within one year of the effective
date of this section or removed.
   (S)   Abandoned signs. Abandoned signs shall be removed by and at the cost
of the responsible party, whether the property owner or the business owner. If
the business or property owner does not remove the sign within ten days of the
written notice from the Village Administrator, the village may remove the sign
and charge the business or property owner for the cost of such removal.
   (T)   Maintenance of signs. Signs must be maintained in a safe, presentable,
and sound structural condition at all times. In the event that any sign is or
becomes unsafe or in danger of falling, the owner thereof or the person
maintaining the same shall immediately upon receipt of written notice from the
Village Zoning Administrator restore such sign to a safe and secure condition
or remove the sign. If the owner of the sign does not remove the sign within
ten days of the written notice, the village may remove the sign and charge the
business or property owner for the cost of such removal.
   (U)   Removal of prohibited/unsafe signs.
      (1)   Signs placed in prohibited sign locations as established in this
section may be removed by the village and stored at the Village Municipal
Building or other service building for a period of not more than ten days,
after which the village may dispose of such signs. Persons who wish to claim
signs which are removed and retained by the village may do so by contacting the
Village Zoning Administrator during that time.
      (2)   Signs that are insecure, in danger of falling, or which otherwise
pose an immediate threat to public safety may be removed by the village without
notice to the owner. All costs incurred for the removal of such signage shall
be the responsibility of the property owner. All unpaid costs shall be assessed
to the property tax duplicate for the subject property. Signs so removed, to
the extent possible, will be retained by the village for a period of not more
than ten days and may be claimed by their owners by contacting the Village
Administrator. After the retention period, the village may dispose of such
signs. Signs which cannot be removed without destroying the sign may be
discarded.
   (V)   Prior sections invalidated. This section shall control all issues
related to signs located in the Village of Glendale. In the event that any
section of this Zoning Code refers to signs, such section is specifically
superseded by the provisions of this section.
   (W)   Violations. In case any signs shall be installed, erected,
constructed, or maintained in violation of any of the terms of this section,
the Village Zoning Administrator shall notify in writing the owner or lessee
thereof to alter or remove such sign so as to comply with this section. Such
persons shall be given ten days from the date of the written notice to alter
the sign so as to comply with this section. Thereafter, failure to comply with
any of the provisions of this section shall be deemed a violation and shall be
punishable under§
154.99 of the Zoning Code.
(Ord. 2022-04, passed 12-5-22)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 154.61 BASIC DATA PACKAGE.
   For the purpose of obtaining certain permits and approvals, a basic data
package is required which includes:
   (A)   Existing site conditions including property lines, contours with
intervals of one foot or sufficient spot elevations, existing buildings and
trees with a caliper of six inches or more, and similar data on adjacent
property.
   (B)   A site plan showing the location, size, and use of buildings, parking
areas, landscape planting, proposed grading, walks, drives, and other
improvements and existing trees to be removed.
   (C)   Height, use, and gross floor area of all buildings.
   (D)   Number of parking spaces.
   (E)   Elevations of proposed buildings.
   (F)   A written description of the proposal and the reasons therefor.
   (G)   Any written agreements or restrictions to accompany the proposal.
§ 154.62 CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
   Conditional use permits are required for all conditional uses and for the
enlargement, alteration or extension of existing conditional uses. Previously
issued special permits shall be deemed to be conditional use permits. Existing
uses of a type requiring a conditional use permit shall not be nonconforming
uses but shall be deemed to have a conditional use permit for the existing use;
however, a conditional use permit shall be required for any enlargement,
alteration, or extension. In order to obtain a conditional use permit applicant
shall:
   (A)   File an application on a standard form with the Village Clerk
accompanied by a basic data package. The Village Clerk will notify or cause to
be notified, via certified mail, all property owners within a minimum distance
of 200 feet of the applicant's property and include the nature of the
application with the GPHPC meeting date and time.
   (B)   Village Clerk shall refer the application to the Planning Commission
which shall have 30 days to review the application with respect to its: Effect
on neighborhood; conformance with village plan; effect on traffic; and make a
recommendation to the Village Council concerning the application.
   (C)   No action on an application shall be taken by the Village Council
until the report of the Planning Commission has been received; however, if no
report is received within 45 days, approval of the application may be assumed.
The Village Council may approve, disapprove, or approve an application with
conditions.
(Am. Ord. 2004-13, passed 6-7-04)
Penalty, see § 154.99
§ 154.63 (RESERVED).
§ 154.64 CHANGES IN COMMUNITY UNIT PLANS.
   Changes in community unit plans shall require the following review:
   (A)   The applicant shall submit information on the proposed change to the
Planning Commission which shall have 60 days to review the application and
submit a recommendation to the Village Council on the proposed change. The
Planning Commission shall hold at least one public hearing on the application
prior to submitting its report to Council.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the Planning Commission’s recommendation, the Village
Council shall review the proposed change and may approve, disapprove, or
approve with conditions.
(Am. Ord. 2014-48, passed 12-1-14)
§ 154.65 BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   A Board of Appeals is hereby created. Such Board shall consist of five
members to be appointed by the Mayor. At least one of these members shall be a
member of the Planning Commission of the village. One shall be appointed for
one year; one for two years; one for three years; one for four years; and one
for five years, and their successors for five years. The terms of the member of
the Planning Commission shall expire at the same time as his term on such
Commission. A member appointed to fill a vacancy shall serve for the unexpired
term.
   (B)   The Board shall adopt from time to time such rules and regulations as
it may deem necessary to carry into effect the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Meetings of the Board shall be held at the call of the chairman and at
such other times as the Board may determine. Such chairman, or, in his absence,
the acting chairman, may administer oaths and compile the attendance of
witnesses. All meetings of the Board shall be open to the public. The Board
shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon
each question, or, if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and
shall keep records of its examinations and other official actions, all of which
shall be immediately filed in the office of the Board and shall be a public
record.
   (D)   Appeals:
      (1)   Appeals to the Board may be taken by any persons aggrieved or by
any officers, department, or bureau of the village affected by any decisions of
the Building Commissioner. Such appeal shall be taken in the manner prescribed
by the Board by General Rule, by filing with the Building Commissioner and with
the Board not later than ten days after the date of the Building Commissioner's
decision, which is appealed from, a notice of appeal specifying the grounds
thereof. The Building Commissioner shall forthwith transmit to the Board all
the papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from is
taken. A basic data package shall accompany each appeal.
      (2)   An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from, unless the Building Commissioner certified to the Board after
the notice of appeal shall have been filed with him that, by reason of facts
stated in the certificate, a stay would, in his opinion, cause imminent peril
to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise
than by an order which may be granted by the Board, or by a court of record on
application or notice to the Building Commissioner on good cause shown.
      (3)   The Board shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the
appeal, give not less than 15 days' public notice thereof in a newspaper of
general circulation, as well as due notice to the parties in the interest, and
decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any party may
appear in person or by agent or by attorney.
   (E)   The Board of Appeals shall have the following powers and it shall be
its duty:
      (1)   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is error in
any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the Building
Commissioner in the enforcement of this chapter.
      (2)   To permit the extension of a district where the boundary line of a
district divides a lot held in a single ownership at the time of the passage of
this chapter.
      (3)   To permit the following exceptions to the district regulations set
forth in this chapter by issuance of a permit containing conditions governing
design, construction, or operation of the exception so as to adequately
safeguard the health, safety, and welfare of the occupants of adjoining and
surrounding property.
         (a)   The erection or use of a building or the use of a premises for
public utility purposes only, which the Board finds to be reasonably necessary
for the public convenience or welfare.
         (b)   Temporary use of land in a commercial district by circuses,
sales for charitable purposes, fairs, or carnivals upon compliance with police
regulations of the village.
      (4)   Determine the front, side, and rear yards on corner lots formed by
one or more curved streets; provided, however, that the sum of rear and side
yards not be less than the sum of the required rear and side yards and no yard
reduced to less than one- third of the required yard.
      (5)   To grant a variation in the regulations when a property owner can
show that his property was acquired in good faith and where by reason of
exceptional narrowness, shallowness of shape of a specific piece of property at
the time of the effective date of this chapter, or where by reason of
exceptional topographical conditions or other extraordinary or exceptional
situation that the strict application of the terms of this chapter actually
prohibit the use of his property in a manner similar to that which other
property in the district is used and where the Board is satisfied, under the
evidence heard before it, the granting of such variation will alleviate a
clearly demonstrable hardship approaching confiscation, as distinguished from a
special privilege or convenience sought by the owner; provided, however, that
all variations granted under this clause shall be in harmony with the intended
spirit and purpose of this chapter and shall not constitute a direct and
obvious amendment of any district regulations or district boundaries.
         (a)   In exercising the above powers, the Board may reverse or affirm
wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirements, decision, or
determination appealed from and may make such order, requirement, decision, or
determination as ought to be made, and to that end shall have all powers of the
Building Commissioner from whom the appeal is taken.
         (b)   Every variation granted or denied by the Board shall be
accompanied by a written finding of fact, based on testimony and evidence and
specifying the reason for granting or denying the variation.
§ 154.66 CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Manner in which amendments may be initiated. The Council may, from
time to time, on its own by resolution, by recommendation of the GPHPC, or by
owner petition, amend, supplement, or change (“amend”) the boundaries or
regulations herein or subsequently established. Any such amendment, supplement,
or change (“amendment”) shall be made as follows:
      (1)   Amendment initiated by Village Council:
         (a)   Village Council may at any time, by resolution approved by a
majority of its membership, initiate an amendment to the boundaries or
regulations contained in this zoning code. Such resolution shall include the
language or boundary description of the proposed amendment, be certified by the
Village Clerk, and forwarded immediately upon its passage to the chairperson of
the GPHPC.
         (b)   Upon receipt of a certified resolution of Village Council
initiating an amendment to the zoning code, the chairperson of the GPHPC shall
set a date for a public hearing on such amendment, which date shall not be
greater than 60 days from the date of the certification of the resolution.
         (c)   Notice of the hearing shall be given by the GPHPC as established
in division (C) herein.
      (2)   Amendment initiated by the GPHPC:
         (a)   The GPHPC may at any time by motion approved by a majority of
its membership, initiate an amendment to the boundaries or regulations
contained in this zoning code. Such motion shall include the language or
boundary description of the amendment under consideration by the GPHPC.
         (b)   Upon passage of a motion to initiate an amendment to the zoning
code, the chairperson of the GPHPC shall set a date for a public hearing on
such amendment, which date shall not be greater than 60 days from the date of
the passage of the motion to initiate the amendment.
         (c)   Notice of the hearing shall be given by the GPHPC as established
in division (C) herein.
      (3)   Amendment initiated by petition:
         (a)   One or more of the owners or lessees of property within the area
proposed to be changed or affected by the proposed amendment may file a
petition to initiate an amendment to the boundaries or regulations contained in
this zoning code. Such petition shall be filed in writing with the Village
Clerk, on forms prepared by the village, and shall contain the following:
            1.   The language of the proposed amendment, if applicable;
            2.   Surveys, maps, or plans related to the proposed amendment, if
applicable;
            3.   A basic data package, if applicable; and/or
            4.   Payment of a fee, established by Village Council from time to
time, to defray the cost of advertising, mailing, and other expenses associated
with the proposed amendment.
         (b)   Within 15 days of receipt of a petition requesting an amendment
to the zoning code, the Village Clerk shall forward the petition, together with
any accompanying documentation and maps, to the chairperson of the GPHPC and
the chairperson of the laws committee of Village Council.
         (c)   Upon receipt of the petition, the chairperson of the GPHPC shall
set a date for a public hearing on such amendment, which date shall not be
greater than 60 days from the date of receipt by the GPHPC.
         (d)   Notice of the hearing shall be given by the GPHPC as established
in division (C) herein.
   (B)   Public examination of the proposed amendments. The text of Village
Council resolution, the GPHPC motion, or the materials submitted pursuant to
the petition proposing the amendment to the zoning code, together with any
documentation and maps forming part of or referred to in such resolution,
motion or petition shall be on file, for public examination, in the office of
the Village Clerk during regular business hours, from the date notice of the
public hearing is provided as established in division (C) herein until at least
the day following the conclusion of the public hearing on the proposed
amendment.
   (C)   Notice of GPHPC hearings on proposed amendments. Notice of hearings
held by the GPHPC pertaining to proposed amendments to the zoning code shall be
given at least 30 days in advance of the hearing by the GPHPC by one
publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the village. If the
proposed amendment intends to rezone or redistrict ten or fewer parcels of
land, as listed on the tax duplicate, written notice of the hearing shall be
mailed by the Village Clerk, by first class mail, at least 20 days before the
date of the public hearing to the owners of property within and contiguous to
and directly across the street from such parcel or parcels, to the addresses of
such owners appearing on the County Auditor’s current tax list or the
Treasurer’s mailing list. The failure of delivery of such notice shall not
invalidate any such amendment. The published and mailed notices shall set forth
the time, date, and location of the hearing; a statement that the motion,
resolution, or petition under consideration at the hearing is an amendment to
the zoning code, the current and proposed zoning classification of any affected
property; and a statement as to when and where the text of the resolution,
motion, or petition proposing the amendment, together with any supporting
documentation and maps, may be examined by the public.
   (D)   Decision of proposed amendment by the GPHPC.
      (1)   Within 90 days after the conclusion of the public hearing, the
GPHPC shall, by motion approved by a majority of its membership, recommend the
approval or denial of the proposed amendment, or the approval of some
modification of it. Such motion shall include the language or boundary
description of the proposed amendment.
      (2)   Within five days of its passage, the recommendation, together with
any supporting documentation and maps, shall be forwarded by the chairperson of
the GPHPC to the Mayor.
   (E)   Council consideration of the recommendation of GPHPC to amend the
zoning code.
      (1)   Upon receipt of the recommendation of the GPHPC to approve, deny,
or modify the proposed amendment to the zoning code, the Mayor shall set a date
for a public hearing on such amendment, which date shall not be greater than 60
days from the date of the receipt of the recommendation.
      (2)   The text of the GPHPC recommendation and any supporting
documentation and maps shall be available for public examination in the same
manner, for the same duration, and at the same location as the public
examination provided in division (B) herein.
      (3)   Notice of the hearing shall be given by the Village Clerk in the
same manner as required in division (C) herein.
   (F)   Approval, rejection, or modification of the GPHPC recommendation by
Village Council. Within 90 days after the conclusion of the public hearing,
Village Council shall:
      (1)   Approve the recommendation of the GPHPC as presented by the GPHPC
by village ordinance with the concurrence of at least a majority of its
membership;
      (2)   Reject the recommendation of the GPHPC as presented by the GPHPC
due to the failure of the village ordinance to pass due to the lack of a
concurrence of a majority of its membership for its passage;
      (3)   Approve a modification of the recommendation of the GPHPC,
including the approval of an amendment to the zoning code rejected by the GPHPC
recommendation, by village ordinance with the concurrence of not less than
three fourths of its membership.
(Ord. 2016-46, passed 11-7-16)
§ 154.67 PERMITS AND FEES.
   (A)   Building Permit. Each application for a building permit shall be
accompanied by a plat in duplicate, drawn to scale, showing the actual
dimensions of the lot to be built upon, the size, shape, and location of the
building to be erected, and such other information as may be necessary to
provide for the enforcement of this chapter. A record of applications and plats
shall be kept in the office of the Building Inspector.
   (B)   Occupancy Permit.
      (1)   Subsequent to the effective date of this chapter, no change in the
use or occupancy of land, nor any change of use or occupancy in an existing
building shall be made, nor shall any new building be occupied for any purpose
until a certificate of occupancy has been issued by the Building Inspector.
Every certificate of occupancy shall state that the new occupancy complies with
all provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   A record of all certificates of occupancy shall be kept on file in
the office of the Building Inspector, and copies shall be furnished on request
to any person having a proprietary or tenancy interest in land or a building
affected by such certificate of occupancy.
      (3)   A Certificate of Occupancy shall be required for each nonconforming
use of buildings existing prior to the time of passage of this chapter.
Application for such Certificate of Occupancy for nonconforming uses shall be
filed with the Building Inspector by the owner or lessee of the building
occupied by such nonconforming use within one year from the effective date of
this chapter. It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to issue a
Certificate of Occupancy for such nonconforming use upon such application. The
failure of the owner or lessee of the building occupied by such nonconforming
uses to obtain such Certificate of Occupancy for same within one year from the
effective date of this chapter shall create conclusive presumption that such
nonconforming use did not exist prior to the effective date of this chapter and
such nonconforming use shall be discontinued within one year from the effective
date hereof.
   (C)   Fees shall accompany petitions, appeals and applications as follows:
      (1)   Building permits, as specified in the building code (Chapter 150).
      (2)   Occupancy permits, $10.
      (3)   Conditional use permits, $50.
      (4)   (Reserved)
      (5)   Changes in the chapter, $100.
      (6)   Appeals to the Board of Appeals, $25.
      (7)   Garage sales, $5.
      (8)   Fences, $5.
(Am. Ord. 2014-48, passed 12-1-14)
§ 154.68 INTERPRETATION, PURPOSE, AND CONFLICT.
   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, they shall be
held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public safety,
health, convenience, comfort, morals, prosperity, and general welfare. It is
not intended by this chapter to interfere with or abrogate or annul any
ordinance, rules, regulations, or permits previously adopted or issued, and not
in conflict with any of the provisions of this chapter or which shall be
adopted or issued pursuant to law relating to the use of buildings or premises,
and, likewise, not in conflict with this chapter; nor is it intended by this
chapter to interfere with or abrogate or annul any easements, covenants, or
other agreements between parties, except that if this chapter imposes a greater
restriction, this chapter shall control.
§ 154.69 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty and responsibility of the Building Inspector and any
law enforcement officer of the municipality to enforce this chapter.
§ 154.70 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Whenever the Building Inspector or a law enforcement officer of the
municipality observes an apparent or actual violation of a provision of this
chapter, they shall prepare a written notice of violation describing the
condition in violation and specifying time limits for the building, structure,
or condition to be brought into compliance with this chapter.
PLANNED DEVELOPMENT OVERLAY DISTRICT
§ 154.81 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Planned Development Overlay District, hereafter referred
to as the PDO District, is to:
   (A)   Protect the health, safety, and general welfare of the residents and
property owners of the village;
   (B)   Allow for flexibility in the zoning requirements where the result will
be a higher quality development;
   (C)   Encourage the development of mixed use areas that reflect the historic
development patterns and form of the village;
   (D)   Provide for and locate suitable public areas, recreational facilities,
greenspace, and other common facilities, while preserving the existing
character of the village to the greatest extent possible;
   (E)    Allow for reasonable development opportunities when such development
will incorporate historic characteristics of the village without being
detrimental to those existing historic characteristics;
   (F)    Encourage sound planning principles in the arrangement of buildings,
the preservation of greenspace, and the utilization of topography and other
site features;
   (G)   Obtain creative and coordinated designs in harmony with surrounding
uses;
   (H)   Ensure the provision of adequate public facilities and services
including, but not limited to, water, sewer, roads, police and fire protection,
stormwater management, and traffic management; and
   (I)   Allow for creative development that conforms to goals, objectives, and
strategies of the Village Plan.
(Ord. 2006-12, passed 5-1-06)
§ 154.82 APPLICABILITY.
   An application for a PDO District may be initiated for any parcel, or
assemblage of contiguous parcels, that exceeds ten acres in size.
(Ord. 2006-12, passed 5-1-06; Am. Ord. 2014-48, passed 12-1-14)
§ 154.83 AUTHORITY TO INITIATE.
   (A)   Property owners or an agent representing the property owners may
initiate an application for a PDO district in accordance with this section.
Each application shall be signed by all of the subject property owners
acknowledging consent to rezone, or the owners’ authorized agent (demonstrated
by written authorization to rezone) of the property within the area proposed to
be reclassified, attesting to the truth and correctness of all facts and
information presented within the application.
   (B)   The village may initiate a zoning map amendment to create a PDO
District on any applicable property. The signature of property owners shall not
be required if the village initiates the zoning map amendment.
(Ord. 2006-12, passed 5-1-06)
§ 154.84 APPLICANT INITIATED PDO.
   Establishing a PDO District shall require a zoning map amendment pursuant to
§
154.66 that shall be reviewed pursuant to the following procedure:
   (A)   Step 1: Preapplication Conference.
      (1)   The applicant shall meet with the GPHPC to discuss the initial
concepts of the planned development and general compliance with applicable
provisions of this section prior to the submission of the application.
      (2)   During this time, the applicant is strongly encouraged to contact
neighboring property owners regarding the applicant’s plans and to solicit
input from those property owners.
      (3)   Discussions that occur during a preapplication conference or a
preliminary meeting with administration or the GPHPC are not binding on the
village and do not constitute official assurances or representations by the
village or its officials regarding any aspects of the plan(s) or application(s)
discussed.
   (B)   Step 2: Application.
      (1)   Following the preapplication conference with the GPHPC, the
applicant may submit an application for a zoning map amendment to the Village
Administrator.
      (2)   The application shall include all such forms, maps, and
information, as may be prescribed for that purpose by the GPHPC to assure the
fullest practicable presentation of the facts for the permanent record. A list
of minimum requirements may be adopted by the GPHPC.
      (3)   All applications shall be submitted with the required fees as
established in this section.
      (4)   The applicant shall also submit the preliminary development plan
simultaneously with the application for a zoning map amendment.
   (C)   Step 3: Submission of the Preliminary Development Plan.
      (1)   The preliminary development plan submission shall be in a form and
in quantities as prescribed by this section and by the GPHPC. A list of minimum
submittal requirements may be adopted by the GPHPC.
      (2)   Preliminary development plans should generally include the
following:
         (a)   Approximate areas and arrangement of the proposed uses and the
relationship of abutting land uses and zone districts;
         (b)   The proposed general location of vehicular circulation and
method of access to the surrounding roadways;
         (c)   The proposed treatment of existing topography, drainage ways and
tree cover;
         (d)   The location of schools, parks, greenspace, community amenities
or facilities, if any;
         (e)    Required impact studies and certification of adequate public
facilities and services as required in §
154.93(D);
         (f)   Anticipated time schedule of projected development, if the total
landholding is to be developed in stages, or if construction is to extend
beyond a two year time period;
         (g)   For residential uses, the preliminary development plan shall
also include the proposed type of unit, density level, and proposed area
setbacks of each residential area, and the type, general location and
approximate acreage of the common greenspace. All other miscellaneous and
accessory uses shall also be included;
         (h)   In the case of nonresidential uses, the preliminary development
plan shall identify the principal and accessory types of uses that are to be
included in the proposed development, including their approximate location,
size, and intensity. The proposed type, general location and approximate
acreage of common greenspace shall also be included; and
         (i)   Any other information required by the GPHPC.
   (D)   Step 4: Public Hearing with the GPHPC.
      (1)   Upon the filing of an application and preliminary development plan
for a PDO District amendment (Steps 2 and 3), the GPHPC shall set a date,
within 60 days of the application, for a public hearing regarding the proposed
amendment application and preliminary development plan.
      (2)   If additional information is deemed necessary to complete its
review and recommendation of the proposed preliminary development plan, the
GPHPC may, by majority vote of its membership, continue the hearing to a date
and time established in the motion to continue the hearing. The public hearing
to consider a preliminary development plan shall be concluded within 90 days of
the date when such hearing was first held.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the requirements established in division (D)(2) of
this section, the application for a preliminary development plan may be tabled
or continued for any set period of time upon the mutual agreement of the
applicant and the village.
      (4)   Within 90 days of the conclusion of GPHPC’s public hearing, the
GPHPC shall recommend the approval, approval with modifications, or denial of
the proposed amendment application and preliminary development plan, and submit
such recommendation together with such application and preliminary development
plan to the Village Council.
      (5)   Failure of the GPHPC to act on an application and preliminary
development plan within 90 days of the conclusion of GPHPC’s public hearing to
consider such plan shall constitute approval of the application.
   (E)   Step 5: Public Hearing with the Village Council.
      (1)   Upon receipt of the recommendation from the GPHPC (Step 4), the
Village Council shall set a time for a public hearing, within 60 days of the
GPHPC’s recommendations, on such proposed amendment application and preliminary
development plan.
      (2)   If additional information is deemed necessary to complete its
review of GPHPC’s recommendation of the proposed preliminary development plan,
the Village Council may, by majority vote of its membership, continue the
hearing to a date and time established in the motion to continue the hearing.
The public hearing to consider a preliminary development plan shall be
concluded within 90 days of the date when such hearing was first held.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the requirements established in paragraph 2 of this
section, the application for a preliminary development plan may be tabled or
continued for any set period of time upon the mutual agreement of the applicant
and the village.
      (4)   Within 90 days of the conclusion of the public hearing, the Village
Council shall:
         (a)   Adopt the recommendation of the GPHPC as presented by the GPHPC
by village ordinance with the concurrence of at least a majority of its
membership;
         (b)   Reject the recommendation of the GPHPC as presented by the GPHPC
due to the failure of the village ordinance to pass due to the lack of a
concurrence of a majority of its membership for its passage;
         (c)   Adopt a modification of the recommendation of the GPHPC,
including the approval of an amendment application rejected by the GPHPC
recommendation, by village ordinance with the concurrence of not less than
three fourths of its membership.
      (5)   If the amendment application is denied, the applicant may appeal
the decision to the Court of Common Pleas.
      (6)   Approval of the preliminary development plan shall include density,
intensities, nonresidential building sizes, land uses and their
interrelationship, design standards, and building location. Location of
buildings (if applicable) and uses may be altered slightly due to engineering
feasibility which is to be determined in the subsequent preparation of the
detailed final development plans.
      (7)   The decision by the Village Council is subject to the same
effective date and referendum provisions as set forth in R.C. §§ 731.29 to
731.41. Following approval of the PDO District map amendment application and
preliminary development plan, and after the subsequent referendum period has
ended, the Official Zoning Map shall be changed to reflect this amendment.
   (F)   Step 6: Submission of a Final Development Plan.
      (1)   Once the PDO District and preliminary development plan has been
approved by the Village Council, the applicant shall proceed with the
preparation of the detailed final development plan(s) in whole or in phases.
      (2)   The final development plan submission shall be in a form and in
quantities as prescribed by the GPHPC. A list of minimum submittal requirements
may be adopted by the GPHPC.
      (3)   The detailed final development plan shall be consistent with the
contents of the approved preliminary development plan, and be prepared by a
licensed or certified professional planner, engineer, architect or landscape
architect.
      (4)   A final development plan shall include all necessary legal
documentation relating to the incorporation of a Homeowner's Association for
the purpose of maintaining the specified common greenspace within the planned
development.
   (G)   Step 7: Public Meeting and Recommendation by the GPHPC.
      (1)   Within 60 days of receipt of the detailed final development plan(s)
and recommendations of staff, the GPHPC shall hold a public meeting to study,
review, and make a recommendation on the detailed final development plan(s) on
the basis that all requirements have been satisfied, and the conditions
specified in this section have been met.
      (2)   If additional information is deemed necessary to complete its
review and recommendation of the proposed final development plan, the GPHPC
may, by majority vote of its membership, continue the meeting to a date and
time established in the motion to continue the meeting. The public meeting to
consider a final development plan shall be concluded within 90 days of the date
when such meeting was first held.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the requirements established in division (G)(2) of
this section, the application for a final development plan may be tabled or
continued for any set period of time upon the mutual agreement of the applicant
and the village.
      (4)   Within 45 days of the conclusion of GPHPC’s public meeting, the
GPHPC shall make a recommendation to the Village Council to approve, approve
with modifications, or deny the final development plan(s).
      (5)   Failure of the GPHPC to act on a final development plan within 45
days of the conclusion of GPHPC’s public meeting to consider such plan shall
constitute approval of the application.
   (H)   Step 8 – Public Meeting and Decision by the Village Council.
      (1)   Within 60 days of receipt of the recommendation from the GPHPC
(Step 7), the Village Council shall review the final development plan as it
relates to this ordinance at a public meeting.
      (2)   If additional information is deemed necessary to complete its
review of GPHPC’s recommendation of the proposed final development plan, the
Village Council may, by majority vote of its membership, continue the meeting
to a date and time established in the motion to continue the meeting. The
public meeting to consider a final development plan shall be concluded within
90 days of the date when such meeting was first held.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the requirements established in division (H)(2) of
this section, the application for a final development plan may be tabled or
continued for any set period of time upon the mutual agreement of the applicant
and the village.
      (4)   Within 45 days after the conclusion of the public meeting, the
Village Council shall:
         (a)   Adopt the recommendation of the GPHPC as presented by the GPHPC
by village ordinance with the concurrence of at least a majority of its
membership;
         (b)   Reject the recommendation of the GPHPC as presented by the GPHPC
due to the failure of the village ordinance to pass due to a lack of a
concurrence of a majority of its membership for its passage;
         (c)   Adopt a modification of the recommendation of the GPHPC,
including the approval of an application rejected by the GPHPC recommendation,
by village ordinance with the concurrence of not less than three fourths of its
membership.
(Ord. 2006-12, passed 5-1-06; Am. Ord. 2016-46, passed 11-7-16)
§ 154.85 VILLAGE INITIATED PDO.
   (A)   If the village initiates a zoning map amendment to create a PDO
District, the village shall not be responsible for preparing and submitting a
preliminary or final development plan for review.
   (B)   The village shall establish the PDO District pursuant to the zoning
map amendment process established in this subchapter.
   (C)   Once the village has rezoned the property to the PDO District, it will
be the responsibility of the property owner or their representative to submit a
preliminary and final development plan pursuant to the review procedure of §
154.84(C) through (H) above in order to obtain building permits for the site.
(Ord. 2006-12, passed 5-1-06)
§ 154.86 SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All applications shall include the basic data package described in §
154.61 and any other requirements as may be established by the GPHPC.
(Ord. 2006-12, passed 5-1-06)
§ 154.87 PUBLIC NOTICE.
   (A) The village shall notify the public of any public hearing in conformance
with Section 713.12 of the Ohio Revised Code.
   (B)   The village shall also mail a written notice of the public hearing to
all property owners within 1,000 feet of the subject property at least 20 days
prior to the hearing.
   (C)   Minor defects in any notice shall not impair the notice or invalidate
proceedings pursuant to the notice if a bona fide attempt has been made to
comply with applicable notice requirements. Minor defects in notice shall be
limited to errors in a legal description, typographical or grammatical errors,
or errors of actual acreage that do not impede communication of the notice to
affected parties. Failure of a party to receive written notice shall not
invalidate subsequent action. In all cases, however, the requirements for the
timing of the notice and for specifying the time, date, and place of a hearing
shall be strictly construed. If questions arise at the hearing regarding the
adequacy of notice, the decision-making body shall direct the agency having
responsibility for notification to make a formal finding as to whether there
was substantial compliance with the notice requirements of this subchapter, and
such finding shall be made available to the decisionmaking body prior to final
action on the request.
   (D)   When the records of the village document the publication, mailing, and
posting of notices as required by this section, it shall be presumed that
notice of a public hearing was given as required by this section.
(Ord. 2006-12, passed 5-1-06)
§ 154.88 APPROVAL CRITERIA.
   (A)   Approval Criteria for a Preliminary Development Plan. The following
criteria shall serve as conditions that should generally be satisfied before
the approval of the preliminary development plan:
      (1)   The PD District and preliminary development plan is consistent with
the adopted Village Plan;
      (2)   The use(s) proposed will not be detrimental to present and
potential surrounding uses, but will have a beneficial effect which could not
be achieved as well under other zoning districts;
      (3)   The internal streets and primary and secondary roads that are
proposed properly interconnect with the surrounding existing road network.
      (4)   The site will be safely accessible from public roads that are
generally adequate to carry the traffic that will be imposed upon them by the
proposed development and the streets and driveways on the site will be adequate
to serve the residents or occupants of the proposed development;
      (5)   The minimum common greenspace area(s) have been designated and
shall be duly transferred to a legally established Homeowner's Association or
has been dedicated to the village or another public or quasi-public agency.
      (6)    The preliminary development plan is consistent with the intent and
purpose of this subchapter.
      (7)   The preliminary development plan has been transmitted to all other
agencies and departments charged with responsibility of review.
   (B)   Approval Criteria for a Final Development Plan. The following criteria
shall serve as conditions that should generally be satisfied before the
approval of the final development plan:
      (1)   Appropriate arrangements with the applicant have been made which
will ensure the reservation of common greenspace as indicated on the
preliminary development plan and final development plan. If deemed necessary by
the Village Council during the preliminary development plan process, the
Village Council may require the applicant to hold bond to ensure the successful
and proper reservation of greenspace;
      (2)   Appropriate agreements with the applicant have been made to ensure
the proper completion of public improvements in compliance with
Chapter 153: Subdivision Regulations;
      (3)   The proposed detailed final development plan(s) for the individual
section(s) of the overall PD District is consistent in contents (building
location, land uses, densities and intensities, yard requirements, and area and
frontage requirements) with the approved preliminary development plan and the
Glendale Village Plan;
      (4)   Each individual phase of the development can exist as an
independent unit that is capable of creating an environment of sustained
desirability and stability, or that adequate assurance will be provided that
such objective can be obtained;
      (5)   That any part of the planned development not used for structures,
parking and loading areas, or streets, shall be landscaped or otherwise
improved; or if approved by the GPHPC, left in its natural state;
      (6)   That any exception from the design standards provided in the PD
District is warranted by the design and amenities incorporated in the detailed
final development plan;
      (7)   That the internal streets and thoroughfares proposed are suitable
and adequate to accommodate the anticipated traffic within and through the
development;
      (8)   That the detailed final development plan is consistent with the
intent and purpose of this section and to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare of the residents of Glendale; and
      (9)   The final development plan has been transmitted to all other
agencies and departments charged with responsibility of review.
(Ord. 2006-12, passed 5-1-06)
§ 154.89 TIME LIMITS.
   (A)   The final development plan(s) shall be submitted within one year of
approval of the preliminary development plan or the approval of the preliminary
development plan will expire and the plan will be deemed null and void.
   (B)   Upon expiration of the preliminary development plan, the property
shall still be zoned as a planned development with a voided preliminary
development plan. The property owner or agent may submit an application and new
preliminary development plan for consideration pursuant to §
154.84.
   (C)   Upon the expiration of the preliminary development plan, the GPHPC or
Village Council may initiate hearings to remove the planned development
district.
   (D)   The GPHPC may authorize an extension of these time limits if good
cause is shown for the delay of the final development plan submission.
   (E)   For phased developments, the GPHPC and Village Council may approve a
phased final development plan schedule as part of the preliminary development
plan approval. In such case, the approved time frames shall establish when the
approved preliminary plan shall expire.
(Ord. 2006-12, passed 5-1-06)
§ 154.90 EFFECT OF A FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   (A)   The approved final development plan shall be kept on record in the
Village Administration Offices together with all ordinances, applications,
plats, plans, and other information regarding the development.
   (B)   The ordinances prepared by the GPHPC and Village Council serve as the
official record for the permitted uses and activities which are approved for
the planned development landholding.
   (C)   The use of the planned development landholding or the location,
erection, construction, reconstruction, enlargement, or change of any building
or structure in a manner which is not consistent with the final development
plan shall be considered a violation of this subchapter and subject to the
procedures and penalties specified in §§
154.95 and
154.99.
(Ord. 2006-12, passed 5-1-06)
§ 154.91 REQUIRED CONDITIONS FOR THE ISSUANCE OF A BUILDING PERMIT.
   (A)   No building permit shall be issued for any property in a PDO District
and no construction shall begin until a valid final development plan is in
effect for that phase or property.
   (B)   Preliminary excavation may be permitted provided the proposed
excavation is approved as part of the preliminary development plan approval.
   (C)   The final development plan becomes valid upon approval of a resolution
by the GPHPC and Village Council.
(Ord. 2006-12, passed 5-1-06)
§ 154.92 MODIFICATIONS TO PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   If an applicant or the village, in the case of village-initiated PDO,
proposes to modify an approved preliminary development plan or final
development plan, the applicant or the village shall submit the proposed
modifications to the Village Administrator.
   (B)   The Village Administrator shall forward all applications for a
modification to the GPHPC for review to determine if the proposed modification
is a major change or a minor change and forward the proposed modifications in
accordance with the following subsections.
   (C)   Major changes.
      (1)   Major changes shall include:
         (a)   An increase in density or intensity;
         (b)   Changes to the property or project boundaries of the entire PD
District;
         (c)   Significant modification of the type, location or amount of land
designated for a specific land use or greenspace;
         (d)   Modifications in the internal street and thoroughfare locations
or alignments which significantly impact traffic patterns or safety
considerations; or
         (e)   A change of use that is not otherwise permitted pursuant to §
154.93.
      (2)   Major changes shall be subject to review and approval of the GPHPC
and Village Council.
      (3)   Major changes to an existing planned development, modifications
from the preliminary development plan, or revisions to a final development plan
for a tract of land in which development has not already begun or is completed,
in light of technical or engineering considerations, shall be subject to
reconsideration and approval by the village and shall be required in accordance
with the procedures specified in §
154.84.
   (D)   Minor changes.
      (1)   Minor changes shall be subject to review and approval by the GPHPC
only.
      (2)   The GPHPC shall consider the purpose of this section and the review
criteria in making their decision on minor changes.
(Ord. 2006-12, passed 5-1-06; Am. Ord. 2014-47, passed 12-1-14)
§ 154.93 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A) Permitted uses.
      (1)   The following shall be principal uses that may be permitted by the
village provided the uses meet all other applicable standards of this section
and are approved by the village in the preliminary development plan:
         (a)   Attached multiple residential dwellings shall each have a
separate external entrance, except a dwelling that is part of a mixed-use
building. The number of such dwellings, regardless of whether they are part of
a mixed-use building, shall not result in a net density that exceeds the limits
of division (B)(4) below;
         (b)   Bars or taverns;
         (c)   Detached single-family dwellings;
         (d)   Financial institutions with or without attached drive-through
facilities;
         (e)   Government facilities and other public uses;
         (f)   Hospitals;
         (g)   [This division intentionally left blank]
         (h)   Medical or dental clinics;
         (i)   Mixed use buildings with commercial uses on the first floor and
office or residential uses on the second floor;
         (j)   Nursing homes, assisted living facilities, and other
convalescent housing;
         (k)   Offices;
         (l)   Parks, greenspace, and playgrounds;
         (m)   Public or private educational facilities;
         (n)   Religious places of worship;
         (o)   Restaurants; and
         (p)   Retail or service commercial uses.
      (2)   Drive-through facilities shall be prohibited unless specifically
permitted in the above list of uses.
      (3)   The following shall be accessory uses that may be permitted by the
village as part of a PDO District:
         (a)   Accessory uses permitted in the “AA-1”, “AA-2”, “A”, “B”, or “C”
Districts when accessory to a residential principal use;
         (b)   Parking structures provided they are located in a rear yard or
otherwise screened from residential uses; and
         (c)   Other uses which are typical accessory and incidental to
nonresidential uses.
   (B)   Land use ratios and intensities.
      (1)   A minimum of 30% of the project area shall be dedicated to
residential uses, provided that, in implementing this requirement, the GPHPC
and Council shall have the discretion of considering the “project area” to be:
         (a)   The entirety of the property covered by the PDO;
         (b)   Each separate and distinct section of the property covered by
the PDO that is presented for development; or
         (c)   Any combination of adjacent separate and distinct sections of
the property covered by the PDO that are presented for development.
      (2)   A minimum 20% of the gross project area of each separate and
distinct section of the property covered by a PDO that is presented for
development shall be dedicated to greenspace, provided that the greenspace
meets the requirements of division (C).
      (3)   The remaining area of the project area may be used for residential
uses, greenspace, or other uses as permitted in division (A) and as authorized
in the preliminary development plan process.
      (4)   The maximum net density of residential uses shall be six units per
acre, except for residential uses that are part of a development that includes
a nursing home, assisted living facility or other convalescent home
(collectively “care facility”) and the services of the care facility are
available to the residents at their option.
      (5)   The maximum impervious surface ratio of any lot shall be 70%.
   (C)   Minimum greenspace requirements.
      (1)   The following land shall not count toward the minimum greenspace
requirement of division (B) above:
         (a)   Detention or retention ponds or other stormwater areas, unless
otherwise approved as part of the preliminary development plan;
         (b)   Land that is privately owned (not held or maintained as common
open/greenspace) may be considered as meeting a portion of the greenspace
requirement provided it approved by the village during the preliminary
development plan review process;
         (c)   Land that is part of a required setback, buffer, or landscape
area as established in this subchapter shall not be counted toward the minimum
greenspace requirement; and
         (d)   Land that is used or dedicated for use as a cemetery.
      (2)   All greenspaces shall either be dedicated to the village or
protected and maintained by a homeowners’ association. The village shall not be
required to accept any greenspace.
      (3)   All documents of incorporation and initial bylaws of a homeowners’
association are subject to review by the village to ensure that all greenspace
areas will be adequately maintained.
      (4)   A minimum of 50% of the required greenspace set aside shall be
improved greenspace as approved by the village. The remainder of the set aside
may be left in its natural state, but shall still be part of a common area
accessible by the public.
      (5)   Improved areas may include:
         (a)   Playgrounds and improved parks;
         (b)   Community centers;
         (c)   Swimming pools;
         (d)   Improved ponds;
         (e)   Retention ponds that are improved so as to be an amenity to the
site and as approved by the GPHPC;
         (f)   Picnic facilities;
         (g)   Public plazas that may serve as gathering places for residents;
         (h)   Other improved areas that may be used by the public as approved
by the GPHPC.
   (D)   Public facilities.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish minimum
standards that ensure that public facilities and services needed to support a
development are available concurrently with the impacts of such development.
      (2)   Impact study required.
         (a)   The applicant shall be required to prepare a fiscal and services
impact study to illustrate the impact the proposed development will have on
services including, but not limited to, police, fire,
and schools.
         (b)   This impact study may incorporate the requirements of divisions
(3) and (4) below.
         (c)   The fiscal impact study shall provide an estimate of the amount
of tax revenue that may be generated by the development, the distribution of
such taxes, and any deficiencies the development
may create between the taxes generated and the demand for services.
      (3)   Water, wastewater, and stormwater.
         (a)   The applicant shall demonstrate that there is adequate, or will
be, adequate water and wastewater service at the time of occupancy. The
availability of such services shall be certified by the applicable public
service provider.
         (b)   The applicant shall be required to demonstrate that the new
development will meet all stormwater standards of the county as well as all
state and federal Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regulations.
         (c)   If adequate service is not available, the applicant shall be
responsible for the costs required to extend or provide service to the subject
area.
      (4)   Transportation.
         (a)   A traffic impact study shall be required for all development in
a PDO District. Such study shall be completed by an independent consultant
pursuant to §
154.94(B).
         (b)   All developments shall demonstrate compliance with the following
transportation level of service standards.
            1.   Existing levels of service at peak hour are maintained on all
arterial and collector roads and at all intersections within 1/4-mile of the
primary access to the site, or the level of service shall not fall below a
Level of Service (LOS) “D” as defined by the Transportation Research Board,
Highway Capacity Manual, Special Report 209 (Washington D.C.: National Research
Council, 1998), as amended.
            2.   However, if the LOS on streets adjacent to the site or within
1/4 mile thereof is currently below LOS “D”, then the applicant shall
demonstrate that the LOS will not fall below the current level.
         (c)   All development shall provide an overall access management plan
that demonstrates free-flowing access to the site and avoids unsafe congestion
conditions on adjacent public roads and streets.
         (d)   The applicant shall be responsible for the costs required to
make the necessary improvements that will, at a minimum, maintain the LOS “D”
or other, pre-existing LOS.
         (e)   Impact studies and certification required. The fiscal and
services impact study, the traffic impact study, and certification of adequate
public facilities shall be provided with the application and prior to the
review and a decision on the preliminary development plan.
   (E)   General design guidelines. The following guidelines shall apply to all
uses unless otherwise noted:
      (1)   All development shall be in compliance with other applicable
provisions of
Chapter 154 of the Glendale Land Usage Regulations unless otherwise authorized
by this PDO.
      (2)   Where applicable, applications shall be subject to historic
preservation review in compliance with the Glendale Historic Preservation
Guidelines.
      (3)   All applications for a PDO shall automatically be required to
comply with §
154.52: Large Scale Development Compatibility unless otherwise authorized by
this PDO. Applications for a Certificate of Architectural Conformance shall be
reviewed as part of the preliminary development plan review.
      (4)   Unless specified otherwise, yard, setback, and lot requirements
shall be established during the preliminary development plan review and shall
be evaluated in relation to the purpose of this section.
      (5)   All utilities shall be located underground to the maximum extent
feasible as determined by the GPHPC or by the Village Engineer.
      (6)   All dumpsters, mechanical equipment, service entrances, loading
areas, and/or outdoor storage shall be:
         (a)   Located in the rear yard to the maximum extent feasible. The
village may permit such use in the side yard if the applicant can demonstrate
that it cannot be located in the rear yard and that there is adequate
screening.
         (b)   Screened by a decorative wall or fence that is architecturally
compatible with the principal building.
         (c)   Designed so that there is adequate access to water for cleaning
and proper maintenance.
      (7)   Outdoor sales, display, and storage of products, beyond that
permitted in division (E)(5) above, shall be prohibited.
      (8)   Chain link, barbed wire, and similar fencing shall be prohibited.
      (9)   Multiple primary buildings on the same site shall be designed to
create a cohesive visual relationship between the buildings.
      (10)   Building materials shall be restricted to brick, wood, stone,
stucco, or natural looking materials. Concrete block or slick materials such as
plastic or metal are prohibited. Other materials may be approved on an
individual basis by the GPHPC.
      (11)   The use of neon lights or bright colors for building materials
shall be prohibited. The applicant may be required to submit a color palette
for review by the GPHPC.
      (12)   Sidewalks.
         (a)   Sidewalks shall be required on both sides of all streets with a
minimum width of five feet in residential areas and six feet in mixed-use or
nonresidential areas.
         (b)   Trails and bikeways located within greenspace or common areas
shall be encouraged.
   (F)   Residential building and site design.
      (1)   Each dwelling unit shall have a separate exterior entrance unless
the attached dwelling is part of a mixed-use building.
      (2)   Attached dwelling units shall be attached only through common walls
unless the attached dwelling is part of a mixed-use building.
      (3)   Garages shall be either flush with the front facade or shall be
setback so as not to be the predominant feature of the dwelling. Rear entry
garages with access from an alley are strongly encouraged.
      (4)   The maximum overall height of residential buildings shall be 35
feet.
   (G)   Mixed-use or nonresidential building and site design.
      (1)   No building shall have a footprint that exceeds 25,000 square feet
in size.
      (2)   There shall be a minimum separation of 30 feet between all
buildings within the PDO boundary and 100 feet from all existing structures
outside of the PDO boundary.
      (3)   The maximum overall height of nonresidential buildings shall be 48
feet.
      (4)   Nonresidential buildings shall be setback a minimum of 100 feet
from all residential dwelling units.
      (5)   Buffering.
         (a)   A 30-foot landscape buffer shall be provided between any PDO
development and adjacent, existing residential properties. The buffer shall
include a six-foot fence, wall or earthen berm along with three evergreen trees
plus three deciduous trees and three shrubs for every 60 lineal feet of
bufferyard.
         (b)   A natural buffer consisting of 10 evergreen trees, planted in an
offset manner as to create a solid buffer, plus 12 shrubs for every 75 lineal
feet of bufferyard may be provided as an alternative to (G)(5) above. The
landscape buffer may be located within required setbacks.
         (c)   Divisions (a) and (b) above represent the minimum buffer that
shall be required between residential and mixed-use or nonresidential
developments. Where it finds that such buffering will not be sufficient to
reduce visual and noise impacts to levels reasonable for residential uses, the
village may require a developer to supply buffering in addition to that
required in divisions (a) and (b) above between any existing or proposed
residential development and adjacent public streets or nonresidential zoning or
development in the village or neighboring municipalities.
         (d)   Responsibility for the buffering required under divisions (a),
(b) or (c) above shall rest primarily with the developer of the mixed-use or
nonresidential development involved, unless said development is pre-existing or
outside the borders of the village or it is otherwise infeasible for the
developer of said uses to be required to provide the buffering, in which case
the responsibility for buffering shall rest with the developer of the
residential use that abuts the mixed-use or nonresidential development.
         (e)   The applicant shall have the ability to utilize an alternative
approach to buffering, other than the requirements of this section, if
applicant can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the village that the proposed
alternative approach meets or exceeds the efficacy of the buffering provided by
said requirements.
      (6)   All elevations of a building are subject to review. A front facade
shall be architecturally emphasized although all sides of a building shall be
architecturally consistent with the front facade.
      (7)   No more than 60% of a façade may be constructed of glass or other
transparent materials.
      (8)   Flat rooflines are permitted with the use of cornices, parapets, or
some form of architectural emphasis along the roofline.
      (9)   Long or continuous wall planes shall be avoided with a maximum
uninterrupted single wall plane of 30 feet.
      (10)   Color schemes should be kept simple with no more than one or two
trim colors on any given building. The chosen color scheme should help tie all
of the parts of the building together.
      (11)   All vents, gutters, downspouts, flashing, electrical conduits,
etc., shall be painted to match the color of the adjacent surface, unless being
used expressly as a trim or accent element.
      (12)   The construction materials and colors of walls and fences on
nonresidential properties shall be uniform and compatible with the
architectural style, color, and building materials of the principal building
and its surroundings.
   (H)   Outdoor lighting.
      (1)   Outdoor lighting shall be subject to §
154.28.
      (2)   Outdoor lighting shall be designed so there is no light spillage
from the site onto existing residences and shall be demonstrated through the
preparation of a photometric lighting plan.
   (I)   Landscaping and buffering.
      (1)   The applicant shall be required to submit a landscape plan as part
of the final development plan to demonstrate compliance with these
requirements.
      (2)   Plant materials shall be chosen which are indigenous, moderately
fast growing, and require minimal maintenance. The landscape design shall
incorporate the entire site and consist of a palette of plants with year round
appeal, which might include annuals, perennials, shrubs, and trees.
      (3)   Street trees shall be required on both sides of the street and
shall be located in a tree lawn between the sidewalk and street. The tree lawn
shall have a minimum width of five feet unless otherwise approved by the GPHPC.
      (4)   Wooded areas shall be preserved, to the maximum extent feasible, as
determined by the GPHPC, the Village Engineer, or an independent specialist
selected by the village pursuant to §
154.94(B).
      (5)   Landscaping areas shall be provided around every ground-mounted or
pole-mounted sign. The landscaped area shall be of a size equal to or exceeding
the total area of the sign face.
      (6)   Plant materials.
         (a)   Plant materials used in conformance with these provisions shall
conform to the American Association of Nurserymen and shall have passed any
inspection required under state regulations. Trees shall be balled and
burlapped or in containers. Shrubs, vines, and ground covers can be plants as
bare root as well as balled and burlapped or from containers.
         (b)   Deciduous trees shall have a minimum caliper of at least 2.5
inches DBH conforming to acceptable nursery industry procedures at the time of
planting. If deciduous trees are to be used for screening purposes, additional
materials listed in this section shall be used to create a dense buffer.
         (c)   Evergreen trees shall be a minimum of six feet in height at the
time of planting. Evergreen plantings shall be planted at a maximum distance of
15 feet on center to provide an effective buffer.
         (d)   Ornamental trees shall have a minimum height of five feet or a
minimum caliper of at least 2.5 inches DBH conforming to acceptable nursery
industry procedures at the time of planting.
         (e)   Street Tree Standards.
            1.   Street trees shall be of a species approved by a landscape
architect or arborist for use as a street tree. Street trees shall be of a size
and species suitable for location in tree lawns in close proximity to streets.
            2.   Choose only small-scale trees when planting underneath power
lines.
         (f)   Shrubs and hedges shall be at least 36 inches in height at the
time of planting. All shrubs and hedges shall be designed to provide an
effective buffer of at least five feet within a period of four years after
planting.
         (g)   Grass shall be planted in species normally grown in permanent
lawns in the county. In swales or other areas subject to erosion, solid sod
shall be sown for immediate protection until complete coverage otherwise is
achieved. Grass sod shall be clean and free of weeds and noxious pests or
diseases. Ground cover shall be planted at a maximum spacing of one foot on
center to provide 75% complete coverage after two growing seasons.
         (h)   Once the minimum landscape requirements have been met, any size
plant may be installed on a lot to supplement the minimum requirements.
      (7)   Tree canopy coverage.
         (a)   Trees shall be provided within the limits of construction to the
extent that at 20 years from the date of planting, tree canopies or covers will
provide at least a coverage of 20% for residential areas or 10% for mixed-use
and nonresidential areas. Such coverage shall be certified by a landscape
architect or certified arborist.
         (b)   Existing trees or wooded areas which are to be preserved, at the
applicants option may be included to meet all or part of the canopy
requirements, provided the site plan identifies such trees and the trees meet
the standards of size, health, placement, etc. set out in this section. The
village may enlist the services of a landscape architect or certified arborist
to evaluate use of existing trees to ensure they have adequate health and
strength to allow such use.
         (c)   Existing trees designated to be included as part of these
requirements shall be protected during construction by fencing placed at a
distance in feet equal to or greater than the caliper of the tree in inches at
the height of four feet.
         (d)   The extent of canopy at maturity shall be based on published
reference texts generally accepted by landscape architects, nurserymen, and
arborists.
      (8)   Vehicular use area landscaping.
         (a)   Parking areas and driveways shall be landscaped with shrubs,
trees, or tree groupings.
         (b)   A minimum of 10% of the total interior parking lot area of
parking lots with more than five spaces shall be landscaped with planted
islands. A minimum of one tree and two shrubs shall be planted in interior
islands for every 2,500 square feet of parking lot.
         (c)   Parking islands shall be located so there shall be no more than
15 parking spaces located between parking islands.
         (d)   Landscaped medians extending the full length of the parking area
shall be constructed between every four rows of parking.
         (e)   Planted islands shall be at least 170 square feet in size with
the smallest dimension of pervious surface being ten feet to allow for adequate
root aeration and expansion.
         (f)   Where landscaping is used as screening, it shall be opaque year
round and shall have a minimum height of eight feet at time of installation.
         (g)   Landscape screening shall be of a height and density so that it
provides the full desired effect within three growing seasons.
      (9)   Maintenance.
         (a)   Street tree bonding.
            1.   Prior to final approval of the final development plan, the
applicant shall enter into an agreement with the village to provide completed
street tree plantings and shall post an irrevocable letter of credit, bond, or
other surety with the Village Council.
            2.   If all the street tree plantings are not completed within two
years of approval or if the approved landscape plan is not followed, regarding
street trees, the surety or bond shall be forfeited and shall be used to
complete the landscape plan as approved.
            3.   The bond or other surety shall be held for a period of 18
months after installation of plantings to assure proper maintenance and growth.
Failure to maintain the vegetation and to replace dead plants or trees shall
result in a forfeiture of the posted bond or other surety.
            4.   Prior to the, release of the bond, the site shall be inspected
by the village upon notification by the applicant to assure proper maintenance
and installation.
         (b)   All landscaping materials shall be installed and maintained
according to accepted nursery industry procedures. The owner of the property
shall be responsible for the continued property maintenance of all landscaping
materials and shall keep them in a proper, neat, and orderly appearance free
from refuse and debris at all times.
         (c)   Unhealthy and dead plants that are required as part of these
requirements shall be replaced within one-year, or by the next planting season,
whichever comes first.
         (d)   Violation of these maintenance practices shall be a violation of
this subchapter.
   (J)   Parking.
      (1)   Required parking spaces. Table 1 shall establish the minimum
parking spaces required for permitted uses.
 
Table 1: Required Parking
Use                                    Required Parking Spaces
Dwelling units (attached or detached)  2 spaces per dwelling unit
Bars or taverns                        15 spaces per 1,000 square feet
Financial institutions                 4 spaces per 1,000 square feet
Government facilities and other public As approved by the GPHPC
uses
                                       1 space for every 2 patient beds (not
                                       bassinets) plus 4 spaces for 1,000
Hospitals                              square feet of outpatient clinics,
                                       laboratories, pharmacies and other
                                       similar uses
Table 1: Required Parking (Cont’d)
Use Required Parking Spaces
Table 1: Required Parking (Cont’d)
Use                                Required Parking Spaces
Hotels                             1 space per room or suite
Medical or dental clinics          4 spaces per 1,000 square feet
Mixed-use buildings                Parking shall equal the sum of the parking
                                   requirements of the separate uses.
Nursing homes, assisted living
facilities, and other convalescent 1 space per 2 beds
housing
Offices                            3 spaces per 1,000 square feet
Parks or playgrounds               1 space per 5,000 square feet of park or
                                   playground area
                                   1 space per 3 students (maximum capacity)
Educational facilities             for senior high schools and 1 space per 5
                                   students (maximum capacity) for elementary
                                   and junior schools.
                                   1 space per 3 fixed seats in the main
Religious places of worship        assembly room or 1 space per 3 persons of
                                   maximum occupancy, whichever is greater
Restaurants                        10 spaces per 1,000 square feet or 1 space
                                   for each 4 seats, whichever is greater
Retail or service commercial uses  1 space per 250 square feet
                                   Upon receiving an application for a use
                                   not specifically listed in the parking
                                   schedule above, the GPHPC shall apply the
                                   parking standard specified for the listed
                                   use that is deemed most similar to the
                                   proposed use in regards to use, size and
Unlisted uses                      intensity of use.
                                   If the GPHPC determines that there is no
                                   listed use similar to the proposed use,
                                   intensity, or size, they may refer to the
                                   estimates of parking demand based on
                                   recommendations of the Institute of
                                   Traffic Engineers (ITE).
 
      (2)   In no case shall more than 100% of the parking required in Table 1
above be provided on surface parking lots. Any parking over 100% of that
required by Table 1 shall be provided in a parking structure (underground or
above ground parking garages).
      (3)   All above ground parking structure shall be architecturally
compatible with adjacent buildings.
      (4)   Off-street parking areas for all mixed-use buildings shall be
located in the side or rear yard.
      (5)   Parking in the front yard of any nonresidential building shall be
limited to one access drive and two bays of parking stalls (See Figure 1).
Figure 1: Parking Around Nonresidential Uses
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6763e3b74e0298c334a111e03d3b3c5c5d0631fe/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5675.jpg]
 
      (6)   Continuous curbs shall be required to surround parking areas in all
business districts for parking lots with 20 or more parking spaces.
      (7)   Shared parking arrangements between uses are encouraged provided
they meet the following requirements:
         (a)   A sufficient number of spaces is provided to meet the highest
demand of the participating uses;
         (b)   The uses are located adjacent to each other;
         (c)   Evidence has been submitted by the parties operating the shared
parking facility, to the satisfaction of the GPHPC, documenting the nature of
uses and the times when the individual uses will operate so as to demonstrate
the lack of potential conflict between them.
         (d)   Shared parking spaces not located within a parking structure
shall not be located in excess of 300 feet from the uses they are intended to
serve;
         (e)   A legal shared parking agreement is submitted and approved by
the Village Attorney that provides for the rights of the respective parties to
use the shared parking areas in a manner adequate to accommodate multiple users
or that parking spaces will be shared at specific times of the day (i.e., one
activity uses the spaces during daytime hours and another activity use the
spaces during evening hours). This agreement shall include provisions, evidence
of deed restrictions or other recorded covenants that ensure that the spaces
will be properly maintained during the life of the development.
         (f)   The approved shared parking agreement shall be filed with the
application for a building permit and shall be filed with the County Recorder
and recorded in a manners as to encumber all properties involved in the shared
parking agreement.
         (g)   No building permit will be issued until proof of recordation of
the agreement is provided to the Village Administrator.
         (h)   Shared parking shall not account for more than 50% of the
required parking spaces as established in Table 1 above.
   (K)   Sound.
      (1)   No activity on private property shall emit noise or sound levels
that create a nuisance to surrounding properties.
      (2)   For development in the vicinity of Interstate 75, the buildings and
buffers should be designed so as to not funnel sounds from the interstate
toward existing housing.
   (L)   Signs.
      (1)   Residential signs. Residential signs shall be permitted in
accordance with §
154.27.
      (2)   Nonresidential signs.
         (a)   One ground-mounted sign may be permitted for each parcel. Such
sign shall not exceed eight feet in height.
         (b)   The maximum sign area for ground-mounted signs shall be 40
square feet per face with a maximum number of two sign faces.
         (c)   Ground mounted signs shall be designed and constructed of the
same materials as the main building.
         (d)   Wall signs may be permitted provided there is a maximum sign
area of one square foot per lineal foot of building frontage. The building
owner or manager shall be responsible for determining the sign allotment for
individual tenant space.
         (e)   No ground or wall sign shall be internally illuminated. External
lighting of a sign may be permitted if the lighting is designed to shield the
light source in accordance with §
154.28 (Outdoor Lighting).
         (f)   Free-standing pole signs shall only be permitted along
Interstate 75 as part of a PDO District. Such sign shall have a maximum height
of 20 feet and a maximum sign area of 100 square feet per face with a maximum
number of two sign faces.
   (M)   Construction site maintenance standards. The applicant shall be
responsible for maintaining a clean and organized work site so as to eliminate
any detrimental effects on neighboring properties during the construction
phase. At a minimum, applicants shall be responsible for complying with land
erosion standards, cleaning debris and mud from access roadways during
construction, storage of building materials, use of side streets by
construction vehicles during construction, and regularly scheduled disposal of
building refuse and debris.
(Ord. 2006-12, passed 5-1-06; Am. Ord. 2014-47, passed 12-1-14)
§ 154.94 DEVELOPMENT REVIEW FEES AND INDEPENDENT REVIEW.
   (A)   Review fees.
      (1)   The applicant shall be responsible for the expenses incurred by the
village in reviewing the proposed plans or any modifications to the plan. Such
expenses may include items such as the cost of professional services including
expenses and legal fees in connection therewith, and any other reasonable
expenses directly attributable thereto.
      (2)   At the time of submitting the preliminary development plan along
with the appropriate application, the applicant shall make a deposit in the
office of the Village Administrator for $3,000.
      (3)   The village shall use the fee to pay for the stated expenses. Once
the fund is reduced by two-thirds, the applicant shall be required to deposit
another $3,000.
      (4)   Any funds not used following the approval of the final development
plan shall be returned to the applicant in a timely manner without interest.
   (B)   Independent studies or review. The village may require that an
independent consultant be hired by the village to perform required traffic
impact studies, landscaping and/or buffer studies, fiscal and services impact
studies, sound studies, and/or stormwater impact studies or to review all or
part of a study prepared by the applicant's consultants. The Village
Administrator is authorized to administer the contracts for such consultants.
      (1)   The Village Administrator shall determine the scope of services to
be performed by the independent consultant and receive a cost estimate of such
services.
      (2)   Prior to the village making a commitment for work to be done under
this division, the applicant shall provide an amount equal to the estimate for
such work to the Village Administrator, who will deposit the amount in an
escrow or special account set up for this purpose. Any funds not used for the
independent consultant shall be returned to the applicant in a timely manner
without interest.
      (3)   The Village Administrator may require additional fees for the
independent review if: the GPHPC or Village Council expands the scope of the
required review; the applicant substantially amends the application; additional
meetings involving the consultants are requested by the applicant; the
consultant's appearance is requested at GPHPC or Village Council meetings
beyond what was initially
anticipated; or the consultant's attendance is required at meetings with
regional, state, or federal agencies or boards which were not anticipated in
the earlier scope of services.
   (C)   Failure to pay.
      (1)   If the applicant fails to deposit the appropriate funds, the
village shall send one invoice to the applicant who shall have 30 days to pay
any outstanding fees. If such invoice is not paid in full, the review of the
applicant shall cease.
      (2)   If the invoice is not paid in full within 90 days, the application
shall be deemed void and the applicant shall be required to submit a new
application pursuant to §
154.84.
(Ord. 2006-12, passed 5-1-06; Am. Ord. 2014-47, passed 12-1-14)
§ 154.95 VIOLATION.
   No building shall be located, erected, constructed, reconstructed, enlarged,
changed, maintained, or used, and no land shall be used in violation of this
section, or amendment or supplement to it adopted by the Village Council. Each
day's continuation of a violation of this section may be deemed a separate
offense.
(Ord. 2006-12, passed 5-1-06)
§ 154.96 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of construction and interpretation.
      (1)   Intent. All provisions, terms, phrases, and expressions contained
in this section shall be construed according to this subchapter’s stated
purpose and intent.
      (2)   Lists and examples. Unless otherwise specifically indicated, lists
of items or examples that use terms such as including, such as, or similar
language are intended to provide examples, not to be exhaustive lists of all
possibilities.
      (3)   Computation of time. Unless the terms of a specific provision state
otherwise (e.g., some provisions specify “business days”), periods of time
defined by a number of days shall mean a number of consecutive calendar days,
including all weekend days, holidays, and other non-business/working days;
however, if the last day is a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, that day
shall be excluded.
      (4)   References to other regulations, publications and documents.
Whenever reference is made to a ordinance, statute, regulation, or document,
that reference shall be construed as referring to the most recent edition of
such regulation (as amended), resolution, statute, regulation, or document or
to the relevant successor document, unless otherwise expressly stated.
      (5)   Public officials and agencies. All public officials, bodies, and
agencies to which references are made are those of the village, unless
otherwise expressly stated.
      (6)   Technical words. Technical words and phrases not otherwise defined
in this subchapter that may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
      (7)   Mandatory and discretionary terms. The word shall is always
mandatory, and the words may or should are always permissive.
      (8)   Conjunctions. Unless the context clearly suggests the contrary,
conjunctions shall be interpreted as follows:
         (a)   “And” indicates that all connected items, conditions,
provisions, or events shall apply; and
         (b)   “Or” indicates that one or more of the connected items,
conditions, provisions, or events shall apply.
      (9)   Tense and usage. Words used in one tense (past, present, or future)
include all other tenses, unless the context clearly indicates the contrary.
The singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include the
singular.
      (10)   Meaning. For the purpose of this subchapter, words and phrases
shall have the meanings set forth in this section.
      (11)   Other terms not defined. Words and phrases not otherwise defined
in this ordinance shall be construed according to the common and approved usage
of American English.
   (B)   Definitions.
      ATTACHED DWELLINGS.  A building or portion thereof designed for or used
exclusively for residential purposes by two or more families or housekeeping
units. Multi-family dwelling shall include apartment buildings, condominiums,
elderly housing, and buildings where two or more dwellings are attached by
common walls within a single structure. Attached dwelling shall also include
dwellings attached to nonresidential uses.
      BARS or TAVERNS.  An establishment provided or dispensing, for on-site
consumption, any fermented malt beverage, malt beverage, special malt, vinous,
or spirituous liquors. The sale of food products including, but not limited to,
sandwiches and light snacks may be a secondary use to the service of the
aforementioned drinks.
      CONTIGUOUS.  Lots that share property lines but that are not separated by
streets or public right-of-ways.
      DBH. Diameter-at-breast-height and is used to measure the caliper of a
tree trunk at the specific height of 4.5 feet above the ground.
      DETACHED SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLINGS.  A building designed for or used
exclusively for residential purposes by one family or housekeeping unit that is
not attached to any other dwelling unit.
      DRIVE-THROUGH FACILITIES. An establishment that encourages or permits
customers to receive services, obtain goods, or be entertained while remaining
in their motor vehicles.
      FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS. Establishments engaged in deposit banking.
Financial institutions may include, but are not limited to, commercial banks,
loan or mortgage companies, stockbrokers, savings institutions, credit unions,
and other similar uses.
      FREE-STANDING SIGN. A sign that is mounted on a freestanding pole or
other support so that the bottom of the sign copy area is five feet or more
above grade.
      GOVERNMENT FACILITIES. A building or land used and/or controlled
exclusively for governmental or public purposes by any department or branch of
government including village, state, county, or other recognized public entity.
Such use may include, but is not limited to, Village offices, public works,
libraries, post offices, and other uses not defined separately within this
subchapter. Government and public use shall not include schools or other
educational facilities as defined elsewhere in this subchapter.
      GPHPC. The Glendale Planning and Historic Preservation Commission.
      GROUND-MOUNTED SIGN. Any sign placed upon or supported by the ground
independent of any other structure.
      HOSPITALS. A facility providing physical or mental health services,
inpatient or over-night accommodations, and medical or surgical care of the
sick or injured.
      HOTELS. A building in which lodging, with or without meals, is offered
for compensation and in which there are more than five sleeping rooms.
      MEDICAL OR DENTAL CLINICS. Facilities providing medical, dental,
psychiatric, surgical, or related services for persons exclusively on an out-
patient basis, including emergency treatment, diagnostic services, training,
administration, and services to outpatients, employees, or visitors.
      NET DENSITY. The number of residential uses per acre of land in a
development, not including minimum required greenspace, cemeteries, detention
and retention ponds, required buffering, and streets, roads and other paved
surfaces, including parking, which are situated and designed for common
vehicular use, as opposed to use by a specific residence.
      NURSING HOMES, ASSISTED LIVING FACILITIES, AND OTHER CONVALESCENT
HOUSING. Housing for the elderly or infirm in which three or more unrelated
individuals may live on a short-term or long-term basis and where both food and
care are provided for compensation. Such term shall not include hospitals,
medical offices/clinics, or similar institutions devoted primarily to the
diagnosis and treatment of the sick or injured.
      OFFICE. Establishments providing executive, management, administrative,
or professional services including, but not limited to, real estate,
architecture, legal, travel, medical, dental, employment, advertising, design,
engineering, accounting, and similar uses.
      PARKING STRUCTURES. Parking garages or other physical structures designed
and built to accommodate the parking of vehicles.
      PARKS, GREENSPACE, and PLAYGROUNDS. Any park or recreational facility
that requires grading of the land, the construction of facilities, lighting, or
is developed for ball fields. This term shall also include passive recreational
uses such as walking trails, greenspace, natural areas, and the like.
      PUBLIC or PRIVATE EDUCATIONAL FACILITIES. Buildings or structures used to
teach students. Educational facilities may include primary schools, elementary
schools, middle schools, high schools. Educational facilities shall not include
colleges, vocational schools, and other similar uses.
      RELIGIOUS PLACES OF WORSHIP. An institution that congregations of people
regularly attend to participate in or hold religious services, meetings, and
other activities, including buildings in which the religious services of any
denomination are held.
      RESTAURANTS. An establishment whose principal business is the selling of
food and beverages to the customer in a ready to consume state, in individual
servings.
      RETAIL COMMERCIAL USES. Establishments primarily engaged in the sale of
goods and materials to the general public. RETAIL COMMERCIAL USES may include,
but are not limited to, bookstores, antique stores, convenience stores,
bakeries, grocery stores, and other similar uses.
      SERVICE COMMERCIAL USES. Establishments that primarily engage in
rendering services to businesses including, but not limited to, printers,
equipment rental, protective services, mailing, photo
finishing, and other similar uses. SERVICE COMMERCIAL USES do not include
warehousing, self-storage facilities, or other similar storage or industrial
uses or any other service use that requires outside storage of equipment or
materials.
      VILLAGE PLAN. The most recently adopted Glendale Village Plan or any
amendment thereto.
      VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR.  The Administrator of the Village of Glendale or
their designee.
      WALL SIGN.  A sign fastened to or painted on the wall of a building or
structure in such a manner that the wall becomes the supporting structure for,
or forms the background surface of the sign  and which does not project more
than 12 inches from such building or structure.
      YARD.  An open space on the same lot with a building, unoccupied and
unobstructed by any portion of a structure from the ground upward, except as
otherwise provided herein. In measuring a yard for the purpose of determining
the width of a side yard, the depth of a front yard or the depth of a rear
yard, the minimum horizontal distance between the lot line and the nearest
portion of the main building shall be used. For the purposes of this section,
front yard, side yard, and rear yard shall be defined below and are illustrated
in Figure 2 as they relate to different lot configurations.
         (a)   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the front of a lot between
the side lot lines and being the minimum horizontal distance between the street
line and the main building or any projection thereof, other than the projection
of the usual steps or entranceway.
         (b)   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the rear of a lot between
the side lot lines and being the minimum horizontal distance between the rear
lot line and the main building or any projection thereof, other than steps,
unenclosed balconies or unenclosed porches.
         (c)   YARD, SIDE. A yard between the main building and the side lot
line of the lot extending from the front yard to the rear yard.
Figure 2: Location of Yards on an Interior, Corner, and Double Frontage Lot
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6763e3b74e0298c334a111e03d3b3c5c5d0631fe/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5678.jpg]
 
(Ord. 2006-12, passed 5-1-06; Am. Ord. 2014-47, passed 12-1-14)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty is
otherwise provided, is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a first offense; on a
second offense within one year after the first offense; the person is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; on each subsequent offense within one year
after the first offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
   (B)   Whoever is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor other than a
minor misdemeanor shall be imprisoned for a definite term, or fined, or both,
which term of imprisonment and fine shall be fixed by the court as provided
below.
      (1)   Terms of imprisonment for misdemeanors shall be imposed as follows.
         (a)   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than 60 days.
         (b)   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than 30 days.
      (2)   Fines for a misdemeanor shall be imposed as follows.
         (a)   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than $500.
         (b)   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than $250.
      (3)   Whoever is convicted of or pleads guilty to a minor misdemeanor
shall be fined not more than $100.
(R.C. § 2929.21)
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any regulation, provision,
amendment or supplement to §§
154.81 through
154.96, or failing to obey any lawful order of the Village Administrator issued
in pursuance thereof, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 or as otherwise provided
by the Ohio Revised Code. Each and every day during which such illegal
location, erection, construction, reconstruction, enlargement, change,
maintenance or use continues may be deemed a separate offence.
(Ord. 2006-12, passed 5-1-06)
CHAPTER 155: HOUSING REGULATIONS
Section
   
155.01   Purpose and scope
   
155.02   Definitions
   
155.03   Enforcement
   
155.04   Standards for residential occupancy
 
   
155.99   Penalty
§ 155.01 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A) Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to establish minimum standards
necessary to make all dwelling structures safe, sanitary, free from fire and
health hazards, fit for human habitation and beneficial to the public welfare;
to establish minimum standards governing the maintenance of dwelling structures
in such condition as will not constitute a blighting or deteriorating influence
on the neighborhood and the community; to fix responsibilities for owners and
occupants of dwelling structures with respect to sanitation, repair, and
maintenance; to authorize the inspection of dwelling structures; to establish
enforcement procedures; to authorize the vacation or condemnation of dwelling
structures unsafe or unfit for human habitation and to fix penalties for
violations.
   (B)   General scope. The provisions of this code shall be supplementary to
all other provisions of the ordinances of the village relating to the
construction, use, and maintenance of residential buildings and shall apply to
all buildings or portions hereof, which are used or designed or intended to be
used for residential occupancy.
   (C)   Existing buildings. Existing buildings or portions thereof presently
used for residential purposes may continue to be occupied for residential
purposes if:
      (1)   The building complies with the provisions of this chapter, except
as to any variance heretofore specifically granted by the village, and
      (2)   The use and occupancy of the building is not in violation of any of
the provisions of the ordinances of the village and applicable state statutes,
including any rules and regulations adopted pursuant to such ordinances or
statutes.
   (D)   Enforcement; legal action. The imposition of any penalty, as provided
for in this code, shall not preclude the Village Attorney from instituting an
appropriate action or proceeding in a court of proper jurisdiction to prevent
an unlawful repair or maintenance, to restrain, correct, or abate a violation,
to prevent the occupancy of a building, this chapter or other applicable
structure, or premises, to require compliance with the provisions of laws,
ordinances, rules, or regulations, or the orders or determinations of the
Building Inspector, the Board of Building Code Appeals, or the Board of Zoning
Appeals.
§ 155.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A) For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (B) Certain words and phrases as used or found in this chapter are hereby
defined. Words not defined shall be as defined in
Chapter 150 (building code) or in
Chapter 154 (zoning code).
   APPROVED. Approved by the Building Inspector pursuant to this chapter, or
approved by any other person or board designated by the ordinances of the
village to give approval to the matter in question.
   BOARD. The Board of Zoning Appeals of the village as created and existing
under the provisions of
Chapter 154.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR. The Building Inspector of the village and, when used
herein, shall be construed as though followed by the words, or his authorized
agent or representative.
   COMMUNAL KITCHEN. A kitchen within a dwelling building used by the occupants
of more than one dwelling unit or shared or used by any person other than the
members of one family.
   HABITABLE ROOM. A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be used
for living, sleeping, or eating purposes, but excluding the following: kitchens
(except kitchens where eating space is included in a room also used for kitchen
or cooking purposes), bathrooms, toilet rooms, laundries, pantries, dressing
rooms, storage spaces, foyers, hallways, utility rooms, heater rooms, boiler
rooms, and basement recreation rooms or HABITABLE FLOOR AREA shall mean the
floor area in any room in any dwelling, dwelling structure or multiple
dwelling, which floor area is required to be contained within such dwelling,
dwelling structure or multiple dwelling, or part thereof, in order to meet the
minimum requirements of this code.
   OCCUPANT. A person over one year of age, living, sleeping, cooking, or
eating in, or having actual possession of, a dwelling unit or a room.
   ONE-FLOOR DWELLING. One in which less than two-thirds of the total habitable
floor area on the second floor has a ceiling height of seven feet six inches or
more.
   OPERATOR. A person who has charge, care, or control of a dwelling structure.
   OWNER. The owner of the premises, including the holder of title thereto
subject to contract of purchase, a vendee in possession, a mortgagee or
receiver in possession, a lessee, or joint lessees of  the whole thereof, or an
agent or any other person, firm, corporation, or fiduciary directly in control
of the premises.
   SUPPLY or SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished, provided by, or under the control
of the owner or operator.
   TWO-FLOOR DWELLING. One in which two-thirds or more of the total habitable
floor area on the second floor has a ceiling height of seven feet six inches or
more.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Glendale, Ohio.
§ 155.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A) Inspection. The Building Inspector is authorized to make or cause to be
made inspections of all structures or premises used for dwelling purposes and
all accessory structures to determine whether such structures or premises
conform to the provisions of this code.
   (B)   Right of entry. Upon presentation of proper credentials, the Building
Inspector may enter at all reasonable times (or at such other times as may be
necessary in an existing emergency) any tenant-occupied dwelling or premises in
the village to perform any duty imposed on him by this chapter. Owner-occupied
dwellings may not be entered without the owner's permission.
   (C)   Notice of violation.
      (1)   Whenever the Building Inspector shall find any dwelling structure
or premises, or any part thereof, to be in violation of the provisions of this
code, the Building Inspector shall give or cause to be given or mailed to the
owner, agent, or operator of such structure or premises a written notice
stating the violation therein. Such notice shall order the owner, agent, or
operator, within a stated reasonable time (but not less than ten days), to
repair, improve, or demolish the structure or premises concerned. Such delivery
or mailing shall be deemed legal service of notice.
      (2)   If the person to whom a notice of violation is addressed cannot be
found within the county after a reasonable and diligent search, then notice
shall be sent by registered mail to the last known address of such person, and
a copy of such notice shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the structure
or premises to which it relates. Such mailing and posting shall be deemed legal
service of notice.
   (D)   Noncompliance with notice.
      (1)   Whenever the owner, agent, occupant, or operator of a structure or
premises fails, neglects, or refuses to comply with any notice of the Building
Inspector, the Building Inspector shall issue a notice to such owner, agent,
occupant, or operator ordering the structure or premises, or part thereof, to
be vacated within such time as shall be stated in such notice, but which shall
be not less than ten days, except in cases of emergency, or he may advise the
Village Attorney of the circumstances and request the Village Attorney to
institute an appropriate action at law to compel compliance, or both. Such
notice shall be delivered, mailed, or posted in the same manner as provided in
division (C) above.
      (2)   Whenever the owner, agent, operator, or occupant of a structure or
premises fails, neglects, or refuses to comply with a notice to vacate issued
by the Building Inspector, the Building Inspector may enforce the orders of
such notice of vacation and cause the structure or premises, or part thereof,
to be vacated in accordance with the terms of such notice.
      (3)   Whenever the owner, agent, or operator of a structure fails,
neglects, or refuses to comply with a notice to demolish such structure, or a
part thereof, or a secondary or appurtenant structure, issued in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter, and when such structure is determined by
the Building Inspector to constitute a public nuisance in that it is dangerous
or injurious to the public health, safety, or welfare, the Building Inspector
may request the Village Attorney to institute legal proceedings or to take such
other action as may be necessary to abate the nuisance. The Building Inspector
shall further give notice informing the owner, agent, or operator of such
determination and action. Such notice shall be given in the same manner as
provided in division (C) above.
   (E)   Placards. Whenever the Building Inspector orders a structure or
premises, or part thereof, to be vacated, he shall cause to be posted at each
entrance to such structure or premises, or part thereof, a placard ordering
such vacation. No person shall deface or remove such placard until the repairs
or demolition are completed, without written permission of the Building
Inspector. No person shall enter or use any structure or premises so placarded
except for the purpose of making the required repairs or demolishing the
structure or premises.
   (F)   Expenses and costs. Any expense or cost incurred under the provisions
for demolition contained in this code shall be paid by the owner of the
structure or premises. If expenses and costs of demolition are not paid by the
owner of the structure or premises within 30 days after written notice from the
village to do so, the expenses and costs may be recovered by an action at law
or may be assessed against the lands of the owner and shall become a lien
thereon, and shall be collected in the manner provided by law for assessments.
   (G)   Right of appeal. The owner, agent, or operator of any structure or
premises shall have the right to appeal from any order of, or written notice
issued by, the Building Inspector, or from any notice of a revocation of a
certificate of occupancy within 30 days from the date such notice was given or
mailed or order issued, and to appear before the Board at a time and place
fixed by the Board, to show cause why he should not comply with such notice.
Such appeal must be in writing. Failure to file a written appeal with the Board
within the time prescribed herein shall constitute a waiver of the right to
appeal. Filing of an appeal from any such notice shall suspend action on
enforcement of such notice until the appeal is acted upon by the Board.
   (H)   Certificate of occupancy required.
      (1)   On and after January 1, 1983, no owner, agent, or person in charge
of any dwelling structure shall rent or lease such structure or any part
thereof for residential occupancy nor shall a residential property be sold
unless the owner thereof or the seller thereof holds a valid certificate of
occupancy issued by the Building Inspector for such structure.
      (2)   Application for a certificate of occupancy required by the
provisions of this chapter shall be made by supplying the information and data
to determine compliance with applicable laws, ordinances, rules, and
regulations for the existing use or occupancy or the intended use or occupancy
on forms supplied by the Building Inspector. The Building Inspector may require
the submission of an affidavit stating such information, and he may cause a
general inspection of the structure or premises to be made. Such certificate
shall not be valid beyond the last day of December of the calendar year for
which the certificate is issued.
      (3)   The Building Inspector shall have the power to revoke a certificate
of occupancy if any false statement shall be made by the applicant in
connection with the issuance of such certificate, or for noncompliance of a
structure or its use with the requirements of this chapter, or if the owner,
agent, or person in charge of a structure shall refuse to comply with any
provisions of this chapter required to be observed by him.
      (4)   No certificate of occupancy may be issued unless the building and
premises have been inspected.
Penalty, see § 155.99
§ 155.04 STANDARDS FOR RESIDENTIAL OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Leasing or sale for residential occupancy; restrictions. No owner,
operator, or agent shall rent, lease, sell, or offer for rental, lease, or sale
any dwelling units, dwelling structures, or any parts thereof which do not
comply with the provisions of this chapter; provided, however, that an owner,
operator, or agent may apply for an occupancy permit, have a dwelling unit
inspected and offer it for sale subject to the purchaser's agreement to place
the unit in compliance with the provisions of this chapter prior to occupying
it or subject to the purchaser's submission of a satisfactory bond or escrow
agreement guaranteeing completion of the work within one year.
   (B)   Habitable floor area; standards. No floor area, in any dwelling or
part thereof, shall be considered as constituting the habitable floor area,
unless such floor area meets at least the following minimum standards.
      (1)   In a one-floor single-family dwelling, or in the first floor area
of any other dwelling, clear ceiling height shall be at least seven feet six
inches.
      (2)   In the second floor area of any dwelling, a clear ceiling height of
at least seven feet six inches in at least two-thirds of such floor area and a
clear ceiling height of not less than five feet in the remaining one-third of
such floor area shall be required.
      (3)   No portion of any room which is less than seven feet in width shall
be included in determining the habitable floor area.
      (4)   Every dwelling unit shall contain at least 150 square feet of
habitable floor area for the first occupant thereof and at least one hundred
additional square feet of habitable floor area for every additional occupant
thereof, but in no case shall any dwelling unit contain less than the minimum
number of square feet of habitable floor area as required by other provisions
of this code.
      (5)   One-floor single-family dwellings shall have a minimum habitable
floor area of 780 square feet in addition to a basement or utility room. The
basement shall have a minimum floor area of 400 square feet or the utility room
shall have a minimum floor area of 150 square feet.
      (6)   Any single-family dwelling consisting of more than one floor shall
have a minimum first floor habitable floor area of 624 square feet and a
minimum second floor habitable floor area of 624 square feet, in addition to a
basement or utility room. The basement shall have a minimum habitable floor
area of 450 square feet, or the utility room shall have a minimum floor area of
150 square feet.
      (7)   Each two-family dwelling shall have a basement and first and second
floor, each of which shall have a minimum habitable floor area of 750 square
feet.
      (8)   A one-floor double house shall have a minimum habitable floor area
of 750 square feet in each suite, in addition to a basement or utility room for
each suite. Each of the basements shall have a minimum floor area of 400 square
feet and each of the utility rooms shall have a minimum floor area of 150
square feet.
      (9)   A two-floor double house, or any double house other than a one-
floor double house, shall have a minimum first floor habitable floor area of
650 square feet in each suite, in addition to a basement or utility room for
each suite. The basements shall each have a minimum floor area of 325 square
feet, and the utility rooms shall each have a minimum floor area of 150 square
feet.
      (10)   Each dwelling unit shall contain not less than three rooms
(exclusive of basement or utility room) and an additional room or rooms
containing toilet and bath facilities.
      (11)   The rooms required to be provided by division (B) (10) shall
consist of or include rooms of the following classification or intended use.
Such rooms shall contain minimum habitable floor areas in the following
amounts:
         (a)   One bedroom having a minimum habitable floor area of 100 square
feet and a minimum width of eight feet.
         (b)   One other room having a minimum habitable floor area of 150
square feet and a minimum width of ten feet.
         (c)   One kitchen having a minimum habitable floor area of 90 square
feet.
         (d)   One room providing toilet and bath facilities, containing at
least a water closet, lavatory, and tub or stall shower, the fixtures in which
room shall be arranged so as to provide at least a 90 degree door swing, and
which rooms shall have a minimum width of at least three feet.
         (e)   Such other closets and dressing rooms as may be incidental to
the dwelling.
         (f)   If a breakfast room is provided, it shall have a minimum
habitable floor area of 50 square feet.
         (g)   No utility room shall be used as a garage.
         (h)   No space in the minimum habitable floor area shall be used as an
open or enclosed porch or garage, or used as a storage space, except for the
storage of fuel in the basement.
      (12)   In addition to the minimum habitable floor areas required above,
dwelling units shall provide the minimum gross floor areas required by Chapter
154.
   (C)   Habitable rooms below grade; restrictions. No basement of any dwelling
shall be used as a sleeping room or kitchen facility. No room which has its
floor level below grade shall be occupied as a habitable room unless it shall
conform to all of the following standards, in addition to all other
requirements for habitable rooms:
      (1)   The room shall have been, prior to the effective date of this
chapter, originally designed and constructed for or legally converted to, use
as a habitable room.
      (2)   The walls and floor enclosing the room shall be maintained in such
condition as to prevent the entrance of moisture into the habitable space.
      (3)   All required openings for light and ventilation shall be located
entirely above the average adjoining grade. However, such openings may face
upon an areaway or window well where the width of such well, measured
perpendicularly to the building wall at such opening, is not less than the
distance from the bottom of the window to the finished grade at such window.
      (4)   The height of the finished ceiling of such room above the average
adjoining ground level shall be at least 50% of the clear ceiling height of the
room.
   (D)   Required window area. Every habitable room shall be provided with
natural light by one or more windows, or approved equivalent, facing upon an
approved open space. The aggregate glass area of such required windows shall be
not less than 10% of the habitable floor area of the room served by them.
   (E)   Required ventilation area. Every habitable room shall be provided with
natural ventilation by one or more openable windows or approved equivalent. The
aggregate openable area of such ventilation openings shall be not less than 6%
of the habitable floor area of the room served by them.
   (F)   Kitchens, bathrooms, and water closet compartments. Every kitchen,
bathroom, and water closet compartment shall be provided with light and
ventilation as prescribed for habitable rooms, except that in no case shall the
aggregate glass area in each room be less than six square feet. However, where
an approved exhaust ventilation system and approved artificial light is
installed in such a manner as to be in operation at all times when any such
room is occupied, no natural light or ventilation shall be required.
   (G)   Required sanitary facilities.
      (1)   Every dwelling unit shall be provided with not less than the
following sanitary facilities contained within a room which shall afford
privacy to any occupant thereof:
         (a)   A water closet.
         (b)   A bathtub or shower.
         (c)   A lavatory.
      (2)   Every dwelling unit shall be provided with one, and one only,
complete kitchen or kitchenette with approved cooking, refrigeration, and sink
facilities. No such kitchen facilities shall be placed within any water closet
compartment or within any bathroom.
   (H)   Communal kitchens are prohibited.
   (I)   Connection of fixtures.
      (1)   All plumbing fixtures in a dwelling structure shall be supplied
with running water from the municipal water supply system. Each dwelling
structure shall have its own separate approved connection with the system.
      (2)   Every dwelling unit shall have an approved supply of running hot
water properly connected to all plumbing fixtures normally requiring hot water.
      (3)   All plumbing fixtures in a dwelling structure shall be so designed
and installed as to prevent contamination of the water supply system.
      (4)   All plumbing fixtures in a dwelling structure shall be connected to
a public sanitary sewer.
   (J)   Rubbish and garbage disposal.
      (1)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall dispose of all
his rubbish in a clean and sanitary manner by placing it in approved
receptacles or in other approved rubbish disposal facilities.
      (2)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall dispose of all
his garbage and other organic waste, which might provide food for insects and
rodents, in a clean and sanitary manner by placing it in approved, nonleakable,
nonabsorbent, covered garbage storage receptacles, or in other approved garbage
disposal facilities.
   (K)   Heating capacity. Every dwelling unit shall be provided with approved
heating facilities capable of maintaining an average temperature of 70° F. in
all habitable rooms, kitchens, bathrooms, and water closet compartments when
the outdoor temperature is minus five degrees Fahrenheit, without forcing the
facilities to operate in excess of their design capacity.
   (1)   Supply of heat. The owner, operator, or agent in charge of a dwelling
structure, who rents or leases any dwelling unit therein under an agreement,
express, or implied, to supply or furnish heat to the occupants thereof, shall
supply heat adequate to maintain an inside temperature of not less than 70° F.
in all habitable rooms, bathrooms, water closet compartments, and kitchens
whenever the outside temperature falls below 50°F. Such inside temperature
shall be measured in the approximate center of each room, approximately three
feet above the floor. The provisions of this section shall not apply where the
failure to meet minimum standards is caused by a general shortage of fuel,
negligent, or malicious act of the occupant or any cause beyond the control of
the owner or occupant.
   (M)   Flue connections required. Every appliance or piece of equipment
burning solid, liquid, or gaseous fuel, where permitted, shall be connected to
an approved smokepipe and flue. However, any appliance approved for use without
such connection is exempted from the requirements of this section.
   (N)   Prohibited locations of heating equipment. No heating equipment,
including water heaters, which burn solid, liquid, or gaseous fuel shall be
located in any bedroom, bathroom, toilet room, or any room used for sleeping
purposes, unless specifically approved for such use.
   (O)   Electrical facilities required. Every dwelling structure and accessory
structure shall be provided with approved electrical service, outlets, and
fixtures, which shall be installed and maintained so as to be free of any
potential source of ignition of combustible material or any potential source of
electrical hazard. Such facilities shall be approved as being adequate to
supply the requirements of lighting, appliances, and equipment of the structure
concerned. Each kitchen shall be provided with two receptacle outlets on the
walls, which may be from existing wire circuits. The living room shall be
provided with a minimum of three receptacles, one on each of three walls where
practical, which may be from existing wire circuits. Bedrooms shall be supplied
with a minimum of two receptacles, which may be from the existing wire
circuits. Dining rooms shall contain a minimum of one receptacle outlet. All
receptacles at laundry trays shall be three-pronged grounded receptacles.
   (P)   Maintenance responsibilities.
      (1)   The owner of every multiple dwelling or his appointed agent shall
be responsible for maintaining in a clean and sanitary condition the shared or
common areas of the premises. In any multiple dwelling in which the owner
thereof does not reside, there shall be designated by the owner a janitor,
custodian, agent, operator, or other responsible person, who shall be
considered the resident agent and who shall reside in the multiple dwelling and
have charge of the same. However, where there exist two or more such multiple
dwellings on one parcel of land or upon two or more contiguous parcels of land,
one janitor, custodian, agent, or operator, residing in any one of the multiple
dwellings, may serve as janitor, custodian, agent, or operator for all of the
multiple dwellings. This requirement shall be deemed to be waived in cases
where the management and operation of the property has been, by the owner,
delegated to a recognized property management company having offices in the
county.
      (2)   The owner and/or occupant of a dwelling structure or a dwelling
unit in any dwelling structure shall be responsible for maintaining in a clean
and sanitary condition that part of the property, dwelling unit, dwelling
structure, or premises which he or she occupies, controls and or owns.
   (Q)   General maintenance requirements.
      (1)   All dwelling structures and all parts thereof, both exterior and
interior, shall be maintained in good repair and shall be capable of performing
the function for which such structure or part or any feature thereof was
designed or intended to be used.
      (2)   All equipment and facilities appurtenant to a dwelling structure or
dwelling unit shall be maintained in good and safe working order.
   (R)   Maintenance of foundations.
      (1)   All foundations of every dwelling structure shall be maintained
structurally sound and in good repair.
      (2)   All foundations of every dwelling structure shall be maintained in
such condition as to prevent the accumulation of moisture within the space
enclosed within such foundations.
      (3)   All openings into the foundation of every dwelling structure shall
be protected against the entrance of rodents.
   (S)   Maintenance of roofs, gutters, and downspouts. All roofs of every
dwelling structure shall be maintained weathertight and shall be equipped with
gutters and downspouts connected to a public storm sewer. However, this
requirement shall be waived if, in the opinion of the Building Inspector, the
drainage does not cause excessive erosion or water damage or does not create a
nuisance on public or private property.
   (T)   Maintenance of exteriors of dwelling structures and accessory
structures.
      (1)   All exterior walls of every dwelling structure shall be maintained
weathertight and shall be maintained so as to resist decay or deterioration
from any cause.
      (2)   Any dwelling structure or secondary or appurtenant structure whose
exterior surface is bare, deteriorated, ramshackle, tumble-down, decaying,
disintegrating, or in poor repair must be repaired or razed.
         (a)   All buckled, rotted, or decayed walls, doors, windows, porches,
floors, steps, railings, trim, and their missing members must be replaced and
put in good condition.
         (b)   All replacements must match and conform to original design or be
replaced completely.
         (c)   All exterior wood or exterior unfinished surfaces must be sealed
and painted, or the surface covered with other approved protective coating or
treated to prevent rot and decay, and conform and match the existing paint or
surface covering and original design or replacement thereof. All exterior walls
and surfaces must be properly protected against the weather, where such are
defective or lack weather protection, including lack of paint or surface
covering, or have weathered due to lack of proper protective covering. This
section shall not prohibit the use of approved untreated lumber where this is
an appropriate part of the building design.
      (3)   Any dwelling structure or secondary or appurtenant structure whose
exterior surface is deteriorated, decaying, disintegrating, or whose exterior
surface has weathered with dirt and grime or has been impaired through peeling
or flaking of the paint or other protective coating, shall be repaired,
repainted, or resurfaced.
         (a)   All exterior surfaces shall be replaced or repaired in good
condition preparatory to repainting or coating.
         (b)   All bare exterior surfaces which are flaking or crumbling to an
extent of more than 10% of the total surface shall be replaced or sealed in a
good and workmanlike manner.
         (c)   All new or repaired bare surfaces shall be painted or coated.
         (d)   All exterior surfaces weathered with dirt and grime or which are
peeling or flaking to an extent of more than 10% of the total surface shall be
painted or covered with approved protective coating or surface.
   (U)   Maintenance of interior walls and floors.
      (1)   All interior walls and floors of every dwelling structure shall be
maintained free of holes, large cracks, and any lose or deteriorated materials.
      (2)   All floors within every bathroom or water closet compartment of a
dwelling structure shall be made waterproof and nonabsorbent, and such
waterproofing shall extend up the walls at least six inches above the floor.
   (V)   Infestation by pests. All dwelling structures and the premises thereof
shall be maintained free from sources of breeding, harborage, and infestation
by insects, vermin, or rodents.
   (W)   Exterior property areas. Exterior property areas of all premises shall
be kept free of any debris, object, material, or condition which may create a
health, accident, or fire hazard, or which is a public nuisance, or which
constitutes a blighting or deteriorating influence on the neighborhood.
   (X)   Accessory structures.
      (1)   All accessory structures such as sheds, barns, garages, and such,
shall either be maintained in good repair and free from health, accident, and
fire hazards or shall be removed from the premises.
      (2)   All roofs of every accessory structure shall be equipped with
gutters and downspouts connected to a public storm sewer. However, if the roof
area served by a specific downspout does not exceed 500 square feet, measured
horizontally, and the drainage does not, in the opinion of the Building
Inspector, cause excessive erosion or water damage or does not create a
nuisance on public or private property, this requirement shall be waived.
   (Y)   Access and egress.
      (1)   Every dwelling unit shall have frontage on a hardsurfaced public or
approved private street.
      (2)   Every dwelling unit shall be provided with direct and approved
means of access and egress to the outside of the dwelling structure without
passing through any part of any other dwelling unit. In multiple dwellings any
door which is used in connection with such means of access and egress shall be
provided with a lock which can be opened from the inside without the use of a
key.
      (3)   Every multiple dwelling shall have at least two continuous flights
of stairs extending from the entrance floor to the top floor, and at least one
such flight of stairs shall connect directly with an entrance hall; every
dwelling unit in a multiple dwelling shall be directly accessible to the main
entrance hall of such multiple dwelling by at least such stairway, and every
such dwelling unit shall be directly accessible by means of a public hallway or
landing to at least two such stairways. Every dwelling unit in any multiple
dwelling shall have available the means of access and egress required by this
section without passing through any other dwelling unit.
   (Z)   Lighting of public or common areas in multiple dwellings.
      (1)   In every multiple dwelling, all public hallways, corridors, and
stairways shall be provided at all times with natural or artificial
illumination equal to at least three footcandles on every part of such area.
      (2)   All other common areas, such as boiler rooms, laundries, basements,
locker rooms, meter rooms, and cellars, shall be provided with electrical
lighting facilities which, when lighted, will provide illumination equal to at
least three footcandles on every part of such area.
      (3)   The Building Inspector shall have the authority to increase the
requirements of division (Z) (1) and (2) if the degree of reflected light is
not, in his opinion, adequate for safety.
   (AA)   Identification of dwelling units. Each dwelling unit must be
identified with permanent numerals or letters placed on the front entrance to
such dwelling unit.
(Am. Ord. 2009-08, passed 3-2-09)
Penalty, see § 155.99
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter, or any rule or regulation
promulgated thereunder, or fails to comply therewith or with any written notice
or written order issued thereunder, or whoever refuses to permit entry by the
Building Inspector or other village department heads or their representatives
at a reasonable hour, and whoever interferes with, obstructs, or hinders such
Building Inspector while attempting to make such inspection, is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree, and shall be fined not more than $250, or
imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both, on a first offense. On each
subsequent offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree,
and shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not more than 60 days, or
both.
CHAPTER 156: MINIMUM NONRESIDENTIAL STANDARDS
Section
   
156.01   Purpose and scope
   
156.02   Definitions
   
156.03   General maintenance requirements
   
156.04   Maintenance of exterior property areas
   
156.05   Maintenance of exterior of structures
   
156.06   Maintenance of interior of structures
   
156.07   Maintenance of mechanical and utility systems
   
156.08   Condemnation for human use
 
   
156.99   Penalty
§ 156.01 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to create minimum standards for
nonresidential structures, provide for the regulation of exterior maintenance
of premises, exterior maintenance of structures, interior maintenance of
structures, structural components, and functional areas.
§ 156.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING CODE.  
Chapter 150 of this code, amendments, revisions, and supplements thereto.
   DWELLING. A structure or portion of a structure designed for or used for
human habitation.
   NONRESIDENTIAL STRUCTURE. A structure or part thereof which is used for
other than residential purposes and, where applicable, the premises on which
such structures are situated.
   OWNER. Any person, who alone, jointly or severally with others shall be in
actual possession, have charge, care or control of, any building, premises, or
vacant lot within the village as owner, whether individual, firm, partnership,
or corporation, or as trustee or guardian of the estate or person of the title
holder, and shall include the owner of record as reflected by the most recent
transaction in the County Recorder's office.
   PLUMBING. All gas pipes and gas burning equipment, waste pipes, water
closets, sinks, lavatories, bathtubs, catch basins, drains, vents, and any
other provided fixtures together with the connections to the water, sewer, or
gas lines.
   SECURED. A covering placed over all doors and windows consisting of 1/2-inch
thick plywood attached to the framing of all such doors and windows by wood
screws of a minimum length of 1-1/2 inches, placed 12 inches on center. Such
plywood shall be painted with a minimum of two coats of exterior paint. Such
paint shall be approved by the Building Inspector.
   SUBSTANDARD. All structures used for nonresidential purposes which do not
conform to the minimum standards established by this chapter.
   UNSAFE. As applied to a structure is a condition or combination of
conditions liable to be a danger or hazard to the life, safety, or health of
persons occupying it or frequenting it or of the public and in danger of
settlement, movement, disintegration, or collapse, whether such danger arises
from the method or materials of its construction or from equipment installed
therein for the purposes of lighting, heating, the transmission or utilization
of electric current, or from obsolescence or deterioration, or from its
location or otherwise.
   UNSANITARY. As applied to a structure means liable to be a danger or hazard
to the health of persons occupying or frequenting it, or to the public, if such
danger arises from the method or materials of its construction, or from
equipment installed therein for the purposes of lighting, heating, ventilation,
or plumbing, or from existing conditions liable to cause rat infestation,
vermin infestation, accumulations of trash,or debris in the building, yards, or
accessory structures on the premises.
   UNUSABLE. Any nonresidential structure or part thereof or any fixture or
facility required therein, not in such physical condition as to safely perform
the service or services for which it is designed or intended.
§ 156.03 GENERAL MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of an owner of a nonresidential structure that
all parts thereof, both exterior and interior, be maintained in good repair and
be capable of performing the function for which such structure or part or any
feature thereof was designed or intended to be used in compliance with this
chapter.
   (B)   All equipment and facilities appurtenant to the main structure shall
be maintained in good and safe working order.
   (C)   All accessory structures such as sheds, barns, garages, and such,
shall be maintained in good repair and free from health, accident, and fire
hazards.
   (D)   A vacant structure which has been used or is intended to be used, in
whole or in part, as a nonresidential structure shall comply with the terms and
conditions set forth in this chapter. All owners of such vacated nonresidential
structures which have been deemed by the Building Inspector to be detrimental
to the health and safety of all persons in or about such structures, shall
cause all exterior doors and windows to be locked and secured at all times in
order to prevent entrance to such vacant buildings by any trespasser.
Penalty, see § 156.99
§ 156.04 MAINTENANCE OF EXTERIOR PROPERTY AREAS.
   (A)   Exterior property areas. Exterior property areas of all premises shall
be kept free of any debris, object, material, or condition which may create a
health, accident, or fire hazard, or which is a public nuisance, or which
constitutes a blighting or deteriorating influence on the neighborhood.
   (B)   Identification of structure. Each main structure must be identified
with permanent numerals or letters placed on the front entrance to such
structure.
   (C)   Trees and landscaping. All trees located within public property which
may have been caused to be removed, damaged, or destroyed as a result of
construction shall be replaced at the expense of the owner, except when
replacement would interfere with the normal course of the business operation.
All trees, bushes, or vegetation which overhang a public entrance wall be
properly trimmed so as not to obstruct the movement of pedestrians or vehicles.
All areas which are not covered by vegetation and subject to the blowing of
dust shall be treated so as to prevent the blowing of dust. All holes, pits,
ditches, and excavations whose diameter of length exceeds two feet and whose
depth is one foot or more shall either be filled, covered, or fenced in such a
manner as to prevent injury to persons on the premises.
   (D)   Sidewalks and driveways. All sidewalks and driveways used as a public
entrance shall be kept in a proper state of repair and free of all snow, ice,
mud, and other debris. If any sidewalk or driveway or portion thereof, by
virtue of its state of repair, shall constitute a danger to public health and
safety, the sidewalk or driveway or portion thereof shall be replaced.
   (E)   Drainage. All portions of a premise shall be so graded that there is
no pooling of water. All condensate and waste cooling water shall be discharged
to the sewer system and shall not discharge to the ground surface.
   (F)    Refuse and garbage.
      (1)    The operator of every establishment from the use of which arise
garbage, vegetable wastes, or other putrescible materials shall provide and at
all times cause to be used metal containers, leakproof, and provided with close
fitting covers for the storage of such materials until removed from the
premises for disposal. No such materials shall be stored, placed, or allowed to
be accumulated on the ground or on a floor or pavement, or in any other place
except in the containers. Sufficient containers shall be provided to hold all
such waste materials accumulated between disposal collection times. All
premises and structures shall be maintained free of garbage, trash, debris, or
any material which would be conducive to infestation by mice, roaches, or other
insects or vermin.
      (2)    All wastepaper, cardboard, rags, tin cans, bottles, and other
combustible and noncombustible wastes shall be stored and disposed of in like
manner as above. Provided, however, in office buildings or similar
establishments where waste paper is collected daily, such waste may be kept in
a room used for storage, shredding, and bailing if such room meets fire
protection requirements of the Building Inspector.
      (3)    No combustible wastes shall be burnt.
   (G)    Storage areas. All open salvage yards and open storage as defined in
Chapter 154 shall be completely obscured from surrounding property by a solid
screen not less than six feet in height.
Penalty, see § 156.99
§ 156.05 MAINTENANCE OF EXTERIOR OF STRUCTURES.
   (A)    General.
      (1)    All exterior walls of every structure shall be maintained
weathertight and shall be maintained so as to resist decay or deterioration
from any cause.
      (2)    Any structure or accessory structure whose exterior surface is
bare, deteriorated, ramshackle, tumble-down, decaying, disintegrating, or in
poor repair must be repaired or razed.
         (a)    All buckled, rotted, or decayed walls, doors, windows, porches,
floors, steps, railings, trim, and their missing members must be replaced and
put in good condition.
         (b)    All replacements must match and conform to original design or
be replaced completely.
         (c)    All exterior wood or exterior unfinished surface must be sealed
and painted, or the surface covered with other approved protective coating or
treated to prevent rot and decay, and conform and match the existing paint or
surface covering and original design or replacement thereof; provided, however,
that this shall not prevent use of treated, unpainted wood where this is an
appropriate part of the building design. All exterior walls and surfaces must
be properly protected against the weather, where such are defective or lack
weather protection, including lack of paint or surface covering, or have
weathered due to lack of proper protective covering.
      (3)    Any structure or accessory structure whose exterior surface is
deteriorated, decaying, disintegrating, or whose exterior surface has weathered
with dirt and grime or has been impaired through peeling or flaking of the
paint or other protective coating, shall be repaired, repainted, or resurfaced.
         (a)    All exterior surfaces shall be replaced or repaired in good
condition preparatory to repainting or coating.
         (b)    All bare exterior surfaces which are flaking or crumbling shall
be replaced or sealed in a good and workmanlike manner.
         (c)    All new or repaired bare surfaces shall be painted or coated.
         (d)    All exterior surfaces weathered with dirt and grime or which
are peeling or flaking shall be painted or covered with approved protective
coating or surface.
   (B)    Walls and foundations.
      (1)    All foundations and walls shall be maintained so as to carry the
safe design and operating dead and live loads and shall be maintained plumb and
free from open cracks and breaks, so as not to be detrimental to public safety
and welfare.
      (2)    All foundations of every structure shall be maintained in such
condition as to prevent the accumulation of moisture within the space enclosed
within such foundations.
      (3)    All openings into the foundations of every structure shall be
protected against the entrance of rodents.
   (C)    Roofs, gutters, and downspouts. All roofs of every structure
(including accessory structures) shall be maintained weathertight and shall be
equipped with gutters and downspouts connected to a public storm sewer.
However, this requirement shall be waived for existing buildings if, in the
opinion of the Building Inspector, the drainage does not cause excessive
erosion or water damage or does not create a nuisance on public or private
property.
   (D)    Chimneys, smokestacks, and the like. All chimneys, cooling towers,
smokestacks, and similar appurtenances shall be maintained plumb and free from
open cracks and breaks in a structurally safe, sound condition, and all exposed
surfaces of metal or wood shall be protected from the elements and against
decay or rust by periodic application of weather-coating material such as paint
or similar surface treatment.
   (E)    Cornices, entablatures, and belt courses. All cornices, entablatures,
belt courses, corbels, terracotta trim, wall facings, and similar decorative
features shall be maintained in good repair with proper anchorage and in a safe
condition.
   (F)    Signs, marquees, and awnings. All canopies, marquees, signs, metal
awnings, stairways, fire escapes, stand pipes, exhaust ducts, and similar
overhang extensions shall be maintained in good repair and be properly anchored
so as to be kept in a safe and sound condition. They shall be protected from
the elements and against decay and rust by the periodic application of a
weather-coating material such as paint or other protective treatment.
   (G)    Fences. All fences on the premises shall be kept in a good state of
repair and shall be periodically treated with chemicals or paint so as to
retard corrosion or rotting.
Penalty, see § 156.99
§ 156.06 MAINTENANCE OF INTERIOR OF STRUCTURES.
   (A)    Access and egress.
      (1)    Stairways, escalators, elevators, passageways, and similar means
of access between rooms and floors of nonresidential buildings shall be
maintained in a safe and sound condition free of obstructions, and capable of
providing for the traffic load for proper ingress and egress. They shall be
provided in sufficient number and location as to meet the maximum travel
distance, fire protection standards, and other provisions of
Chapter 150.
      (2)    There shall be at least two continuous flights of stairs extending
from the entrance floor to the upper floors. Any door which is used in
connection with such means of access and egress shall be provided with a lock
which can be opened from the inside without the use of a key.
      (3)    Each occupiable unit shall have available the means of access and
egress required by this section without passing through any other unit. When
more than one tenant occupies any one floor of a structure, each tenant shall
be provided with separate direct means of access and egress to approved
exitways.
      (4)    All stairways and entrances which may give access to the structure
for employees or for business shall be kept in a good state of repair and
structurally sound and properly lighted.
      (5)    Any exterior stairway or entrance used by employees or for
business shall be protected from the elements and against decay and rust by
periodic application of a weather-coating material or other protective
treatment.
   (B)    Structural members. All supporting structural members of all
nonresidential buildings shall be kept structurally sound, free of
deterioration, and maintained capable of safely bearing the dead and live loads
imposed upon them in accordance with
Chapter 150.
   (C)    Floors. Floors shall be maintained structurally sound and capable of
supporting the imposed loads without undue deflection. They shall be maintained
at all times in a condition so as to be smooth, level, clean and free of
breaks, cracks, or other unsafe condition.
   (D)    Walls and ceilings. The interior walls and ceilings of all
nonresidential structures shall be kept structurally sound, capable of safely
supporting the imposed loads upon them, free of cracks and breaks, loose
plaster or covering and maintained in a clean, safe, and sanitary manner.
   (E)    Windows, doors, and entrances. All windows, exposed to public view
shall be kept clean and in a state of good repair. No storage of materials,
stock, or inventory shall be permitted in window display areas or other areas
ordinarily exposed to public view unless the areas are first screened from the
public view by drapes, venetian blinds, or other permanent rendering of the
windows opaque to the public view. All screening of interiors shall be
maintained in a clean and in good state of repair.
   (F)    Basements and basement rooms. All basements and basement rooms shall
be maintained damp-proof and dry. Floors shall be of concrete and proper
drainage provided to prevent back-flooding. Such spaces or rooms where used for
the employment of persons shall be provided with sufficient light, ventilation,
and sanitation so as not to endanger health and safety.
   (G)    Toilets and lavatories.
      (1)    Every nonresidential building regularly used or occupied by
persons shall be provided with toilet and lavatory facilities as further
provided in this section, except that small buildings not over 150 square feet
in floor area used for shelter in connection with the operation of parking
lots, storage lots, kiosk, watchman stations, or similar uses shall not be
required to have such facilities if such facilities are otherwise conveniently
available to workers using such buildings and are so used at all times.
      (2)    Toilet and lavatory facilities shall be provided according to the
requirements of
Chapter 150, except that separate facilities for the sexes may not be required
in establishments occupied by five or less persons of both sexes taken together
and where the facilities are not used by the public. Such facilities shall be
located in a space completely enclosed by partitions and self-closing doors
separating them from any other room or space. Such toilet rooms shall be
provided with adequate light and ventilation.
      (3)    All toilet facilities and toilet rooms shall be kept neat and
clean at all times. The toilet room walls and ceilings shall be provided with a
smooth surface and where paint is used as the surface coating it must be
maintained and painted as is necessary for cleanliness.
      (4)    Floors in such rooms must be of nonabsorbent material such as
concrete, brick-tile, vinyl or asphalt tile, or similar surface material.
   (H)    Storage of flammable liquids. All paints, varnish, and other
flammable liquids in unsealed cans when kept within the building shall be
stored in a safe manner according to the requirements of
Chapter 150.
   (I)    Aisle space and exits.
      (1)    In all nonresidential structures used for retail or wholesale
business displaying wares to the public on fixtures, counters, tables, or
similar means, the minimum aisle space between such display devices shall be
not less than 44 inches and shall meet requirements of
Chapter 150.
      (2)    In all nonresidential structures there shall be provided proper
means of exit from each floor, or occupancy. The number and width of such exits
shall meet the requirements of
Chapter 150.
Penalty, § 156.99
§ 156.07 MAINTENANCE OF MECHANICAL AND UTILITY SYSTEMS.
   (A)    Lighting and electrical.
      (1)    Lighting of public or common areas, all public hallways,
corridors, and stairways shall be provided at all times with natural or
artificial illumination equal to at least three footcandles on every part of
such area.
      (2)    All other common areas, such as boiler rooms, laundries,
basements, locker rooms, meter rooms, and cellars, shall be provided with
electrical lighting facilities which when lighted will provide illumination
equal to at least three footcandles on every part of such area.
      (3)    The Building Inspector shall have the authority to increase the
requirements of division (A) (1) and (2) if the degree of reflected light is
not, in his opinion, adequate for safety.
      (4)    All insulated conductors and all additions or alterations of
wiring and electric fixtures required to be installed to conform to the
requirements of this chapter shall be installed as provided in
Chapter 150. The minimum service entrance for power installed in nonresidential
buildings shall be capable of delivering 60 amperes of electric current from
the power source. Sufficient circuits shall be installed to various parts of
the building to prevent overloading and over-fusing.
   (B)    Plumbing.
      (1)    General. All plumbing and plumbing fixtures shall be maintained in
a safe and usable condition as provided in
Chapter 150.
      (2)    Water supply. All nonresidential structures having a water system
shall be connected to the village water lines. Each separate structure shall
have its own approved water line. All water supply systems in nonresidential
buildings shall comply with the provisions of
Chapter 150.
      (3)    Sewage and waste disposal. All sewage and other liquid waste shall
be discharged to a lawful disposal system approved by the Building Inspector.
   (C)    Heating, ventilation, and air conditioning.
      (1)    Heating devices and installation shall be operated and maintained
according to the requirements of
Chapter 150. All gas burning unit heaters and water heaters installed in rooms
or enclosed spaces within nonresidential buildings shall be vented to the
outside air by means of a smoke pipe or flue.
      (2)    Supplied heating. Where persons are employed in duties and
operations in an enclosed space or room within nonresidential buildings and not
engaged in active physical activity, sufficient heat shall be provided in such
spaces or rooms during the months of October, November, December, January,
February, March, April, and the first 15 days of May of each year, to maintain
a temperature of not less than 70° during normal working hours.
      (3)    Ventilation. Natural or artificial means of ventilation shall be
provided to insure a comfortable and healthful atmosphere throughout the
establishment.
      (4)    Exhaust vents. No person shall construct, maintain, or operate
pipes, ducts, conductors, fans, or blowers discharging gases, steam, vapor, hot
air, grease, smoke, odors, or other gaseous or particulate waste so as to
discharge directly upon the property of another; however, such discharge shall
be permitted into a public alley or public street provided the regulations
promulgated by the Building Inspector are met.
      (5)    Air conditioning. These regulations shall apply to all air
conditioners operated totally or in part on the exterior of premises. Any noise
resulting from the operation of exterior air conditioners which radiates more
than 100 feet from the air conditioners shall be deemed a nuisance. All
exterior air conditioners which are installed and operated directly over a
public sidewalk shall be equipped with proper devices for the prevention of
condensation drainage upon the sidewalk. No window air conditioners installed
over the public sidewalk within ten feet above grade shall extend more than 12
inches on or above such public sidewalk. In alleyways and thoroughfares, no
window air conditioner shall extend more than 12 inches on or above such
alleyway or thoroughfare with 14 feet above the grade. All air conditioners
shall be maintained in a safe mechanical and electrical condition.
Penalty, see § 156.99
§ 156.08 CONDEMNATION FOR HUMAN USE.
   (A)    The Building Inspector shall condemn as unfit for human use, any
nonresidential structure or portion thereof which:
      (1)    Is in such condition as to be damaged, decayed, dilapidated,
unsanitary, unheatable, unsafe, or vermin infested that it is liable to be an
immediate danger to the lives of persons;
      (2)    By reason of the lack of illumination, ventilation, or sanitary
facilities, it is in such condition and liable to be an immediate danger to the
lives of persons;
      (3)    By reason of its general condition it is liable to be dangerous to
the lives of persons.
   (B)    Notice. Whenever the Building Inspector has condemned a
nonresidential structure or a part thereof as unfit for human use, he shall
immediately give notice to the owner thereof of such determination and of his
intention to placard as unfit for human use such structure or part thereof.
Such notice shall contain a statement informing the owner and user of the right
to appeal the determination of the Building Inspector within seven days after
the notice is served.
   (C)    Service of notice. The service of notice shall be made by:
      (1)    The posting of a copy upon the nonresidential structure; and
      (2)    By causing the notice to be delivered to such owner;
      (3)    If the owner is not found, then by leaving a copy at his usual
place of abode, with a member of his family over the age of 15;
      (4)    If service pursuant to divisions (C) (2) and (3) cannot be had,
then by sending a copy of the notice by registered letter, return receipt
requested to the last known address; or
      (5)    Service of notice pursuant to division (C) (1) and (4) shall be
deemed to have been made 24 hours after the posting and mailing thereof,
respectively.
   (D)    Right of appeal. Any owner or occupant of a nonresidential structure
or part thereof determined by the Building Inspector to be unfit for human use
may file in the office of the Building Inspector a written appeal to the Board
of Zoning Appeals requesting a hearing and setting forth a statement of the
grounds within seven days after service of the notice herein provided. The
filing of an appeal shall act as a stay and the Building Inspector shall not
proceed to placard until such hearing shall be completed.
   (E)    Placarding.
      (1)    In the event no appeal has been taken within the seven-day period
or after a final determination upon review upholding the determination of the
Building Inspector, then there shall be posted in a conspicuous place upon the
structure or portion thereof a placard or placards bearing the following words:
   "Condemned as unfit for human use."
      (2)    After such placarding, the structure or portion thereof shall be
vacated within a time as determined by said Inspector.
   (F)    No person shall occupy, enter, refuse to leave, or remain in a
nonresidential structure or portion thereof which is placarded except persons
directly employed in securing or removing such condemned structure or portion
thereof.
   (G)    Remedy at owner's expense. If an owner fails to comply with the
provisions of this chapter then the Building Inspector may take such action as
may be necessary to remedy the conditions, at the expense of the owner of the
structure. The Building Inspector shall submit bills for the cost thereof to
the owner of the structure, and if these bills are not paid, the Building
Inspector shall certify the amount due to the County Auditor and special tax
bills shall be issued thereon. These taxes shall be a lien against the property
where the work has been done.
   (H)    Bids to be secured. The Building Inspector shall secure three bids
from three reputable contractors. Upon receipt of these bids, the Building
Inspector shall award the contract to the lowest and best bids; provided,
however, that the Building Inspector shall have full power and authority to
reject any and all bids.
   (I)    Demolition as compliance. Any owner of a nonresidential structure
that does not conform to this chapter may remove or demolish such building and
such action shall be deemed compliance; provided, however, that any building
located in the "H" Historic District shall conform with the requirements of
Chapter 154.
   (J)    Occupancy permit. No owner may sell, rent, lease, or offer to sell,
rent, or lease a nonresidential structure without an occupancy permit the date
of which is no older than six months before the date of such offering or sale,
rental or lease.
Penalty, see § 156.99
§ 156.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter, for which another penalty is
not already provided, shall be fined not more than $100.
CHAPTER 157: DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES
Section
   
157.01   Declarations
   
157.02   Payment of impact fees
   
157.03   Refunds
   
157.04   Appeals
   
157.05   Waivers
§ 157.01 DECLARATIONS.
   (A)   The Village Council has determined that:
      (1)   The village has a legitimate governmental interest in providing
additional public facilities to meet projected public facilities demand
generated by new development;
      (2)   Additional public facilities are necessary to provide for demand
generated by new development; and
      (3)   Additional public facilities will provide a benefit to new
development by maintaining or increasing the existing level of service standard
currently provided to village residents, employees and businesses.
   (B)   The purposes and intent of this chapter are as follows:
      (1)   To provide for the public facilities that will be needed to meet
the demands created by new growth and new development taking place within the
village, and to provide for a fair and equitable method to share the costs of
such public facilities.
      (2)   To ensure that new development pays its proportionate and fair
share of the cost of system improvements needed to serve the projected new
development.
(Ord. 2007-50, passed 1-7-08)
§ 157.02 PAYMENT OF IMPACT FEES.
   (A)   Amount of impact fee is $1,750. The minimum impact fee charged under
this chapter shall be $1,750 for each building permit or each equivalent
dwelling unit for which a building permit is issued after the effective date of
this section.
   (B)   Payment of impact fee. Impact fees shall be paid by the applicant
prior to the issuance of a building permit.
   (C)   Failure to pay fee. The village may withhold the requested development
approval or development permit, including but not limited to a certificate of
occupancy, or a building permit if no certificate of occupancy is required,
until the development impact fee is paid in full. The village may withhold
utility services to the applicable development project until the development
impact fee is paid in full. The village may impose a lien for failure of the
developer to make timely payment of a development impact fee.
   (D)   Development subject to impact fees. All residential and non-
residential development is subject to the imposition of the development impact
fee.
   (E)   Development not subject to impact fees. The following structures and
activities are exempt from the imposition of development impact fees:
      (1)   Previously-issued building permits. No impact fee shall be imposed
on land development for which a building permit has been issued prior to the
effective date of this chapter. In the event that a building permit has been
issued prior to the effective date of this chapter, but construction has not
commenced within six months from the date of issuance of the permit, then the
impact fee shall be imposed and paid prior to the issuance of an occupancy
permit.
      (2)   No net increase in dwelling units. No impact fee shall be imposed
on any new residential development which does not add a new dwelling unit.
      (3)   No net increase in non-residential square footage. No impact fee
shall be imposed on any new non-residential development which does not add
square footage, unless the new non-residential development increases the demand
for capital improvements for which impact fees are being imposed.
   (F)   Other uses. No impact fee shall be imposed on a use, development,
project, structure, building, fence, sign or other activity, whether or not a
building permit is required, which does not result in an increase in the use of
public facilities or demand for capital improvements.
(Ord. 2007-50, passed 1-7-08)
§ 157.03 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Expiration or revocation of building permit. An applicant who has paid
an impact fee for a land development for which the necessary building permit
has expired or for which the building permit has been revoked prior to
construction shall be eligible to apply for a refund of impact fees paid on a
form provided by the village for such purposes.
   (B)   Abandonment of development after initiation of construction. An
applicant who has paid an impact fee for a new land development for which a
building permit has been issued and pursuant to which construction has been
initiated, but which construction is abandoned prior to completion and issuance
of a certificate of occupancy, shall not be eligible for a refund unless the
uncompleted building is completely demolished.
   (C)   Administrative fee. A fee of 10% of the amount to be refunded, which
shall not exceed $50, shall be deducted from the amount of any refund granted
and shall be retained by the village in the appropriate impact fee account to
defray the administrative expenses associated with the processing of a refund
application.
   (D)   Time period for filing applications for refund. Applications for
refunds under divisions (A) or (B) of this section shall be filed within 60
days following expiration or revocation of the building permit or demolition of
the structure. Failure to apply for a refund within 60 days following
expiration or revocation of the building permit or demolition of the structure
shall constitute a waiver of entitlement to a refund. No interest shall be paid
by the village in calculating the amount of the refunds.
(Ord. 2007-50, passed 1-7-08)
§ 157.04 APPEALS.
   (A)   Appeals. An appeal from any decision of a village official pursuant to
this chapter shall be taken to the Board of Zoning Appeals by filing a written
appeal pursuant to the appropriate village form with the Village Clerk within
30 days following the decision which is being appealed. The burden of proof
shall be on the appellant to demonstrate that the decision of the village is
erroneous. All appeals shall detail the specific grounds therefor and all other
relevant information and shall be filed on a form provided by the village for
such purposes.
   (B)   Letter of credit. If the notice of appeal is accompanied by an
irrevocable letter of credit in a form satisfactory to the Village Solicitor
and the Village Administrator in an amount equal to the impact fee calculated
to be due, a building permit may be issued for the new land development. The
filing of an appeal shall not stay the imposition or the collection of the
impact fee as calculated by the village, unless a bond or other sufficient
surety has been provided.
(Ord. 2007-50, passed 1-7-08)
§ 157.05 WAIVERS.
   (A)   Filing of application. An application for a waiver of the provisions
of this chapter or waivers from specific impact fees shall be filed with
Village Council on forms provided by the village.
   (B)   Effect of grant of waiver. If the Village Council grants a waiver in
whole or in part of impact fees otherwise due, the amount of the impact fees
exempted or waived shall be provided by the village from non-impact fee funds,
as may be provided in the particular impact fee ordinances establishing such
fees for particular capital improvements, and such funds shall be deposited to
the appropriate impact fee account within a reasonable period of time
consistent with the applicable village capital improvements program.
(Ord. 2007-50, passed 1-7-08)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Revised Code of Ohio
References to 1956 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO OHIO REVISED CODE
Editor's note:
   This table lists those Ohio Revised Code sections which have been
substantially duplicated by corresponding Code of Ordinance sections. All
legislative history references to “(R.C. § xx.xx)” which appear at the end of
sections (or divisions of sections) in the Code of Ordinances have been listed
here. Example: to determine which section of the Code of Ordinances is based on
R.C. § 4511.19, scan down this table to the citation for “4511.19” and examine
the entry across from it: in this case, the corresponding Code of Ordinances
section is § 73.01, which means that § 73.01 (or a part thereof) is based
directly on R.C. § 4511.19.
R.C. SECTION CODE SECTION
R.C. SECTION                    CODE SECTION
1.01                            10.01(A)
1.02(A)                         10.02
1.02(B)                         10.02
1.02(F)                         10.02
1.02(G)                         10.02
1.05                            10.02
1.14                            10.03
1.15                            10.03
1.23                            10.05
1.42                            10.03
1.43                            10.03
1.44                            10.02
1.45                            10.03
1.50                            10.07
1.57                            10.04
1.58                            10.04
1.59                            10.02
128.01(A)                       136.14
128.32(E) - (G)                 136.14
128.99(A), (B)                  136.14
701.01                          10.02
701.01(E)                       10.02
701.01(F)                       10.02
701.01(J)                       10.02
715.67                          130.99
737.161                         32.33
901.51                          131.10
901.99(A)                       131.10
1533.171                        135.031
1533.99(C)                      135.031
2744.08                         35.01
2744.081                        35.02
2901.01                         130.02
2901.02                         130.03
2901.03                         130.04
2901.04                         130.05
2901.09                         130.11
2901.13                         130.06
2901.21                         130.07
2901.22                         130.08
2903.13                         135.01
2903.14                         135.02
2903.21                         135.03
2903.211                        135.041
2903.22                         135.04
2903.31                         135.07
2903.311(B), (C)                135.07
2905.03                         135.05
2905.12                         135.06
2907.01                         133.01
2907.06                         133.02
2907.08                         133.03
2907.09                         133.04
2907.10                         133.07
2907.24                         133.06
2907.241                        133.06
2907.25                         133.05
2907.31                         133.15
2907.33                         133.16
2907.35                         133.17
2907.36                         133.18
2907.37                         133.19
2907.38                         133.20
2907.39                         133.21
2907.40                         133.22
2909.01                         131.01
2909.06                         131.05
2909.07                         131.06
2909.09                         131.05
2909.10                         131.12
2909.101                        131.12
2909.31                         136.15
2911.21                         131.07
2911.211                        131.08
2911.23                         131.09
2911.32                         131.26
2913.01                         131.01
2913.02                         131.15
2913.03                         131.19
2913.04                         131.20
2913.11                         131.21
2913.21                         131.22
2913.33                         131.23
2913.42                         131.27
2913.43                         131.25
2913.44                         132.10
2913.441                        132.11
2913.45                         131.24
2913.51                         131.18
2913.61(B)-(E)                  131.16
2913.71                         131.17
2915.01                         134.01
2915.02(A) - (G), (K)           134.02
2915.03                         134.03
2915.04                         134.04
2915.05                         134.05
2915.06                         134.14
2915.061                        134.14
2915.09                         134.06
2915.091                        134.10
2915.092                        134.11
2915.093                        134.12
2915.094                        134.13
2915.10                         134.07
2915.11                         134.08
2915.12                         134.09
2915.13                         134.12
2915.14                         134.15
2917.03                         132.03
2917.031                        132.03
2917.04                         132.02
2917.05                         132.04
2917.11                         132.01
2917.12                         132.05
2917.13                         132.06
2917.14                         132.13
2917.21                         132.07
2917.211                        133.08
2917.31                         132.08
2917.32                         132.09
2919.23                         135.11
2919.231                        135.13
2919.25                         135.10
2919.27                         135.042
2921.01                         136.01
2921.13                         136.10
2921.14                         135.12
2921.21                         136.05
2921.22                         136.06
2921.23                         136.07
2921.29                         136.15
2921.31                         136.11
2921.32                         136.12
2921.321                        136.02
2921.33                         136.13
2921.331(A)-(C), (E), (F)       70.03
2921.51                         132.12
2923.02                         130.09
2923.11                         137.01
2923.12                         137.02
2923.1211(B), (C)               137.09
2923.1212                       137.09
2923.126                        137.09
2923.15                         137.03
2923.16                         137.04
2923.19                         137.05
2923.20                         137.06
2923.201                        137.10
2923.211                        137.07
2925.01                         138.01
2925.03(A)-(C), (I)             138.20
2925.11                         138.10
2925.12                         138.11
2925.13(A)-(C), (F)             138.12
2925.14                         138.05
2925.141                        138.05
2925.22                         138.21
2925.31                         138.13
2925.32(B)(4), (D)(2), (F), (G) 138.23
2925.33                         138.23
2925.34                         138.09
2925.36                         138.22
2925.37(A), (G), (M)            138.04
2925.50                         138.03
2925.51                         138.02
2925.511                        138.02
2925.55                         138.07
2925.56                         138.07
2925.57                         138.07
2925.58                         138.07
2925.62                         138.08
2927.11                         139.01
2927.15                         135.08
2929.21                         130.99,
                                154.99
2929.23                         133.99
2929.24                         130.99
2929.25                         130.99
2929.26                         130.99
2929.27                         130.99
2929.28                         130.99
2929.31                         130.99
2935.041                        131.02
2935.28                         70.09
2935.36(E)                      130.02
2981.07                         131.11
2981.11                         130.10
2981.12                         130.10
2981.13(A)                      130.10
3701.82                         139.02
3701.99                         139.02
3715.05                         138.07
3715.06                         138.07
3767.13                         139.04
3767.29                         139.03
3767.99                         139.04
3781.55                         133.04
4301.62                         90.03
4301.64                         90.04
4301.65                         90.06
4301.99(A)                      90.03(H),
                                90.06(D)(1)
4301.99(B)                      90.04(B)
4301.99(J)                      90.06
4501.01(LL)                     70.01
4501.01(TT)                     78.13
4503.21(A)                      71.15
4503.99(B)                      71.15
4506.99                         71.99
4507.02(A)                      71.02
4507.03                         71.02
4507.04                         71.02(F)
4507.05(F)                      71.05
4507.05(I)                      71.05
4507.071(B)-(I)                 71.05
4507.071(J)                     71.05
4507.30                         71.04
4507.31(B)                      71.05
4507.321                        71.07
4507.35                         71.03
4507.36                         71.01
4507.99                         71.99
4509.102                        136.10
4510.037(J)                     71.101
                                71.101,
4510.04                         71.103 -
                                71.105
4510.11                         71.101
4510.111                        71.101
4510.12                         71.102
4510.14                         71.103
4510.15                         71.10
4510.16                         71.104
4510.21                         71.105
4510.44                         73.27
4511.01                         70.01
4511.03                         70.05
4511.031                        70.24
4511.04                         70.02
4511.041                        70.051
4511.042                        70.051
4511.05                         70.06
4511.051                        70.07
4511.08                         70.08
4511.12(A), (B)                 70.10
4511.121(A) - (E)               70.10
4511.13                         70.11
4511.131                        70.12
4511.14                         70.13
4511.16                         70.15
4511.17                         70.16
4511.181                        73.01
4511.19(A) - (M)                73.01
4511.191(A), (D)                73.011
4511.192                        73.011
4511.20                         73.05
4511.201                        73.06
4511.202                        73.04
4511.203                        71.08
4511.204                        72.48
4511.205                        72.49
4511.21(A) - (G), (O), (P)      73.10
4511.211(A) - (F)               73.10
4511.213(A) - (C), (E)          72.40
4511.214                        73.25
4511.215                        73.25
4511.216                        73.25
4511.22                         73.11
4511.24                         73.12
4511.25                         72.01
4511.251                        73.13
4511.26                         72.03
4511.27                         72.04
4511.28                         72.05
4511.29                         72.06
4511.30                         72.07
4511.31                         72.08
4511.32                         72.09
4511.33                         72.02
4511.34                         72.11
4511.35                         72.10
4511.36                         72.12
4511.37                         72.13
4511.38                         72.14
4511.39                         72.15
4511.40                         72.16
4511.41                         72.20
4511.42                         72.21
4511.43                         72.22
4511.431                        72.23
4511.44                         72.24
4511.441                        78.02
4511.45                         72.25
4511.451                        72.26
4511.452                        78.06
4511.454                        72.25
4511.46                         78.04
4511.47                         78.07
4511.48                         78.05
4511.481                        78.10
4511.49                         78.03
4511.491                        78.12
4511.50                         78.01
4511.51                         78.09
4511.511                        78.08
4511.512                        78.13
4511.513                        78.14
4511.514                        78.15
4511.52                         75.01
4511.521                        75.02
4511.522                        75.09
4511.53                         75.03
4511.54                         75.04
4511.55                         75.05
4511.56                         75.06
4511.61                         72.30
4511.62                         72.31
4511.63                         72.32
4511.64                         72.33
4511.65                         72.28
4511.66                         76.01
4511.661                        76.02
4511.67                         76.03
4511.68                         76.04
4511.69                         76.05
4511.70                         72.35
4511.701                        72.36
4511.71(A)                      72.37
4511.711(A), (B)                72.38
4511.712                        72.39
4511.714(A), (B)                72.36
4511.714(C)                     72.36
4511.714(D)                     72.36
4511.72(A), (B)                 72.40
4511.73                         72.41
4511.74(A) - (C)                72.42
4511.75                         77.01
4511.751                        77.02
4511.76(C), (F), (G)            77.03
4511.761                        77.04
4511.762                        77.05
4511.763                        77.06
4511.764                        77.07
4511.77                         77.08
4511.771                        77.09
4511.79                         73.02
4511.81(A)-(H), (K), (L)        72.44
4511.82(A), (B), (D)            72.45
4511.84                         72.46
4511.99                         70.99
4511.991                        70.99
4513.021                        74.40
4513.03                         74.01
4513.04                         74.02
4513.05                         74.07
4513.06                         74.08
4513.07                         74.17
4513.071                        74.09
4513.08                         74.14
4513.09                         74.15
4513.10                         74.10
4513.11                         74.16
4513.111                        74.16
4513.112                        74.16
4513.113                        74.16
4513.114                        74.16
4513.115                        74.16
4513.12                         74.12
4513.13                         74.11
4513.14                         74.03
4513.15                         74.04
4513.16                         74.05
4513.17                         74.13
4513.171                        74.13
4513.18                         74.18
4513.181                        74.19
4513.182                        74.20
4513.19                         74.06
4513.20                         74.25
4513.201                        74.26
4513.202                        74.27
4513.21                         74.30
4513.22                         74.41
4513.23                         74.37
4513.24                         74.35
4513.241(C) - (K)               74.36
4513.25                         74.42
4513.26                         74.36
4513.261                        74.31
4513.27                         74.32
4513.28                         74.33
4513.29(A), (B)                 74.44
4513.30                         74.57
4513.31                         74.51
4513.32                         74.52
4513.34                         74.54
4513.36                         70.04
4513.66                         70.095(A) - (C)
4513.68                         70.095(D) - (G)
                                74.10,
                                74.20,
                                74.25 -
                                74.27,
                                74.32,
4513.99                         74.36,
                                74.42,
                                74.44,
                                74.51,
                                74.52,
                                74.54,
                                74.57 
4519.401                        73.25
4549.02                         73.20
4549.021                        73.21
4549.03                         73.22
4549.05                         73.26
4549.08                         71.16
4549.081(B), (C)                70.10
4549.10                         71.17
4549.11                         71.18
4549.12                         71.19
4549.20                         74.49
4905.75                         51.33
5577.01                         74.50,
                                74.56
5577.02                         74.53
5577.03                         74.55
5577.04                         74.56
5577.041                        74.56
5577.05                         74.46
5577.11                         74.45
5577.15                         74.52
5577.99(A)                      74.53
5577.99(A), (C)                 74.55
5577.99(C)                      74.46,
                                74.56
5577.99(E)                      74.45
                                
 
REFERENCES TO 1956 CODE
1956 CODE 1982 CODE
1956 CODE 1982 CODE
1         91.01
1-2       137.08
1-3       131.05
1-4       95.03
1-5       78.11
1-6       137.05
2         91.02
2-2       91.03
2-3       91.04
2-5       91.06
2-7       91.07
2-9       91.08
2-10      91.09
2-11      91.10
2-12      91.11
2-13      91.12
2-14      91.13
2-18      91.14
2-19      91.15
3         132.01,
          132.05
3-1       74.41
4-8       32.21
4-9       32.22
5         135.10
5-1       131.15
5-2       135.01 -
          135.04
5-3       132.01
5-4       137.02
5-5       131.05
5-9       132.05
5-13      133.15
5-14      131.05
          136.07,
5-15      136.11 -
          136.13
7         95.01
7-1       95.02(A)
7-2       95.03(B)
7-3       95.03(C)
7-5       95.04
7-8       95.05
7-9       75.07
7-11      95.06
7-12      95.07
7-14      95.08
7-15      95.09
7-16      95.10
7-17      95.11
7-18      95.12
7-19      95.13
7-20      95.14
7-21      95.15
7-22      95.16
7-23      95.17
7-29      95.18
7-30      95.19
7-33      95.20
7-33-1    95.21
7-33-2    95.31
8         Ch. 79, Sch. I
8-1       Ch. 79, Sch. II
8-3       Ch. 79, Sch. II
8-4       Ch. 79, Sch. II
8-4-1     Ch. 79, Sch. III
8-5       73.10
8-6       73.14
8-7-A     73.01
          70.03,
8-7-B     70.10,
          72.43
8-7-C     76.06
8-7-D     75.04,
          78.09
8-7-E     76.04
8-7-F     73.20 -
          73.22
8-7-G     73.20 -
          73.22
8-7-H     72.35
8-7-I     72.14
8-7-J     70.11
8-7-K     70.11
8-8       71.15
8-9       71.16
8-10      72.06
8-11      72.04,
          72.05
8-13      72.51
12        33.01
12-1      33.02
12-2      33.03
12-3      33.04
12-4      33.05
12-7      33.06
12-8      33.07
12-9      33.08
13        90.01
14        72.50
14-1      72.50
15        11.01
15-1      32.01
15-2      32.02
15-3      32.03
16-31     30.02
16.32     30.03
17        31.02
17-3      31.05
17-5      31.20
17-6      31.21
17-7      31.22
17-8      31.23
17-11     31.04,
          31.22
17-14     32.30
17-14-1   32.31
17-15     32.32
17-17     32.34
17-18     32.35
17-19     32.36
17-20     32.37
17-21     32.38
18        32.45
18-1      32.46
18-2      32.47
18-3      32.48
18-4      32.49
18-5      32.50
18-6      32.51
18-7      32.52
18-8      32.53
18-9      32.54
          
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
ORD. NO. DATE PASSED CODE SECTION
ORD. NO. DATE PASSED CODE SECTION
12       4-19-82     31.01(A)
13       4-19-82     31.01(B)
1970-7   6-1-70      Ch. 79, Sch. IV
1973-2   5-7-73      Ch. 79, Sch. V
1978-24  11-6-78     Ch. 79, Sch. IV
1979-4   1-2-79      91.99
1982-10  4-5-82      110.01
1982-18  7-12-82     110.01
1982-20  7-12-82     32.30
1982-21  7-12-82     95.10
1982-26  9-17-82     34.12
1983-12  3-7-83      32.23
1983-24  7-5-83      31.31
1983-38  - -83       36.01
1984-11  4-2-84      51.20
1984-20  5-7-84      73.99
1984-23  7-2-84      154.51
1984-25  7-2-84      34.07
1985-22  7-1-85      34.01
1985-24  7-1-85      Ch. 79, Sch. VI
1986-11  5-6-86      51.13
1986-25  9-8-86      Adopting Ordinance
1986-29  9-8-86      32.35
1987-9   4-6-87      Ch. 79, Sch. IV
1987-19  6-1-87      34.03
1987-22  7-6-87      34.09
1987-26  7-6-87      73.99
1987-33  9-14-87     73.99
1987-37  10-14-87    73.98
1987-39  11-2-87     50.36
1987-43  12-29-87    34.03
1988-10  2-1-88      Ch. 80
                     92.35 -
1988-14  3-7-88      92.38,
                     92.99(B)
1988-29  11-7-88     150.03
1988-36  12-5-88     36.01
1989-20  5-1-89      Ch. 79, Sch. IV
1989-22  7-3-89      137.08
1989-23  7-3-89      91.17
1989-27  7-3-89      34.08
1989-40  12-19-89    50.81
1990-9   1-8-90      36.02
1990-10  2-5-90      32.23
1990-19- - 90        34.01
1990-33  11-5-90     Adopting Ordinance
1990-34  11-5-90     Ch. 79, Sch. IV
1991-59  10-7-91     31.31
                     31.07,
1991-69  12-2-91     31.31,
                     34.07
1991-77  12-18-91    34.08
1992-3   1-6-92      31.08
1992-7   1-6-92      Ch. 79, Sch. III
1992-8   1-6-92      31.05
1992-10  2-3-92      Ch. 79, Sch. V
1992-17  3-16-92     34.05
1992-18  3-16-92     34.06
1992-20  4-6-92      51.34
1992-38  11-2-92     96.01
1993-21  4-5-93      31.10
1993-32  6-7-93      34.05
1993-37  7-12-93     110.01
1993-38  10-4-93     Ch. 79, Sch. VI
1993-42  8-2-93      154.51
                     32.45,
1993-51  11-4-93     32.55,
                     32.56
1993-52  11-4-93     154.41 -
                     154.48
1993-59  1-3-94      Ch. 79, Sch. V
1993-61  11-4-93     36.03
1993-70  12-6-93     154.46
1994-16  2-7-94      Ch. 111
1994-17  2-7-94      34.09
1994-37  7-5-94      32.45
1994-40  7-5-94      76.04
1994-55  1-3-95      154.52
1994-56  12-6-94     36.04
1994-59  12-6-94     36.05
1995-7   2-14-95     31.10
1995-13  3-6-95      111.02
1995-30  5-8-95      31.09
1995-49  12-5-95     50.81
1996-07  2-6-96      Adopting Ordinance
1996-15  5-7-96      154.32,
                     154.35
1996-51  10-1-96     Adopting Ordinance
1997-06  3-4-97      Ch. 79, Sch.IV
1997-13  3-4-97      34.06,
                     34.08
1997-19  6-3-97      50.81
1997-25  5-6-97      154.27
1997-45  2-3-98      32.23
1998-02  1-6-98      31.08
1998-04  1-6-98      31.01
                     Ch. 79, Schs.
1998-12b 7-7-98      IV,
                     V
1998-18  5-5-98      36.06
1998-37  11-2-98     Ch. 79, Sch. VII
1999-23  9-13-99     154.36
1999-24  8-16-99     51.19
1999-28  11-1-99     Ch. 79, Sch. IV
1999-47  2-7-00      32.45
2000-02  1-10-00     31.11
2000-07  2-7-00      Ch. 79, Sch. III
                     Repealing
                     32.39,
2000-10  2-7-00      34.05,
                     34.06,
                     34.07
2000-12  3-13-00     34.08
2000-13  2-7-00      154.27
2000-21  5-1-00      154.03
2000-22  3-13-00     30.01 -
                     30.03
2000-24  6-5-00      74.47
2000-25  6-5-00      74.48
2000-27  6-5-00      72.47
2000-34  8-7-00      72.45
                     Ch. 79, Schs.
2000-35  6-5-00      III,
                     IV
2000-45  10-2-00     76.06
2000-51  12-4-00     75.08
2001-14  4-2-01      34.06,
                     34.10
2001-27  6-4-01      34.13
2001-36  11-5-01     154.36
                     32.45,
                     32.46,
2001-40  4-1-02      32.54 -
                     32.56,
                     154.41 -
                     154.48
2001-43  11-5-01     154.27
2002-08  3-16-92     34.05
2002-09  3-4-01      50.81
2003-07  2-3-03      Ch. 79, Sch. III
2003-12  6-2-03      154.57
2003-16  4-7-03      Ch. 79, Sch. IV
2004-05  2-2-04      71.02,
                     130.99 
2004-07  3-1-04      34.01,
                     34.06
2004-08  6-7-04      154.27
2004-09  6-7-04      154.41
2004-10  6-7-04      154.45
2004-11  6-7-04      154.45
2004-12  9-7-04      154.45
2004-13  6-7-04      154.62
                     154.42,
2004-15  6-15-04     154.45,
                     154.46
2004-17  5-3-04      154.57
2004-21  10-4-04     91.04
2005-05  2-7-05      151.01 -
                     151.03
2005-07  4-4-05      30.02
2005-09  3-7-05      34.01,
                     34.06
2005-12  5-2-05      Ch. 79, Sch. IV
2005-26  8-11-05     154.21
2005-39  11-7-05     Adopting Ordinance
2006-07  3-6-06      154.28
                     154.03,
2006-08  3-6-06      154.21,
                     154.46,
                     154.55
                     154.81 -
2006-12  5-1-06      154.96,
                     154.99
2006-13  6-5-06      154.58
2006-22  6-5-06      96.02
2006-45  10-2-06     76.04
2007-13  3-5-07      34.05
2007-21  10-1-07     154.26
                     154.04,
2007-22  8-6-07      154.22,
                     154.55,
                     154.56
2007-50  1-7-08      157.01 -
                     157.05
2008-10  3-3-08      Adopting Ordinance
2008-11  3-3-07      34.08
2008-18  7-7-08      151.03
2008-37  11-3-08     154.26
2009-08  3-2-09      155.04
2009-13  4-6-09      154.45
2009-16  3-16-09     34.07
2009-23  5-4-09      Ch. 79, Sch. IV
2009-26  5-4-09      76.06
2009-37  9-14-09     154.35
2009-38  9-14-09     154.46
2009-40  9-14-09     154.42,
                     154.48
2009-56  9-14-09     154.46
2010-15  4-5-10      Adopting Ordinance
                     154.27 ,
2010-32  9-3-10      154.45 ,
                     154.46
2010-47  12-6-10     154.55
2010-49  12-6-10     154.42
2010-50  11-1-10     91.04,
                     91.99
2010-63  1-10-11     154.55
2011-28  8-1-11      154.46
2011-31  7-5-11      36.03
2012-27  6-4-12      Ch. 79, Sch. V
2012-49  2-4-13      154.21
2013-34  12-2-13     92.01
2013-35  1-6-14      51.28 ,
                     51.29
                     91.05 ,
2014-12  4-7-14      91.09  -
                     91.13
2014-14  7-7-14      92.45
2014-41  11-3-14     50.01,
                     51.35
                     154.51,
                     154.92,
2014-47  12-1-14     154.93,
                     154.94,
                     154.96
                     154.51,
2014-48  12-1-14     154.64,
                     154.67,
                     154.82; Repeals 154.63
2015-08  3-2-15      50.35
2015-09  3-2-15      50.36
2015-10  3-2-15      50.81
2015-11  3-2-15      50.81
2015-12  3-2-15      51.08
2015-17  5-4-15      154.03,
                     154.21
2015-30  8-31-15     150.01,
                     150.02
2016-18  6-6-16      154.21,
                     154.26
2016-31  7-11-16     32.03
                     32.54,
2016-46  11-7-16     154.66,
                     154.84
2016-50  11-7-16     154.45
2017-11  1-5-17      154.23
2017-23  4-3-17      31.03
                     150.01,
2018-04  1-8-18      150.03,
                     150.04
2019-29  8-27-19     Ch. 79, Sch. VI
                     70.01,
2019-39  12-2-19     76.07 -
                     76.10
                     33.01,
2020-34  10-5-20     33.02,
                     33.06,
                     33.08
2022-03  4-4-22      154.42,
                     154.46
2022-04  12-5-22     154.59
                     97.01,
2022-62  12-5-22     97.02,
                     97.99
                     91.04,
                     93.01 -
                     93.05,
2023-20  5-1-23      93.99,
                     94.01 -
                     94.04,
                     94.99
                    
 
