IRONTON, OHIO
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-5 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through 11-19-2024
State legislation current through 2-28-2024
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
OFFICIALS PAGE
City Council
City Council
Aaron Bollinger
Robert Cleary
Dave Frazer
Craig Harvey
Philip Heald
Beth Rist
Kevin Waldo
 
 
Clerk     Marta Leach
Solicitor W. Mack Anderson
         Robert C. Anderson
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 08-113
ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF IRONTON, OHIO, REVISING,
AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH
CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the political
subdivision are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in
form and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of
its affairs; and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Ohio empower and authorize
the political subdivision to revise, amend, restate, codify and compile any
existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted or published
and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision has authorized
a general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the
Political Subdivision of a general and permanent nature and publication of such
ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF IRONTON, OHIO:
Section 1.   The general ordinances of the Political Subdivision as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the “Code of Ordinances of the City of Ironton, Ohio.”
Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles:
   IRONTON, OHIO
   TABLE OF CONTENTS
   CHARTER
   PART TWO: ADMINISTRATION CODE
         TITLE TWO - General Provisions
            Chap. 202.   Codified Ordinances.
            Chap. 204.   Official Standards.
            Chap. 206.   Wards and Boundaries.
         TITLE FOUR - Legislation
            Chap. 220.   Council.
            Chap. 222.   Ordinances, Resolutions and Contracts.
         TITLE SIX - Administration
            Chap. 230.   Mayor.
            Chap. 232.   Department of Law.
            Chap. 234.   Department of Finance.
            Chap. 236.   Department of Public Works and Services.
            Chap. 238.   Police Department.
            Chap. 240.   Fire Department.
            Chap. 242.   Department of Community Development.
            Chap. 244.   Recreation Department.
            Chap. 250.   Employees Generally.
            Chap. 252.   City Policies, Plans and Programs.
         TITLE EIGHT - Boards, Commissions and Committees
            Chap. 260.   Civil Service Commission.
            Chap. 262.   Planning Commission.
            Chap. 264.   Board of Zoning Appeals.
            Chap. 266.   Recreation Advisory Committee.
            Chap. 268.   Board of Health.
            Chap. 270.   Iron Master Society.
            Chap. 272.   Ironton Port Authority.
         TITLE TEN - Judiciary
            Chap. 290.   Municipal Court.
   PART FOUR: TRAFFIC CODE
         TITLE TWO - Administration, Enforcement and Penalties
            Chap. 402.   Definitions.
            Chap. 404.   Enforcement; Impounding.
            Chap. 406.   Traffic Control.
            Chap. 408.   Penalties.
         TITLE FOUR - Public Ways and Traffic Control Devices
            Chap. 412.   Obstruction and Special Uses of Public Ways.
            Chap. 414.   Traffic Control Devices.
            Chap. 416.   Pedestrians.
         TITLE SIX - Vehicles and Operation
            Chap. 432.   Operation Generally.
            Chap. 434.   O.V.I.; Reckless Operation; Speed.
            Chap. 436.   Licensing; Accidents.
            Chap. 438.   Safety and Equipment.
            Chap. 440.   Commercial and Heavy Vehicles.
            Chap. 442.   Drivers of Commercial Vehicles.
         TITLE EIGHT - Parking
            Chap. 452.   Parking Generally.
            Chap. 454.   Parking Meters.
         TITLE TEN - Bicycles, Motorcycles and Snowmobiles
            Chap. 474.   Bicycles and Motorcycles.
            Chap. 476.   Snowmobiles and All-Purpose Vehicles.
   PART SIX: GENERAL OFFENSES
            Chap. 606.   General Provisions; Administration and Enforcement.
            Chap. 612.   Alcoholic Beverages.
            Chap. 618.   Animals.
            Chap. 624.   Drugs.
            Chap. 626.   Fair Employment.
            Chap. 628.   Fair Housing.
            Chap. 630.   Gambling.
            Chap. 636.   Offenses Relating to Persons.
            Chap. 642.   Offenses Relating to Property.
            Chap. 648.   Peace Disturbances.
            Chap. 654.   Railroads.
            Chap. 660.   Safety, Sanitation and Health.
            Chap. 666.   Sex Related Offenses.
            Chap. 672.   Weapons and Explosives.
            Chap. 698.   Penalties and Sentencing.
   PART EIGHT: BUSINESS REGULATION AND TAXATION CODE
         TITLE TWO - Business Regulation
            Chap. 810.   Circuses.
            Chap. 812.   Food Regulations.
            Chap. 816.   Fortunetellers.
            Chap. 830.   Going-Out-of Business Sales.
            Chap. 834.   Home Sales.
            Chap. 838.   Juke Boxes.
            Chap. 840.   Junk Collectors and Junk Dealers.
            Chap. 850.   Mobile Home Parks.
            Chap. 856.   Pawnbrokers.
            Chap. 860.   Peddlers.
            Chap. 864.   Service Work Providers.
            Chap. 868.   Rummage Sales.
            Chap. 872.   Street Fairs.
            Chap. 876.   Taxicabs.
            Chap. 880.   Temporary Stores.
            Chap. 884.   Tents.
         TITLE FOUR - Taxation
            Chap. 890.   Earned Income Tax.
            Chap. 892.   Motor Vehicle License Tax.
            Chap. 894.   Community Reinvestment Areas.
   PART TEN STREETS, UTILITIES AND PUBLIC SERVICES CODE
         TITLE TWO - Street and Sidewalk Areas
            Chap. 1020.   Excavations.
            Chap. 1022.   Sidewalk Areas and Curbs.
         TITLE FOUR - Utilities
            Chap. 1040.   Utility Poles, Anchors and Underground Lines.
            Chap. 1042.   Sewers Generally.
            Chap. 1044.   Sewer Service Charges.
            Chap. 1045.   Storm Water.
            Chap. 1046.   Water.
            Chap. 1048.   Electricity.
            Chap. 1050.   Gas.
         TITLE SIX - Other Public Services
            Chap. 1060.   Garbage and Rubbish Collection and Disposal.
            Chap. 1062.   Parks and Recreation Areas.
   PART TWELVE: PLANNING AND ZONING CODE
         TITLE TWO - Planning
            Chap. 1220.   Planning Commission.
            Chap. 1224.   Subdivision Regulations.
         TITLE FOUR-Zoning
            Chap. 1250.   General Provisions and Definitions.
            Chap. 1252.   Administration, Enforcement and Penalty.
            Chap. 1254.   Board of Zoning Appeals.
            Chap. 1255.   Design Review Board.
            Chap. 1256.   Districts Generally and Zoning Map.
            Chap. 1258.   Residence R-l Single-Family District.
            Chap. 1260.   Residence R-2 District.
            Chap. 1262.   Residence R-3 District.
            Chap. 1264.   Business B-l District.
            Chap. 1266.   Business B-2 District.
            Chap. 1268.   Business B-3 District.
            Chap. 1270.   Light Industrial 1-1 District.
            Chap. 1272.   General Industrial 1-2 District.
            Chap. 1274.   Planned Development PD District.
            Chap. 1276.   Health Service HS-1 District.
            Chap. 1278.   Flood Plain FP-1 District.
            Chap. 1280.   Off-Street Parking and Loading.
            Chap. 1282.   Provisions Relating to All Districts.
         TITLE SIX - Urban Renewal
            Chap. 1290.   Description of the Project.
            Chap. 1292.   Land Use Plan.
            Chap. 1294.   Project Proposals.
            Chap. 1296.   Changes in Approved Urban Renewal Plan.
   PART FOURTEEN: BUILDING AND HOUSING CODE
         TITLE TWO - Building Standards
            Chap. 1420.   International Building Code.
            Chap. 1424.   National Electrical Code.
            Chap. 1428.   International Plumbing Code.
            Chap. 1430.   Adoption of Uniform Codes.
         TITLE FOUR - Building Administration
            Chap. 1440.   Enforcement; Permits and Fees.
         TITLE SIX - Miscellaneous Building Regulations
            Chap. 1456.   Special Purpose Flood Damage Reduction.
            Chap. 1474.   Signs and Sign Structures.
   PART SIXTEEN: FIRE PREVENTION CODE
            Chap. 1610.   Ohio Fire Code.
            Chap. 1612.   Fire Safety Fee.
   TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
            TABLE A.   Franchises.
            TABLE B.   Easements.
            TABLE C.   Vacating of Streets and Alleys.
            TABLE D.   Dedication and Plat Approval.
            TABLE E.   Acquisition and Disposal of Real Property.
            TABLE F.   Lease of Real Properly.
            TABLE G.   Street Grade Levels and Change of Street Name.
            TABLE H.   Annexation and Detachment of Territory.
            TABLE I.   Zoning Map Changes.
            TABLE J.   Contracts.
            TABLE K.   Enterprise Zone Agreements.
   PARALLEL REFERENCES
      Historical References to Ohio Revised Code
      References to Ohio Administrative Code
      References to 1976 Code
      References to Resolutions
      References to Ordinances
   INDEX
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the Political
Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of
Ordinances in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 6.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
Passed this 11th day of December, 2008.
                                                                                                                                 
Clerk of Council                  Vice-Mayor
This Ordinance is hereby  12-12-08
                                                                    
            Approved         Mayor
ORDINANCE NO. 10-69
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF IRONTON, OHIO AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2010 S-1 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of this Political Subdivision; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF IRONTON, OHIO:
Section 1.   That the 2010 S-1 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Political Subdivision as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the
Political Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such
supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office
of the Clerk.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
   PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Legislative Authority of the Legislative Authority
of the Political Subdivision on the 8th day of November, 2010.
Attest:
                                                                                                                              
Clerk of Council                                 Vice-Mayor
This Ordinance is hereby  11-08-10
                                                                             
                  Approved                  Mayor
CHARTER
OF THE
CITY OF IRONTON, OHIO
EDITOR’S NOTE: The Charter of the City of Ironton, Ohio, was adopted by the
voters on November 4, 1980. The Charter became effective immediately upon
approval for the purposes of nominating and electing the Mayor and Council. For
all other purposes it became effective on July 4, 1980. Dates appearing in
parentheses following a section heading in the Table of Contents, and following
a section in the text, indicate that the section was enacted, amended or
repealed on the date given.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREAMBLE
ARTICLE I - INCORPORATION, POWERS, FORM OF GOVERNMENT
   Section
1.01   Incorporation.
   Section
1.02   Powers.
   Section
1.03   Form of Government.
   Section
1.04   Construction.
ARTICLE II - THE COUNCIL
   Section
2.01   Powers; Composition; Quorum; Ordinances and Resolutions.
   Section
2.02   Qualifications of Members.
   Section
2.03   Nominations.
   Section
2.04   Salaries of Members.
   Section
2.05   Vacancies on Council. (11-4-1986)
   Section
2.06   Forfeiture of Office.
   Section
2.07   Publication of Ordinances. (11-4-1986)
   Section
2.08   Meetings.
   Section
2.09   Signing of Ordinances.
   Section
2.10   Standing Committees.
   Section
2.11   Order of Business.
   Section
2.12   Committee Reports.
   Section
2.13   Division of Question.
   Section
2.14   Voting.
   Section
2.15   Debate.
   Section
2.16   Conduct of Debate.
   Section
2.17   Introduction of Legislation.
   Section
2.18   Recording Votes.
   Section
2.19   Order of Motions.
   Section
2.20   Motion to be Stated by Vice Mayor.
   Section
2.21   Reconsideration.
   Section
2.22   Rules of Procedure.
   Section
2.23   Appointments. (11-4-1986)
   Section
2.24   Sergeant-at-Arms.
   Section
2.25   Councilmen to Attend Meetings.
   Section
2.26   Reference to Committee.
ARTICLE III - THE MAYOR
   Section
3.01   Qualifications. (11-4-1986)
   Section
3.02   Nomination.
   Section
3.03   Election.
   Section
3.04   Terms of Office. (11-5-1996)
   Section
3.05   Salary. (11-4-1986)
   Section
3.06   Veto Power of Mayor.
   Section
3.07   Executive Powers of the Mayor.
   Section
3.08   Vice Mayor.
ARTICLE IV - ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENTS
   Section
4.01   Director of Public Works and Services. (11-4-1986)
   Section
4.02   Administrative Departments.
   Section
4.03   Department Supervisors. (11-4-1986; 11-5-1996)
   Section
4.04   Department of Law. (11-4-1986)
   Section
4.05   Director of Finance.
   Section
4.06   Residency Requirements. (11-4-2007)
ARTICLE V - FINANCE
   Section
5.01   Fiscal Year.
   Section
5.02   Annual Budget.
   Section
5.03   Proceeds from Sale.
   Section
5.04   Prohibition Against Deficit Spending.
   Section
5.05   Transfer of Funds.
   Section
5.06   Interpretation.
   Section
5.07   Audits.
   Section
5.08   Exemptions.
ARTICLE VI - GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Section
6.01   Conflict of Interest.
   Section
6.02   Amendments to the Charter.
   Section
6.03   Recall of Elected Officials.
   Section
6.04   Initiative and Referendum. (11-4-1980)
   Section
6.05   Oath of Office. (11-4-1980)
ARTICLE VII - CIVIL SERVICE
   Section
7.01   Municipal Civil Service Commission.
   Section
7.02   Civil Service; Classified and Unclassified.
   Section
7.03   Civil Service Examinations.
   Section
7.04   Eligibility.
   Section
7.05   Political Activity.
ARTICLE VIII - BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
   Section
8.01   Authorization.
   Section
8.02   Organization of Boards and Commissions.
   Section
8.03   Zoning.
ARTICLE IX - TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS
   Section
9.01   Fiscal Succession.
   Section
9.02   Continuation of Ordinances.
   Section
9.03   Continuance of Offices and Employees.
   Section
9.04   Transfer of Records and Property.
   Section
9.05   Continuance of Contracts and Public Improvements.
   Section
9.06   Pending Actions and Proceedings.
   Section
9.07   When Charter Takes Effect.
PREAMBLE
   We, the people of Ironton, Ohio, in order to provide a democratic and
efficient form of governmental organization, and to make possible facilities
for the future growth and betterment of our community, do hereby adopt for our
Municipality the following Charter.
ARTICLE I
INCORPORATION, POWERS, FORM OF GOVERNMENT
1.01 Incorporation.
   The inhabitants of the City of Ironton, Lawrence County, Ohio, within the
corporate limits as now established or as hereafter established in the manner
provided by law shall continue to be a body politic and corporate by name “City
of Ironton,” and as such shall have perpetual succession.
1.02 Powers.
   The Municipality shall have all powers of local self government and home
rule and all powers possible for a municipality to have under the Constitution
and statutes of the State of Ohio. All such powers shall be exercised in the
manner provided in this Charter, or as prescribed by State law.
1.03 Form of Government.
   The Municipal government provided by this Charter shall be known as the
Mayor-Council form of government. The chief executive and administrative
officer of the City shall be the Mayor, who shall be chosen by the voters of
the City.
1.04 Construction.
   The powers of the City under this Charter shall be construed liberally in
favor of the City, and the specific mention of particular powers in this
Charter shall not be construed as limiting in any way the general power stated
in this Article.
   If any section or part of this Charter is held invalid, the other sections
or parts shall not be invalidated thereby.
ARTICLE II
THE COUNCIL
2.01 Powers; Composition; Quorum; Ordinances and Resolutions.
   All legislative power shall be vested in the Council. Council shall be
composed of seven members who shall be elected at large for a four-year term.
Councilmen shall be elected in the odd number years with four being elected at
one election and three being elected at the next election.
   A majority of all members constitutes a quorum. A quorum of Council is
defined as a majority of those persons holding office as a member of Council at
any given time.
   An affirmative vote of the majority of the members of Council holding office
shall be necessary to adopt an ordinance. All motions and resolutions shall
require an affirmative vote of the majority of the members of Council present
to be adopted. Each proposed ordinance or resolution shall be in written or
printed form and shall contain not more than one subject which shall be clearly
stated in the title. General appropriation ordinances may contain the various
subjects and accounts for which moneys are appropriated. No ordinance, unless
it is declared an emergency measure, shall be passed until it has been read on
three separate days, the first and second reading of which may be by title
only, and if such measure is printed and a copy thereof placed on the desk of
each member, the third reading may be by title only. The rule requiring every
ordinance to be read on three separate days may be suspended by a three-fourths
vote of all members of Council.
2.02 Qualifications of Members.
   Members of Council shall be electors of the City of Ironton. They shall not
hold any other public office, except that of notary public, political party
committee member or member of the State Militia, and shall not be interested in
the profits or emoluments of any contract, job, work or service for the City of
Ironton. They shall not otherwise be in the employ of the City of Ironton. Any
member who ceases to possess any of the qualifications required by this section
shall immediately forfeit the office. Any contract in which any such member is
or becomes interested shall be void.
2.03 Nominations.
   Any persons wishing to run for the office of Councilman shall file a
petition signed by not less than fifty nor more than 100 registered voters of
the City, to be filed by the Board of Elections as provided by law.
2.04 Salaries of Members.
   The Council shall, by ordinance, fix the salary of its members which shall
be paid in equal monthly installments. The salary of a member of Council shall
not be increased or decreased during his term of office.
2.05 Vacancies on Council.
   Whenever a vacancy occurs on Council, it shall be filled within thirty days
by a majority vote of those Councilmen holding office. The person appointed
shall serve the unexpired term of the seat vacated until the next general
election, at which time the remainder of the unexpired term or a full term
shall be voted upon by the citizens. In the event Council fails to fill the
vacancy within thirty days, the Mayor shall immediately make the appointment
for the same unexpired term or partial unexpired term.
(Amended 11-4-1986)
2.06 Forfeiture of Office.
   Any Councilman who shall cease to possess the qualifications of office, or
who shall be convicted of bribery, corruption or any other crime involving
moral turpitude, or who shall be absent from six consecutive regular meetings
of Council, whether excused or not, shall immediately forfeit the office.
   No Councilman shall interfere directly or indirectly with the operation of
the Mayor and/or the executive branch. “Interference,” for purposes of this
section, shall mean contact with any member or employee of the executive
branch, other than the Mayor, by personal visit, mail or telephone, either at
work, at home or elsewhere for the purpose, either express or implied, of
causing said member of the executive branch to do or not to do, perform or not
perform any duties, obligations or lawful orders given to said member of the
executive branch by his superior of superiors.
   The Mayor of the City of Ironton shall file a complaint against said
Councilman with the Vice Mayor, or, if he be the offender, with the Director of
Finance, and said complaint shall be heard by the Council Committee of the
Whole within ten days. If Council, by a two-thirds vote, concurs that said
charge is true, the offender shall be summarily removed from Council.
2.07 Publication of Ordinances.
   All ordinances or resolutions shall be in effect thirty days from the date
of passage unless declared an emergency necessary for the public peace or
welfare of the City by a three-fourths vote of all members of Council, in which
event said ordinance or resolution shall be in effect immediately upon passage.
Ordinances shall, upon passage, be promptly published in complete or summary
manner one time in the legal advertising section of one, and not more than two,
newspapers of general circulation in the City of Ironton. No newspaper shall be
paid a higher price for the publication of an ordinance than its maximum bona
fide legal advertising rate.
(Amended 11-4-1986)
2.08 Meetings.
   The Council shall meet at the usual place for holding such meetings, at 7:30
p.m. on December 1st after its election, at which time the newly elected
Councilmen shall assume the duties of their office. Thereafter, the Council
shall meet in regular session at least twice each month, at such times and
places as are fixed by ordinance. The Clerk shall call special sessions of the
Council upon written request of the Vice Mayor or any three members. Any such
requests shall state the subjects to be considered at such special meeting and
no other subject shall be considered. Notice of special Meetings shall be
served upon all members of Council at least twenty-four hours prior to the
meeting time.
2.09 Signing of Ordinances.
   Every Ordinance or resolution passed by Council shall be signed by the Vice
Mayor or two members, and shall be recorded.
2.10 Standing Committees.
   It shall be the duty of the Vice Mayor to appoint at the first meeting after
the organization of Council all standing committees for the ensuing term. The
first named member of any committee shall be chairman of that committee. The
standing committees shall be:
      1.   Finance.
      2.    Public Utilities.
      3.    Annexation.
      4.    Industrial and Commercial Development.
      5.    Parks and Recreation.
   The Vice Mayor shall also appoint such special committees as a majority of
Council may at any time order. Every standing or special committee shall
consist of three members. No member shall serve on fewer than one nor more than
three standing committees. No member shall be chairman of more than one
standing committee.
2.11 Order of Business.
   The business at all regular meetings of the Council shall be transacted in
the following order:
      1st.   Approval of the Journal.
      2nd.   Hearing from persons in the audience. Same shall continue under
the direction of the Chairman unless otherwise ordered by a two-thirds vote of
the Council.
      3rd.   Communications and reports.
      4th.   Reports of committees.
      5th.   Ordinances and resolutions.
      6th.   Second reading of ordinances.
      7th.   Third reading of ordinances.
      8th.   Miscellaneous business.
   As used in this Charter, Vice Mayor and Chairman are synonymous terms. The
Vice Mayor may, at any time, permit a deviation from the regular order of the
same, provided that two-thirds of the members present concur.
2.12 Committee Reports.
   All reports of committees shall be made in writing and signed by the members
concurring in such report; and when requested by any member, every motion or
proposition shall be reduced to writing before any action is taken thereon. All
committee reports must be attached to Council’s agenda and sent to every member
of Council at least twenty-four hours prior to the meeting at which the
committee report will be considered.
2.13 Division of Question.
   Any member may call for a division of a question or the Chairman may direct
the same; and the same in either case shall be divided, if it comprehends
questions so distinct that one being taken away, the other will stand as an
entire question for decision.
2.14 Voting.
   Every member present shall vote on any question on the calling of the yeas
and nays, unless excused by the unanimous consent of the Council, and if he
still refuses to vote, his refusal shall be entered upon the Journal.
2.15 Debate.
   No member shall speak more than twice on the same question without leave of
the Council, and no member shall speak more than once on the same question
until every member desiring to speak on that question shall have had an
opportunity to do so. No member shall pass before a speaker while speaking, or
otherwise interrupt except to call the speaker to order.
2.16 Conduct of Debate.
   Before a Councilman speaks, he shall address the Chair, be recognized and
shall confine himself to the subject under consideration, and avoid
personalities.
2.17 Introduction of Legislation.
   All ordinances and resolutions shall be introduced only by members of the
Council, with the sponsors’ names endorsed thereon.
2.18 Recording Votes.
   The yeas and nays shall be taken on the passage of any ordinance,
resolution, question or proposition submitted to the Council; and in taking the
yeas and nays, the Clerk shall call the names of the members in alphabetical
order, the result announced by the Vice Mayor and entered upon the Journal.
2.19 Order of Motions.
   When a question or proposition is before the Council or under debate, no
motion shall be received by the Chairman except the following:
      1st.   To adjourn.
      2nd.   To lie upon the table.
      3rd.   For the previous question.
      4th.   To commit.
      5th.   Postpone to a day certain.
      6th.   To amend.
      7th.   To postpone indefinitely.
   The motions, as above stated, shall have the precedence in the order in
which they are arranged. The motion to adjourn shall always be in order, unless
the Council is engaged in voting; but the motion to adjourn being decided in
the negative shall not be again entertained until some motion, call, order or
debate shall take place.
   The following questions shall be decided without debates:
      1st.   To adjourn.
      2nd.   To recess.
      3rd.   To lie upon the table.
      4th.   The previous question.
      5th.   To take from the table.
      6th.   To go into committee of the whole on the order of the day.
      7th.   All questions relating to the priority of business.
2.20 Motion to be Stated by Vice Mayor.
   When a motion is made and seconded, it shall be stated by the Vice Mayor
before any debate shall be in order. Every such motion, and all the amendments
thereof, if any, may be withdrawn by the movers thereof at any time before
decision, by the consent of the second.
2.21 Reconsideration.
   Only a member who voted with the prevailing side may move a reconsideration
of any action of the Council, provided that the motion be made not later than
the next regular meeting after such action was taken, provided said action has
not become effective. A motion to reconsider shall be in order at any time,
except when a motion on some other subject is pending. A motion to reconsider
being laid upon the table may be taken up and acted upon at any time when
Council is engaged in transacting miscellaneous business. No motion to
reconsider shall be made more than once on any matter or subject; and the same
number of votes shall be required to reconsider any action of the Council as is
required to pass or adopt the same.
2.22 Rules of Procedure.
   Council may adopt other rules of procedure as are not in conflict with the
provisions of this Charter.
2.23 Appointments.
   Council shall vote on Mayoral appointments within thirty days of the date
such appointment is presented to the Council by the Mayor. Failure to act
within said thirty days shall deem the appointment confirmed.
(Amended 11-4-1986)
2.24 Sergeant-at-Arms.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to detail one policeman to be in
attendance at every meeting of Council to act as Sergeant-at-Arms, who shall
remain in attendance, subject to the Council’s orders, until granted leave by
its presiding officer to retire. Under the direction of the presiding officer
of the Council, the Sergeant-at-Arms shall preserve order and decorum, and on
the order of the presiding officer shall compel the attendance of absent
members when there is not a quorum.
2.25 Councilmen to Attend Meetings.
   It shall be obligatory upon all members of the City Council to attend all
regular meetings of the same, and also all special meetings when properly
served with notice, unless absence therefrom is unavoidable.
2.26 Reference to Committee.
   Any matter coming before the Council may be referred, by a majority vote of
the Council, to any standing committee of the Council, or to the committee of
the whole or to a select committee to be appointed as provided for in the
motion to commit.
ARTICLE III
THE MAYOR
3.01 Qualifications.
   The Mayor shall be an elector and resident of the City of Ironton, Ohio, for
at least five years preceding the election, and remain a resident of the City
during his term of office. The Mayor shall hold no other elected office, nor
hold any other employment with the City of Ironton. The position of Mayor is to
be a full-time position.
(Amended 11-4-1986)
3.02 Nomination.
   Any person wishing to run for the office of Mayor shall file a petition
signed by not less than 300 nor more than 400 registered voters of the City, to
be filed with the Board of Elections in accordance with State law.
3.03 Election.
   In order to be elected, a candidate must receive at least forty percent of
the total votes cast for Mayor in the election. In the event that no candidate
receives at least forty percent of the total votes cast for Mayor, the two
candidates receiving the highest number of votes shall participate in a run-off
special election to be held two weeks after the date of the regular election.
3.04 Terms of Office.
   The Mayor shall take office December 1st following his election and serve a
period of four years. No person shall be elected to more than two full terms as
Mayor.
(Charter Amendment 96-73, passed by the electorate on 11-5-1996)
3.05 Salary.
   The Mayor shall receive as compensation an amount equal to sixty percent of
the salary of the Ironton Municipal Judgeship.
(Amended 11-4-1986)
3.06 Veto Power of Mayor.
   Every ordinance or resolution passed by Council shall be attested by the
Clerk of Council and promptly presented to the Mayor. If the Mayor approves
such legislation, he shall sign it within seven days after its passage or
adoption by Council; if he does not approve it, he shall veto and return it to
the Clerk within said seven-day period together with a written statement of his
objections, which objections shall be entered in full by the Clerk in the
Journal of the Council. The Mayor may approve or disapprove the whole or any
item of an ordinance appropriating money, but otherwise, his approval or
disapproval shall be addressed to the entire ordinance or resolution. If the
Mayor does not sign or veto an ordinance or resolution within the period above
specified, it shall take effect in the same manner as if he had signed it on
the last day of said seven-day period.
   Following the veto by the Mayor of an ordinance or resolution, or item
thereof as herein provided, the Council may, but not later than its next
regular meeting, reconsider the legislation vetoed by the Mayor, and if such
legislation shall then be approved by the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the
members of Council, it shall become effective notwithstanding the veto of the
Mayor.
3.07 Executive Powers of the Mayor.
   The Mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the City. He shall
supervise the administration of the City’s affairs and shall exercise control
of all departments. He shall see that the laws and ordinances are enforced in
the City and shall be the chief conservator of the peace therein. He, with the
assistance of the Finance Director, shall be responsible for the preparation
and submission of the annual estimate of receipts and expenditures, and of
appropriation measures, and shall at all times keep the Council fully advised
as to the financial condition and needs of the City.
   Subject to other provisions of this Charter, the Mayor shall have the power
to appoint, promote, transfer, reduce or remove any officer or employee of the
City except those required by this Charter to be elected or those appointed
solely by Council.
   The Mayor shall execute all contracts, conveyances, evidences of
indebtedness and all other instruments to which the City is a party.
   The Mayor shall be recognized as the official and ceremonial head of the
City government by the Governor for military purposes, and by the courts for
the purpose of serving civil processes.
3.08 Vice Mayor.
   The member of Council receiving the highest number of votes in the general
election shall become Vice Mayor and Chairman of Council, and as such shall
preside over Council meetings for the two-year period commencing two years
after his term of office as Councilman is scheduled to begin. In the event that
the Council member receiving the highest number of votes as set forth has not
continued to be a qualified member of Council until his term of Vice Mayor
begins, or in the event that he should be unqualified or unable to hold the
office of Vice Mayor, the position of Vice Mayor shall be filled by order of
succession based on the qualifications set forth above. In the event that there
are no Councilmen who qualify under this position for Vice Mayor, the position
shall be filled by the remaining Councilman who received the highest number of
votes at the most recent election.
   During any period when the Vice Mayor shall be absent or inaccessible or
unable for any reason to perform his duties, that position shall be filled by
order of succession as set forth above.
   During any period when the Mayor shall be absent or inaccessible or unable
for any reason to perform his duties, the Vice Mayor shall be the Acting Mayor
and shall also continue as Councilman with all the powers and duties of a
Councilman. In case the office of Mayor shall become vacant, the Vice Mayor
shall thereupon become Mayor and his office as Councilman shall become vacant,
and he shall serve as Mayor for the unexpired term or until the next regular
Municipal election when a Mayor shall be elected and take office, whichever
comes first.
ARTICLE IV
ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENTS
4.01 Director of Public Works and Services.
   A Director of the Public Works and Services shall be appointed by the Mayor,
with the confirmation of a majority of Council. He shall not be removed except
by the Mayor and a majority of Council. The Director of Public Works and
Services shall aid, assist and advise the Mayor with regard to the coordination
and supervision of the administration of the City. He shall have supervision
and control, subject to the direction of the Mayor, of the water, wastewater,
flood control, street, sanitation, engineering and code enforcement
departments. All City owned equipment, buildings and land will be under his
supervision and control, subject to the direction of the Mayor. The Director of
Public Works and Services shall receive as compensation a salary equal to
$2,000.00 higher than the highest paid supervisor under his control.
(Amended 11-4-86)
4.02 Administrative Departments.
   The Mayor shall establish such departments as he deems necessary.
4.03 Department Supervisors.
   At the head of each department there shall be a supervisor, appointed by the
Mayor, with the consent of a majority of Council, who shall be an officer of
the municipality and serve at the Mayor’s discretion. Each supervisor shall
have supervision and control of the department subject to the direction of the
Mayor. These supervisors are to be appointed by the Mayor within thirty days
after a vacancy occurs or a new department is created. The supervisor of the
Engineering Department shall be a licensed civil engineer. Neither the Finance
Department nor the Law Department shall be under the control of the Mayor.
(Amended 11-4-1986; Charter Amendment 96-73, passed by the electorate on 11-5-
1996)
4.04 Department of Law.
   The City Solicitor shall be admitted to the practice of law in the State of
Ohio and shall be appointed at the organizational meeting of Council. He may be
removed by the affirmative vote of four members of Council. He shall serve the
Mayor, Council, the administrative departments and officers, boards and
commissions of the Municipality as legal counsel in connection with Municipal
affairs, and, subject to the direction of the Council, shall represent the
Municipality in all proceedings in court or before any administrative board or
body. He shall perform such other duties, consistent with his office, as may be
required by this Charter or by ordinance or resolution of the Council.
   Council shall also appoint a City Prosecutor who shall be appointed and
removed as provided for the City Solicitor. The City Prosecutor shall perform
all such prosecutorial duties as arise within the Ironton Municipal Court’s
jurisdiction and such other duties as may from time to time be assigned by
Charter, ordinance or resolution of the Council.
   The City Solicitor shall not be required to serve as the attorney to the
Ironton City School Board as discussed in R.C. 3313.35.
(Amended 11-4-1986)
4.05 Director of Finance.
   The Director of Finance shall be the fiscal officer of the Municipality and
shall be appointed at the organizational meeting of Council. He may be removed
by the affirmative vote of four members of Council. He shall keep the financial
records of the Municipality, exhibiting accurate statements of all moneys
received and expended, of all property owned by the Municipality and of all
taxes and assessments. He shall advise the Mayor and the Council concerning the
financial condition of the Municipality not less than monthly and shall examine
all payrolls, bills and other claims against the Municipality and shall issue
no warrants unless he finds that the claim is in proper form, correctly
computed, duly approved and that an appropriation has been made therefor. He
shall disburse the funds of the City as may be required by law or ordinance. He
shall examine and audit the accounts of all other officers, employees,
departments, boards and commissions, and shall assist the Mayor in the
preparation and submission of appropriation measures, estimates, budgets and
other financial matters. He shall perform all other duties now or hereafter
imposed on city auditors under the laws of the State of Ohio, and shall perform
such other duties, consistent with his office, as may be required by this
Charter or by ordinance or resolution of Council.
   The Director of Finance shall have such staff as is designated by Council,
consisting of not less than one other employee appointed by the Director of
Finance. The Finance Department shall be kept separate from the administrative
offices of the City.
4.06 Residency Requirements.  
(Repealed 11-4-2007)
ARTICLE V
FINANCE
5.01 Fiscal Year.
   Unless modified by ordinance, the fiscal year of this City shall be the
calendar year.
5.02 Annual Budget.
   The Mayor shall prepare an annual budget for consideration and adoption by
Council, as required by this Charter and law. The Mayor shall present said
annual budget not less than ninety days before the end of the previous fiscal
year.
5.03 Proceeds from Sale.
   The proceeds from the sale of any land or building by the City of Ironton
shall be used for the retirement of capital improvement debts. Any surplus
funds shall be used only for new capital improvements.
5.04 Prohibition Against Deficit Spending.
   Council shall pass no ordinances expending funds unless certified by the
Finance Director that such funds are available on a continuing basis. It shall
be the mandatory duty of the Finance Director to certify the availability of
funds. All expenditures enacted by Council shall be recommended either
favorably or unfavorably by the standing Finance Committee of Council.
5.05 Transfer of Funds.
   Any fund which, in its entirety, is provided by tax levy or service charge
shall not be transferred to any other fund. It is further provided that if and
in the event any ordinance or directive from the executive branch violates
Section
5.05, that said transferred funds be returned immediately to the taxpayer or
pro rata to the taxpayers who have contributed to said fund. It is further
provided that if the members of said class cannot be readily ascertained, all
those claiming to be members of said class may file a petition within thirty
days in the Ironton Municipal Court for determination of their rights, if any,
to participate in the disbursement of said funds.
5.06 Interpretation.
   Nothing in this section is intended to limit the power of Council in the
levying of licenses, fees and service charges not previously pre-empted by the
State of Ohio.
5.07 Audits.
   Council may authorize an audit of any or all funds and accounts of the City.
This may be in addition to audits by other governmental agencies and shall be
made by qualified persons not otherwise in the employ of the City of Ironton or
financially interested in any matter to be audited.
5.08 Exemptions.
   The City shall not be required to comply with any State or Federal mandated
minimum salaries, costs or contractual language or limitations.
ARTICLE VI
GENERAL PROVISIONS
6.01 Conflict of Interest.
   No elected or appointed official shall hold any incompatible office. The
general laws of Ohio pertaining to ethics and conflicts of interest of
municipal officials and employees shall be applicable to elected and appointed
officials and employees of this City under this Charter.
6.02 Amendments to the Charter.
   This Charter shall be amended in accordance with the provisions of Article
18, Section 9, of the Ohio Constitution.
6.03 Recall of Elected Officials.
   Recall of elected officials shall be commenced by filing a petition for
recall of the stated official. The petition shall be signed by twenty-five
percent of the registered voters of the City of Ironton registered to vote at
the previous general election. The petition shall be filed with the Board of
Elections not less than seventy-five days prior to the next general primary or
general election or pursuant to the Ohio Revised Code relative to the filing of
the petition for candidacy, whichever is longer.
   At the filing of the petition with the Board of Elections a copy of the said
petition shall also be filed immediately with the Clerk of the Council.
   Said election, to consider the issue of recall, shall be held at the next
general or primary election following the filing of the petition, unless said
general or primary election is more than 120 days after the filing of the
petition; then said election will be held on the first Tuesday after the
ninetieth day from the filing of the petition. At said election, a majority
shall be necessary to recall the official.
   No official shall be subject to recall within the first six months of his
term. Any person recalled shall not be appointed to Council within two years of
the date of his recall. If an official survives a recall, he shall not be
subject to the recall within one year of the date of the recall election he
survived.
6.04 Initiative and Referendum.
   Ordinances, resolutions, issues and other measures may be proposed by
initiative petition and adopted by election, and ordinances and resolutions
adopted by Council shall be subject to referendum as provided by the
Constitution and laws of Ohio.
(Amended 11-4-1980)
6.05 Oath of Office.  
(Repealed 11-4-80)
ARTICLE VII
CIVIL SERVICE
7.01 Municipal Civil Service Commission.
   There shall be a Municipal Civil Service Commission composed of three
members appointed by Council to serve three-year terms. Terms of said members
shall be staggered so that no two members’ terms expire the same year. At the
time of any appointment, not more than two commissioners shall be members of
the same political party. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as the
original appointments for the unexpired term.
   The Municipal Civil Service Commission shall have those powers, duties and
functions as provided in this Charter, the ordinances and resolutions of the
City and the general laws of Ohio, to the extent such laws, ordinances and
resolutions do not conflict with this Charter.
7.02 Civil Service; Classified and Unclassified.
   All employees of the City shall be unclassified with the exception of all
regular full-time Police Department and Fire Department personnel.
   All other employees shall be in the unclassified service and exempt from the
requirements of civil service.
7.03 Civil Service Examinations.
   The civil service written examinations given before appointment or promotion
shall be prepared, graded and the results certified by a qualified testing
service. The Municipal Civil Service Commission may require supplemental
information such as psychological examination, physical examination, physical
agility test, before an appointment or promotion is made. No more than three
persons shall be certified as eligible for a single appointment or promotion.
   The civil service examination for Chief of the Ironton Police Department and
Chief of the Ironton Fire Department shall be made by the Civil Service
Commission by an examination consisting of thirty percent administrative,
thirty percent budgetary, thirty percent department oriented, and ten percent
personal interview evaluation, which may include any and all departmental
evaluations and other matters.
7.04 Eligibility.
   Eligibility for appointment or promotion shall be as set forth by State law.
7.05 Political Activity.
   No employee of the City shall be required to make or solicit any
contribution to the campaign funds of any candidate for any office of the City
government.
ARTICLE VIII
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
8.01 Authorization.
   There shall be such boards and commissions within the City of Ironton as set
forth by Charter, ordinance or mandated by State statute.
8.02 Organization of Boards and Commissions.
   Unless otherwise provided in this Charter or by State law, members of any
commission or board created by Council or State law shall be appointed by the
Mayor with the consent of the majority of Council for a term of four years.
8.03 Zoning.
   Zoning in the City of Ironton is hereby adopted pursuant to Ordinance No.
77-25, passed by the Ironton City Council on April 28, 1977, and made effective
with the effective date of this Charter.
   There shall be no amendments to the Zoning Ordinance without strict
compliance to the procedures set forth in the Ohio Revised Code, with the
exception that there shall be no new zoning amendments passed as an emergency
measure. No zoning amendment shall be passed until it has had three separate
readings at three separate meetings, and this requirement may not be suspended.
ARTICLE IX
TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS
9.01 Fiscal Succession.
   All tax levies voted for a term of years shall remain in effect for the full
term provided in the vote. The Municipality also is liable for all outstanding
orders, contracts and debts of the City and for any other obligations for which
it may be held liable by any court of competent jurisdiction.
9.02 Continuation of Ordinances.
   All ordinances of the City of Ironton in effect at the time of the adoption
of this Charter shall remain in effect, except as superseded by the provisions
of this Charter, until amended or repealed.
9.03 Continuance of Offices and Employees.
   All persons holding office or employment at the time this Charter takes
effect shall continue in office and in the performance of his duties until
provision shall have been made, in conformity with the Charter, for the
performance of such duties by a successor, or the office or employment is
abolished. The members currently serving on all boards and commissions shall
continue to serve until their term expires, whereupon they shall be replaced or
reappointed in accordance with the provisions of this Charter.
9.04 Transfer of Records and Property.
   All public records and property in the custody of officers and employees of
the City shall be transferred and delivered promptly to their successors when
these have been designated by the Mayor or Council under this Charter.
9.05 Continuance of Contracts and Public Improvements.
   All contracts entered into by the City or for its benefit prior to the
taking effect of this Charter, shall continue in full force and effect. Public
improvements for which legislative steps have been taken under laws existing at
the time this Charter takes effect shall be completed, as nearly as
practicable, under the provisions of such laws.
9.06 Pending Actions and Proceedings.
   No action or proceeding, civil or criminal, pending at the time this Charter
shall take effect, brought by or against the Municipality or any office, agency
or officer thereof, shall be abated or affected by anything herein contained,
but all such actions shall be prosecuted or defended under the laws in effect
when they were filed.
9.07 When Charter Takes Effect.
   The Charter shall go into effect, for the purpose of electing the first
Council and Mayor hereunder, on November 4, 1980. The first Council and Mayor
shall be nominated and elected under the provisions of this Charter, the
election being held November 4, 1980. At the first election the four candidates
receiving the highest number of votes for Council shall be elected to serve
through December 1, 1985, and the three remaining successful candidates shall
serve through December 1, 1983. The current Council members’ terms shall cease
and terminate on December 1, 1980, at which time the first Council elected
under this Charter shall take office. The person receiving the highest number
of votes for Council shall serve as Vice Mayor from December 1, 1980, to
December 1, 1985, whereupon he shall be succeeded by the person receiving the
highest number of votes for Council in the November, 1983, election, in
accordance with the provisions in this Charter. The Mayor elected on November
4, 1980, shall hold office through December 1, 1983. For all purposes other
than election of the first Council and Mayor, this Charter shall take effect
and be in full force from July 4, 1980.
AS PROPOSED BY THE IRONTON CITY CHARTER COMMISSION
William Mack Anderson, Chairman
Jacob Scherer, Vice Chairman
Walter Kesterson, Secretary-Treasurer
Craig A. Allen
Eugene Baker
Richard Bentley
Robert Berry
Charles Cooper
John Davis
Joe Hurley
Don Mayne
Frank J. McCown
Dorothy Nenni
Merril Triplett
Richard Walton
PART TWO - ADMINISTRATION CODE
      TITLE TWO - General Provisions
         
Chap. 202.   Codified Ordinances.
         
Chap. 204.   Official Standards.
         
Chap. 206.   Wards and Boundaries.
      TITLE FOUR - Legislation
         
Chap. 220.   Council.
         
Chap. 222.   Ordinances, Resolutions and Contracts.
      TITLE SIX - Administration
         
Chap. 230.   Mayor.
         
Chap. 232.   Department of Law.
         
Chap. 234.   Department of Finance.
         
Chap. 236.   Department of Public Works and Services.
         
Chap. 238.   Police Department.
         
Chap. 240.   Fire Department.
         
Chap. 242.   Department of Community Development.
         
Chap. 244.   Recreation Department.
         
Chap. 250.   Employees Generally.
         
Chap. 252.   City Policies, Plans and Programs.
      TITLE EIGHT - Boards, Commissions and Committees
         
Chap. 260.   Civil Service Commission
         
Chap. 262.   Planning Commission.
         
Chap. 264.   Board of Zoning Appeals.
         
Chap. 266.   Recreation Advisory Committee.
         
Chap. 268.   Board of Health.
         
Chap. 270.   Iron Master Society.
         
Chap. 272.   Ironton Port Authority.
         
Chap. 274.   Street Tree Commission.
      TITLE TEN - Judiciary
         
Chap. 290.   Municipal Court
TITLE TWO - GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 202: CODIFIED ORDINANCES
Section
202.01   Designation; citation; headings
202.02   General definitions
202.03   Rules of construction
202.04   Revivor; effect of re-enactment, amendment or repeal
202.05   Construction of section references
202.06   Severability
202.07   General repealer; conflicts
202.99   General penalty
Charter reference:
   Ordinances and resolutions, see CHTR. Secs.
2.01 et seq.
Cross-reference:
   Ordinances and resolutions, see ADM.
Ch. 222
   Statute of limitations on prosecutions, see GEN. OFF.
606.06
Statutory reference:
   See section histories for similar state law
   Codification in book form, see Ohio R.C. 731.23
   Imprisonment until fine paid, see Ohio R.C. 1905.30, 2947.14
§ 202.01 DESIGNATION; CITATION; HEADINGS.
   This volume consists of all ordinances and resolutions of a permanent and
general nature of the municipality, revised, codified, arranged, numbered and
consolidated into component codes, titles, chapters and sections, and as such
shall be known and may be designated as the Codified Ordinances of Ironton,
Ohio, 2007, for which designation “Codified Ordinances” may be substituted.
Code, title, chapter and section headings do not constitute any part of the law
as contained in the Codified Ordinances.
(ORC 1.01)
§ 202.02 GENERAL DEFINITIONS.
   As used in the Codified Ordinances, unless otherwise expressly provided or
the context otherwise requires:
   (a)   “And” may be read “or,” and “or” may be read “and,” if the sense
requires it.
   (b)   “Another,” when used to designate the owner of property which is the
subject of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other
owner of property.
   (c)   “Bond” includes an undertaking.
   (d)   “Child” includes child by adoption.
   (e)   “Council” means the legislative authority of the municipality.
   (f)   “County” means the Lawrence County, Ohio.
   (g)   “Fire Chief” shall include the Chief of the Fire Department if such
Fire Department has been established in the municipality, and shall include the
Fire Prevention Officer if no Fire Department has been established in the
municipality.
   (h)   “Imprisoned” shall have the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 1.05.
   (i)   “Internet” means the international computer network of both federal
and non-federal interoperable packet switched data networks, including the
graphical subnetwork known as the world wide web.
   (j)   “Keeper” or “proprietor” includes all persons, whether acting by
themselves or as a servant, agent, or employee.
   (k)   “Land” or “real estate” includes rights and easements of incorporeal
nature.
   (l)   “Legislative authority” means the legislative authority of the
municipality.
   (m)   “May” is permissive.
   (n)   “Municipality” or “City,” shall denote the municipality irrespective
of its population or legal classification.
   (o)   “O.A.C.” refers to the Ohio Administrative Code.
   (p)   “Oath” includes affirmation; and “swear” includes affirm.
   (q)   “Of unsound mind.” The person lacks the relevant mental capacity.
   (r)   “Ohio R.C.,” “ORC” or “Revised Code” refers to the Ohio Revised Code.
   (s)   “Owner,” when applied to property, includes any part owner, joint
owner, or tenant in common of the whole or part of such property.
   (t)   “Person” includes an individual, corporation, business trust, estate,
trust, partnership, and association.
   (u)   “Personal property” includes all property except real property.
   (v)   “Plan of sewerage,” “system of sewerage,” “sewer,” and “sewers”
includes sewers, sewage disposal works and treatment plants, and sewage pumping
stations, together with facilities and appurtenances necessary and proper
therefor.
   (w)   “Premises,” as applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   (x)   “Property” includes real, personal, mixed estates, and interests.
   (y)   “Public authority” includes boards of education; the municipal,
county, state, or federal government, its officers, or an agency thereof; or
any duly authorized public official.
   (z)   “Public place” includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school
yard, body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for
the sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   (aa)   “Real property” includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   (bb)   “Registered mail” includes certified mail; and “certified mail”
includes registered mail.
   (cc)   “Shall” is mandatory.
   (dd)   “Sidewalk” means that portion of the street between the curb line and
the adjacent property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   (ee)   “State” means the State of Ohio.
   (ff)   “Street” includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads,
highways, viaducts, and all other public thoroughfares within the municipality.
   (gg)   “Tenant” or “occupant,” as applied to premises, includes any person
holding a written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part
of such premises, alone or with others.
   (hh)   “Undertaking” includes a bond.
   (ii)   “Week” means seven consecutive days.
   (jj)   “Whoever” includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners;
principals, agents, and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   (kk)   “Writing” includes printing.
   (ll)   “Written” or “in writing” include any representation of words,
letters, symbols, or figures; this provision does not affect any law relating
to signatures.
   (mm)   “Year” means 12 consecutive months.
(ORC 1.02, 1.05, 1.44, 1.59, 701.01)
§ 202.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (a)   Common and technical use. Words and phrases shall be read in context
and construed according to the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and
phrases that have acquired a technical or particular meaning, whether by
legislative definition or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
(ORC 1.42)
   (b)   Singular and plural; gender; tense.
      (1)   The singular includes the plural, and the plural includes the
singular.
      (2)   Words of one gender include the other genders.
      (3)   Words in the present tense include the future tense.
(ORC 1.43)
   (c)   Computation of time.
      (1)   The time within which an act is required by law to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and including the last day; except that when
the last day falls on Sunday or a legal holiday, then the act may be done on
the next succeeding day that is not a Sunday or a legal holiday.
      (2)   When a public office, in which an act required by law is to be
performed, is closed to the public for the entire day that constitutes the last
day for doing the act or before its usual closing time on that day, the act may
be performed on the next succeeding day that is not a Sunday or a legal
holiday.
      (3)   “Legal holiday,” as used in divisions (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this
section, means the following days:
         A.   The first day of January, known as New Year’s Day;
         B.   The third Monday in January, known as Martin Luther King, Jr.
Day;
         C.   The third Monday in February, known as Washington-Lincoln Day;
         D.   The day designated in the “Act of June 28, 1968,” 82 Stat. 250, 5
U.S.C. § 6103, as amended, for the commemoration of Memorial Day;
         E.   The nineteenth day of June, known as Juneteenth day;
         F.   The fourth day of July, known as Independence Day;
         G.   The first Monday in September, known as Labor Day;
         H.   The second Monday in October, known as Columbus Day;
         I.   The eleventh day of November, known as Veteran’s Day;
         J.   The fourth Thursday in November, known as Thanksgiving Day;
         K.   The twenty-fifth day of December, known as Christmas Day;
         L.   Any day appointed and recommended by the Governor of this state
or the President of the United States as a holiday.
      (4)   If any day designated in this section as a legal holiday falls on a
Sunday, the next succeeding day is a legal holiday.
(ORC 1.14)
      (5)   When an act is to take effect or become operative from and after a
day named, no part of that day shall be included. If priority of legal rights
depends upon the order of events on the same day, such priority shall be
determined by the times in the day at which they respectively occurred.
(ORC 1.15)
      (6)   If a number of months is to be computed by counting the months from
a particular day, the period ends on the same numerical day in the concluding
month as the day of the month from which the computation is begun, unless there
are not that many days in the concluding month, in which case the period ends
on the last day of that month.
(ORC 1.45)
§ 202.04 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF RE-ENACTMENT, AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (a)   The repeal of a repealing provision of the Codified Ordinances does
not revive the provision originally repealed nor impair the effect of any
saving clause therein.
(ORC 1.57)
   (b)   The re-enactment, amendment or repeal of a provision of the Codified
Ordinances does not, except as provided in division (c) hereof:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the provision or any prior action
taken thereunder.
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation, or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded, or incurred thereunder.
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal.
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding, or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment; and the
investigation, proceeding, or remedy may be instituted, continued, or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment imposed, as if the provision had not
been repealed or amended.
   (c)   If the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment for any offense is reduced
by a re-enactment or amendment of the Codified Ordinances, the penalty,
forfeiture, or punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according
to the Codified Ordinances as amended.
(ORC 1.58)
§ 202.05 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (a)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, or of divisions or subdivisions of a
section, such reference shall be construed to mean a violation of any provision
of the section, sections, divisions or subdivisions included in the reference.
   (b)   References in the Codified Ordinances to action taken or authorized
under designated sections of the Codified Ordinances include, in every case,
action taken or authorized under the applicable legislative provision which is
superseded by the Codified Ordinances.
(ORC 1.23)
   (c)   A reference to any portion of a provision of the Codified Ordinances
applies to all re-enactments or amendments thereof.
(ORC 1.55)
   (d)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 202.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of the Codified Ordinances or the application
thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not
affect other provisions or applications of the section or related sections
which can be given effect without the invalid provision or application, and to
this end the provisions are severable.
(ORC 1.50)
§ 202.07 GENERAL REPEALER; CONFLICTS.
   (a)   All ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations of the
municipality, and all parts of the same, enacted prior to the date of the
adoption of the Codified Ordinances and inconsistent or in conflict with any of
the provisions of such Code, are hereby repealed, save and except any
ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation, or part of the same, expressly
excepted from repeal by the ordinance that adopts this Code. No ordinance,
resolution, rule or regulation, or part of the same, of the municipality, that
is not inconsistent or in conflict with any of the provisions of this Code and/
or that can be reasonably interpreted to be compatible with the provisions of
this Code, shall be deemed to be repealed by the adoption of this Code. Such
ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations, and all parts of the same,
shall continue to be viable and enforceable by the municipality.
   (b)   In the event of a conflict between any of the provisions of the
Codified Ordinances, or between any of the provisions of this Code and a
provision of any standard code adopted by the municipality pursuant to Ohio
R.C. 731.231, the provision that establishes the higher or stricter standard
shall control. In the event of a conflict between any of the provisions of this
Code and any provision of state law, including rules and regulations
promulgated pursuant to state law, the state law, rule or regulation shall
control.
§ 202.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (a)   Whenever, in the Codified Ordinances or in any ordinance of the
municipality, any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an
offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever the doing of any act is required or the
failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is
otherwise provided, whoever violates any such provision shall be punished by a
fine not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00), a term of imprisonment not
exceeding six months, or both. A separate offense shall be deemed committed
each day during or on which a violation continues or occurs.
   (b)   The failure of any officer or employee of the municipality to perform
any official duty imposed by the Codified Ordinances shall not subject the
officer or employee to the penalty imposed for a violation unless a penalty is
specifically provided for such failure.
Statutory reference:
   Ordinance violations and penalties, see Ohio R.C. 715.67
CHAPTER 204: OFFICIAL STANDARDS
Editor’s note: The State of Ohio operates on Eastern Daylight Savings Time from
2:00 a.m. of the first Sunday in April until 2:00 a.m. of the last Sunday in
October. Congress, on March 22, 1966, passed the Uniform Time Act requiring
uniform observance throughout the nation of Daylight Savings Time starting in
1967, except that a state legislature could exempt the entire state from
Daylight Savings Time or divide a state into not more than two parts, each with
a different time standard. The Ohio legislature, through inaction, has elected
to observe Eastern Daylight Savings Time throughout the state.
   On August 8, 2005, the Energy Policy Act of 2005 was enacted. This Act
changed the time change dates for Daylight Saving Time in the United States.
Beginning in 2007, the State of Ohio begins Daylight Saving Time at 2:00 a.m.
on the second Sunday in March and reverts to standard time at 2:00 a.m. on the
first Sunday in November. The Secretary of Energy will report the impact of
this change to Congress. Congress retains the right to resume the 2005 Daylight
Saving Time schedule once the Department of Energy study is complete.
There are no sections in Chapter 204. This chapter has been established to
provide a place for cross references and any future legislation.
Charter reference:
   Form of government, see CHTR. Sec.
1.03
Cross-reference:
   Weights and measures, see B.R. & T.
860.07
Statutory reference;
   State bird, see Ohio R.C. 5.03
   State flag, see Ohio R.C. 5.01
   State floral emblem, see Ohio R.C. 5.02
   State legal holidays, see Ohio R.C. 1.14, 5.20 et seq.
   State motto, see Ohio R.C. 5.06
   State standard of time, see Ohio R.C. 1.04
   State tree, see Ohio R.C. 5.05
CHAPTER 206: WARDS AND BOUNDARIES
Section
206.01   Ward boundaries
Cross-reference:
   Interpretation of zoning district boundaries, see P. & Z.
1256.03
   Urban Renewal Project boundaries, see P. & Z.
1290.01
Statutory reference:
   Division of city into wards, see Ohio R.C. 731.06
   Voting precincts, see Ohio R.C. 3501.18
§ 206.01 WARD BOUNDARIES.
   Inasmuch as the statutes of the state require a division of the city into
wards, the territory of the city shall hereafter be divided into wards to be
known, bounded and described as follows.
   (a)   First Ward.
      (1)   Beginning on the Ohio River at low water mark, where the north
corporation line intersects the River; thence up the River at low water mark to
a point where a line running through the center of Lawrence Street would
intersect the River at low water mark; thence east with the centerline of
Lawrence Street to the east corporation line; thence with the corporation line
north and westerly to the beginning.
      (2)   Also included is all the land beginning at the most northerly point
of the corporation line; thence running parallel with the U.S. Route 52 right-
of-way and corporation line to the intersection of the north and south line
between Sections 16 and 17; thence following such section line and corporation
line north and westerly to the beginning.
      (3)   Also included is all territory annexed by Ordinance 5516, passed
March 11, 1971, and Ordinance 88-47, passed November 21, 1988, that lies east
of Lawrence Street.
   (b)   Second Ward.
      (1)   Beginning on the Ohio River at low water mark, where a line in the
center of Lawrence Street would intersect the Ohio River; thence running up the
River at low water mark to the centerline of Monroe Street, if extended; thence
with the centerline of Monroe Street, if extended, to the east corporation
line, and with the corporation line in a northerly direction to the center of
Lawrence Street; thence with the center of Lawrence Street to the beginning.
      (2)   Also included is all territory annexed by Ordinance 5059, passed
August 13, 1964, that lies between Lawrence Street if the same were extended
and the present north line of the Third Ward; and all territory annexed by
Ordinance 5131, passed July 19, 1965, that lies north of the line common to Lot
No. 11 of the Ohio Iron and Coal Company’s survey of 1856 and the southeast
quarter of Section 20, Town 1, Range 18.
(Adopting Ordinance)
   (c)   Third Ward.
      (1)   Beginning on the Ohio River at low water mark, where the north line
of Monroe Street, if extended, would intersect the same; thence running up the
River at low water mark to a point where a line in the center of Ellison
Avenue, if extended, would intersect the same; thence with a line in the center
of Ellison Avenue, if extended, to the east corporation line; thence with the
corporation line in a northerly direction to the north line of Monroe Street,
if extended; thence with the north line of Monroe Street, if extended, to the
beginning.
(Ord. 5156, passed 11-10-1965)
      (2)   Also included is all that part of the territory annexed by
Ordinance 5131, passed July 19, 1965, that lies west of U.S. Route 52 between
Quincy Street and Pine Street; and all that part of the territory annexed by
Ordinance 5085, passed November 25, 1964, that lies west of U.S. Route 52,
between Maple Avenue and the line common to Sections 20 and 27, Town 1, Range
18.
(Ord. 5205, passed 4-28-1966)
   (d)   Fourth Ward.
      (1)   Beginning on the Ohio River at low water mark where a line in the
center of Ellison Avenue, if extended, would intersect the River; thence
running up the River at low water mark to the center of Ice Creek; thence with
the center of Ice Creek, and the meanders thereof, to the mouth of a ravine
near the line of lands of Peter Fink and Hecla Iron and Mining Company; thence
up the ravine to a point in the same on the east side of the County road;
thence along the County road north 85-1/4 degrees west 350 feet to the east end
of Adams Lane; thence following the east side of the County road north 63-1/
2 degrees west 530 feet; thence north 52 degrees west 1,250 feet; thence north
49 degrees west 1,220 feet to a pig iron corner, at the corner of lands
formerly owned by Henry Horn; thence continuing along the east side of the
County road and the east corporation line in a northerly direction to the
center of Ellison Avenue, if extended; thence with a line in the center of
Ellison Avenue, if extended, to the beginning.
(Ord. 740, passed 12-19-1902; Am. Ord. 4141, passed 8-1-1950)
      (2)   Also included is all that part of the territory annexed by
Ordinance 5085, passed November 25, 1964, that lies west of U.S. Route 52,
between the line common to Sections 20 and 27, Town 1, Range 18, and the south
line of Pleasant Street, if the same were extended.
   (e)   Fifth Ward. The Fifth Ward shall include all that part of the
territory annexed by Ordinance 5131, passed July 19, 1965, that lies east of
the west right-of-way line of U.S. Route 52, and south of the line common to
Lot No. 11 of the Ohio Iron and Coal Company’s survey of 1856, and the
southeast quarter of Section 20, Town 1, Range 18.
(Ord. 5205, passed 4-28-1966)
TITLE FOUR - LEGISLATION
CHAPTER 220: COUNCIL
Section
220.01   Time of meetings
220.02   Open meetings
220.021   Robert’s Rules of Order adopted
220.022   Presentation of bills
220.023   Agenda
220.024   Security guidelines
220.03   (Reserved)
220.04   Standing committee meetings
Charter reference:
   Council, see CHTR.
Art. II
Cross-reference:
   Authority re urban renewal, see P. & Z.
1296.01
   Traffic control powers, see TRAF.
406.07
§ 220.01 TIME OF MEETINGS.
   (a)   Except as provided in division (b) hereof, regular Council meetings
shall be held on the second and fourth Thursdays of every month at 6:00 p.m. in
Council Chambers in Memorial Hall.
(Ord. 87-63, passed 1-28-1988)
   (b)   Council’s second meeting in November of all calendar years shall be
held on the Monday preceding the fourth Thursday in November at the designated
time of regular meetings.
(Ord. 85-58, passed 11-25-1985)
   (c)   The second regular meeting of Council in the month of May each year
shall be held at 6:00 p.m. on the Monday prior to Memorial Day.
(Ord. 18-23, passed 5-14-2018)
§ 220.02 OPEN MEETINGS.
   Council hereby adopts Ohio R.C. 121.22 which determines which meetings shall
be public and which shall be private, as though such section were fully
rewritten herein.
(Ord. 81-89, passed 11-23-1981)
§ 220.021 ROBERT’S RULES OF ORDER ADOPTED.
   The Council hereby adopts Robert’s Rules of Order, latest edition, as the
Council’s rules of procedure.
(Ord. 96-19, passed 4-11-1996)
§ 220.022 PRESENTATION OF BILLS.
   The Finance Director shall provide each Council member with an itemized
listing of all expenditures at each Council meeting.
(Res. 90-93, passed 12-20-1990)
§ 220.023 AGENDA.
   (a)   The agenda of each and every meeting of the Council, including the
text of each ordinance and resolution to be considered at such meeting, shall
be posted publicly at the meeting site at least 24 hours prior to the meeting.
   (b)   In the event the posting at least 24 hours is not accomplished, as
required by division (a), then Council shall not conduct a vote or a reading of
that ordinance or resolution at that meeting for which no public posting was
accomplished.
(Ord. 96-45, passed 6-24-1996)
§ 220.024 SECURITY GUIDELINES.
   (a)   All persons attending City Council meetings, including members of
Council and city officials, shall be required to pass through a security metal
detector device for purposes of checking their person as well as their
belongings before entering Council chambers for a City Council meeting.
   (b)   The security device shall be under the operation and control of the
Ironton Police Department.
   (c)   Any person who refuses to pass through the security device shall be
denied entrance to Council chambers.
(Ord. 97-05, passed 3-13-1997)
§ 220.03 (RESERVED).
§ 220.04 STANDING COMMITTEE MEETINGS.
   (a)   A meeting of any standing committee shall be called upon the written
request of the Chairperson of that committee or any two members of the
committee.
   (b)   Each member of Council shall be given either a verbal or written
notice of any meeting of a standing committee of Council at least 24 hours
prior to such meeting.
   (c)   The Chairperson of each standing committee shall be obliged to give
the notice referred to in division (a), or in the alternative, direct the Clerk
to do so.
(Res. 02-21, passed 4-11-2002; Am. Ord. 06-13, passed 3-23-2006)
CHAPTER 222: ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND CONTRACTS
Section
222.01   Use of local employees on contracts
222.02   Utility rates
Charter reference:
   Adoption, see CHTR. Sec.
2.01
   Continuance, see CHTR. Secs.
9.02,
9.05
   Federal law re contracts, see CHTR. Sec.
5.08
   Initiative and referendum, see CHTR. Sec.
6.04
   Introduction, see CHTR. Sec.
2.17
   Publication, see CHTR. Sec.
2.07
   Signing, see CHTR. Sec.
2.09
Cross-reference:
   Action re urban renewal, see P. & Z.
1296.01
   Codified Ordinances, see ADM.
Ch. 202
   Unlawful interest in contracts, see GEN. OFF.
606.17
§ 222.01 USE OF LOCAL EMPLOYEES ON CONTRACTS.
   In all future city contracts for construction, alteration or repair, the
city shall require that 80 percent of the labor force be hired locally from, by
or through the local unions.
(Res. 75-76, passed 10-9-1975)
§ 222.02 UTILITY RATES.
   (a)   All previous agreements, contracts, ordinances or resolutions
abrogating the city’s constitutional right to contract and participate in the
fixing of utility rates are herewith rescinded and held for naught.
   (b)   All utility rate setting shall be done under the home rule provisions
of the Ohio Constitution, permitting the city to contract directly with utility
companies for the setting of utility rates.
(Ord. 83-30, passed 5-26-1983)
TITLE SIX - ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 230: MAYOR
Editor’s note: There are no sections in Chapter 230. This chapter has been
established to provide a place for cross references and any future legislation.
Charter reference:
   Mayor, see CHTR.
Art. III
   Statement of motions by Vice Mayor, see CHTR. Sec.
2.20
   Vice Mayor, see CHTR. Sec.
3.08
CHAPTER 232: DEPARTMENT OF LAW
Section
232.01   Guidelines for legal opinions from City Solicitor
Charter reference:
   Authority to establish, see CHTR. Sec.
4.02
   City Prosecutor, see CHTR. Sec.
4.06
   City Solicitor, see CHTR. Secs.
4.04,
4.06
   Department of Law, see CHTR. Sec.
4.04
Cross-reference:
   Municipal Court, see ADM.
Ch. 290
Statutory reference:
   Annual report to Council, see Ohio R.C. 733.62
§ 232.01 GUIDELINES FOR LEGAL OPINIONS FROM CITY SOLICITOR.
   The City Solicitor shall provide formal legal opinions at the written
request of the Mayor, the Finance Director or at the request of a member of
City Council.
(Res. 96-53, passed 6-27-1996)
CHAPTER 234: DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE
Section
234.01   Disposition of proceeds from investments
234.02   Petty cash drawer
234.03   City purchases
234.04   Formal purchasing policy
234.05   Funds
234.06   Fees
234.07   Formal investment policy
237.08   Payroll accounting process
237.09   Earned interest
Charter reference:
   Authority to establish, see CHTR. Sec.
4.02
   Director of Finance generally, see CHTR. Secs.
4.05,
4.06
   Finance generally, see CHTR.
Art. V
   Fiscal succession, see CHTR. Sec.
9.01
Cross-reference:
   Duties of Director of Finance re income tax, see B.R. & T.
890.08
   Investment of sewer revenues, see S.U. & P.S.
1044.11
§ 234.01 DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS FROM INVESTMENTS.
   The Director of Finance shall place all moneys collected from interest on
deposits and investments made with moneys from all funds into such funds.
Moneys so collected shall be used for no purpose other than the purpose for
which such funds were established.
(Ord. 88-18, passed 6-9-1988)
§ 234.02 PETTY CASH DRAWER.
   A petty cash drawer in the amount of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) is
hereby established. Such petty cash drawer shall be maintained in the office of
the Director of Finance.
(Ord. 87-32, passed 6-8-1987)
§ 234.03 CITY PURCHASES.
   (a)   (1)   All purchases and contracts exceeding twenty-five thousand
dollars ($25,000.00) for a single item attempt to have a minimum of three
comparable estimates.
      (2)   All purchases and contracts exceeding fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00) for a single item follow the current Ohio Revised Code for
competitive bidding.
   (b)   All lease purchases exceeding five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) shall
be approved by the Council and advertised for public bid according to the Ohio
Revised Code.
   (c)   All bids shall be sent to the Mayor of Ironton and publicly opened and
accepted or rejected by the City Council and the Mayor at a City Council
meeting.
   (d)   When it is deemed prudent to purchase used vehicles and equipment from
the State of Ohio, it is not necessary to go through the bidding process or
seek approval from Council.
   (e)   If a situation arises that is deemed to be a true emergency that would
affect the health and/or welfare of the citizens of Ironton, the Mayor is
authorized to omit the bidding process and purchase those items necessary for
the preservation of the health and/or welfare of the citizens of Ironton, Ohio.
However, Council must be notified at its next regularly scheduled meeting of
such purchases.
   (f)   (1)   All purchases exceeding five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) shall
be approved by the Council and advertised for public bid according to the Ohio
Revised Code.
      (2)   All bids shall be sent to the Mayor of Ironton and publicly opened
and accepted or rejected by the City Council and the Mayor at a City Council
meeting.
   (g)   (1)   All purchases exceeding fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00) in
respect to grant/restricted federal and/or state funds administered by an
outside administrative source shall be advertised for public bid according to
the Ohio Revised Code and shall be approved by Council.
      (2)   All bids shall be forwarded to the Mayor of Ironton and publicly
opened, after which they shall be either accepted or rejected by Council.
   (h)   The Finance Director is hereby directed to keep the Finance Committee
informed on a timely basis of all purchase orders which are issued that are
equal to or exceed the amount of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
(Ord. 91-02, passed 1-25-1991; Am. Ord. 92-24, passed 3-26-1992; Am. Ord. 94-
46, passed 12-8-1994; Am. Ord. 96-23, passed 3-30-1996; Am. Ord. 97-27, passed
7-24-1997; Am. Ord. 01-58, passed 12-27-2001; Am. Ord. 01-59, passed 12-27-
2001; Am. Res. 01-60, passed 12-27-2001; Am. Ord. 08-118, passed 12-11- 2008;
Am. Ord. 20-56, passed 9-10-2020)
§ 234.04 FORMAL PURCHASING POLICY.
   (a)   The formal purchasing policy, as adopted in Resolution 95-47, passed
July 27, 1995, is adopted by reference and incorporated as part of this Code as
fully set out at length herein.
   (b)   Any and all changes or adaptations of this policy must be approved by
the City Council.
(Res. 95-47, passed 7-27-1995)
§ 234.05 FUNDS.
   (a)   Storm Water Fund.
      (1)    A separate enterprise fund is established for the revenue and
expenses for the Ironton Storm Water Utility Program.
      (2)   Any and all revenues shall be used exclusively for the
implementation and operation of the storm water program.
(Ord. 05-104, passed 12-8-2005)
   (b)   Storm Water Utility Fund. A Storm Water Utility Fund is hereby
established to track all revenues and expenditures associated with the storm
water program.
(Res. 05-81, passed 7-14-2005)
   (c)   Community Enterprise Matching Grants Fund.
      (1)   A separate fund shall be created in order to accurately account for
all expenditures of funds as related to the special projects adopted by Ironton
City Council.
      (2)   The balance of funds held on account in the Rebate Escrow Fund
shall immediately be transferred to this, the newly created C.E.M.G.F. account.
      (3)   This fund shall only have appropriations made upon it after
recommendation of the Rebate Committee and formal approval, by resolution, of
the Ironton City Council.
      (4)   Each appropriation shall be titled to reflect a specific
expenditure and can be expended only upon a specified project as approved by
Council.
(Ord. 99-11, passed 4-22-1999)
   (d)   Fire Construction Fund.
      (1)   A separate fund shall be created in order to accurately account for
all construction and related costs of the new Ironton Fire Department.
      (2)   This fund shall be used only for the payment of construction and
related costs in the development of a new building in which to house the Fire
Department.
(Ord. 98-69, passed 11-12-1998)
   (e)   Municipal Court Supervision Fund. A fund shall be created to account
for all revenues and expenses of the supervision costs as related to the Home
Monitoring Program.
(Ord. 98-68, passed 12-10-1998)
   (f)   Municipal Court Home Monitoring Fund. A fund shall be created to
account for all revenues and expenses of the Home Monitoring Program.
(Ord. 98-67, passed 12-10-1998)
   (g)   Rebate Escrow Fund.
      (1)   A fund shall be established in the name of Rebate Escrow Fund.
      (2)   The amount of two hundred thirty-two thousand eight hundred and
twenty-six dollars and thirty-eight cents ($232,826.38) shall be transferred,
from the various funds in which it was originally deposited, to this newly
established fund.
      (3)   The money shall be invested in an interest bearing account at the
best market rate available at this time, with a maturity not to exceed six
months.
      (4)   The funds shall not be appropriated or expended without the
approval of the majority of Council.
(Ord. 98-59, passed 9-24-1998)
   (h)   COPS Fast Grant Fund.
      (1)   A separate fund shall be established for the revenue and expenses
for the regular salary and benefits for one additional police officer.
      (2)   All grant moneys received by the COPS Fast Grant must be deposited
into the fund with the municipal match to be transferred from the general fund.
If additional funding is received to aid the local match from the State
Attorney General’s Office, it shall be receipted directly into the fund.
(Res. 95-57, passed 9-14-1995)
   (i)   Agency Fund.
      (1)   The city receives moneys periodically to be passed onto another
entity which is not intended to be revenue or expense of the city. The city is
acting only as an agent for the funds to be transferred.
      (2)   These funds need not be appropriated or encumbered in the city’s
annual budget.
(Res. 95-71, passed 11-9-1995)
   (j)   Fire Capital Equipment Replacement Fund.
      (1)   That there is hereby established a Fire Capital Equipment Reserve
Fund.
      (2)   Five percent of the fire fee revenues collected shall be deposited
into the account, effective July 1, 1998.
      (3)   Funds from the Fire Capital Equipment Reserve Fund shall be
expended for fire equipment only and shall only be expended on approval of the
City Council after recommendation, either for or against, by the Finance
Committee.
(Ord. 98-34, passed 6-25-1998)
   (k)   Sanitation Recycling Fund. A separate fund be established for the
accounting of revenue and expenses received by the state for recycling
purposes.
(Res. 97-20, passed 6-12-1997)
   (l)   K-9 Fund.
      (1)   A separate fund shall be created in order to accurately account for
all public and private donations.
      (2)   This fund shall be used only for the purpose of purchasing,
training and equipping a K-9 unit for the Ironton Police Department.
(Ord. 98-20, passed 4-9-1998)
   (m)   Pool Fund.
      (1)   A separate fund shall be established for the revenue and expenses
for the Ironton municipal swimming pool.
      (2)   Any and all revenue shall be used exclusively for the operations
and maintenance of the municipal swimming pool.
(Ord. 95-11, passed 4-13-1995)
   (n)   Addiction Treatment Program (APT) Fund (Fund 89). A fund shall be
created to receive payments and to fund allowable expenses.
(Ord. 22-49, passed 9-22-2022)
   (o)   North Ironton Storm Water/Flood Pump Fund (Fund 46). A fund shall be
created to fund improvements made to the city.
(Ord. 23-28, passed 4-13-2023)
   (p)   Water Equipment Replacement Fund (Fund 70). A fund shall be created to
fund improvements necessary for the infrastructure made to the city.
(Ord. 23-29, passed 4-13-2023)
   (q)   ARPA First Responder Grant Fund (Fund 08). A fund shall be created to
receive revenues and to fund allowable expenses based on fund guidelines.
(Ord. 23-73, passed 11-9-2023)
§ 234.06 FEES.
   (a)   Municipal fee.
      (1)   A municipal fee is hereby established at the rate of four dollars
and fourteen cents ($4.14) per month to be paid by each residential household,
including each rental unit, and to also be paid by each nonresidential water
customer of the City of Ironton, Ohio.
      (2)   The municipal fee shall be billed as part of the monthly municipal
utility billing beginning April 1, 2001, and ending March 31, 2002.
      (3)   In the event the citizens of Ironton enact either an income tax
increase or another type of municipal fee at the November, 2001, general
election, then the within municipal fee shall terminate on January 1, 2002.
      (4)   The moneys generated by this municipal fee shall be paid into the
general fund of the City of Ironton, Ohio.
(Ord. 01-08, passed 2-27-2001; Am. Ord. 18-81, passed 12-15-2018)
   (b)   Flood protection fee.
      (1)   That a municipal fee for flood works protection is hereby
established at the rate of three dollars ($3.00) per month to be paid by each
residential household, including each rental unit, and to also be paid by each
nonresidential water customer of the City of Ironton, Ohio.
      (2)   The municipal fee for flood works protection shall be billed as
part of the monthly municipal utility billing beginning with the first billing
date after the effective date of this division.
      (3)   The moneys generated by this flood works protection municipal fee
shall be used for the same purposes as the funds that were derived from the
flood works protection levy, the renewal of which was defeated in the November,
2004 election.
      (4)   The flood works protection municipal fee shall terminate at such
time as the city begins receiving revenues from the passage of a flood works
protection tax levy by the citizens of Ironton.
(Ord. 05-09, passed - -)
   (c)   Towing and storage fees.
      (1)   A tow fee is hereby established at a rate of two hundred dollars
($200.00) per vehicle for any vehicles towed at the direction of the Ironton
Police Department to the City of Ironton impound lot.
      (2)   A fee of thirty dollars ($30.00) per 24-hour period shall be
charged for the storage of any and all vehicles at the impound lot of the City
of Ironton.
      (3)   The wrecker service towing the vehicle to the city’s impound lot
shall be paid a maximum of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per towed vehicle.
      (4)   The remaining one hundred dollars ($100.00) collected from the
towing of each vehicle plus the thirty dollars ($30.00) per 24-hour period
storage fee is hereby earmarked to be used by the Police Department of the City
of Ironton, Ohio.
      (5)   The revenue is to be placed in the Police Equipment Replacement
Fund established by Ordinance 13-20 and the impound expenses shall be paid from
that fund.
(Ord. 06-21, passed 4-27-2006; Am. Ord. 06-85, passed 1-25-2007; Am. Ord. 22-
24, passed 4-28-2022)
   (d)   Dock fee.
      (1)   The city shall charge a dockage fee of one hundred dollars
($100.00) covering the period from November 1 through April 30 each year for
each boat docked at the city’s boat dock at Storms Creek.
      (2)   The fee shall be payable in full on or before December 1 each year.
      (3)   In the event that the payment has not been made by December 10,
then the city may cause the removal of the boat pursuant to the contract
between the city and the boat renter.
(Ord. 01-52, passed 11-8-2001)
   (e)   Parking rate for municipal lot at Fifth and Park Avenue.
      (1)   The monthly parking fee at the municipal parking lot at South Fifth
Street and Park Avenue shall be ten dollars ($10.00) per space.
      (2)   The Finance Department of the city shall be charged with the
collection of the monthly fees.
(Ord. 97-59, passed 12-22-1997)
   (f)   Economic development fee. A one dollar fifty cent ($1.50) per month
economic development fee shall be added immediately and said fee shall be
placed in the Economic Development Fund.
(Ord. 18-83, passed 12-15-2018)
   (g)   Failure to pay any of the following fees within 45 days of their due
date shall constitute a misdemeanor of the fourth degree: the economic
development fee, the flood fee, the fire fee, the administrative fee, and the
municipal safety fee, and/or the storm water fee.
(Ord. 19-14, passed 3-28-2019)
   (h)   Fees for unoccupied structures.
      (1)   All unoccupied structures, as defined in this division (h), shall
be billed on a monthly basis, the municipal fee, fire fee, economic development
fee, flood fee, administrative fee and storm water fee with a minimum charge of
1,000 gallons of water, for each address of the unoccupied structures.
      (2)   “Unoccupied structures” shall be defined as a building which does
not have water service.
      (3)   Unoccupied structures as defined in this division (h) shall be
determined by the Ironton Fire Department. The Ironton Fire Department is
directed to provide a list of each and every unoccupied or vacant property to
the city Water Department for billing, effective August 1, 2020.
      (4)   The Water Department is hereby directed to bill for the
aforementioned fees on a monthly basis.
      (5)   The other bill shall have the following fees:
         A.   Municipal fee;
         B.   Fire fee;
         C.   Storm water, with a minimum charge of 1,000 gallons;
         D.   Flood fee;
         E.   Economic development fee; and
         F.   Administrative fee.
(Ord. 20-34, passed 6-11-2020)
   (i)   Flood prevention fee. A monthly flood prevention fee in the amount of
five dollars ($5.00) per month shall be added to the monthly utility bill of
the city effective December 15, 2018.
(Ord. 18-79, passed 12-15-2018)
§ 234.07 FORMAL INVESTMENT POLICY.
   (a)   Policy statement. It is the policy of the City of Ironton to invest
all public funds in a manner which will provide maximum safety and preservation
of principal, while meeting all the liquidity and operating demands, at
reasonable market interest rates available. All investments made will conform
to all applicable laws and regulations governing the investment of public
moneys, including Ohio R.C. 135.
   (b)   Objectives.
      (1)   To invest all moneys in accordance with the guidelines of Ohio R.C.
135.14, with the priorities being: safety, liquidity, and yield, in that order.
Primary objectives are the preservation of capital and the protection of
investment principal.
      (2)   To limit market risk and ensure reliable return on investments
through diversity and management of securities held in the investment
portfolio.
      (3)   To safeguard repurchase agreement transactions so as to avoid all
security risk, and to limit and track the market risk.
      (4)   To ensure that all entities conducting business with the investing
authority are knowledgeable of Ohio R.C. 135 and this investment policy.
      (5)   To ensure that the portfolio remain sufficiently liquid to enable
the investing authority to meet operating requirements which might be
reasonably anticipated.
      (6)   The portfolio is not for speculation and will not be leveraged
under any circumstances.
   (c)   Maturity guidelines. To the extent possible, the Finance Director will
attempt to match its investments with anticipated cash flow requirements to
take best advantage of prevailing economic and market conditions. The maximum
maturity of any eligible instrument is five years from the settlement date,
unless the investment is matched to a specified obligation or debt of the
subdivision. Any investment made must be purchased with a reasonable
expectation to be held to maturity.
   (d)   Permissible investments.
      (1)   The Treasurer may invest in any instrument or security authorized
in Ohio R.C. 135.14, as amended. Permissible investments include:
         A.   United States Treasury bills, notes, bonds, or any other
obligation or security issued by the United States Treasury or any other
obligation guaranteed as to principal and interest by the United States.
Stripped principal or interest obligations of such eligible obligations are
strictly prohibited;
         B.   Bonds, notes, debentures, or any other obligations or securities
issued by any federal government agency or instrumentality, including but not
limited to, the Federal National Mortgage Association, Federal Home Loan Bank,
Federal Farm Credit Bank, Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, Government
National Mortgage Association, and Student Loan Marketing Association. All
federal agency or instrumentality securities must be direct issuances of the
federal agency or instrumentality;
         C.   STAR Ohio is eligible as long as the fund maintains the highest
letter rating provided by at least one nationally recognized standard rating
service as outlined in Ohio R.C. 135.45;
         D.   Bonds and other obligations of this state;
         E.   Interim deposits (such as certificates of deposit) in the
eligible institutions applying for interim moneys as provided in Ohio R.C.
135.08;
         F.   No-load money market mutual funds consisting exclusively of
obligations described in divisions (d)(1)A. or B. of this policy and expressly
excluding derivatives in accordance with Ohio R.C. 135.14; and
         G.   Written repurchase agreements (repos) with any eligible public
depository mentioned in Ohio R.C. 135.03, or with any dealer who is a member of
the NASD. The market value of the securities subject held as collateral for an
overnight repo (including sweep accounts) or term repo must exceed the
principal by at least two percent, and the securities must be marked to market
daily. Term repurchase agreements may not exceed 30 days. Any repurchase
agreement with an eligible securities dealer must be transacted on a delivery
versus payment basis. All securities purchased pursuant to a repurchase
agreement must be delivered into the custody of the treasurer or an agent
designated by the treasurer. Such institution or dealer must agree in writing
to unconditionally repurchase any of the securities used for any repo
transaction.
      (2)   Reverse repurchase agreements are strictly prohibited.
   (e)   Derivatives. Investments in derivatives are strictly prohibited. A
“derivative” is defined in Ohio R.C. 135 as a financial instrument or contract
or obligation whose value is based upon or linked to another asset or index or
both, separate from the financial instrument, contract or obligation itself
However, any eligible investment with a variable interest rate payment based
upon a single interest payment or single index comprised of other investments
consisting of U.S. government or federal agency or instrumentality obligations
is not considered a derivative if it matures in two years or less.
   (f)   Pooling. The pooling of funds by subdivisions is prohibited except as
provided in Ohio R.C. 715.02 or § IV, Article XVIII of the Ohio Constitution,
and STAR Ohio.
   (g)   Eligible institutions. Any financial institution located within the
State of Ohio as defined by Ohio R.C. 135.03 is eligible to serve as an
approved depository and/or investment provider. Only securities dealers and
brokers that are members of the National Association of Securities Dealers
(NASD) are eligible to be an investment provider. Investment advisors must be
an eligible financial institution as defined by Ohio R.C. 135.03, or an advisor
that is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
   (h)   Acknowledgments.
      (1)   All brokers, dealers, and financial institutions initiating
transactions with the Finance Director by giving advice or making investment
recommendations must sign the investment policy thereby acknowledging their
agreement to abide by the policy.
      (2)   All brokers, dealers, and financial institutions executing
transactions initiated by the Finance Director must sign the investment policy
acknowledging their comprehension and receipt of the policy.
(Ord. 96-80, passed 9-12-1996)
§ 237.08 PAYROLL ACCOUNTING PROCESS.
   (a)   The Finance Director is hereby directed to make all necessary
adjustments to the accounting process in order to make separate accounting
entries for employees regular earnings and overtime earnings.
   (b)   The Finance Director is hereby directed to budget, account, and report
all overtime worked by employees within the departments for which the overtime
was performed.
(Ord. 97-03, passed 1-23-1997)
§ 237.09 EARNED INTEREST.
   (a)   All investments shall have account ledgers established for each fund
participating in that particular investment account. These ledgers shall
account for all fund balances and activity in the investment program.
   (b)   Each fund with a cash investment balance in a particular investment
account shall receive its proportionate amount of interest earned for that
account on a monthly basis, or other basis if paid other than monthly.
(Ord. 03-62, passed 12-30-2003)
CHAPTER 236: DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS AND SERVICES
Section
236.01   Snow removal
Charter reference:
   Authority to establish, see CHTR. Sec.
4.02
   Director of Public Works and Services, see CHTR. Secs.
4.01,
4.06
Cross-reference:
   Sewers, see S.U. & P.S.
Ch. 1042
   Water, see S.U. & P.S.
Ch. 1046
Statutory reference:
   Public service, see Ohio R.C. Ch. 735
§ 236.01 SNOW REMOVAL.
   The Director of Public Works has the authority to grant permission for snow
removal on city sidewalks with a snow plow.
(Ord. 94-50, passed 12-22-1994)
CHAPTER 238: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
238.01   Composition
238.02   Age limits for original appointments
238.03   Promotions
238.04   Collective bargaining
238.05   Security alarm systems
Charter reference:
   Authority to establish, see CHTR. Sec.
4.02
Cross-reference:
   Compliance with lawful order of police officers, see GEN. OFF.
606.13 et seq.,
606.165
   Dereliction of duty, see GEN. OFF.
606.19
   Disposition of property, see GEN. OFF.
606.24
   Impersonating a police officer, see GEN. OFF.
606.25,
642.20
   Reports to Police Department by pawnbrokers, see B.R. & T.
856.07
   Resisting a police officer, see TRAF.
404.02; GEN. OFF.
606.14 et seq.
   Uniform allowances, see ADM.
250.06
Statutory reference:
   Public safety, see Ohio R.C. Ch. 737
   Original appointment; probationary period and age, see Ohio R.C. 124.27,
124.30, 124.41
§ 238.01 COMPOSITION.
   The Police Department shall be composed of a Chief of Police, who shall be
appointed as provided in §
4.03 of the City Charter, and such other officers and employees as may be
authorized from time to time by law.
§ 238.02 AGE LIMITS FOR ORIGINAL APPOINTMENTS.
   Persons between 21 and 40 years of age may receive an original appointment
to the Police Department.
(Ord. 5436, passed 12-11-1969; Am. Ord. 20-41, passed 6-25-2020)
§ 238.03 PROMOTIONS.
   (a)   No person in the Police Department shall be eligible for promotion to
the rank of sergeant who has not served at least three years in the rank of
patrol officer.
(Ord. 77-66, passed 11-22-1977)
   (b)   No person in the Department shall be eligible for promotion to the
rank of captain who has not served at least two years in the rank of sergeant.
(Ord. 77-74, passed 1-12-1978)
§ 238.04 COLLECTIVE BARGAINING.
   (a)   Council hereby recognizes Fraternal Order of Police Local 75 for
purposes of collective bargaining for sworn members of the Police Department,
except the Chief of Police.
   (b)   Council reserves the right to give separate recognition to supervisory
and nonsupervisory members of the Department if it is determined that such
separation is in the interest of the residents of the city.
   (c)   This recognition shall be for a period of one year, and shall be
renewable from year to year, but shall also be terminable if the association
becomes involved in a strike, slowdown or other unlawful activity.
§ 238.05 SECURITY ALARM SYSTEMS.
   (a)   The false alarm legislation, as adopted in Ordinance 02-44, passed
August 22, 2002, is adopted by reference and incorporated as part of this Code
as fully set out at length herein.
   (b)   The Police Chief shall maintain a separate log containing all false
alarms and shall include all non-charged false alarms within the log, along
with a description as to why the alarm was deemed non-chargeable.
(Ord. 02-44, passed 8-22-2002)
CHAPTER 240: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
240.01   Composition
240.02   Fire Inspector
240.03   Age limits for original appointments
240.04   Collective bargaining
240.05   Bureau of Fire Prevention
240.06   Disposition of insurance proceeds from fire damaged structures
240.07   Fire and Arson Investigating Unit
240.08   Fire protection mutual aid agreement
240.09   Mitigation rates for deployment of emergency and non-emergency
services
240.99   Penalty
Charter reference:
   Authority to establish, see CHTR. Sec.
4.02
Cross-reference:
   Authority of Fire Chief re tents, see B.R & T.
884.05
   Driving over fire hose, see TRAF.
432.26
   Ohio Fire Code, see F.P.
Ch. 1610
   Open burning, see GEN. OFF.
660.08
   Uniform allowances, see ADM.
250.06
Statutory reference:
   Original appointment; probationary period and age, see Ohio R.C. 124.27,
124.30, 124.42
   Public safety, see Ohio R.C. Ch. 737
§ 240.01 COMPOSITION.
   (a)   The Fire Department shall be composed of a Fire Chief, who shall be
appointed as provided in §
4.03 of the City Charter, and such other officers and employees as may be
authorized by law.
   (b)   The ranks in the Fire Department shall be as follows:
      (1)   One Chief;
      (2)   Four Captains, with one Captain being specifically assigned as a
Fire Inspector;
      (3)   Three Lieutenants; and
      (4)   A minimum of six fire fighters.
(Ord. 92-42, passed 9-24-1992)
§ 240.02 FIRE INSPECTOR.
   The Fire Inspector shall be a 40 hour per week employee with corresponding
benefits of such 40-hour week.
(Ord. 77-18, passed 3-24-1977)
§ 240.03 AGE LIMITS FOR ORIGINAL APPOINTMENTS.
   Persons between 18 and 36 years of age may receive an original appointment
to the Fire Department.
(Ord. 76-36, passed 6-22-1976)
§ 240.04 COLLECTIVE BARGAINING.
   (a)   Council hereby recognizes International Association of Fire Fighters
Local 532 for purposes of collective bargaining for fire-fighting members of
the Fire Department, except the Fire Chief.
   (b)   Council reserves the right to give separate recognition to supervisory
and nonsupervisory members of the Department if it is determined that such
separation is in the interest of the residents of the city.
   (c)   This recognition shall be for a period of one year, and shall be
renewable from year to year, but shall also be terminable if the association
becomes involved in a strike, slowdown or other unlawful activity.
(Res. 76-60, passed 9-9-1976)
§ 240.05 BUREAU OF FIRE PREVENTION.
   (a)   There is hereby established a Bureau of Fire Prevention in the Fire
Department of the city.
   (b)   The Fire Prevention Code shall be enforced by the Bureau, which shall
be operated under the supervision of the Fire Chief.
   (c)   The Fire Chief may detail such members of the Fire Department as
inspectors as shall from time to time be necessary.
   (d)   A report of the Bureau shall be made annually and transmitted to
Council. It shall contain all proceedings under the Fire Prevention Code, with
such statistics as the Fire Chief may wish to include therein. The Fire Chief
shall also recommend any amendments to such Code which, in his or her judgment,
shall be desirable.
(Ord. 5206, passed 4-28-1966)
§ 240.06 DISPOSITION OF INSURANCE PROCEEDS FROM FIRE DAMAGED STRUCTURES.
   The city is hereby authorized to utilize the procedure described in Ohio
R.C. 3929.86(C) and (D), whereby no insurance company doing business in the
state shall pay a claim of a named insured for fire damage to a structure
located in the city, where the amount recoverable for the fire loss to the
structure under all policies exceeds five thousand dollars ($5,000.00), unless
there is compliance with the following procedures:
   (a)   (1)   When the loss agreed to between a named insured and the company
equals or exceeds 60 percent of the aggregate limits of liability on all fire
policies covering the building or structure, the company, in accordance with
Ohio R.C. 715.26(f), shall transfer from the insurance proceeds to the Fire
Chief in the amount provided by Ohio R.C. 3929.86(C), as it currently states or
as amended in the future. If at the time of a proof of loss agreed to by the
named insured and the company, the named insured has submitted a contractor’s
signed estimate of the costs of removing, repairing or securing the building or
structure, the company shall transfer from the insurance proceeds the amount
specified in the estimate.
      (2)   Such transfer of proceeds shall be on a prorata basis by all
companies insuring the building or structure. Policy proceeds remaining after
the transfer to the city shall be disbursed in accordance with the policy
terms.
      (3)   The named insured may submit a contractor’s signed estimate of the
costs of removing, repairing or securing the building or structure after the
transfer. In such a case, the Fire Chief shall return the amount of the fund in
excess of the estimate to the named insured, provided that the city has not
commenced to remove, repair or secure the building or structure.
      (4)   A named insured shall immediately transfer to the Fire Chief any
insurance proceeds which were required to be transferred by the insurance
company to the Fire Chief under this section, but which were transferred to the
named insured by the insurance company.
   (b)   (1)   Upon receipt of the insurance proceeds by the city as authorized
by this section, the Fire Chief shall place the proceeds in the city treasury
in a separate subfund within Special State and County Fund No. 1700.83,
entitled “Special State Fire Loss Insurance.” The proceeds shall be used solely
as security against the total cost of removing, repairing or securing the
building or structure incurred by the city pursuant to Ohio R.C. 715.261.
      (2)   When transferring the funds as required in division (a) hereof, an
insurance company shall provide the city with the name and address of the named
insured. The city shall then contact the named insured, certify that the
proceeds have been received by the city and notify the insured that the
following procedures will be followed.
         A.   The funds shall be returned to the named insured when the repair,
removal or securing of the building or structure has been completed and the
required proof received by the Fire Chief, if the city has not incurred any
costs for such repair, removal or securing.
         B.   If the city has incurred any costs for the repair, removal or
securing of the building or structure, such costs shall be paid from the funds.
         C.   1.   If excess funds remain, the city shall transfer the
remaining funds to the named insured. Nothing in this section shall be
construed to limit the ability of the city to recover any deficiency under Ohio
R.C. 715.261.
            2.   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the
city and the named insured from entering into an agreement that permits the
transfer of funds to the named insured if some other reasonable disposition of
the damaged property has been negotiated.
   (c)   The Fire Chief or Fire Inspector of the city is hereby designated as
the officer authorized to carry out the duties of this section. The Fire Chief
shall file a certified copy of this section with the Superintendent of
Insurance of the state.
(Ord. 86-25, passed 4-10-1986; Am. Ord. 93-25, passed 5-27-1993; Am. Ord. 98-
50, passed 9-24-1998)
§ 240.07 FIRE AND ARSON INVESTIGATING UNIT.
   (a)   The Fire Chief is designated to enforce the Ohio Fire Code as adopted
by the State of Ohio legislature.
   (b)   The Fire Chief is empowered and given the duty to be present at all
fires, investigate the cause thereof, examine witnesses, compel the attendance
of witnesses and the production books and papers and to do and perform all
other acts necessary to the effective discharge of such duties.
   (c)   The Fire Chief is authorized to establish an Arson and Fire
Investigating Unit within the Department to assist with duties listed in
division (b).
   (d)   The Fire and Arson Unit shall have the duties established under
division (b) and may administer oaths, make arrests and enter, for the purpose
of examination, any building, which in the Fire Chief’s opinion, is in danger
from fire.
(Ord. 05-50, passed 4-28-2005)
§ 240.08 FIRE PROTECTION MUTUAL AID AGREEMENT.
   The Mayor is authorized and directed to enter into a fire protection mutual
aid agreement with the City of Ashland, Kentucky and the Department of the
Lawrence County Fire Fighters Association, copies of which agreements are
incorporated as if fully set out herein and are on file in the office of the
Mayor.
(Res. 98-56, passed 9-10-1998)
§ 240.09 MITIGATION RATES FOR DEPLOYMENT OF EMERGENCY AND NON-EMERGENCY
SERVICES.
   (a)   The City of Ironton shall initiate mitigation rates for the delivery
of emergency and non-emergency services by the Fire Department for personnel,
supplies and equipment to the scene of emergency and non-emergency incidents as
listed in Exhibit A to Ordinance No. 20-19 and adopted by reference as if fully
set forth herein. The mitigation rates shall be based on actual costs of the
services and that which is usual, customary and reasonable (UCR) as shown in
Exhibit A to Ordinance No. 20-19 and adopted by reference as if fully set forth
herein, which may include any services, personnel, supplies, and equipment and
with baselines established by addendum to Ordinance No. 20-19.
   (b)   A claim shall be filed to the responsible party(s) through their
insurance carrier. In some circumstances, the responsible party(s) will be
billed directly.
   (c)   The City Council may make rules or regulations and from time to time
may amend, revoke, or add rules and regulations, not consistent with this
section, as they may deem necessary or expedient in respect to billing for
these mitigation rates or the collection thereof.
   (d)   The mitigation rates lists in Exhibit A will increase by 1.5% annually
or based on the annual percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index (CPI),
as developed by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the U.S. Department of Labor,
whichever is more. Rate adjustments will occur on the anniversary date of this
section to keep the Fire Department's cost recovery program in conformity with
increasing operating expenses.
(Ord. 20-19, passed 4-23-2020)
§ 240.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of §
240.06 is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree and shall be fined not
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisoned for not more than 60
days, or both for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed
each day during or for which a violation for noncompliance occurs or continues.
(Ord. 93-24, passed 5-27-1993)
CHAPTER 242: DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
Editor’s note: Ordinance 81-42, passed April 27, 1981, approved an agreement
delegating the responsibilities of the Department of Community Development to
the Ironton-Lawrence County Community Action Organization, Inc. Copies of such
ordinance and agreement may be obtained, at cost, from the Mayor’s office.
There are no sections in Chapter 242. This chapter has been established to
provide a place for cross references and any future legislation.
Charter reference:
   Authority to establish, see CHTR. Sec.
4.02
Cross-reference:
   Community reinvestment areas, see B.R. & T.
Ch. 894
   County Community Action Organization, see GEN. OFF.
628.04
   Urban renewal, see P. & Z. Chs.
1290 et seq.
Statutory reference:
   Community improvement corporations, see Ohio R.C. Ch. 1724
   Community redevelopment corporations, see Ohio R.C. Ch. 1728
   Development corporations, see Ohio R.C. Ch. 1726
CHAPTER 244: RECREATION DEPARTMENT
Editor’s note: There are no sections in Chapter 244. This chapter has been
established to provide a place for cross references and any future legislation.
Charter reference:
   Authority to establish, see CHTR. Sec.
4.02
Cross-reference:
   Recreation Advisory Committee, see ADM.
Ch. 266
   Recreation areas, see S.U. & P.S.
Ch. 1062
Statutory reference:
   Land appropriation for parks, see Ohio R.C. 715.21, 719.01
   Playgrounds, recreation centers, swimming pools, see Ohio R.C. 755.12 et
seq.
   Power to regulate vehicle speed in parks, see Ohio R.C. 4511.07
CHAPTER 250: EMPLOYEES GENERALLY
Editor’s note: The city enters into collective bargaining agreements with
certain city employees, which agreements provide for compensation, benefits and
other incidents of employment. Copies of the latest relevant legislation and of
such agreements may be obtained, at cost, from the Mayor’s office. In the event
of a conflict between any of the provisions of such agreements and a provision
of this chapter, the provisions of such agreements shall control. Because of
the frequency of change, provisions relating to the number, compensation and
bonds of city employees are not codified. Copies of the latest relevant
legislation may be obtained, at cost, from the Mayor’s office.
Section
250.01   Holidays
250.02   Hours of work
250.03   Sick leave
250.04   Vacations
250.05   Deferred compensation program
250.06   Uniform allowances
250.07   Economic Development Director
Charter reference:
   Civil service, see CHTR.
Art. VII
   Conflicts of interest, see CHTR. Sec.
6.01
   Continuance, see CHTR. Sec.
9.03
   Recall of elected officials, see CHTR. Sec.
6.03
Cross-reference:
   Conflicts of interest, see GEN. OFF.
606.17
   Impersonating an officer or employee, see GEN. OFF.
606.25,
642.20
   Obstructing an officer or employee, see GEN. OFF.
606.14,
618.09
   Soliciting or receiving improper compensation, see GEN. OFF.
606.18
   Sponsorship of street fairs, see B.R. & T.
872.04
Statutory reference:
   Collective bargaining, see Ohio R.C. Ch. 4117
   Public employees retirement system, see Ohio R.C. Ch. 145
§ 250.01 HOLIDAYS.
   (a)   The following holidays shall be recognized and observed annually by
the city and its regular employees:
      (1)   New Year’s Day;
      (2)   The third Monday in January (Martin Luther King, Jr.’s birthday);
      (3)   The third Monday in February (President’s Day);
      (4)   Good Friday;
      (5)   Memorial Day;
      (6)   Independence Day;
      (7)   Labor Day;
      (8)   Veterans’ Day;
      (9)   Thanksgiving Day;
      (10)   One-half day on Christmas Eve; and
      (11)   Christmas Day.
   (b)   When any holiday falls on a Sunday, it shall be observed the following
day. When any holiday falls on a Saturday, it shall be observed on the
preceding day. The Christmas Eve holiday shall be observed on the last work day
immediately preceding the observance of the Christmas holiday.
(Ord. 76-84, passed 12-1-1976; Am. Ord. 85-02, passed 1-10-1985; Am. Ord. 85-
06, passed 2-16-1985)
   (c)   (1)   Each regular full-time employee of the city shall be granted a
day off for his or her birthday.
      (2)   If the specified employee’s birthday falls on a Sunday, the
following Monday shall be observed. If the birthday falls on a Saturday, the
preceding Friday shall be observed.
(Ord. 78-39, passed 4-27-1978; Am. Ord. 78-52, passed 8-10-1978)
§ 250.02 HOURS OF WORK.
   (a)   No employee of the city, except as provided in division (c) hereof and
except for members and employees of the Police Department and Fire Department,
employees in a supervisory capacity, watchmen and swimming pool or casual
employees, shall be required to work in excess of 40 hours per week.
   (b)   Payment for hours worked in excess of 40 hours per week shall be made
only upon certification by the department head.
(Ord. 4319, passed 1-8-1953)
   (c)   Division (a) hereof shall not be applicable if, in the opinion of
supervisory personnel, an emergency condition or health hazard exists requiring
immediate attention.
(Ord. 76-72, passed 11-11-1976)
§ 250.03 SICK LEAVE.
   (a)   Sick leave with pay for all city employees may be allowed at the
discretion of the Mayor and within the limits provided for the Fire and Police
Departments by state statute.
(Ord. 4352, passed 7-9-1953; Am. Ord. 81-04, passed 11-23-1981)
   (b)   All officials and full-time employees of the city who have completed
six years of continuous service in the employment of the city shall be paid one
day’s salary for each day of accumulated sick leave upon retirement or death,
up to a maximum of 90 days.
   (c)   All costs of the payment of sick leave shall be paid from appropriate
funds.
(Ord. 5262, passed 2-23-1967; Am. Ord. 76-36, passed 6-22-1976)
§ 250.04 VACATIONS.
   (a)   (1)   All full-time non-union employees shall be granted the following
vacation leave with full pay each year based upon their length of city service
as follows.
 
Years of Service                    Vacation
One year but less than six years    Two weeks
Six years but less than 11 years    Three weeks
Eleven years but less than 20 years Four weeks
Twenty years                        Five weeks
 
      (2)   Each full-time employee will also receive four personal days and
his or her birthday with full pay each year.
   (b)   Employees who have been deprived of part or all their vacation by the
city will be allowed to carry over these vacation days for a period of one
year. All personal days must be used during the calendar year and no carry-over
is permitted.
(Ord. 5849, passed 12-26-1974; Am. Ord. 81-04, passed 11-23-1981; Am. Ord. 85-
19, passed 5-9-1985; Am. Res. 96-38, passed 5-23-1996)
§ 250.05 DEFERRED COMPENSATION PROGRAM.
   (a)   Council hereby adopts the Ohio Public Employees Deferred Compensation
Program and extends to all eligible employees the opportunity to join the
Program.
   (b)   The Mayor is hereby authorized to execute an agreement with the Ohio
Public Employees Deferred Compensation Board on terms and conditions which the
Mayor determines are in the best interest of the city, which agreement shall
authorize the Board to offer the Program to all eligible employees of the city
and thereafter to administer the Program on behalf of such employees.
(Res. 77-56, passed 8-25-1977; Am. Ord. 81-04, passed 11-23-1981)
§ 250.06 UNIFORM ALLOWANCES.
   Unless otherwise provided by a collective bargaining agreement, a uniform
and equipment allowance shall be paid to the following employees in the
following amounts:
 
Employee                     Quarterly Allowance
Members of Police Department $185.00
Members of Fire Department   125.00
Parking meter readers        185.00
 
§ 250.07 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR.
   The position and salary are hereby established for the position of Economic
Development Director.
(Res. 03-25, passed 4-10-2003)
CHAPTER 252: CITY POLICIES, PLANS AND PROGRAMS
Section
252.01   Hazard Mitigation Plan
252.02   Smoke free workplace
252.03   Firewood removal
252.04   Use of city building lobby area
252.05   Political subdivision cooperative purchasing
252.06   Municipal fee for public safety
252.07   Records retention program
252.08   Business permit
252.09   Ironton Economic Development Forgivable Loan
§ 252.01 HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN.
   The Lawrence County Ohio Natural Hazards Mitigation Plan, October 2021, is
hereby incorporated as if fully rewritten, and is hereby adopted as an official
plan of the city.
(Res. 22-25, passed 5-12-2022)
§ 252.02 SMOKE FREE WORKPLACE.
   (a)   Ohio voters passed Issue 5 on November 7, 2006 creating Ohio’s indoor
smoking ban under a new chapter of the Ohio Revised Code, effective December 7,
2006. This new law requires “public places” and “places of employment” prohibit
smoking as of that date. These businesses and organizations must also post “No
Smoking” signs that contain the telephone number 1-866-559-OHIO (6446) for
reporting violations; and remove ashtrays and other smoking receptacles.
   (b)   “Smoking” means inhaling, exhaling, burning or carrying any lighted
cigar, cigarette, pipe or other lighted smoking devise for burning tobacco or
any other plant. “Smoking” does not include the burning of incense in a
religious ceremony.
   (c)   “Public place” means an enclosed area to which the public is invited
or in which the public is permitted and that is not a private residence.
   (d)   “Place of employment” means an enclosed area under the direct or
indirect control of an employer that the employer’s employees use for work or
any other purpose, including but not limited to, offices, meeting rooms, sales,
production and storage areas, restrooms, stairways, hallways, warehouses,
garages, and vehicles. An enclosed area as described herein is a place of
employment without regard to the time of day or the presence of employees.
   (e)   The City of Ironton adopts the following policy to comply with the
Smoke Free Workplace Act effective December 7, 2006. The law bans all smoking
in public places and places of employment. Since the purpose of the law is to
more fully protect workers by prevention of the public health hazards of second
hand smoke, the City of Ironton resolves to implement the following steps:
      (1)   The City of Ironton is to direct the posting of signs at all
entrances to all buildings or other enclosed structures on City of Ironton
owned grounds which state “No Smoking.” Further, each “No Smoking” sign shall
contain the phone number (1-866-559-6446 - Ohio Department of Health) for
reporting violations of this smoking ban.
      (2)   The City of Ironton’s current policy on a “Smoke Free Environment”
is as follows: “There shall be no smoking in any enclosed structure of the City
of Ironton property, nor within 25 feet of any building entrance or exit,
windows, or ventilation air-intake.”
      (3)   A.   Any individual who violates this policy will on the first
occurrence be asked to leave their department or enclosure immediately. Failure
to follow this directive for any employee will result in disciplinary action
being taken for insubordination. Failure of the general public, any vendor, or
other individual to leave when directed will result in a report being filed
with the appropriate law enforcement authorities.
         B.   A second violation of this policy will result in more stringent
disciplinary action, and could result in time off without pay, suspension or
termination.
(Ord. 07-01, passed 2-8-2007)
§ 252.03 FIREWOOD REMOVAL.
   (a)   The Mayor is authorized to establish a firewood removal program from
the City of Ironton compost site.
   (b)   The forms entitled “City of Ironton Firewood Removal Permit” and
“Firewood Removal Program-Release and Waiver,” available at the office of the
Mayor, shall be used in the process of permitting firewood removal.
(Ord. 05-109, passed 1-12-2005)
§ 252.04 USE OF CITY BUILDING LOBBY AREA.
   (a)   The Mayor is authorized to enter into an agreement with individuals
and groups, other than civic organizations and city related events, for the use
of the lobby area of the Ironton City Building after 4:30 p.m. on weekdays and
on weekends.
   (b)   A copy of the agreement is available in the office of the Mayor.
   (c)   The civic organizations and city related events shall continue to be
permitted, upon approval of the Mayor, to use the lobby area with no fee being
charged.
(Res. 04-82, passed 9-23-2004)
§ 252.05 POLITICAL SUBDIVISION COOPERATIVE PURCHASING.
   (a)   The Mayor is hereby authorized, in the name of the City of Ironton to
participate in state contracts which the Department of Administrative Offices,
Office of State Purchasing has entered into for the purchase of supplies,
services, equipment and certain materials pursuant to Ohio R.C. 125.04.
   (b)   The Mayor is hereby authorized to agree in the name of the city to be
bound by all contract terms and conditions as the Department of Administrative
Offices, Office of State Purchasing prescribes. Such terms and conditions may
include a reasonable fee to cover the administrative costs which the Department
of Administrative Services incurs as a result of the city’s participation in a
contract. Further, the Mayor does hereby agree to be bound by all such terms
and conditions.
   (c)   The Mayor is hereby authorized to agree in the name of the City of
Ironton to directly pay the vendor, under each such state contract in which it
participates for items it receives pursuant to the contract, and the Mayor does
hereby agree to directly pay the vendor.
(Ord. 93-04, passed 2-25-1993)
§ 252.06 MUNICIPAL FEE FOR PUBLIC SAFETY.
   (a)   A municipal fee for public safety is established at the rate of
fourteen dollars ($14.00) per month to be paid by each residential household,
including each rental unit, and to also be paid by each non-residential
customer of the city.
   (b)   The current municipal fee of fourteen dollars ($14.00) shall remain
for public safety and shall be billed as part of the monthly municipal utility
billing upon passage of this section.
   (c)   The monies generated by this municipal fee shall be used to fund the
salaries/benefits of the Police Department of the city.
(Ord. 13-17, passed 3-28-2013)
§ 252.07 RECORDS RETENTION PROGRAM.
   (a)   The City of Ironton hereby establishes a records retention program.
   (b)   The Ohio Municipal Records Manual, third revised edition, is hereby
incorporated herein as if fully rewritten and the City of Ironton should follow
the records retention program as set forth therein.
(Ord. 22-15, passed 3-24-2022)
§ 252.08 BUSINESS PERMIT.
   (a)   For purposes of this section, “business” is defined as any person or
entity that provides a product and/or service to others.
   (b)   All businesses operating in the City of Ironton, Ohio shall obtain a
business permit by filing an application for said permit with the City of
Ironton Zoning Department. Said application is attached to Ordinance 22-63,
passed November 21, 2022, and incorporated herein as if fully rewritten.
   (c)   The permit application shall be completed and filed by all businesses
operating in the city upon the effective date of this section and hereafter
every two years or upon change of/or additional location or locations.
   (d)   A biennial fee in the amount of two dollars ($2.00) is hereby
established and required to be paid upon the completion and submission of said
application to the city's Zoning Department. Said fee shall be paid into the
General Fund by the Finance Department. The two dollar ($2.00) fee shall be
waived if any other business related fee is collected by the city.
   (e)   The failure to file said application and pay said fee as set forth
herein shall result in a five hundred dollar ($500.00) fine. Said fine shall be
assessed each day that the business fails to comply with this section.
(Ord. 22-63, passed 11-21-2022)
§ 252.09 IRONTON ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT FORGIVABLE LOAN.
   (a)   Council hereby establishes the Ironton Economic Development Forgivable
Loan.
   (b)   This program will allow for a forgivable loan to qualifying businesses
up to fifty thousand dollars ($50,000).
   (c)   The Mayor and/or the Mayor's designee shall be solely responsible for
granting and administering the forgivable loan.
   (d)   This program shall be funded by the Ironton Economic Development Fund.
(Ord. 23-46, passed 6-22-2023)
TITLE EIGHT - BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND COMMITTEES
CHAPTER 260: CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION
Section
260.01   Access to graded examinations
Charter reference:
   Civil Service, see CHTR.
Art. VII
   Civil Service Commission, see CHTR. Sec.
7.01
   Commissions generally, see CHTR.
Art. VIII
Cross-reference:
   Employees generally, see ADM.
Ch. 250
Statutory reference:
   Application to police and fire personnel, see Ohio R.C. 737.051, 737.10,
737.11
   Civil service law, see Ohio R.C. Ch. 124
§ 260.01 ACCESS TO GRADED EXAMINATIONS.
   All city administered civil service tests shall be made available for
viewing by the individual taking such test, in order that he or she might
examine his or her answers and the grades allotted thereto. The review of the
aforementioned graded tests shall be permitted within a reasonable period of
time after the conclusion and grading of civil service tests and in order to
allow the Ironton Civil Service Commission adequate time to study and record
test scores for purposes of recommendations for appointments or promotions.
(Ord. 90-26, passed 4-17-1990)
CHAPTER 262: PLANNING COMMISSION
Editor’s note: Provisions relating to the Planning Commission are codified in
Chapter 1220 of Part Twelve - the Planning and Zoning Code.
CHAPTER 264: BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS
Editor’s note: Provisions relating to the Board of Zoning Appeals are codified
in
Chapter 1254 of Part Twelve - the Planning and Zoning Code.
CHAPTER 266: RECREATION ADVISORY COMMITTEE
Section
266.01   Power vested in Mayor
266.02   Creation; composition; terms of office
266.03   Advisory capacity
Charter reference:
   Boards generally, see CHTR.
Art. VIII
Cross-reference:
   Recreation areas, see S.U. & P.S.
Ch. 1062
   Recreation Department, see ADM.
Ch. 244
Statutory reference:
   Land appropriation for parks, see Ohio R.C. 715.21, 719.01
   Playgrounds, recreation centers, swimming pools, see Ohio R.C. 755.12 et
seq.
   Power to regulate vehicle speed in parks, see Ohio R.C. 4511.07
§ 266.01 POWER VESTED IN MAYOR.
   The authority to supervise and maintain recreation facilities in the city
shall be vested in the Mayor.
(Ord. 07-47, passed 5-24-2007)
§ 266.02 CREATION; COMPOSITION; TERMS OF OFFICE.
   There is hereby created a Supervisory Recreation Committee composed of three
members to be appointed by the Mayor with Council approval for four year terms.
(Ord. 07-47, passed 5-24-2007)
§ 266.03 ADVISORY CAPACITY.
   The Supervisory Recreation Committee shall from time to time advise the
Mayor with respect to the supervision and maintenance of recreation facilities
and programs in the city.
(Ord. 07-47, passed 5-24-2007)
CHAPTER 268: BOARD OF HEALTH
Section
268.01   Establishment; composition; powers and duties
Charter reference:
   Boards generally, see CHTR. Art VIII
Cross-reference:
   Safety, sanitation and health, see GEN. OFF.
Ch. 660
Statutory reference:
   Contracts with other cities or health districts, see Ohio R.C. 3709.08 et
seq.
   Orders, regulations and emergency measures, see Ohio R.C. 3709.20
   Power to abate nuisances, see Ohio R.C. 715.44
   Power to inspect animals and food products, see Ohio R.C. 715.46
   Power to provide for public health, see Ohio R.C. 715.37
§ 268.01 ESTABLISHMENT; COMPOSITION; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   There is hereby established in and for the city a Board of Health, which
shall be composed and which shall have such powers and duties as provided in
Ohio R.C. 3709.05.
CHAPTER 270: IRON MASTER SOCIETY
Section
270.01   Establishment of honorary title and position; nominations and
appointments
270.02   Organization of society; lifetime membership
Statutory reference:
   Annual franchise tax upon fraternal benefit societies, see Ohio R.C. 5725.18
   Annual report to Superintendent of Insurance, see Ohio R.C. 5725.21
   Fraternal benefit societies, see Ohio R.C. Ch. 3921
§ 270.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF HONORARY TITLE AND POSITION; NOMINATIONS AND
APPOINTMENTS.
   (a)   The honorary title and position of Iron Master is hereby established.
   (b)   Any member of Council or any individual previously recognized as an
Iron Master may submit a nomination for the honorary degree and title of Iron
Master. However, each Iron Master shall be limited to one nomination per year.
The nominating person shall submit the name of the nominee to the Chairperson
of Council, who shall then submit the nomination to the members of Council. The
nomination shall be considered in executive session and the degree and title
shall be conferred by a majority vote of Council. There shall be no public
discussion on the motion to confer.
(Res. 76-31, passed 4-22-1976)
§ 270.02 ORGANIZATION OF SOCIETY; LIFETIME MEMBERSHIP.
   After 25 Iron Masters have been recognized, they shall organize the Iron
Master Society to promote the city and its residents. Each individual who has
received the Iron Master title shall become a lifetime member of the Iron
Master Society.
(Res. 78-29, passed 3-9-1978)
CHAPTER 272: IRONTON PORT AUTHORITY
Section
272.01   Ironton Port Authority established
§ 272.01 IRONTON PORT AUTHORITY ESTABLISHED.
   A Port Authority is hereby created for the City of Ironton under the
provision of Ohio R.C. 4582.22 and shall have the power and authority as set
forth in Ohio R.C. 4582.21 to 4582.59.
(Ord. 03-43, passed 7-23-2003)
CHAPTER 274: STREET TREE COMMISSION
Section
274.01   Establishment
274.02   Purposes and objectives
274.03   Membership and terms
274.04   Meetings and procedures
§ 274.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created and established the Street Tree Commission of the
City of Ironton, Lawrence County, State of Ohio.
(Ord. 23-78, passed 12-14-2023)
§ 274.02 PURPOSES AND OBJECTIVES.
   The primary purposes and objectives of the Street Tree Commission shall
include the following:
   (a)   The Commission, when requested by City Council, shall consider,
investigate, make findings, report and recommend upon any special matter or
question regarding the street or park trees.
   (b)   To hold regular and special meetings at which the subject of trees
insofar as it relates to the municipality may be discussed by the members of
the Commission, officers, personnel, and Council committees of the municipality
and all others interested in the tree program.
   (c)   To disseminate news and information regarding the selection, planting
and maintenance of trees within the corporate limits, whether the same be on
private or public property.
   (d)   To establish the recommended species and varieties of trees to be
planted in the street lawns, boulevards, parks, and other urban areas, as well
as providing such recommendations to private residences and businesses.
   (e)   To implement an Arbor Day observance on an annual basis.
   (f)   To work to develop and maintain an inventory of city street trees.
(Ord. 23-78, passed 12-14-2023)
§ 274.03 MEMBERSHIP AND TERMS.
   (a)   The Commission shall consist of five members appointed by the Mayor
and confirmed by Council.
   (b)   The Chairperson of the Commission shall preside over all meetings of
the Commission and act as parliamentarian. The Vice-Chairperson shall assume
the duties of the Chairperson in his or her absence.
   (c)   Appointments to the Commission shall be for three year terms, provided
that the term for one of the members appointed to the first Commission shall be
for one year and one of the members appointed to the first Commission shall be
for two years. In the event that a vacancy shall occur during the term of any
member, his or her successor shall be appointed for the unexpired portion of
said term.
   (d)   The Commission members shall serve without compensation.
   (e)   Any Commission member who misses three consecutive meetings or more
than 50% of the regular meetings on an annual basis can be removed from the
Tree Commission.
(Ord. 23-78, passed 12-14-2023)
§ 274.04 MEETINGS AND PROCEDURES.
   The Commission shall choose its own officers, make its own rules and
regulations and keep a journal of its proceedings. A simple majority of the
members shall be a quorum for the transaction of business. All plans, findings,
advice, reports, and recommendations of the Commission shall be in writing.
(Ord. 23-78, passed 12-14-2023)
TITLE TEN - JUDICIARY
CHAPTER 290: MUNICIPAL COURT
Editor’s note: The Ironton Municipal Court is established by Ohio R.C. 1901.01.
Ohio R.C. 1901.02 provides that the Court has territorial jurisdiction within
Aid, Decatur, Elizabeth, Hamilton, Lawrence, Upper and Washington Townships in
Lawrence County. The powers, duties and proceedings of the Court are
established by Ohio R.C. Chapter 1901. Ohio R.C. 1901.25 provides that the
Municipal Court may provide by rule how jurors shall be chosen. Jurors’ fees in
any criminal case involving the violation of the city ordinance shall be paid
out of the city treasury. The Municipal Court, pursuant to Ohio R.C. 1901.26
(A), may establish a schedule of fees and costs to be taxed in any action or
proceeding, whether civil or criminal. Ohio R.C. 1901.31(F) provides that fines
received for violation of Ironton ordinances shall be paid into the city
treasury. Rule 13 of the Ohio Traffic Rules, as promulgated by the Ohio Supreme
Court, provides that a court must establish a Traffic Violations Bureau and
specifies certain restrictions as to the designated offenses and schedule of
fines to be accepted as waiver payment in lieu of court appearance. Rule 11 of
the Rules of Superintendence for Municipal and County Courts also prescribes a
violations bureau for minor misdemeanors.
The Ironton Municipal Court was established by legislative action effective
August 25, 1943, and is a court of record. The first judge took office January
1, 1944. The offices of Police Judge and Justice of the Peace were abolished.
There are no sections in Chapter 290. This chapter has been established to
provide a place for future legislation and for cross references.
Statutory reference:
   Bond for Court Clerk required, see Ohio R.C. 1901.31(D)
   Municipal Court, see Ohio R.C. Ch. 1901
   Notification to Director of liquor law convictions, see Ohio R.C. 4301.991
   Record to traffic violations, see Ohio R.C. 4513.37
   Release of Court Clerk’s liability for loss of funds, see Ohio R.C. 131.18
et seq.
PART FOUR - TRAFFIC CODE
      TITLE TWO - Administration, Enforcement and Penalties
         
Chap. 402.   Definitions.
         
Chap. 404.   Enforcement; Impounding.
         
Chap. 406.   Traffic Control.
         
Chap. 408.   Penalties.
      TITLE FOUR - Public Ways and Traffic-Control Devices
         
Chap. 412.   Obstruction and Special Uses of Public Ways.
         
Chap. 414.   Traffic-Control Devices.
         
Chap. 416.   Pedestrians.
      TITLE SIX - Vehicles and Operation
         
Chap. 432.   Operation Generally.
         
Chap. 434.   O.V.I.; Reckless Operation; Speed.
         
Chap. 436.   Licensing; Accidents.
         
Chap. 438.   Safety and Equipment.
         
Chap. 440.   Commercial and Heavy Vehicles.
         
Chap. 442.   Drivers of Commercial Vehicles.
      TITLE EIGHT - Parking
         
Chap. 452.   Parking Generally.
         
Chap. 454.   Parking Meters.
      TITLE TEN - Bicycles, Motorcycles and Snowmobiles
         
Chap. 474.   Bicycles and Motorcycles.
         
Chap. 476.   Snowmobiles and All-Purpose Vehicles.
         
Chap. 477.   Golf Carts and Utility Terrain Vehicles.
TITLE TWO - ADMINISTRATION, ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES
CHAPTER 402: DEFINITIONS
Section
402.01   Meaning of words and phrases
402.02   Agricultural tractor; multi-wheel agricultural tractor
402.03   Alley
402.04   Arterial street
402.045   Beacon
402.05   Bicycle
402.06   Bus
402.07   Business district
402.075   Chauffeured limousine
402.077   Child care center or Type A family child care home
402.08   Commercial tractor
402.085   Congested area
402.09   Controlled-access highway
402.10   Crosswalk
402.11   Driver or operator
402.115   Electric bicycle
402.12   Emergency vehicle
402.13   Explosives
402.14   Expressway
402.15   Flammable liquid
402.16   Freeway
402.165   Funeral escort vehicle
402.17   Gross weight
402.175   Highway maintenance vehicle
402.177   Highway traffic signal
402.179   Hybrid beacon
402.18   Intersection
402.19   Laned highway
402.195   Local authorities
402.196   Low-speed micromobility device
402.197   Median
402.20   Motor vehicle
402.21   Motorcycle
402.22   Motorized bicycle or moped
402.225   Motorized wheelchair
402.227   Operate
402.23   Parking
402.24   Pedestrian
402.25   Person
402.26   Pole trailer
402.27   Police officer
402.275   Predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense
402.277   Private road open to public travel
402.28   Private road or driveway
402.29   Public safety vehicle
402.30   Railroad
402.31   Railroad sign or signal
402.32   Railroad train
402.33   Residence district
402.335   Ridesharing arrangement
402.34   Right-of-way
402.345   Road service vehicle
402.35   Roadway
402.355   Rural mail delivery vehicle
402.36   Safety zone
402.37   School bus
402.38   Semitrailer
402.385   Shared-use path
402.39   Sidewalk
402.398   State highway
402.40   State route
402.41   Stop
402.42   Stop intersection
402.43   Stopping and standing
402.44   Street or highway
402.45   Through street or highway
402.46   Thruway
402.47   Traffic
402.48   Traffic-control device
402.49   Traffic-control signal
402.50   Trailer
402.51   Truck
402.52   Urban district
402.53   Vehicle
402.54   Waste collection vehicle
Cross-reference:
   Blind person defined, see TRAF.
416.02
   Commercial car defined, see TRAF.
442.01
   Funeral procession defined, see TRAF.
432.21
   Snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle and all-purpose vehicle defined, seeTRAF.
476.01
   Street racing defined, see TRAF.
434.07
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see section histories
§ 402.01 MEANING OF WORDS AND PHRASES.
   (a)   Except as otherwise provided, the definitions set forth in Ohio R.C.
4501.01 shall apply to this Traffic Code and the penal laws of the
municipality.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided, the following words and phrases, when
used in this Traffic Code, shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to
them in this chapter.
§ 402.02 AGRICULTURAL TRACTOR; MULTI-WHEEL AGRICULTURAL TRACTOR.
   (a)   “Agricultural tractor” means every self-propelled vehicle designed or
used for drawing other vehicles or wheeled machinery, but having no provision
for carrying loads independently of such other vehicles, and used principally
for agricultural purposes.
(ORC 4511.01(J))
   (b)   “Multi-wheel agricultural tractor” means a type of agricultural
tractor that has two or more wheels or tires on each side of one axle at the
rear of the tractor, is designed or used for drawing other vehicles or wheeled
machinery, has no provision for carrying loads independently of the drawn
vehicles or machinery, and is used principally for agricultural purposes.
(ORC 4511.01(GGG))
§ 402.03 ALLEY.
   “Alley” means a street or highway intended to provide access to the rear or
side of lots or buildings in urban districts, and not intended for the purpose
of through vehicular traffic, and any street or highway that has been declared
an “alley” by the Council.
(ORC 4511.01(XX))
§ 402.04 ARTERIAL STREET.
   “Arterial street” means any United States or state numbered route,
controlled-access highway, or other major radial or circumferential street or
highway designated by local authorities within their respective jurisdictions
as part of a major arterial system of streets or highways.
(ORC 4511.01(CCC))
§ 402.045 BEACON.
   “Beacon” means a highway traffic signal with one or more signal sections
that operate in a flashing mode.
(ORC 4511.01(KKK))
§ 402.05 BICYCLE.
   “Bicycle” means every device, other than a device that is designed solely
for use as a play vehicle by a child, that is propelled solely by human power
upon which a person may ride, and that has two or more wheels, any of which is
more than 14 inches in diameter.
(ORC 4511.01(G))
§ 402.06 BUS.
   “Bus” means every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than nine
passengers, and used for the transportation of persons other than in a
ridesharing arrangement, and every motor vehicle, automobile for hire, or
funeral car, other than a taxicab or motor vehicle used in a ridesharing
arrangement, designed and used for the transportation of persons for
compensation.
(ORC 4511.01(L))
§ 402.07 BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   “Business district” means the territory fronting upon a street or highway,
including the street or highway, between successive intersections within the
municipality, where 50 percent or more of the frontage between successive
intersections is occupied by buildings in use for business, or within or
outside the municipality where 50 percent or more of the frontage for a
distance of 300 feet or more is occupied by buildings in use for business, and
the character of the territory is indicated by official traffic-control
devices.
(ORC 4511.01(NN))
§ 402.075 CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINE.
   “Chauffeured limousine” means a motor vehicle that is designed to carry nine
or fewer passengers and is operated for hire pursuant to a prearranged contract
for the transportation of passengers on public roads and highways along a route
under the control of the person hiring the vehicle and not over a defined and
regular route. “Prearranged contract” means an agreement, made in advance of
boarding, to provide transportation from a specific location in an chauffeured
limousine. “Chauffeured limousine” does not include any vehicle that is used
exclusively in the business of funeral directing.
(ORC 4501.01(LL))
§ 402.077 CHILD CARE CENTER OR TYPE A FAMILY CHILD CARE HOME.
   “Child care center” and “Type A family child care home” have the same
meanings as set forth in Ohio R.C. 5104.01.
(ORC 4511.01(FFF))
§ 402.08 COMMERCIAL TRACTOR.
   “Commercial tractor” means every motor vehicle having motive power designed
or used for drawing other vehicles, and not so constructed as to carry any load
thereon, or designed or used for drawing other vehicles while carrying a
portion of the other vehicles, or the load thereon, or both.
(ORC 4511.01(I))
§ 402.085 CONGESTED AREA.
   “Congested traffic area” means the east side of Campbell Avenue from Center
Street to Vernon Street; Second Street from Lawrence Street to Adams Street;
Third Street from Railroad Street to Adams Street; Fourth Street from Railroad
Street to Washington Street; Railroad Street from Campbell Avenue to Fourth
Street; Center Street from Campbell Avenue to Fifth Street; Park Avenue from
Campbell Avenue to Fifth Street; Vernon Street from Campbell Avenue to Fourth
Street; and Washington Street from Campbell Avenue to Fourth Street.
(Ord. 75-78, passed 11-13-1975)
§ 402.09 CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY.
   “Controlled-access highway” means every street or highway in respect to
which owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal
right or access to or from the same except at certain points only and in a
manner as may be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over
the street or highway.
(ORC 4511.01(CC))
§ 402.10 CROSSWALK.
   “Crosswalk” means:
   (a)   That part of a roadway at intersections ordinarily included within the
real or projected prolongation of property lines and curb lines or, in the
absence of curbs, the edges of the traversable roadway;
   (b)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere, distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface;
   (c)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this definition, there
shall not be a crosswalk where the legislative authority has placed signs
indicating no crossing.
(ORC 4511.01(LL))
§ 402.11 DRIVER OR OPERATOR.
   “Driver” or “operator” means every person who drives or is in actual
physical control of a vehicle.
(ORC 4511.01(Y))
§ 402.115 ELECTRIC BICYCLE.
   “Electric bicycle” means a “class 1 electric bicycle”, a “class 2 electric
bicycle”, or a “class 3 electric bicycle” as defined below.
   (a)   “Class 1 electric bicycle” neans a bicycle that is equipped with fully
operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that provides
assistance only when the rider is pedaling and ceases to provide assistance
when the bicycle reaches the speed of 20 miles per hour.
(R.C. § 4511.01(SSS))
   (b)   “Class 2 electric bicycle” means a bicycle that is equipped with fully
operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that may provide
assistance regardless of whether the rider is pedaling and is not capable of
providing assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of 20 miles per hour.
(R.C. § 4511.01(TTT))
   (c)   “Class 3 electric bicycle” means a bicycle that is equipped with fully
operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that provides
assistance only when the rider is pedaling and ceases to provide assistance
when the bicycle reaches the speed of 28 miles per hour.
(R.C. § 4511.01(UUU))
§ 402.12 EMERGENCY VEHICLE.
   “Emergency vehicle” means emergency vehicles of municipal, township or
county departments or public utility corporations, when identified as such as
required by law, the Director of Public Safety, or local authorities, and motor
vehicles when commandeered by a police officer.
(ORC 4511.01(D))
§ 402.13 EXPLOSIVES.
   “Explosives” means any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is
intended for the purpose of producing an explosion that contains any oxidizing
and combustible units or other ingredients in such proportions, quantities, or
packing that an ignition by fire, by friction, by concussion, by percussion, or
by a detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause a sudden
generation of highly heated gases, such that the resultant gaseous pressures
are capable of producing destructive effects on contiguous objects, or of
destroying life or limb. Manufactured articles shall not be held to be
explosives when the individual units contain explosives in limited quantities
of such nature or in such packing that it is impossible to procure a
simultaneous or a destructive explosion of the units, to the injury of life,
limb, or property by fire, friction, concussion, percussion, or by a detonator,
such as fixed ammunition for small arms, firecrackers, or safety fuse matches.
(ORC 4511.01(T))
§ 402.14 EXPRESSWAY.
   “Expressway” means a divided arterial highway for through traffic with full
or partial control of access with an excess of 50 percent of all crossroads
separated in grade.
(ORC 4511.01(ZZ))
§ 402.15 FLAMMABLE LIQUID.
   “Flammable liquid” means any liquid which has a flash point of 70°F or less,
as determined by a tagliabue or equivalent closed cup test device.
(ORC 4511.01(U))
§ 402.16 FREEWAY.
   “Freeway” means a divided multi-lane highway for through traffic with
crossroads separated in grade and with full control of access.
(ORC 4511.01(YY))
§ 402.165 FUNERAL ESCORT VEHICLE.
   “Funeral escort vehicle” means any motor vehicle, including a funeral
hearse, while used to facilitate the movement of a funeral procession.
(ORC 4511.01(WW))
§ 402.17 GROSS WEIGHT.
   “Gross weight” means the weight of a vehicle plus the weight of any load
thereon.
(ORC 4511.01(V))
§ 402.175 HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE VEHICLE.
   “Highway maintenance vehicle” means a vehicle used in snow and ice removal
or road surface maintenance, including a snow plow, traffic line striper, road
sweeper, mowing machine, asphalt distributing vehicle, or other such vehicle
designed for use in specific highway maintenance activities.
(ORC 4511.04)
§ 402.177 HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SIGNAL.
   “Highway traffic signal” means a power-operated traffic control device by
which traffic is warned or directed to take some specific action. The term does
not include a power-operated sign, steadily illuminated pavement marker,
warning light, or steady burning electric lamp.
(ORC 4511.01(MMM))
§ 402.179 HYBRID BEACON.
   “Hybrid beacon” means a type of beacon that is intentionally placed in a
dark mode between periods of operation where no indications are displayed and,
when in operation, displays both steady and flashing traffic control signal
indications.
(ORC 4511.01(LLL))
§ 402.18 INTERSECTION.
   “Intersection” means:
   (a)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the lateral
curb lines, or, if none, the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of two
highways that join one another at, or approximately at, right angles, or the
area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways that join at any
other angle might come into conflict. The junction of an alley or driveway with
a roadway or highway does not constitute an intersection unless the roadway or
highway at the junction is controlled by a traffic control device.
   (b)   If a highway includes two roadways that are 30 feet or more apart,
then every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting
highway constitutes a separate intersection. If both intersecting highways
include two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then every crossing of any two
roadways of such highways constitutes a separate intersection.
   (c)   At a location controlled by a traffic control signal, regardless of
the distance between the separate intersections as described in division (2) of
this definition:
      (1)   If a stop line, yield line, or crosswalk has not been designated on
the roadway within the median between the separate intersections, the two
intersections and the roadway and median constitute one intersection.
      (2)   Where a stop line, yield line, or crosswalk line is designated on
the roadway on the intersection approach, the area within the crosswalk and any
area beyond the designated stop line or yield line constitute part of the
intersection.
      (3)   Where a crosswalk is designated on a roadway on the departure from
the intersection, the intersection includes the area that extends to the far
side of the crosswalk.
(ORC 4511.01(KK))
§ 402.19 LANED HIGHWAY.
   “Laned highway” means a highway the roadway of which is divided into two or
more clearly marked lanes for vehicular traffic.
(ORC 4511.01(GG))
§ 402.195 LOCAL AUTHORITIES.
   “Local authorities” means every county, municipal, and other local board or
body having authority to adopt police regulations under the Constitution and
laws of this state.
(ORC 4511.01(AA))
§ 402.196 LOW-SPEED MICROMOBILITY DEVICE.
   “Low-speed micromobility device” means a device weighing less than 100
pounds that has handlebars, is propelled by an electric motor or human power,
and has an attainable speed on a paved level surface of not more than 20 miles
per hour when propelled by the electric motor.
(R.C. § 4511.01(WWW))
§ 402.197 MEDIAN.
   “Median” means the area between two roadways of a divided highway, measured
from edge of traveled way to edge of traveled way, but excluding turn lanes.
The width of a median may be different between intersections, between
interchanges, and at opposite approaches of the same intersection.
(ORC 4511.01(NNN))
§ 402.20 MOTOR VEHICLE.
   “Motor vehicle” means every vehicle propelled or drawn by power other than
muscular power or power collected from overhead electric trolley wires, except
motorized bicycles, electric bicycles, road rollers, traction engines, power
shovels, power cranes and other equipment used in construction work, and not
designed for or employed in general highway transportation, hole- digging
machinery, well-drilling machinery, ditch- digging machinery, farm machinery,
and trailers designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place
of storage and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a
street or highway for a distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of 25
miles per hour or less.
(ORC 4511.01(B))
§ 402.21 MOTORCYCLE.
   “Motorcycle” means every motor vehicle other than a tractor having a seat or
saddle for the use of the operator and designed to travel on not more than
three wheels in contact with the ground, including, but not limited to, motor
vehicles known as “motor-driven cycle,” “motor scooter,” “autocycle,” “cab-
enclosed motorcycle,” or “motorcycle” without regard to weight or brake
horsepower.
(ORC 4511.01(C))
§ 402.22 MOTORIZED BICYCLE OR MOPED.
   “Motorized bicycle” or “moped” means any vehicle having either two tandem
wheels or one wheel in the front and two wheels in the rear, that may be
pedaled, and that is equipped with a helper motor of not more than 50 cubic
centimeters piston displacement that produces not more than one brake
horsepower, and is capable of propelling the vehicle at a speed of no greater
than 20 miles per hour on a level surface. The terms do not include an electric
bicycle.
(ORC 4511.01(H))
§ 402.225 MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIR.
   “Motorized wheelchair” means any self-propelled vehicle designed for, and
used by, a person with a disability and that is incapable of a speed in excess
of eight miles per hour.
(ORC 4511.01(EEE))
§ 402.227 OPERATE.
   “Operate” means to cause or have caused movement of a vehicle.
(ORC 4511.01(HHH))
§ 402.23 PARKING.
   “Parking,” when prohibited, means the standing of a vehicle, whether
occupied or not, otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while
actually engaged in loading or unloading merchandise or passengers.
§ 402.24 PEDESTRIAN.
   “Pedestrian” means any natural person afoot. The term includes a personal
delivery device as defined in R.C. § 4511.513 unless the context clearly
suggests otherwise.
(ORC 4511.01(X))
§ 402.25 PERSON.
   “Person” means every natural person, firm, partnership, association or
corporation.
(ORC 4511.01(W))
§ 402.26 POLE TRAILER.
   “Pole trailer” means every trailer or semitrailer attached to the towing
vehicle by means of a reach, pole, or by being boomed or otherwise secured to
the towing vehicle, and ordinarily used for transporting long or irregular
shaped loads such as poles, pipes, or structural members capable, generally, of
sustaining themselves as beams between the supporting connections.
(ORC 4511.01(O))
§ 402.27 POLICE OFFICER.
   “Police officer” means every officer authorized to direct or regulate
traffic, or to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
(ORC 4511.01(Z))
§ 402.275 PREDICATE MOTOR VEHICLE OR TRAFFIC OFFENSE.
   “Predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense” means any of the following:
   (a)   A violation of Ohio R.C. 4511.03, 4511.051, 4511.12, 4511.132,
4511.16, 4511.20, 4511.201, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.213, 4511.22, 4511.23,
4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32,
4511.33, 4511.34, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40,
4511.41, 4511.42, 4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.432, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.451,
4511.452, 4511.46, 4511.47, 4511.48, 4511.481, 4511.49, 4511.50, 4511.511,
4511.53, 4511.54, 4511.55, 4511.56, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59, 4511.60,
4511.61, 4511.64, 4511.66, 4511.661, 4511.68, 4511.70, 4511.701, 4511.71,
4511.711, 4511.712, 4511.713, 4511.72, 4511.73, 4511.763, 4511.771, 4511.78, or
4511.84;
   (b)   A violation of Ohio R.C. 4511.17(A)(2), 4511.51(A) to (D), or 4511.74
(A);
   (c)   A violation of any provision of Ohio R.C. 4511.01 to 4511.76 for which
no penalty otherwise is provided in the section that contains the provision
violated;
   (d)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.214;
   (e)   A violation of a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent
to any section or provision set forth or described in division (a), (b), (c),
or (d) of this definition.
(ORC 4511.01(III))
§ 402.277 PRIVATE ROAD OPEN TO PUBLIC TRAVEL.
   “Private road open to public travel” means a private toll road or road,
including any adjacent sidewalks that generally run parallel to the road,
within a shopping center, airport, sports arena, or other similar business or
recreation facility that is privately owned but where the public is allowed to
travel without access restrictions. The term includes a gated toll road but
does not include a road within a private gated property where access is
restricted at all times, a parking area, a driving aisle within a parking area,
or a private grade crossing.
(ORC 4511.01(OOO))
§ 402.28 PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY.
   “Private road or driveway” means every way or place in private ownership
used for vehicular travel by the owner, and those having express or implied
permission from the owner, but not by other persons.
(ORC 4511.01(DD))
§ 402.29 PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE.
   “Public safety vehicle” means any of the following:
   (a)   Ambulances, including private ambulance companies under contract to a
municipality, township, or county, and private ambulances and nontransport
vehicles bearing license plates issued under Ohio R.C. 4503.49;
   (b)   Motor vehicles used by public law enforcement officers or other
persons sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state;
   (c)   Any motor vehicle when properly identified as required by the Director
of Public Safety, when used in response to fire emergency calls or to provide
emergency medical service to ill or injured persons, and when operated by a
duly qualified person who is a member of a volunteer rescue service or a
Volunteer Fire Department, and who is on duty pursuant to the rules or
directives of that service. The State Fire Marshal shall be designated by the
Director of Public Safety as the certifying agency for all public safety
vehicles described herein;
   (d)   Vehicles used by Fire Departments, including motor vehicles when used
by volunteer firefighters responding to emergency calls in the Fire Department
service when identified as required by the Director of Public Safety;
   (e)   Any vehicle used to transport or provide emergency medical service to
an ill or injured person, when certified as a “public safety vehicle,” shall be
considered such a vehicle when transporting an ill or injured person to a
hospital, regardless of whether such vehicle has already passed a hospital;
   (f)   Vehicles used by the Motor Carrier Enforcement Unit for the
enforcement of orders and rules of the Public Utilities Commission as specified
in Ohio R.C. 5503.34.
(ORC 4511.01(E))
§ 402.30 RAILROAD.
   “Railroad” means a carrier of persons or property operating upon rails
placed principally on a private right-of-way.
(ORC 4511.01(P))
§ 402.31 RAILROAD SIGN OR SIGNAL.
   “Railroad sign or signal” means any sign, signal, or device erected by
authority of a public body or official or by a railroad, and intended to give
notice of the presence of railroad tracks or the approach of a railroad train.
(ORC 4511.01(SS))
§ 402.32 RAILROAD TRAIN.
   “Railroad train” means a steam engine or an electric or other motor, with or
without cars coupled thereto, operated by a railroad.
(ORC 4511.01(Q))
§ 402.33 RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   “Residence district” means the territory, not comprising a business
district, fronting on a street or highway, including the street or highway,
where, for a distance of 300 feet or more, the frontage is improved with
residences or residences and buildings in use for business.
(ORC 4511.01(OO))
§ 402.335 RIDESHARING ARRANGEMENT.
   “Ridesharing arrangement” includes the transportation of persons in a motor
vehicle where the transportation is incidental to another purpose of a
volunteer driver, and includes ridesharing arrangements known as carpools,
vanpools, and buspools.
(ORC 4511.01(DDD))
§ 402.34 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   “Right-of-way” means either of the following, as the context requires:
   (a)   The right of a vehicle or pedestrian to proceed uninterruptedly in a
lawful manner in the direction in which it, he or she is moving, in preference
to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching from a different direction into
its, his or her path;
   (b)   A general term denoting land, property, or the interest therein,
usually in the configuration of a strip, acquired for or devoted to
transportation purposes. When used in this context, “right-of-way” includes the
roadway, shoulders or berm, ditch, and slopes extending to the right-of-way
limits under the control of the state or local authority.
(ORC 4511.01(UU))
§ 402.345 ROAD SERVICE VEHICLE.
   “Road service vehicle” means wreckers, utility repair vehicles and state,
county and municipal service vehicles equipped with visual signals by means of
flashing, rotating or oscillating lights.
(ORC 4511.01(JJJ))
§ 402.35 ROADWAY.
   “Roadway” means that portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily
used for vehicular travel, except the berm or shoulder. If a highway includes
two or more separate roadways, the term “roadway” means any roadway separately,
but not all the roadways collectively.
(ORC 4511.01(EE))
§ 402.355 RURAL MAIL DELIVERY VEHICLE.
   “Rural mail delivery vehicle” means every vehicle used to deliver United
States mail on a rural mail delivery route.
(ORC 4511.01(VV))
§ 402.36 SAFETY ZONE.
   “Safety zone” means the area or space officially set apart within a roadway
for the exclusive use of pedestrians, and protected or marked or indicated by
adequate signs so as to be plainly visible at all times.
(ORC 4511.01(MM))
§ 402.37 SCHOOL BUS.
   “School bus.” Every bus designed for carrying more than nine passengers
which is owned by a public, private, or governmental agency or institution of
learning, and operated for the transportation of children to or from a school
session or a school function, or owned by a private person and operated for
compensation for the transportation of children to or from a school session or
a school function; provided the term does not include a bus operated by a
municipally owned transportation system, a mass transit company operating
exclusively within the territorial limits of a municipality, or within such
limits and the territorial limits of municipalities immediately contiguous to
the municipality, nor a common passenger carrier certified by the Public
Utilities Commission unless the bus is devoted exclusively to the
transportation of children to and from a school session or a school function,
and the term does not include a van or bus used by a licensed child care center
or type A family child care home to transport children from the child care
center or type A family child care home to a school if the van or bus does not
have more than 15 children in the van or bus at any time.
(ORC 4511.01(F))
§ 402.38 SEMITRAILER.
   “Semitrailer” means every vehicle designed or used for carrying persons or
property with another and separate motor vehicle so that in operation a part of
its own weight or that of its load, or both, rests upon and is carried by
another vehicle.
(ORC 4511.01(N))
§ 402.385 SHARED-USE PATH.
   “Shared-use path” means a bikeway outside the traveled way and physically
separated from motorized vehicular traffic by an open space or barrier and
either within the highway right-of-way or within an independent alignment. A
shared-use path also may be used by pedestrians, including skaters, joggers,
users of manual and motorized wheelchairs, and other authorized motorized and
non-motorized users. A shared-use path does not include any trail that is
intended to be used primarily for mountain biking, hiking, equestrian use, or
other similar uses, or any other single track or natural surface trial that has
historically been reserved for non-motorized use.
(ORC 4511.01(PPP))
§ 402.39 SIDEWALK.
   “Sidewalk” means that portion of a street between the curb lines, or the
lateral line of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for the
use of pedestrians.
(ORC 4511.01(FF))
§ 402.398 STATE HIGHWAY.
   “State highway” means a highway under the jurisdiction of the Department of
Transportation, outside the limits of municipalities, provided that the
authority conferred upon the Director of Transportation in Ohio R.C. 5511.01 to
erect state highway route markers and signs directing traffic shall not be
modified by Ohio R.C. 4511.01 through 4511.79 and 4511.99.
(ORC 4511.01(II))
§ 402.40 STATE ROUTE.
   “State route” means every highway which is designated with an official state
route number and so marked.
(ORC 4511.01(JJ))
§ 402.41 STOP.
   “Stop,” when required, means a complete cessation of movement.
§ 402.42 STOP INTERSECTION.
   “Stop intersection” means any intersection at one or more entrances of which
stop signs are erected.
(ORC 4511.01(BBB))
§ 402.43 STOPPING AND STANDING.
   “Stopping” and “standing,” when prohibited, mean any halting of a vehicle,
even momentarily, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police
officer or traffic-control device.
§ 402.44 STREET OR HIGHWAY.
   “Street” or “highway” means the entire width between the boundary lines of
every way open to the use of the public as a thoroughfare for purposes of
vehicular travel.
(ORC 4511.01(BB))
§ 402.45 THROUGH STREET OR HIGHWAY.
   “Through street or highway” means every street or highway as provided in
Ohio R.C. 4511.65, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(ORC 4511.01(HH))
§ 402.46 THRUWAY.
   “Thruway” means a through street or highway whose entire roadway is reserved
for through traffic and on which roadway parking is prohibited.
(ORC 4511.01(AAA))
§ 402.47 TRAFFIC.
   “Traffic” means pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars,
and other devices, either singly or together, while using for purposes of
travel any highway or private road open to public travel.
(ORC 4511.01(TT))
§ 402.48 TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICE.
   “Traffic control device” means a flagger, sign, signal, marking, or other
device used to regulate, warn, or guide traffic, placed on, over, or adjacent
to a street, highway, private road open to public travel, pedestrian facility,
or shared-use path by authority of a public agency or official having
jurisdiction, or, in the case of a private road open to public travel, by
authority of the private owner or private official having jurisdiction.
(ORC 4511.01(QQ))
§ 402.49 TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL.
   “Traffic-control signal” means any highway traffic signal by which traffic
is alternately directed to stop and permitted to proceed.
(ORC 4511.01(RR))
§ 402.50 TRAILER.
   “Trailer” means every vehicle designed or used for carrying persons or
property wholly on its own structure, and for being drawn by a motor vehicle,
including any vehicle when formed by or operated as a combination of a
semitrailer and a vehicle of the dolly type, such as that commonly known as a
trailer dolly, a vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or agricultural
production materials between a local place of storage or supply and the farm
when drawn or towed on a street or highway at a speed greater than 25 miles per
hour and a vehicle designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a
place of storage and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed
on a street or highway for a distance of more than ten miles or at a speed of
more than 25 miles per hour.
(ORC 4511.01(M))
§ 402.51 TRUCK.
   “Truck” means every motor vehicle, except trailers and semitrailers,
designed and used to carry property.
(ORC 4511.01(K))
§ 402.52 URBAN DISTRICT.
   “Urban district” means the territory contiguous to and including any street
or highway which is built up with structures devoted to business, industry, or
dwelling houses situated at intervals of less than 100 feet for a distance of
one-quarter of a mile or more, and the character of the territory is indicated
by official traffic-control devices.
(ORC 4511.01(PP))
§ 402.53 VEHICLE.
   “Vehicle” means every device, including a motorized bicycle and an electric
bicycle, in, upon, or by which any person or property may be transported or
drawn upon a highway, except that “vehicle” does not include any motorized
wheelchair, any electric personal assistive mobility device, any low-speed
micromobility device, any personal delivery device as defined in R.C. §
4511.513, any device that is moved by power collected from overhead electric
trolley wire or that is used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks, or
any device, other than a bicycle, that is moved by human power.
(R.C. § 4511.01(A))
§ 402.54 WASTE COLLECTION VEHICLE.
   “Waste collection vehicle” means a vehicle used in the collection of
garbage, refuse, trash, or recyclable materials.
(R.C. § 4511.01(RRR))
CHAPTER 404: ENFORCEMENT; IMPOUNDING
Section
404.01   Police may remove ignition key
404.02   Resisting an enforcing official
404.03   Road workers, motor vehicles and equipment excepted
404.035   Emergency, public safety and coroners’ vehicles excepted
404.04   Application to persons riding, driving animals upon roadway
404.05   Impounding of vehicles; redemption
404.06   Traffic direction in emergencies; obedience to school guards
404.07   Application to drivers of government vehicles
404.08   Furnishing false information incident to traffic citation
404.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Dereliction of duty, see GEN. OFF.
606.19
   Disposition of property held by Police Department, see GEN. OFF.
606.24
   Exceptions for emergency or public safety vehicles, see TRAF.
432.18,
434.06
   Failure to aid a law enforcement officer, see GEN. OFF.
606.13
   Limitation on criminal prosecutions, see GEN. OFF.
606.06
   Obstructing justice, see GEN. OFF.
606.15
   Obstructing official business, see GEN. OFF.
606.14
   Parking violations waiver, see TRAF.
452.15
   Resisting arrest, see GEN. OFF.
606.16
   Soliciting or receiving improper compensation, see GEN. OFF.
606.18
   Suspension of riding privileges; impounding of bicycles, see TRAF.
474.10
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see section histories
   Arrest without warrant for misdemeanor, see Ohio R.C. 2935.03
   Authority of arresting officer when radar, electrical or mechanical timing
device used, see Ohio R.C. 4511.091
   Burden of proof, see Ohio R.C. 2901.05
   Discharge for delay in trial, see Ohio R.C. 2945.73
   Disposition of unclaimed vehicles, see Ohio R.C. 737.32, 4513.61 et seq.
   Distinctive uniform required for traffic officers, see Ohio R.C. 4549.15
   Extension of time for hearing or trial, see Ohio R.C. 2945.72
   Marking motor vehicles used by traffic officers, see Ohio R.C. 4549.13
   Power of trial court of record to suspend or revoke license for certain
violations, see Ohio R.C. 4510.05, 4510.15
   Right of trial by jury, see Ohio R.C. 2945.17
   State point system suspension, see Ohio R.C. 4510.037
   Time within which hearing or trial must be held, see Ohio R.C. 2945.71
   Uniform application of Ohio Traffic Law, see Ohio R.C. 4511.06
   Use of private property for vehicular travel, see Ohio R.C. 4511.08
§ 404.01 POLICE MAY REMOVE IGNITION KEY.
   A law enforcement officer may remove the ignition key left in the ignition
switch of an unlocked and unattended motor vehicle parked on a street or
highway. The officer removing the key shall place notification upon the vehicle
detailing his or her name and badge number, the place where the key may be
reclaimed, and the procedure for reclaiming the key. The key shall be returned
to the owner of the motor vehicle upon presentation of proof of ownership.
(ORC 4549.05)
§ 404.02 RESISTING AN ENFORCING OFFICIAL.
   (a)   No person shall resist, hinder, obstruct, or abuse any sheriff,
constable, or other official while that official is attempting to arrest
offenders under any provision of this Traffic Code. No person shall interfere
with any person charged under any provision of this Traffic Code with the
enforcement of the law relative to public highways.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.36)
   (c)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the hindrance,
obstruction, resistance, or interference alleged consisted of constitutionally
protected speech only.
§ 404.03 ROAD WORKERS, MOTOR VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT EXCEPTED.
   (a)   The provisions of this Traffic Code, except for §
434.01, do not apply to persons, teams, motor vehicles, and other equipment
while actually engaged in work upon the surface of a highway within an area
designated by traffic-control devices, but apply to those persons and vehicles
when traveling to or from such work.
   (b)   The driver of a highway maintenance vehicle owned by this state or any
political subdivision of this state, while the driver is engaged in the
performance of official duties upon a street or highway, provided the highway
maintenance vehicle is equipped with flashing lights and such other markings as
are required by law and such lights are in operation when the driver and
vehicle are so engaged, shall be exempt from criminal prosecution for
violations of Ohio R.C. 4511.22, 4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.30,
4511.31, 4511.33, 4511.35, 4511.66, 4513.02, and 5577.01 to 5577.09, and any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (c)   (1)   This section does not exempt a driver of a highway maintenance
vehicle from civil liability arising from a violation of Ohio R.C. 4511.22,
4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.33, 4511.35,
4511.66, or 4513.02 or Ohio R.C. 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   This section does not exempt a driver of a vehicle who is not a
state employee and who is engaged in the transport of highway maintenance
equipment from criminal liability for a violation of R.C. §§ 5577.01 through
5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (d)   As used in this section, “engaged in the performance of official
duties” includes driving a highway maintenance vehicle to and from the
manufacturer or vehicle maintenance provider and transporting a highway
maintenance vehicle, equipment, or materials to and from a work location.
(R.C. § 4511.04)
§ 404.035 EMERGENCY, PUBLIC SAFETY AND CORONERS’ VEHICLES EXCEPTED.
   (a)   The provisions of Ohio R.C. 4511.12, 4511.13, 4511.131, 4511.132,
4511.14, 4511.202, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.22, 4511.23, 4511.25, 4511.26,
4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33, 4511.34,
4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40, 4511.41, 4511.42,
4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.432, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59,
4511.60, 4511.61, 4511.62, 4511.66, 4511.68, 4511.681, and 4511.69, and any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, do not apply to the driver of an
emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle if the emergency vehicle or public
safety vehicle is responding to an emergency call, is equipped with and
displaying at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating light visible under
normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
vehicle and if the driver of the vehicles is giving an audible signal by siren,
exhaust whistle, or bell. This section does not relieve the driver of an
emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(ORC 4511.041)
   (b)   The provisions of Ohio R.C. 4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28,
4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37,
4511.38, and 4511.66, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, do
not apply to a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator operating a
motor vehicle in accordance with Ohio R.C. 4513.171 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance. This division does not relieve a coroner,
deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator operating a motor vehicle from the
duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons and property upon
the highway.
(ORC 4511.042)
§ 404.04 APPLICATION TO PERSONS RIDING, DRIVING ANIMALS UPON ROADWAY.
   Every person riding, driving, or leading an animal upon a roadway is subject
to the provisions of this Traffic Code, applicable to the driver of a vehicle,
except those provisions of this Traffic Code which by their nature are
inapplicable.
(ORC 4511.05)
§ 404.05 IMPOUNDING OF VEHICLES; REDEMPTION.
   (a)   Police officers are authorized to provide for the removal and
impounding of a vehicle under the following circumstances:
      (1)   When any vehicle is left unattended upon any street, bridge or
causeway and is so illegally parked so as to constitute a hazard or obstruction
to the normal movement of traffic, or so as to unreasonably interfere with
street cleaning or snow removal operations;
      (2)   When any motor vehicle, including an abandoned junk motor vehicle,
as defined in Ohio R.C. 4513.63, is left on private residential property, as
defined in Ohio R.C. 4513.60, or on private agricultural property, for at least
four consecutive hours without the permission of the person having the right to
the possession of the property, or on a public street or other property open to
the public for purposes of vehicular travel, or upon or within the right-of-way
of any road or highway, for 48 consecutive hours or longer, without
notification to the Police Chief of the reasons for leaving such vehicle in
such place, except that when such a motor vehicle constitutes an obstruction to
traffic, it may be ordered into storage immediately;
      (3)   When any vehicle has been stolen or operated without the consent of
the owner;
      (4)   When any vehicle displays illegal license plates or fails to
display the current lawfully required license plates;
      (5)   When any vehicle has been used in or connected with the commission
of a felony;
      (6)   When any vehicle has been damaged or wrecked so as to be inoperable
or violates equipment provisions of this Traffic Code whereby its continued
operation would constitute a condition hazardous to life, limb or property;
      (7)   When any vehicle is left unattended due to the removal of an ill,
injured or arrested operator;
      (8)   When any vehicle has been operated by any person who has failed to
stop in case of an accident or collision;
      (9)   When any vehicle has been operated by any person who is driving
without a lawful license or while his or her license has been suspended or
revoked;
      (10)   When any vehicle is found for which two or more citation tags for
violations of this Traffic Code have been issued and the owner or operator
thereof has failed to respond to such citation tags as lawfully required.
      (11)   When any vehicle is left unattended and is blocking a driveway.
   (b)   Any vehicle removed under authority of division (a)(2) of this section
shall be ordered into storage and/or disposed of as provided under Ohio R.C.
4513.60 et seq. Any other vehicle removed under authority of this section shall
be ordered into storage and the Police Department shall forthwith notify the
registered vehicle owner of the fact of such removal and impounding, reasons
therefor and the place of storage. Any person desiring to redeem an impounded
vehicle shall appear at the Police Department to furnish satisfactory evidence
of identity and ownership or right to possession. Prior to issuance of a
release form, the claimant, owner or operator shall either pay the amount due
for any fines for violations on account of which such vehicle was impounded or,
as the court may require, post a bond in an amount set by the court, to appear
to answer to such violations. The pound operator shall release such vehicle
upon the receipt of the release form and payment of all towage and storage
charges.
   (c)   No owner or operator shall remove an impounded vehicle from the place
of storage without complying with the above procedure. Possession of a vehicle
which has been impounded and unlawfully taken from the place of storage, by the
owner or operator, shall constitute prima facie evidence that it was so removed
by the owner or operator.
(Am. Ord. 09-07, passed 3-12-2009)
§ 404.06 TRAFFIC DIRECTION IN EMERGENCIES; OBEDIENCE TO SCHOOL GUARDS.
   (a)   Police officers shall direct or regulate traffic in accordance with
the provisions of this Traffic Code, provided that in the event of fire or
other emergency or to expedite traffic or safeguard pedestrians, they are
authorized to direct traffic as conditions may require notwithstanding the
provisions of this Traffic Code. Firefighters, when at the scene of a fire, may
direct or assist the police in directing traffic thereat or in the immediate
vicinity. The direction of traffic may be by word or audible signal, by gesture
or visible signal or by any combination thereof. No person shall fail to comply
with any lawful order or direction of any police officer or firefighter issued
pursuant to this section.
   (b)   No person shall fail to comply with any lawful order or direction of
any school crossing guard invested with authority to direct, control or
regulate traffic in the vicinity of the school to which such guard may be
assigned.
§ 404.07 APPLICATION TO DRIVERS OF GOVERNMENT VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this Traffic Code applicable to the drivers of vehicles
shall apply to the drivers of all vehicles owned or operated by the United
States, any state or any political subdivision thereof, including this
municipality, except as may be otherwise provided by law and subject to such
specific exceptions as are set forth with reference to authorized emergency and
public safety vehicles.
§ 404.08 FURNISHING FALSE INFORMATION INCIDENT TO TRAFFIC CITATION.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly present, display, or orally communicate a
false name, social security number, or date of birth to a law enforcement
officer who is in the process of issuing to the person a traffic ticket or
complaint.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(ORC 4513.361)
§ 404.99 PENALTY.
   ( Editor’s note: See §§
408.01 and
408.02 for general Traffic Code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.)
CHAPTER 406: TRAFFIC CONTROL
Section
406.01   Authority and considerations for placement of devices
406.02   Conformity with State Manual
406.03   Powers of designated person
406.04   Posting of signs and signals required
406.05   Designated person’s powers not limited
406.06   Records of designated person
406.07   Reservation of power to Council
406.08   Violations subject to General Code penalty
Cross-reference:
   Designation of through streets and erection of stop or yield signs, see
TRAF.
414.02
   Intersections at which traffic-control signals fail or malfunction, see
TRAF.
432.155
   Traffic-control devices defined, see TRAF.
402.48
Statutory reference:
   Alteration of prima facie speed limits, see Ohio R.C. 4511.21, 4511.22,
4511.23
   Designation of through streets and erection of stop or yield signs, see Ohio
R.C. 4511.65
   Placing and maintaining local traffic-control devices, see Ohio R.C.
4511.10, 4511.11
   Power to designate highway as included in a freeway, expressway or thruway,
see Ohio R.C. 4511.011
   Power to erect stop signs at grade crossings, see Ohio R.C. 4511.61
   Uniform system of traffic-control devices, see Ohio R.C. 4511.09, 4511.11
§ 406.01 AUTHORITY AND CONSIDERATIONS FOR PLACEMENT OF DEVICES.
   Council may designate a person to place and maintain traffic-control devices
upon any street or highway under municipal jurisdiction as are necessary to
effectuate the provisions of this Traffic Code, or to regulate, warn or guide
traffic, and such other traffic-control devices as such person shall deem
necessary for the proper control of traffic. Such designated person shall
determine the location, timing and coordination of such traffic-control devices
upon the basis of an applicable engineering or traffic investigation and shall
consider the following:
   (a)   The maximum safety and protection of vehicular and pedestrian traffic
from physical injury or property damage;
   (b)   The existing and potential traffic movement, volume and conditions;
   (c)   The location and frequency of accidents, including studies of remedial
measures;
   (d)   The recommendations of the Chief of Police and Fire Chief;
   (e)   The acceleration of transportation of persons and property by vehicles
so as to expedite travel and promote public safety;
   (f)   The convenience and welfare of the general public in parking,
standing, loading and unloading, and the use of the streets as affecting
business concerns and places of assembly; and
   (g)   Economy in the expenditure of money.
§ 406.02 CONFORMITY WITH STATE MANUAL.
   All traffic-control devices placed pursuant to the provisions of this
Traffic Code shall conform to the Ohio Manual and Specifications for a Uniform
System of Traffic-Control Devices, as set forth in Ohio R.C.
§ 406.03 POWERS OF DESIGNATED PERSON.
   The person designated by Council pursuant to §
406.01 is hereby authorized to:
   (a)   Designate any street or highway as a through street or highway and
require that all vehicles stop or yield the right-of-way as may be required
before entering the same;
   (b)   Designate any intersection as a stop intersection and require all
vehicles to stop at one or more entrances to such intersection;
   (c)   Designate any intersection as a yield intersection and require all
vehicles to yield the right-of-way as required;
   (d)   Designate any street as a one-way street and require that all vehicles
thereon be moved in one specific direction;
   (e)   Designate and mark lanes to be used by traffic moving in a particular
direction regardless of the centerline of the roadway;
   (f)   Erect signs directing slow-moving traffic to use a designated lane or
allocating specified lanes to traffic moving in the same direction;
   (g)   Designate those portions of any street, where overtaking and passing
other traffic or driving to the left of the center or centerline of the roadway
would be especially hazardous, by appropriate signs or markings on the street
to indicate the beginning and end of such zones. Such zones may be marked by an
auxiliary yellow line placed parallel and to the right of the normal centerline
or offset marked lane line;
   (h)   Place markers, buttons or signs within or adjacent to intersections
and require that a specific course of direction be traveled by vehicles
proceeding in lanes by either permitting, prohibiting or requiring turns at
such intersections;
   (i)   Install traffic-control devices, signals and signs at any location to
regulate traffic;
   (j)   Establish safety zones, crosswalks, zones of quiet and play streets;
   (k)   Close any street or portion thereof to vehicular traffic which is in
the process of construction, reconstruction or repair;
   (l)   Determine the location of any necessary bus stops and taxicab stands;
   (m)   Determine the location and limiting hours of truck loading zones;
   (n)   Designate dangerous railroad crossings and erect stop signs thereat;
   (o)   Erect “No U Turn” signs at any location to prohibit a vehicle from
being turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction;
   (p)   Regulate or prohibit the stopping, standing and parking of vehicles on
streets, alleys or public property by erecting signs plainly indicating the
prohibitions, restrictions or limitations;
   (q)   Designate individual parking spaces by markings, which may either be
parallel or at a prescribed angle to the curb or edge of the roadway.
§ 406.04 POSTING OF SIGNS AND SIGNALS REQUIRED.
   No provision of this chapter shall be effective until signs, signals,
markings or other devices giving notice of such local traffic regulations are
posted upon or at the entrance to the street or part thereof affected, as may
be most appropriate, so that in a proper position they are sufficiently legible
to be seen by an ordinarily observant person.
§ 406.05 DESIGNATED PERSON’S POWERS NOT LIMITED.
   The powers of the person designated by Council pursuant to §
406.01 shall not be limited by the specific enumeration of subjects contained
in this chapter.
§ 406.06 RECORDS OF DESIGNATED PERSON.
   The person designated by Council pursuant to §
406.01 shall keep a record of all rules, regulations and proceedings
promulgated in connection with this chapter.
§ 406.07 RESERVATION OF POWER TO COUNCIL.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter, Council may override any
decision of the person designated by Council pursuant to § 406.01 and may
assume any of the powers delegated to such person, by a resolution adopted by a
vote of a majority of the members duly elected thereto. Upon the adoption of
any such resolution, the same may be changed only by an amending or repealing
resolution adopted by Council.
§ 406.08 VIOLATIONS SUBJECT TO GENERAL CODE PENALTY.
   Any person violating the rules and regulations promulgated in connection
with this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction
thereof shall be subject to the penalties provided for in §§
408.01 and
408.02.
CHAPTER 408: PENALTIES
Section
408.01   Penalties for misdemeanor
408.02   General Code penalty
408.03   Suspension of driver’s license
Cross-reference:
   Definition of “dangerous offender,” see GEN. OFF.
698.01(a)
   Definition of “repeat offender,” see GEN. OFF.
698.01(b)
   Imposing sentence for misdemeanor, see GEN. OFF.
698.03
   Organizational penalties, see GEN. OFF.
698.04
   Modification of sentence, see GEN. OFF.
698.06
   Multiple sentences, see GEN. OFF.
698.05
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see section histories
   Criteria for probation; conditions for probation, see Ohio R.C. 2951.02
   Definition of “imprisoned,” see Ohio R.C. 1.05
   Satisfaction of fine; credit for time served, see Ohio R.C. 2947.14
§ 408.01 PENALTIES FOR MISDEMEANOR.
   Whoever is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor, or minor
misdemeanor shall be sentenced in accordance with §
698.02.
§ 408.02 GENERAL CODE PENALTY.
   (a)   Whoever violates any provision of this traffic code for which no
penalty otherwise is provided in the section violated is guilty of one of the
following:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this
section, a minor misdemeanor;
      (2)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
      (3)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more predicate motor vehicle or
traffic offenses, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.99)
   (b)   Violations committed while distracted.
      (1)   As used in this section and each section referenced in division (b)
(2) of this section, all of the following apply:
         A.   “Distracted” means doing either of the following while operating
a vehicle:
            1.   Using an electronic wireless communications device, as defined
in R.C. § 4511.204, in violation of that section;
            2.   Engaging in any activity that is not necessary to the
operation of a vehicle and impairs, or reasonably would be expected to impair,
the ability of the operator to drive the vehicle safely.
         B.   “Distracted” does not include operating a motor vehicle while
wearing an earphone or earplug over or in both ears at the same time. A person
who so wears earphones or earplugs may be charged with a violation of R.C. §
4511.84, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
         C.   “Distracted” does not include conducting any activity while
operating a utility service vehicle or a vehicle for or on behalf of a utility,
provided that the driver of the vehicle is acting in response to an emergency,
power outage, or a circumstance affecting the health or safety of individuals.
As used in this division (b)(1)C.:
            1.   “Utility” means an entity specified in R.C. § 4905.03(A), (C),
(D), (E), or (G).
            2.   “Utility service vehicle” means a vehicle owned or operated by
a utility.
      (2)   If an offender violates R.C. § 4511.03, 4511.051, 4511.12,
4511.121, 4511.132, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.213, 4511.22, 4511.23, 4511.25,
4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33,
4511.34, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40, 4511.41,
4511.42, 4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.451, 4511.46, 4511.47,
4511.54, 4511.55, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59, 4511.60, 4511.61, 4511.64,
4511.71, 4511.711, 4511.712, 4511.713, 4511.72, or 4511.73, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the
violation, the offender is subject to the applicable penalty for the violation
and, notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.28, is subject to an additional fine of not
more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) as follows:
         A.   1.   Subject to Traffic Rule 13, if a law enforcement officer
issues an offender a ticket, citation, or summons for a violation of any of the
aforementioned sections of the Ohio Revised Code, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, that indicates that the offender was distracted
while committing the violation and that the distracting activity was a
contributing factor to the commission of the violation, the offender may enter
a written plea of guilty and waive the offender’s right to contest the ticket,
citation, or summons in a trial provided that the offender pays the total
amount of the fine established for the violation and pays the additional fine
of one hundred dollars ($100.00).
            2.   In lieu of payment of the additional fine of $100, the
offender instead may elect to attend a distracted driving safety course, the
duration and contents of which shall be established by the Ohio Director of
Public Safety. If the offender attends and successfully completes the course,
the offender shall be issued written evidence that the offender successfully
completed the course. The offender shall be required to pay the total amount of
the fine established for the violation, but shall not be required to pay the
additional fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00), so long as the offender
submits to the court both the offender’s payment in full and such written
evidence within 90 days of the underlying violation that resulted in the
imposition of the additional fine under division (b) of this section.
         B.   1.   If the offender appears in person to contest the ticket,
citation, or summons in a trial and the offender pleads guilty to or is
convicted of the violation, the court, in addition to all other penalties
provided by law, may impose the applicable penalty for the violation and may
impose the additional fine of not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00).
            2.   If the court imposes upon the offender the applicable penalty
for the violation and an additional fine of not more than one hundred dollars
($100.00), the court shall inform the offender that, in lieu of payment of the
additional fine of not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00), the offender
instead may elect to attend the distracted driving safety course described in
division (b)(2)A. of this section. If the offender elects the course option and
attends and successfully completes the course, the offender shall be issued
written evidence that the offender successfully completed the course. The
offender shall be required to pay the total amount of the fine established for
the violation, but shall not be required to pay the additional fine of not more
than one hundred dollars ($100.00), so long as the offender submits to the
court the offender’s payment and such written evidence within 90 days of the
underlying violation that resulted in the imposition of the additional fine
under division (b) of this section.
      (3)    If a law enforcement officer issues an offender a ticket,
citation, or summons for a violation of any of the sections of the Revised Code
listed in division (b)(2) of this section that indicates that the offender was
distracted while committing the violation and that the distracting activity was
a contributing factor to the commission of the violation, the officer shall do
both of the following:
         A.   Report the issuance of the ticket, citation, or summons to the
officer’s law enforcement agency;
         B.   Ensure that such report indicates the offender’s race.
(R.C. § 4511.991)
§ 408.03 SUSPENSION OF DRIVER’S LICENSE.
   Except as otherwise provided in Ohio R.C. 4510.07 or in any other provision
of the Revised Code, whenever an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
violation of any provision of this Traffic Code that is substantially
equivalent to a provision of the Revised Code, and a court is permitted or
required to suspend a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit for a violation of that provision, a court, in addition to any other
penalties authorized by law, may suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege for the period of
time the court determines appropriate, but the period of suspension imposed for
the violation of the provision of this Traffic Code shall not exceed the period
of suspension that is permitted or required to be imposed for the violation of
the provision of the Revised Code to which the provision of this Traffic Code
is substantially equivalent.
(ORC 4510.05)
TITLE FOUR - PUBLIC WAYS AND TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
CHAPTER 412: OBSTRUCTION AND SPECIAL USES OF PUBLIC WAYS
Section
412.01   Placing injurious material or obstruction in street
412.02   Zones of quiet
412.03   Play streets
412.04   Toy vehicles on roadway
412.05   Freeway use prohibited by pedestrians, bicycles and animals
412.06   Parades and assemblages
412.07   Business route designated
412.08   One-way streets
412.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Loads dropping or leaking; tracking mud; removal required, see TRAF.
440.06
   Parking in alleys or narrow streets; exceptions, see TRAF.
452.11
   Selling, washing or repairing vehicle upon roadway, see TRAF.
452.08
   Sidewalk obstructions; damage or injury, see GEN. OFF.
660.10
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see section histories
   Power to regulate processions or assemblages, see Ohio R.C. 4511.07(C)
§ 412.01 PLACING INJURIOUS MATERIAL OR OBSTRUCTION IN STREET.
   (a)   (1)   No person shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a
highway, lane, road, street, or alley any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails,
or other articles which may damage or injure any person, vehicle, or animal
traveling along or upon the highway, except such substances that may be placed
upon the roadway by proper authority for the repair or construction thereof.
      (2)   Any person who drops or permits to be dropped or thrown upon any
highway any destructive or injurious material shall immediately remove the
same.
      (3)   Any person authorized to remove a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a
highway shall remove any glass or other injurious substance dropped upon the
highway from such vehicle.
      (4)   No person shall place any obstruction in or upon a highway without
proper authority.
   (b)   No person, with intent to cause physical harm to a person or a
vehicle, shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a highway, lane, road,
street, or alley any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails, or other articles
which may damage or injure any person, vehicle, or animal traveling along or
upon such highway, except such substances that may be placed upon the roadway
by proper authority for the repair or construction thereof.
   (c)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (a) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
division (a) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates
division (a) is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(ORC 4511.74)
§ 412.02 ZONES OF QUIET.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating a zone of quiet, no person
operating a vehicle within any such zone shall sound the horn or other warning
device of such vehicle except in an emergency.
§ 412.03 PLAY STREETS.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that any street or part
thereof is a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle upon any such street
or portion thereof except drivers of vehicles having business or whose
residences are within such closed area and then such drivers shall exercise the
greatest care in driving upon any such street or portion thereof.
§ 412.04 TOY VEHICLES ON ROADWAY.
   No person riding upon any coaster, roller skates, sled, toy vehicle or other
similar device shall go upon any roadway except while crossing a street on a
crosswalk and when so crossing such person shall be granted all of the rights
and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to pedestrians. This
section shall not apply to any street set aside as a play street.
§ 412.05 FREEWAY USE PROHIBITED BY PEDESTRIANS, BICYCLES AND ANIMALS.
   (a)   No person, unless otherwise directed by a police officer, shall:
      (1)   As a pedestrian, occupy any space within the limits of the right-
of-way of a freeway, except: in a rest area; on a facility that is separated
from the roadway and shoulders of the freeway and is designed and appropriately
marked for pedestrian use; in the performance of public works or official
duties; as a result of an emergency caused by an accident or breakdown of a
motor vehicle; or to obtain assistance.
      (2)   Occupy any space within the limits of the right-of-way of a
freeway, with: an animal-drawn vehicle; a ridden or led animal; herded animals;
a pushcart; a bicycle, except on a facility that is separated from the roadway
and shoulders of the freeway and is designed and appropriately marked for
bicycle use; an electric bicycle; a bicycle with motor attached; a motor-
driven cycle with a motor which produces not to exceed five brake horsepower;
an agricultural tractor; farm machinery; except in the performance of public
works or official duties.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within on year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.051)
§ 412.06 PARADES AND ASSEMBLAGES.
   (a)   No person, group of persons, or organization shall conduct or
participate in any parade, procession, or assemblage upon any street or
highway, or block off any street or highway area, without first obtaining a
permit therefor from the Mayor.
   (b)   An application for such permit shall be made on such forms as may be
prescribed and shall contain such information as is reasonably necessary to a
fair determination of whether or not a permit should be issued. Application
shall be filed not less than five days before the time intended for such
parade, procession, or assemblage.
   (c)   The permit may be refused or canceled if:
      (1)   The time, place, size, or conduct of the parade, including the
assembly areas and route of march, would unreasonably interfere with the public
convenience and safe use of the streets and highways.
      (2)   The parade would require the diversion of so great a number of
police officers to properly police the line of movement, assembly area and
areas contiguous thereto so as to deny normal police protection to the city.
      (3)   The parade route of march or assembly areas would unreasonably
interfere with the movement of police vehicles, fire-fighting equipment or
ambulance service to other areas of the city.
      (4)   The parade would unreasonably interfere with another parade for
which a permit has been issued.
      (5)   The information contained in the application is found to be false,
misleading or incomplete in any material detail.
      (6)   An emergency, such as a fire or storm, would prevent the proper
conduct of the parade.
   (d)   The permit or any order accompanying it may limit or prescribe
reasonable conditions, including the hours, the places of assembly and of
dispersal, the route of march or travel, and the streets, highways, or portions
thereof which may be used or occupied.
(Ord. 76-36, passed 6-22-1976; Am. Ord. 81-04, passed 11-23-1981)
§ 412.07 BUSINESS ROUTE DESIGNATED.
   The Ohio Department of Transportation shall designate a U.S. 52 Business
Loop through the city that would incorporate the following route:
   (a)   From the east, exit at State Route 342; south to South Third Street,
turn right and travel west on South Third Street through the city to Park
Avenue; turn left and go to South Second Street; turn right onto South Second
Street and follow North Second Street through town into Hanging Rock to State
Route 650; turn right and go north to U.S. 52.
   (b)   From the west, exit at State Route 650; south to North Second Street,
turn left and travel east on North Second Street to Park Avenue; turn left and
go to South Third Street; turn right and follow South Third Street through the
city to Marion Pike (State Route 243); turn left and go north to U.S. 52.
(Res. 99-49, passed 9-23-1999)
§ 412.08 ONE-WAY STREETS.
   One-way streets are established in the city as follows:
   (a)   Traffic on Pine Street shall operate only in an easterly direction
from South Tenth Street to South Eleventh Street.
   (b)   Traffic on South Eleventh Street shall operate only in a southerly
direction from Pine Street to Maple Avenue.
(Ord. 07-51, passed 6-28-2007)
§ 412.99 PENALTY.
   ( Editor’s note: See §§
408.01 and
408.02 for general Traffic Code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.)
CHAPTER 414: TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
Section
414.01   Obedience to traffic-control devices
414.02   Through streets; stop and yield right-of-way signs
414.03   Traffic-control signal terms and lights
414.04   Signal to control lane direction of travel
414.05   Pedestrian control signals
414.06   Flashing traffic signals (Repealed)
414.07   Unauthorized signs and signals, hiding from view, advertising
414.08   Alteration, injury, removal of traffic-control devices
414.09   Unauthorized possession or sale of devices
414.10   Signal preemption devices; prohibitions
414.11   Flashing lights and gates at railroad grade crossings
414.12   Stop intersections established
 
414.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Authority and considerations for placing of devices, see TRAF.
406.01
   Criminal mischief (tampering), see GEN. OFF.
642.11
   Intersections at which traffic-control signals fail or malfunction, see
TRAF.
432.155
   Posting of signs and signals required, see TRAF.
406.04
   Traffic-control devices defined, see TRAF.
402.48
   Uniform system of traffic-control devices, see TRAF.
406.02
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see section histories
   Designation of through streets or stop intersections, see Ohio R.C. 4511.07
(A), 4511.65
   Traffic law photo-monitoring devices, state regulations, see R.C. § 4511.092
et seq.
   Placing and maintaining local traffic-control devices, see Ohio R.C.
4511.10, 4511.11
    Uniform system of traffic-control devices, see Ohio R.C. 4511.09, 4511.11
(D)
§ 414.01 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (a)   (1)   No pedestrian or driver of a vehicle shall disobey the
instructions of any traffic-control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this Traffic Code, unless at the time otherwise directed by a
police officer.
      (2)   No provision of this Traffic Code for which signs are required
shall be enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the
alleged violation, an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently
legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular
section of this Traffic Code does not state that signs are required, that
section shall be effective even though no signs are erected or in place.
(ORC 4511.12(A))
   (b)   (1)   Except as provided in division (c) of this section, any operator
of a commercial motor vehicle, upon approaching a scale location established
for the purpose of determining the weight of the vehicle and its load, shall
comply with any traffic-control device or the order of a peace officer
directing the vehicle to proceed to be weighed or otherwise inspected.
      (2)   Any operator of a commercial motor vehicle, upon bypassing a scale
location in accordance with division (c) of this section, shall comply with an
order of a peace officer to stop the vehicle to verify the use and operation of
an electronic clearance device.
   (c)   Any operator of a commercial motor vehicle that is equipped with an
electronic clearance device authorized by the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol under Ohio R.C. 4549.081 may bypass a scale location, regardless
of the instruction of a traffic-control device to enter the scale facility, if
either of the following apply:
      (1)   The in-cab transponder displays a green light or other affirmative
visual signal and also sounds an affirmative audible signal;
      (2)   Any other criterion established by the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol is met.
   (d)   Any peace officer may order the operator of a commercial motor vehicle
that bypasses a scale location to stop the vehicle to verify the use and
operation of an electronic clearance device.
   (e)   As used in this section, “commercial motor vehicle” means any
combination of vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating or an actual gross
vehicle weight of more than 10,000 pounds if the vehicle is used in interstate
or intrastate commerce to transport property and also means any vehicle that is
transporting hazardous materials for which placarding is required pursuant to
49 C.F.R. Parts 100 to 180.
(ORC 4511.121(A)-(C), (E))
   (f)   No person shall use an electronic clearance device if the device or
its use is not in compliance with rules of the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol.
(ORC 4549.081(B))
   (g)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (a) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
division (a) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates
division (a) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree. If
the offender commits the offense while distracted and the distracting activity
is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense, the offender is
subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.12(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (b) of this
section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of division (b)
of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender commits the offense while
distracted and the distracting activity is a contributing factor to the
commission of the offense, the offender is subject to the additional fine
established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.121(D))
      (3)   Whoever violates division (f) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the
third degree on each subsequent offense.
(ORC 4549.081(C))
§ 414.02 THROUGH STREETS; STOP AND YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY SIGNS.
   (a)   All state routes are hereby designated as through highways, provided
that stop signs, yield signs, or traffic-control signals shall be erected at
all intersections with such through highways by the Department of
Transportation as to highways under its jurisdiction and by local authorities
as to highways under their jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this
section. Where two or more state routes that are through highways intersect,
and no traffic-control signal is in operation, stop signs or yield signs shall
be erected at one or more entrances thereto by the Department or by local
authorities having jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this section.
Whenever the Director of Transportation determines on the basis of an
engineering and traffic investigation that stop signs are necessary to stop
traffic on a through highway for safe and efficient operation, nothing in this
section shall be construed to prevent such installations. When circumstances
warrant, the Director also may omit stop signs on roadways intersecting through
highways under his or her jurisdiction. Before the Director either installs or
removes a stop sign under this division, he or she shall give notice, in
writing, of that proposed action to the affected local authority at least 30
days before installing or removing the stop sign.
   (b)   Other streets or highways, or portions thereof, are hereby designated
as through highways if they are within the municipality, if they have a
continuous length of more than one mile between the limits of the street or
highway or portion thereof, and if they have stop or yield signs or traffic-
control signals at the entrances of the majority of intersecting streets or
highways. For purposes of this section, the limits of the street or highway, or
portion thereof, shall be the municipal corporation line, the physical terminus
of the street or highway, or any point on the streets or highway at which
vehicular traffic thereon is required by regulatory signs to stop or yield to
traffic on the intersecting street, provided, that in residence districts, the
municipality may by ordinance designate such street or highway, or portion
thereof, not to be a through highway and thereafter the affected residence
district shall be indicated by official traffic-control devices. Where two or
more through highways designated under this division intersect and no traffic-
control signal is in operation, stop signs or yield signs shall be erected at
one or more entrances thereto by the Department or by local authorities having
jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this section.
   (c)   The Department or local authorities having jurisdiction need not erect
stop signs at intersections they find to be so constructed as to permit traffic
to safely enter a through highway without coming to a stop. Signs shall be
erected at such intersections indicating that the operator of a vehicle shall
yield the right-of-way to or merge with all traffic proceeding on the through
highway.
   (d)   Local authorities, with reference to highways under their
jurisdiction, may designate additional through highways, and shall erect stop
signs, yield signs, or traffic-control signals at all streets and highways
intersecting such through highways, or may designate any intersection as a stop
or yield intersection, and shall erect like signs at one or more entrances to
the intersection.
(ORC 4511.65)
§ 414.03 TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL TERMS AND LIGHTS.
   Highway traffic signal indications for vehicles and pedestrians shall have
the following meanings:
   (a)   Steady Green Signal Indication.
      (1)   A.   Vehicular traffic facing a circular green signal indication
are permitted to proceed straight through or turn right or left or make a u-
turn movement except as such movement is modified by a lane-use sign, turn
prohibition sign, lane marking, roadway design, separate turn signal
indication, or other traffic control device. Such vehicular traffic, including
vehicles turning right or left or making a u-turn movement, shall yield the
right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         B.   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn
movement to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching
from the opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard
during the time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the
intersection.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a green arrow signal indication, displayed
alone or in combination with another signal indication, are permitted to
cautiously enter the intersection only to make the movement indicated by such
arrow, or such other movement as is permitted by other indications displayed at
the same time. Such vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left
or making a u-turn movement, shall yield the right-of-way to both of the
following:
         A.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
         B.   Other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (3)   A.   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication,
as provided in Ohio R.C. 4511.14, pedestrians facing a circular green signal
indication are permitted to proceed across the roadway within any marked or
unmarked associated crosswalk. The pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to
vehicles lawfully within the intersection or so close as to create an immediate
hazard at the time that the green signal indication is first displayed.
         B.   Pedestrians facing a green arrow signal indication, unless
otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or other traffic control
device, shall not cross the roadway.
   (b)   Steady Yellow Signal Indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular yellow signal indication
are thereby warned that the related green movement or the related flashing
arrow movement is being terminated or that a steady red signal indication will
be exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter the
intersection. The provisions governing vehicular operation under the movement
being terminated shall continue to apply while the steady circular yellow
signal indication is displayed.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow arrow signal indication is
thereby warned that the related green arrow movement or the related flashing
arrow movement is being terminated. The provisions governing vehicular
operation under the movement being terminated shall continue to apply while the
steady yellow arrow signal indication is displayed.
      (3)   Pedestrians facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow signal
indication, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication as
provided in Ohio R.C. 4511.14 or other traffic control device, shall not start
to cross the roadway.
   (c)   Steady Red Signal Indication.
      (1)   A.   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular red signal
indication, unless entering the intersection to make another movement permitted
by another signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line; but if
there is no stop line, traffic shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the
near side of the intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, then before
entering the intersection; and shall remain stopped until a signal indication
to proceed is displayed except as provided in divisions (c)(1), (c)(2), and (c)
(3) of this section.
         B.   Except when a traffic control device is in place prohibiting a
turn on red or a steady red arrow signal indication is displayed, vehicular
traffic facing a steady circular red signal indication is permitted, after
stopping, to enter the intersection to turn right, or to turn left from a one-
way street into a one-way street. The right to proceed with the turn shall be
subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a stop at a stop
sign.
      (2)   A.   Vehicular traffic facing a steady red arrow signal indication
shall not enter the intersection to make the movement indicated by the arrow
and, unless entering the intersection to make another movement permitted by
another signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line; but if
there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, then before entering the
intersection; and shall remain stopped until a signal indication or other
traffic control device permitting the movement indicated by such red arrow is
displayed.
         B.   When a traffic control device is in place permitting a turn on a
steady red arrow signal indication, vehicular traffic facing a steady red arrow
indication is permitted, after stopping, to enter the intersection to turn
right, or to turn left from a one-way street into a one-way street. The right
to proceed with the turn shall be limited to the direction indicated by the
arrow and shall be subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a
stop at a stop sign.
      (3)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication as
provided in Ohio R.C. 4511.14 or other traffic control device, pedestrians
facing a steady circular red or steady red arrow signal indication shall not
enter the roadway.
      (4)   Local authorities by ordinance, or the Director of Transportation
on state highways, may prohibit a right or a left turn against a steady red
signal at any intersection, which shall be effective when signs giving notice
thereof are posted at the intersection.
   (d)   Flashing Green Signal Indication. A flashing green signal indication
has no meaning and shall not be used.
   (e)   Flashing Yellow Signal Indication.
      (1)   A.   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing a
flashing circular yellow signal indication, is permitted to cautiously enter
the intersection to proceed straight through or turn right or left or make a u-
turn movement except as such movement is modified by lane-use signs, turn
prohibition signs, lane markings, roadway design, separate turn signal
indications, or other traffic control devices. Such vehicular traffic,
including vehicles turning right or left or making a u-turn movement, shall
yield the right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         B.   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn to
the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the
time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the intersection.
      (2)   A.   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing a
flashing yellow arrow signal indication, displayed alone or in combination with
another signal indication, is permitted to
cautiously enter the intersection only to make the movement indicated by such
arrow, or other such movement as is permitted by other signal indications
displayed at the same time. Such vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning
right or left or making a u-turn, shall yield the right-of-way to both of the
following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         B.   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn to
the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the
time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the intersection.
      (3)   Pedestrians facing any flashing yellow signal indication at an
intersection, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or
other traffic control device, are permitted to proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked associated crosswalk. Pedestrians shall yield the
right-of-way to vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the
flashing yellow signal indication is first displayed.
      (4)   When a flashing circular yellow signal indication is displayed as a
beacon to supplement another traffic control device, road users are notified
that there is a need to pay additional attention to the message contained
thereon or that the regulatory or warning requirements of the other traffic
control device, which might not be applicable at all times, are currently
applicable.
   (f)   Flashing Red Signal Indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing a
flashing circular red signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line; but if there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk on the near
side of the intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway before entering the intersection. The right to proceed
shall be subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a stop at a
stop sign.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing any flashing red signal indication at an
intersection, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or
other traffic control device, are permitted to proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked associated crosswalk. Pedestrians shall yield the
right-of-way to vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the
flashing red signal indication is first displayed.
      (3)   When a flashing circular red signal indication is displayed as a
beacon to supplement another traffic control device, road users are notified
that there is a need to pay additional attention to the message contained
thereon or that the regulatory requirements of the other traffic control
device, which might not be applicable at all times, are currently applicable.
Use of this signal indication shall be limited to supplementing stop, do not
enter, or wrong way signs, and to applications where compliance with the
supplemented traffic control device requires a stop at a designated point.
   (g)   In the event an official traffic-control signal is erected and
maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of this
section shall be applicable except as to those provisions which by their nature
can have no application. Any stop required shall be made at a sign or marking
on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the absence of
any such sign or marking the stop shall be made at the signal.
   (h)   This section does not apply at railroad grade crossings. Conduct of
drivers of vehicles approaching railroad grade crossings shall be governed by
Ohio R.C. 4511.61 and 4511.62.
(ORC 4511.13)
§ 414.04 SIGNAL TO CONTROL LANE DIRECTION OF TRAVEL.
   The meanings of lane-use control signal indications are as follows:
   (a)   A Steady Downward Green Arrow. A road user is permitted to drive in
the lane over which the arrow signal indication is located.
   (b)   A Steady Yellow “X”. A road user is to prepare to vacate the lane over
which the signal indication is located because a lane control change is being
made to a steady red “X” signal indication.
   (c)   A Steady White Two-Way Left-Turn Arrow. A road user is permitted to
use a lane over which the signal indication is located for a left turn, but not
for through travel, with the understanding that common use of the lane by
oncoming road users for left turns also is permitted.
   (d)   A Steady White One-Way Left-Turn Arrow. A road user is permitted to
use a lane over which the signal indication is located for a left turn, without
opposing turns in the same lane, but not for through travel.
   (e)   A Steady Red “X”. A road user is not permitted to use the lane over
which the signal indication is located and that this signal indication shall
modify accordingly the meaning of other traffic controls present.
(ORC 4511.131)
§ 414.05 PEDESTRIAN CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian-control signals exhibiting the words “walk” or
“don’t walk,” or the symbol of a walking person or an upraised palm are in
place, these signals shall indicate the following instructions:
   (a)   A steady walking person signal indication, which symbolizes “walk”,
means that a pedestrian facing the signal indication is permitted to start to
cross the roadway in the direction of the signal indication, possibly in
conflict with turning vehicles. The pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to
vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the walking person
signal indication is first shown.
   (b)   A flashing upraised hand signal indication, which symbolizes “don't
walk”, means that a pedestrian shall not start to cross the roadway in the
direction of the signal indication, but that any pedestrian who has already
started to cross on a steady walking person signal indication shall proceed to
the far side of the traveled way of the street or highway, unless otherwise
directed by a traffic control device to proceed only to the median of a divided
highway or only to some other island or pedestrian refuge area.
   (c)   A steady upraised hand signal indication means that a pedestrian shall
not enter the roadway in the direction of the signal indication.
   (d)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to invalidate the continued
use of pedestrian control signals utilizing the word “wait” if those signals
were installed prior to March 28, 1985.
   (e)   A flashing walking person signal indication has no meaning and shall
not be used.
(ORC 4511.14)
§ 414.06 FLASHING TRAFFIC SIGNALS. (REPEALED)
   ( Editor’s note: Section 414.06 was repealed as part of the 2014 updating
and revision of these Codified Ordinances because substantially equivalent
state law (Ohio R.C. 4511.15) was repealed by the Ohio General Assembly.)
§ 414.07 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS AND SIGNALS, HIDING FROM VIEW, ADVERTISING.
   (a)   (1)   No person shall place, maintain, or display upon or in view of
any highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device which purports to
be, is an imitation of, or resembles a traffic-control device or railroad sign
or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, or hides from
view or interferes with the effectiveness of any traffic-control device or any
railroad sign or signal, and no person shall place or maintain, nor shall any
public authority permit, upon any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing
thereon any commercial advertising. This section does not prohibit either the
erection upon private property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful
directional information and of a type that cannot be mistaken for traffic-
control devices, or the erection upon private property of traffic-control
devices by the owner of real property in accordance with Ohio R.C. 4511.211 and
4511.432.
      (2)   Every prohibited sign, signal, marking, or device is a public
nuisance, and the authority having jurisdiction over the highway may remove the
same or cause it to be removed.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC 4511.16)
§ 414.08 ALTERATION, INJURY, REMOVAL OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (a)   No person, without lawful authority, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly move, deface, damage, destroy, or otherwise improperly
tamper with any traffic-control device, any railroad sign or signal, or any
inscription, shield, or insignia on the device, sign, or signal, or any part of
the device, sign, or signal;
      (2)   Knowingly drive upon or over any freshly applied pavement marking
material on the surface of a roadway while the marking material is in an
undried condition, and is marked by flags, markers, signs, or other devices
intended to protect it;
      (3)   Knowingly move, damage, destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper
with a manhole cover.
   (b)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (a)(1) or (3) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree. If a violation of division (a)(1) or (3) of this section creates a risk
of physical harm to any person, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If a violation of division (a)(1) or (3) of this section causes
serious physical harm to property that is owned, leased, or controlled by a
state or local authority, the offender is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (a)(2) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within
one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates division (a)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses,
whoever violates division (a)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the third degree.
(ORC 4511.17)
§ 414.09 UNAUTHORIZED POSSESSION OR SALE OF DEVICES.
   (a)   As used in this section, “traffic-control device” means any sign,
traffic-control signal or other device conforming to and placed or erected in
accordance with the manual adopted under Ohio R.C. 4511.09 by authority of a
public body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating,
warning or guiding traffic, including signs denoting the names of streets and
highways, but does not mean any pavement marking.
   (b)   No individual shall buy or otherwise possess, or sell, a traffic-
control device, except when one of the following applies:
      (1)   In the course of the individual’s employment by the state or a
local authority for the express or implied purpose of manufacturing, providing,
erecting, moving or removing such a traffic-control device;
      (2)   In the course of the individual’s employment by any manufacturer of
traffic-control devices other than a state or local authority;
      (3)   For the purpose of demonstrating the design and function of a
traffic-control device to state or local officials;
      (4)   When the traffic-control device has been purchased from the state
or a local authority at a sale of property that is no longer needed or is unfit
for use; or
      (5)   When the traffic-control device has been properly purchased from a
manufacturer for use on private property and the person possessing the device
has a sales receipt for the device or other acknowledgment of sale issued by
the manufacturer.
   (c)   This section does not preclude, and shall not be construed as
precluding, prosecution for theft in violation of Ohio R.C. 2913.02, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or for receiving stolen property
in violation of Ohio R.C. 2913.51, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(ORC 4511.18)
§ 414.10 SIGNAL PREEMPTION DEVICES; PROHIBITIONS.
   (a)   (1)   No person shall possess a portable signal preemption device.
      (2)   No person shall use a portable signal preemption device to affect
the operation of a traffic-control device.
   (b)   Division (a)(1) of this section does not apply to any of the following
persons and division (a)(2) of this section does not apply to any of the
following persons when responding to an emergency call:
      (1)   A peace officer, as defined in R.C. § 109.17(A)(1), (A)(12), (A)
(14), or (A)(19);
      (2)   A state highway patrol officer;
      (3)   A person while occupying a public safety vehicle as defined in Ohio
R.C. 4511.01(E)(1), (E)(3), or (E)(4).
   (c)   Whoever violates division (a)(1) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Whoever violates division (a)(2) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (d)   As used in this section, “portable signal preemption device” means a
device that, if activated by a person, is capable of changing a traffic-control
signal to green out of sequence.
(ORC 4511.031)
§ 414.11 FLASHING LIGHTS AND GATES AT RAILROAD GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (a)   Automatic flashing lights signals and roadway gates (“improvements”)
shall be placed at the following locations:
      (1)   Where the track(s) of Norfolk and Southern cross at grade at
Jefferson Street, which grade crossing is more specifically identified by U.S.
DOT AAR No. 473 432 E, and consent is hereby given to the Commission to
proceed;
      (2)   Where the track(s) of Norfolk and Southern cross at grade at Pine
Street, which grade crossing is more specifically identified by U.S. DOT AAR
No. 473 428 P, and consent is hereby given to the Commission to proceed.
   (b)   The city agrees to place all advance warning signs and pavement
markings on the approaches to the grade crossing in conformance with the Ohio
Manual of Uniform Traffic-Control Devices (OMUTCD) as adopted under Ohio R.C.
4511.11 at such time as the improvement is completed and maintain same
thereafter.
   (c)   The city agrees that in the event the city is responsible for causing
the suspension or termination of the improvement, the city hereby agrees to
reimburse the Commission for all costs incurred up to the time of suspension or
termination. The reimbursement shall be made to the Commission within 60 days
of receipt of an invoice for the costs incurred resulting from the suspension
or termination.
   (d)   The city agrees to arrange for the relocation, rearrangement, or
alteration of all utilities of any nature which are located on public rights-
of-way and which will be affected by or interfere with the construction of the
improvement.
   (e)   The relocation, rearrangement, or alteration will be done at such time
as requested by Commission and will be performed solely at the expense of the
utility and at no cost to the improvement or the railroad. To the extent that
the installation of curbing is required in conformance with OMUTCD requirements
as part of the improvement, the city agrees to install and maintain the curbing
at its sole expense.
(Ord. 96-01, passed 1-11-1996; Am. Ord. 96-02, passed 1-11-1996)
§ 414.12 STOP INTERSECTIONS ESTABLISHED.
   Stop signs shall be erected at the following locations in the city:
   (a)   Intersection of South Fourth Street and Heplar Street, requiring
traffic to stop as it approaches the intersection from all three directions.
(Ord. 07-65, passed 6-28-2007)
   (b)   Intersection of South Ninth Street and Pleasant Street, requiring
traffic to stop as it approaches the intersection from all four directions.
(Ord. 06-53, passed 9-14-2006)
§ 414.99 PENALTY.
   ( Editor’s note: See §§
408.01 and
408.02 for general Traffic Code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.)
CHAPTER 416: PEDESTRIANS
Section
416.01   Duties of pedestrians and drivers at crosswalks
416.02   Right-of-way of blind person
416.03   Right-of-way yielded by pedestrian; crossing roadways
416.04   Moving in crosswalks
416.05   Walking on sidewalks and streets
416.06   Soliciting rides or business; riding on outside of vehicle or in cargo
storage area
416.07   Passing through bridge signals or railroad barriers
416.08   Right-of-way of public safety vehicles
416.09   Right-of-way on sidewalks
416.10   Intoxication
416.11   Motorized wheelchair operators
416.12   Operation of electric personal assistive mobility devices
416.13   Operation of personal delivery device on sidewalks and crosswalks
416.14   Low-speed micromobility devices
416.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Obedience to traffic-control devices, see TRAF.
414.01
   Opening doors on side available to traffic, see TRAF.
452.07
   Pedestrian control signal, see TRAF.
414.05
   Pedestrians prohibited on freeways, see TRAF.
412.05
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see section histories
§ 416.01 DUTIES OF PEDESTRIANS AND DRIVERS AT CROSSWALKS.
   (a)   When traffic-control signals are not in place, not in operation, or
are not clearly assigning the right-of-way, the driver of a vehicle shall yield
the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping if need be to so yield, or if
required by Ohio R.C. 4511.132 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk when the
pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is traveling,
or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite half of the
roadway as to be in danger.
   (b)   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety and
walk or run into the path of a vehicle which is so close as to constitute an
immediate hazard.
   (c)   Division (a) of this section does not apply under the conditions
stated in Ohio R.C. 4511.48(B), or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (d)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass the stopped vehicle.
   (e)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (f)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.46)
§ 416.02 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF BLIND PERSON.
   (a)   (1)   As used in this section “blind person” or “blind pedestrian”
means a person having not more than 20/200 visual acuity in the better eye with
correcting lenses, or visual acuity greater than 20/200, but with a limitation
in the fields of vision such that the widest diameter of the visual field
subtends an angle no greater than 20°.
      (2)   The driver of every vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to every
blind pedestrian guided by a guide dog, or carrying a cane which is
predominantly white or metallic in color, with or without a red tip.
   (b)   No person, other than a blind person, while on any public highway,
street, alley, or other public thoroughfare, shall carry a white or metallic
cane, with or without a red tip.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (d)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.47)
§ 416.03 RIGHT-OF-WAY YIELDED BY PEDESTRIAN; CROSSING ROADWAYS.
   (a)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (b)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all traffic upon the roadway.
   (c)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a marked
crosswalk.
   (d)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway intersection diagonally unless
authorized by official traffic-control devices; and when authorized to cross
diagonally, pedestrians shall cross only in accordance with the official
traffic-control devices pertaining to such crossing movements.
   (e)   This section does not relieve the operator of a vehicle from
exercising due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any roadway.
   (f)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC 4511.48)
§ 416.04 MOVING IN CROSSWALKS.
   (a)   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC 4511.49)
§ 416.05 WALKING ON SIDEWALKS AND STREETS.
   (a)   Where a sidewalk is provided and its use is practicable, it shall be
unlawful for any pedestrian to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   (b)   Where a sidewalk is not available, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a highway shall walk only on a shoulder, as far as practicable from the
edge of the roadway.
   (c)   Where neither a sidewalk nor a shoulder is available, any pedestrian
walking along and upon a highway shall walk as near as practicable to an
outside edge of the roadway, and, if on a two-way roadway, shall walk only on
the left side of the roadway.
   (d)   Except as otherwise provided in Ohio R.C. 4511.13 and 4511.46, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, any pedestrian upon a roadway
shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (e)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC 4511.50)
§ 416.06 SOLICITING RIDES OR BUSINESS; RIDING ON OUTSIDE OF VEHICLE OR IN CARGO
STORAGE AREA.
   (a)   No person while on a roadway outside a safety zone shall solicit a
ride from the driver of any vehicle.
   (b)   (1)   Except as provided in division (b)(2) of this section, no person
shall stand on a highway for the purpose of soliciting employment, business, or
contributions from the occupant of any vehicle.
      (2)   The Council, by ordinance, may authorize the issuance of a permit
to a charitable organization to allow a person acting on behalf of the
organization to solicit charitable contributions from the occupant of a vehicle
by standing on a highway, other than a freeway as provided in Ohio R.C.
4511.051(A), that is under the jurisdiction of the municipality. The permit
shall be valid for only one period of time, which shall be specified in the
permit, in any calendar year. The Council also may specify the locations where
contributions may be solicited and may impose any other restrictions on or
requirements regarding the manner in which the solicitations are to be
conducted that the Council considers advisable.
      (3)   As used in divisions (b)(2) of this section, “charitable
organization” means an organization that has received from the Internal Revenue
Service a currently valid ruling or determination letter recognizing the tax-
exempt status of the organization pursuant to IRC 501(c)(3).
   (c)   No person shall hang onto or ride on the outside of any motor vehicle
while it is moving upon a roadway, except mechanics or test engineers making
repairs or adjustments, or workers performing specialized highway or street
maintenance or construction under authority of a public agency.
   (d)   No operator shall knowingly permit any person to hang onto or ride on
the outside of any motor vehicle while it is moving upon a roadway, except
mechanics or test engineers making repairs or adjustments, or workers
performing specialized highway or street maintenance or construction under
authority of a public agency.
   (e)   No driver of a truck, trailer, or semitrailer shall knowingly permit
any person who has not attained the age of 16 years to ride in the unenclosed
or unroofed cargo storage area of the driver’s vehicle if the vehicle is
traveling faster than 25 miles per hour, unless either of the following
applies:
      (1)   The cargo storage area of the vehicle is equipped with a properly
secured seat to which is attached a seat safety belt that is in compliance with
federal standards for an occupant restraining device as defined in Ohio R.C.
4513.263(A)(2), the seat and seat safety belt were installed at the time the
vehicle was originally assembled, and the person riding in the cargo storage
area is in the seat and is wearing the seat safety belt; or
      (2)   An emergency exists that threatens the life of the driver or the
person being transported in the cargo storage area of the truck, trailer, or
semitrailer.
   (f)   No driver of a truck, trailer, or semitrailer shall permit any person,
except for those workers performing specialized highway or street maintenance
or construction under authority of a public agency, to ride in the cargo
storage area or on a tailgate of the driver’s vehicle while the tailgate is
unlatched.
   (g)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
any provision of divisions (a) to (d) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates any provision of divisions (a) to (d) of this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates any provision of divisions
(a) to (d) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (e) or (f) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4511.51)
§ 416.07 PASSING THROUGH BRIDGE SIGNALS OR RAILROAD BARRIERS.
   (a)   No pedestrian shall enter or remain upon any bridge or approach
thereto beyond the bridge signal, gate, or barrier after a bridge operation
signal indication has been given.
   (b)   No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over, or under any crossing
gate or barrier at a railroad grade crossing or bridge while the gate or
barrier is closed or is being opened or closed.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC 4511.511)
§ 416.08 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLES.
   (a)   Upon the immediate approach of a public safety vehicle, as stated in
Ohio R.C. 4511.45 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, every
pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to the public safety vehicle.
   (b)   This section shall not relieve the driver of a public safety vehicle
from the duty to exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC 4511.452)
§ 416.09 RIGHT-OF-WAY ON SIDEWALKS.
   (a)   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian
on a sidewalk.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.441)
§ 416.10 INTOXICATION.
   (a)   A pedestrian who is under the influence of alcohol, any drug of abuse,
or any combination of them, to a degree that renders the pedestrian a hazard
shall not walk or be upon a highway.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC 4511.481)
§ 416.11 MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIR OPERATORS.
   Every person operating a motorized wheelchair shall have all of the rights
and duties applicable to a pedestrian that are contained in this chapter,
except those provisions which by their nature can have no application.
(ORC 4511.491)
§ 416.12 OPERATION OF ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICES.
   (a)   (1)   Electric personal assistive mobility devices may be operated on
the public streets, highways, sidewalks, and paths and portions of roadways set
aside for the exclusive use of bicycles in accordance with this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, those sections of
this Traffic Code that by their nature are applicable to an electric personal
assistive mobility device apply to the device and the person operating it
whenever it is operated upon any public street, highway, sidewalk, or path or
upon any portion of a roadway set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
      (3)   The municipality may regulate or prohibit the operation of electric
personal assistive mobility devices on public streets, highways, sidewalks, and
paths, or portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles,
under its jurisdiction.
   (b)   No operator of an electric personal assistive mobility device shall do
any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians and human-powered
vehicles at all times;
      (2)   Fail to give an audible signal before overtaking and passing a
pedestrian;
      (3)   Operate the device at night unless the device or its operator is
equipped with or wearing both of the following:
         A.   A lamp pointing to the front that emits a white light visible
from a distance of not less than 500 feet;
         B.   A red reflector facing the rear that is visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet when directly in front of lawful lower
beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle;
      (4)   Operate the device on any portion of a street or highway that has
an established speed limit of 55 miles per hour or more;
      (5)   Operate the device upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of
pedestrians or other specialized use when an appropriate sign giving notice of
the specialized use is posted on the path;
      (6)   If under 18 years of age, operate the device unless wearing a
protective helmet on the person’s head with the chin strap properly fastened;
      (7)   If under 16 years of age, operate the device unless, during the
operation, the person is under the direct visual and audible supervision of
another person who is 18 years of age or older and is responsible for the
immediate care of the person under 16 years of age.
   (c)   No person who is under 14 years of age shall operate an electric
personal assistive mobility device.
   (d)   No person shall distribute or sell an electric personal assistive
mobility device unless the device is accompanied by a written statement that is
substantially equivalent to the following: “WARNING: TO REDUCE THE RISK OF
SERIOUS INJURY, USE ONLY WHILE WEARING FULL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT – HELMET,
WRIST GUARDS, ELBOW PADS, AND KNEE PADS.”
   (e)   Nothing in this section affects or shall be construed to affect any
rule of the Director of Natural Resources or a board of park district
commissioners governing the operation of vehicles on lands under the control of
the Director or board, as applicable.
   (f)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (b) or (c) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor and shall be punished as follows:
         A.   The offender shall be fined ten dollars ($10.00);
         B.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (b) or (c) of this section, or any
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, the court, in
addition to imposing the fine required under division (f)(1)A. of this section,
shall do one of the following:
            1.   Order the impoundment for not less than one day but no more
than 30 days of the electric personal assistive mobility device that was
involved in the current violation of that division. The court shall order the
device to be impounded at a safe indoor location designated by the court and
may assess storage fees of not more than five dollars ($5.00) per day; provided
the total storage, processing, and release fees assessed against the offender
or the device in connection with the device’s impoundment or subsequent release
shall not exceed fifty dollars ($50.00).
            2.   If the court does not issue an impoundment order pursuant to
division (f)(1)B.1. of this section, issue an order prohibiting the offender
from operating any electric personal assistive mobility device on the public
streets, highways, sidewalks, and paths and portions of roadways set aside for
the exclusive use of bicycles for not less than one day but not more than 30
days.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (d) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC 4511.512)
   (g)   As used in this Code, “electric personal assistive mobility device”
means a self-balancing two non-tandem wheeled device that is designed to
transport only one person, has an electric propulsion system of an average of
750 watts, and when ridden on a paved level surface by an operator who weighs
170 pounds has a maximum speed of less than 20 miles per hour.
(ORC 4501.01(TT))
§ 416.13 OPERATION OF PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE ON SIDEWALKS AND CROSSWALKS.
   (a)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Eligible entity” means a corporation, partnership, association,
firm, sole proprietorship, or other entity engaged in business.
      (2)   “Personal delivery device” means an electrically powered device to
which all of the following apply:
         A.   The device is intended primarily to transport property and cargo
on sidewalks and crosswalks.
         B.   The device weighs less than 250 pounds excluding any property or
cargo being carried in the device.
         C.   The device has a maximum speed of ten miles per hour.
         D.   The device is equipped with technology that enables the operation
of the device with active control or monitoring by a person, without active
control or monitoring by a person, or both with or without active control or
monitoring by a person.
      (3)   “Personal delivery device operator” means an agent of an eligible
entity who exercises direct physical control over, or monitoring of, the
navigation and operation of a personal delivery device. The phrase does not
include, with respect to a delivery or other service rendered by a personal
delivery device, the person who requests the delivery or service. The phrase
also does not include a person who only arranges for and dispatches a personal
delivery device for a delivery or other service.
   (b)   An eligible entity may operate a personal delivery device on sidewalks
and crosswalks so long as all of the following requirements are met:
      (1)   The personal delivery device is operated in accordance with all
regulations, if any, established by each local authority within which the
personal delivery device is operated.
      (2)   A personal delivery device operator is actively controlling or
monitoring the navigation and operation of the personal delivery device.
      (3)   The eligible entity maintains an insurance policy that includes
general liability coverage of not less than one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000) for damages arising from the operation of the personal delivery
device by the eligible entity and any agent of the eligible entity.
      (4)   The device is equipped with all of the following:
         A.   A marker that clearly identifies the name and contact information
of the eligible entity operating the personal delivery device and a unique
identification number;
         B.   A braking system that enables the personal delivery device to
come to a controlled stop;
         C.   If the personal delivery device is being operated between sunset
and sunrise, a light on both the front and rear of the personal delivery device
that is visible in clear weather from a distance of at least 500 feet to the
front and rear of the personal delivery device when directly in front of low
beams of headlights on a motor vehicle.
   (c)   No personal delivery device operator shall allow a personal delivery
device to do any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to comply with traffic or pedestrian control devices and
signals;
      (2)   Unreasonably interfere with pedestrians or traffic;
      (3)   Transport any hazardous material that would require a permit issued
by the Public Utilities Commission;
      (4)   Operate on a street or highway, except when crossing the street or
highway within a crosswalk.
   (d)   A personal delivery device has all of the rights and obligations
applicable to a pedestrian under the same circumstances, except that a personal
delivery device shall yield the right-of- way to human pedestrians on sidewalks
and crosswalks.
   (e)   (1)   No person shall operate a personal delivery device unless the
person is authorized to do so under this section and complies with the
requirements of this section.
      (2)   An eligible entity is responsible for both of the following:
         A.   Any violation of this section that is committed by a personal
delivery device operator; and
         B.   Any other circumstance, including a technological malfunction, in
which a personal delivery device operates in a manner prohibited by divisions
(c)(1) to (c)(4) of this section.
(R.C. § 4511.513)
§ 416.14 LOW-SPEED MICROMOBILITY DEVICES.
   (a)   (1)   A low-speed micromobility device may be operated on the public
streets, highways, sidewalks, and shared-use paths, and may be operated on any
portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles in accordance
with this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, those sections of
this title that by their nature could apply to a low-speed micromobility device
do apply to the device and the person operating it whenever it is operated upon
any public street, highway, sidewalk, or shared-use path, or upon any portion
of a roadway set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (b)   No operator of a low-speed micromobility device shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Fail to yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians at all times;
      (2)   Fail to give an audible signal before overtaking and passing a
pedestrian;
      (3)   Operate the device at night unless the device or its operator is
equipped with or wearing both of the following:
         A.   A lamp pointing to the front that emits a white light visible
from a distance of not less than 500 feet;
         B.   A red reflector facing the rear that is visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet when directly in front of lawful lower
beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle.
   (c)   (1)   No person who is under 16 years of age shall rent a low-speed
micromobility device.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly rent a low-speed micromobility device to
a person who is under 16 years of age.
      (3)   No person shall knowingly rent a low-speed micromobility device on
behalf of a person who is under 16 years of age.
   (d)   No person shall operate a low-speed micromobility device at a speed
greater than 20 miles per hour.
   (e)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Unless a mens rea is otherwise specified in this section, an
offense established under this section is a strict liability offense and R.C. §
2901.20 does not apply. The designation of that offense as a strict liability
offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for which there
is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability offense.
   (f)   Notwithstanding division (a)(1) of this section, the municipality,
county, township, metropolitan park district, township park district,
recreation district, or any division of the Ohio Department of Natural
Resources if the division has the approval of the Ohio Director of Natural
Resources may do any of the following:
      (1)   Regulate or prohibit the operation of low-speed micromobility
devices on public streets, highways, sidewalks, and shared-use paths, and
portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, under its
jurisdiction;
      (2)   Include low-speed micromobility devices that are adapted to expand
access for people with various physical limitations into a shared bicycle,
shared electric bicycle, or similar vehicle sharing program, under its
jurisdiction;
      (3)   Require the owner or operator of a low-speed micromobility device
rental service or low-speed micromobility device sharing program to maintain
commercial general liability insurance related to the operation of the devices,
with limits of up to $1,000,000 per occurrence and $2,000,000 per aggregate.
(R.C. § 4511.514)
§ 416.99 PENALTY.
   ( Editor’s note: See §§
408.01 and
408.02 for general Traffic Code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.)
TITLE SIX - VEHICLES AND OPERATION
CHAPTER 432: OPERATION GENERALLY
Section
432.01   Driving upon right side of roadway; exceptions
432.02   Passing to right when proceeding in opposite directions
432.03   Overtaking, passing to left; driver’s duties
432.04   Overtaking, passing to right of vehicle
432.05   Overtaking, passing to left of centerline
432.06   Driving upon left side of roadway
432.07   Hazardous or no passing zones
432.08   Driving within lanes or continuous lines of traffic
432.09   Following too closely
432.10   Turning at intersections
432.11   “U” turns restricted
432.12   Starting and backing vehicles
432.13   Signals before changing course, turning, or stopping
432.14   Hand and arm signals
432.15   Right-of-way at intersections
432.155   Intersections at which traffic-control signals fail or malfunction
432.16   Right-of-way when turning left
432.17   Operation of vehicle at stop and yield signs
432.18   Emergency or public safety vehicles at stop signals or signs
432.19   Right-of-way of public safety or coroner’s vehicle
432.195   Driving while approaching stationary public safety vehicle and
certain other vehicles with flashing lights
432.20   Right-of-way at private driveway, alley, or building
432.205   Stop signs on private roads and driveways
432.21   Right-of-way of funeral procession
432.22   Driving upon sidewalks, tree lawns, or curbs
432.23   Driver’s view and control to be unobstructed by load or persons
432.24   Driving upon street posted as closed for repair
432.25   Following and parking near emergency or safety vehicles
432.26   Driving over fire hose
432.27   Driving through safety zone
432.28   One-way streets and rotary traffic islands
432.29   Driving upon divided roadways
432.30   Stopping for school bus; actuating visual signals; discharging
children
432.31   Driving across grade crossings
432.32   Stopping at grade crossings
432.33   Slow-moving vehicles or equipment at grade crossings
432.34   Obstructing intersections, crosswalks or grade crossings
432.35   “Peeling;” cracking exhaust noises
432.36   Shortcutting across private property
432.37   Entering and exiting controlled-access highway
432.38   Weaving; full time and attention
432.39   Operation on paths set aside for bicycles
432.40   Littering from motor vehicles
432.41   Use of earphones while driving
432.42   Driving on floodwall
432.43   Cruising on public streets
432.44   Texting while driving prohibited
432.45   Use of electronic wireless communication devices by minors or
probationary drivers while driving prohibited
432.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Obedience to traffic-control devices, see TRAF.
414.01
   Operation of bicycles and motorcycles, see TRAF.
474.01 et seq.
   Operation of snowmobiles and all-purpose vehicles, see TRAF.
476.03,
476.04
   Yielding right-of-way to pedestrians on sidewalks, see TRAF.
416.09
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see section histories
§ 432.01 DRIVING UPON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY; EXCEPTIONS.
   (a)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction, or when making a left turn under the rules governing such movements;
      (2)   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left
of the center of the highway; provided, any person so doing shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the
unobstructed portion of the highway within such distance as to constitute an
immediate hazard;
      (3)   When driving upon a roadway divided into three or more marked lanes
for traffic under the rules applicable thereon;
      (4)   When driving upon a roadway designated and posted with signs for
one-way traffic;
      (5)   When otherwise directed by a police officer or traffic-control
device.
   (b)   (1)   Upon all roadways any vehicle proceeding at less than the
prevailing and lawful speed of traffic at the time and place and under the
conditions then existing shall be driven in the right-hand lane then available
for traffic, and far enough to the right to allow passing by faster vehicles if
such passing is safe and reasonable, except under any of the following
circumstances:
         A.   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction;
         B.   When preparing for a left turn;
         C.   When the driver must necessarily drive in a lane other than the
right-hand lane to continue on the driver’s intended route.
      (2)   Nothing in division (b)(1) of this section requires a driver of a
slower vehicle to compromise the driver’s safety to allow overtaking by a
faster vehicle.
   (c)   Upon any roadway having four or more lanes for moving traffic and
providing for two-way movement of traffic, no vehicle shall be driven to the
left of the center line of the roadway, except when authorized by official
traffic-control devices designating certain lanes to the left of the center of
the roadway for use by traffic not otherwise permitted to use the lanes, or
except as permitted under division (a)(2) of this section. This division shall
not be construed as prohibiting the crossing of the center line in making a
left turn into or from an alley, private road, or driveway.
   (d)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (e)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.25)
§ 432.02 PASSING TO RIGHT WHEN PROCEEDING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS.
   (a)   Operators of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass
each other to the right, and upon roadways having width for not more than one
line of traffic in each direction, each operator shall give to the other one-
half of the main traveled portion of the roadway or as nearly one-half as is
reasonably possible.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.26)
§ 432.03 OVERTAKING, PASSING TO LEFT; DRIVER’S DUTIES.
   (a)   The following rules govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles
proceeding in the same direction:
      (1)   The operator of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in
the same direction shall, except as provided in division (a)(3) of this
section, signal to the vehicle to be overtaken, shall pass to the left thereof
at a safe distance, and shall not again drive to the right side of the roadway
until safely clear of the overtaken vehicle. When a motor vehicle overtakes and
passes a bicycle or electric bicycle, three feet or greater is considered a
safe passing distance.
      (2)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
operator of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle at the latter’s audible signal, and the operator shall not
increase the speed of the operator’s vehicle until completely passed by the
overtaking vehicle.
      (3)   The operator of a vehicle overtaking and passing another vehicle
proceeding in the same direction on a divided highway as defined in Ohio R.C.
4511.35, a limited access highway as defined in Ohio R.C. 5511.02, or a highway
with four or more traffic lanes is not required to signal audibly to the
vehicle being overtaken and passed.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.27)
§ 432.04 OVERTAKING, PASSING TO RIGHT OF VEHICLE.
   (a)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass on the right of another
vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
or
      (2)   Upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width for
two or more lines of vehicles moving lawfully in the direction being traveled
by the overtaking vehicle.
   (b)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle only
under conditions permitting the movement in safety. The movement shall not be
made by driving off the roadway.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (d)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.28)
§ 432.05 OVERTAKING, PASSING TO LEFT OF CENTERLINE.
   (a)   No vehicle shall be driven to the left of the center of the roadway in
overtaking and passing traffic proceeding in the same direction, unless the
left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a sufficient
distance ahead to permit the overtaking and passing to be completely made
without interfering with the safe operation of any traffic approaching from the
opposite direction or any traffic overtaken. In every event, the overtaking
vehicle must return to an authorized lane of travel as soon as practicable, and
in the event the passing movement involves the use of a lane authorized for the
traffic approaching from the opposite direction, before coming within 200 feet
of any approaching vehicle.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.29)
§ 432.06 DRIVING UPON LEFT SIDE OF ROADWAY.
   (a)   No vehicle shall be driven upon the left side of the roadway under the
following conditions:
      (1)   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the
highway, where the operator’s view is obstructed within such a distance as to
create a hazard in the event traffic might approach from the opposite
direction;
      (2)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within 100 feet of any
bridge, viaduct, or tunnel; or
      (3)   When approaching within 100 feet of or traversing any intersection
or railroad grade crossing.
   (b)   This section does not apply to vehicles upon a one-way roadway, upon a
roadway where traffic is lawfully directed to be driven to the left side, or
under the conditions described in Ohio R.C. 4511.25(A)(2) or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (d)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.30)
§ 432.07 HAZARDOUS OR NO PASSING ZONES.
   (a)   The Department of Transportation may determine those portions of any
state highway where overtaking and passing other traffic or driving to the left
of the center or center line of the roadway would be especially hazardous, and
may, by appropriate signs or markings on the highway, indicate the beginning
and end of such zones. When signs or markings are in place and clearly visible,
every operator of a vehicle shall obey the directions of the signs or markings,
notwithstanding the distances set out in Ohio R.C. 4511.30.
   (b)   Division (a) of this section does not apply when all of the following
apply:
      (1)   The slower vehicle is proceeding at less than half the speed of the
speed limit applicable to that location.
      (2)   The faster vehicle is capable of overtaking and passing the slower
vehicle without exceeding the speed limit.
      (3)   There is sufficient clear sight distance to the left of the center
or center line of the roadway to meet the overtaking and passing provisions of
Ohio R.C. 4511.29, considering the speed of the slower vehicle.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (d)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.31)
§ 432.08 DRIVING WITHIN LANES OR CONTINUOUS LINES OF TRAFFIC.
   (a)   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for traffic, or wherever within the municipality traffic is lawfully
moving in two or more substantially continuous lines in the same direction, the
following rules apply:
      (1)   A vehicle shall be driven, as nearly as is practicable, entirely
within a single lane or line of traffic and shall not be moved from the lane or
line until the driver has first ascertained that the movement can be made with
safety.
      (2)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes and provides for
the two-way movement of traffic, a vehicle shall not be driven in the center
lane, except when overtaking and passing another vehicle where the roadway is
clearly visible and the center lane is clear of traffic within a safe distance,
or when preparing for a left turn, or where the center lane is at the time
allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the direction the vehicle is
proceeding, and is posted with signs to give notice of such allocation.
      (3)   Official signs may be erected directing specified traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction, regardless of the center of the roadway, or restricting
the use of a particular lane to only buses during certain hours or during all
hours, and drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of such signs.
      (4)   Official traffic-control devices may be installed prohibiting the
changing of lanes on sections of roadway, and drivers of vehicles shall obey
the directions of every such device.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.33)
§ 432.09 FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY.
   (a)   (1)   The operator of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle
more closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of
the vehicle and the traffic upon and the condition of the highway.
      (2)   The driver of any truck, or motor vehicle drawing another vehicle,
when traveling upon a roadway outside a business or residence district, shall
maintain a sufficient space, whenever conditions permit, between the vehicle
and another vehicle ahead so an overtaking motor vehicle may enter and occupy
the space without danger. This division (a) does not prevent overtaking and
passing nor does it apply to any lane specially designated for use by trucks.
      (3)   Motor vehicles being driven upon any roadway outside of a business
or residence district in a caravan or motorcade shall maintain a sufficient
space between the vehicles so an overtaking vehicle may enter and occupy the
space without danger. This division shall not apply to funeral processions.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.34)
§ 432.10 TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (a)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall be
governed by the following rules:
      (1)   Approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close
as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
      (2)   At any intersection where traffic is permitted to move in both
directions on each roadway entering the intersection, an approach for a left
turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
center line thereof and by passing to the right of the center line where it
enters the intersection, and, after entering the intersection, the left turn
shall be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the center line
of the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable, the left turn shall be made
in that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the
intersection.
      (3)   At any intersection where traffic is restricted to one direction on
one or more of the roadways, the driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at
any such intersection shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand
lane lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of the
vehicle, and, after entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so
as to leave the intersection, as nearly as practicable, in the left hand lane
of the roadway being entered lawfully available to traffic moving in that lane.
   (b)   The Department of Transportation and local authorities may cause
markers, buttons, or signs to be placed within or adjacent to intersections,
and thereby require and direct that a different course from that specified in
this section be traveled by vehicles turning at an intersection, and when
markers, buttons, or signs are so placed, no operator of a vehicle shall turn
the vehicle at an intersection other than as directed and required by the
markers, buttons, or signs.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (d)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.36)
§ 432.11 “U” TURNS RESTRICTED.
   (a)   Except as provided in Ohio R.C. 4511.13 and division (b) of this
section, no vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction
upon any curve, or upon the approach to or near the crest of a grade, if such
vehicle cannot be seen within 500 feet by the driver of any other vehicle
approaching from either direction.
   (b)   The driver of an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when
responding to an emergency call, may turn the vehicle so as to proceed in the
opposite direction. This division applies only when the emergency vehicle or
public safety vehicle is responding to an emergency call, is equipped with and
displaying at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating light visible under
normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
vehicle, and when the driver of the vehicle is giving an audible signal by
siren, exhaust whistle, or bell. This division does not relieve the driver of
an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (d)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.37)
   (e)   Except as provided in division (b) of this section, no vehicle shall
be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction within an intersection, or
upon any street in a business district, or upon a freeway, expressway or
controlled-access highway, or where authorized signs are erected to prohibit
such movement, or at any other location unless such movement can be made with
reasonable safety to other users of the public way and without interfering with
the safe operation of any traffic that may be affected by such movement.
§ 432.12 STARTING AND BACKING VEHICLES.
   (a)   (1)   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing, or
parked until the movement can be made with reasonable safety.
      (2)   Before backing, operators of vehicles shall give ample warning, and
while backing they shall exercise vigilance not to injure person or property on
the street or highway.
      (3)   No person shall back a motor vehicle on a freeway, except:
         A.   In a rest area;
         B.   In the performance of public works or official duties;
         C.   As a result of an emergency caused by an accident or breakdown of
a motor vehicle.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.38)
§ 432.13 SIGNALS BEFORE CHANGING COURSE, TURNING OR STOPPING.
   (a)   (1)   No person shall turn a vehicle or move right or left upon a
highway unless and until the person has exercised due care to ascertain that
the movement can be made with reasonable safety, nor without giving an
appropriate signal in the manner hereinafter provided.
      (2)   When required, a signal of intention to turn or move right or left
shall be given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by
the vehicle before turning, except that in the case of a person operating a
bicycle or electric bicycle, the signal shall be made not less than one time
but is not required to be continuous. A bicycle or electric bicycle operator is
not required to make a signal if the bicycle is in a designated turn lane, and
a signal shall not be given when the operator’s hands are needed for the safe
operation of the bicycle or electric bicycle.
      (3)   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein to the
driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear, when there is opportunity to
give a signal.
      (4)   Any stop or turn signal required by this section shall be given
either by means of the hand and arm, or by signal lights that clearly indicate
to both approaching and following traffic the intention to turn or move right
or left, except that any motor vehicle in use on a highway shall be equipped
with, and the required signal shall be given by, signal lights when the
distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the left outside
limit of the body, cab or load of such motor vehicle exceeds 24 inches, or when
the distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the rear limit
of the body or load thereof exceeds 14 feet, whether a single vehicle or a
combination of vehicles.
      (5)   The signal lights required by this section shall not be flashed on
one side only on a disabled vehicle, flashed as a courtesy or “do pass” signal
to operators of other vehicles approaching from the rear, nor be flashed on one
side only of a parked vehicle except as may be necessary for compliance with
this section.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.39)
§ 432.14 HAND AND ARM SIGNALS.
   (a)   Except as provided in division (b) of this section, all signals
required by the provisions of this Traffic Code, when given by hand and arm,
shall be given from the left side of the vehicle in the following manner, and
the signals shall indicate as follows:
      (1)   Left turn, hand and arm extended horizontally;
      (2)   Right turn, hand and arm extended upward;
      (3)   Stop or decrease speed, hand and arm extended downward.
   (b)   As an alternative to division (a)(2) of this section, a person
operating a bicycle or electric bicycle may give a right turn signal by
extending the right hand and arm horizontally and to the right side of the
bicycle or electric bicycle.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (d)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.40)
§ 432.15 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (a)   When two vehicles approach or enter an intersection from different
streets or highways at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle
on the left shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right.
   (b)   The right-of-way rule declared in division (a) of this section is
modified at through highways and otherwise as stated in this Traffic Code or
Ohio R.C. Chapter 4511.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (d)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.41)
§ 432.155 INTERSECTIONS AT WHICH TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNALS FAIL OR MALFUNCTION.
   (a)   The driver of a vehicle who approaches an intersection where traffic
is controlled by traffic control signals shall do all of the following if the
signal facing the driver exhibits no colored lights or colored lighted arrows,
exhibits a combination of such lights or arrows that fails to clearly indicate
the assignment of right-of- way, or, if the vehicle is a bicycle or an electric
bicycle, the signals are otherwise malfunctioning due to the failure of a
vehicle detector to detect the presence of the bicycle or electric bicycle:
      (1)   Stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, stop before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or, if none, stop
before entering the intersection;
      (2)   Yield the right-of-way to all vehicles in the intersection or
approaching on an intersecting road, if the vehicles will constitute an
immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the
intersection or junction of roadways;
      (3)   Exercise ordinary care while proceeding through the intersection.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.132)
§ 432.16 RIGHT-OF-WAY WHEN TURNING LEFT.
   (a)   The operator of a vehicle intending to turn to the left within an
intersection or into an alley, private road, or driveway shall yield the right-
of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is within
the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.42)
§ 432.17 OPERATION OF VEHICLE AT STOP AND YIELD SIGNS.
   (a)   Except when directed to proceed by a law enforcement officer, every
driver of a vehicle approaching a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or, if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway
before entering it. After having stopped, the driver shall yield the right-of-
way to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another roadway so
closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the time the driver is
moving across or within the intersection or junction of roadways.
   (b)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall slow down to a
speed reasonable for the existing conditions, and if required for safety to
stop, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, before entering
the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if none, then at the
point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering it. After
slowing, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the
intersection or junction of roadways. Whenever a driver is involved in a
collision with a vehicle in the intersection or junction of roadways, after
driving past a yield sign without stopping, the collision shall be prima facie
evidence of the driver’s failure to yield the right-of-way.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (d)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.43)
§ 432.18 EMERGENCY OR PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLES AT STOP SIGNALS OR SIGNS.
   (a)   The driver of any emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when
responding to an emergency call, upon approaching a red or stop signal or any
stop sign, shall slow down as necessary for safety to traffic, but may proceed
cautiously past the red or stop sign or signal with due regard for the safety
of all persons using the street or highway.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.03)
§ 432.19 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF PUBLIC SAFETY OR CORONER’S VEHICLE.
   (a)   Upon the approach of a public safety vehicle or coroner’s vehicle,
equipped with at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating light visible
under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of
the vehicle, and the driver is giving an audible signal by siren, exhaust
whistle, or bell, no driver of any other vehicle shall fail to yield the right-
of-way, immediately drive, if practical, to a position parallel to, and as
close as possible to, the right edge or curb of the highway clear of any
intersection, and stop and remain in that position until the public safety
vehicle or coroner’s vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a
police officer.
   (b)   This section does not relieve the driver of a public safety vehicle or
coroner’s vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons and property upon the highway.
   (c)   This section applies to a coroner’s vehicle only when the vehicle is
operated in accordance with R.C. § 4513.171, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance. As used in this section, “coroner’s vehicle” means a
vehicle used by a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator that is
equipped with a flashing, oscillating or rotating red or blue light and a
siren, exhaust whistle or bell capable of giving an audible signal.
   (d)   Except as otherwise provided in this division or division (e), whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a
first offense. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 4511.45)
   (e)   (1)   When the failure of a motor vehicle operator to yield the right-
of-way to a public safety vehicle as required by division (a) of this section
impedes the ability of the public safety vehicle to respond to an emergency,
any emergency personnel in the public safety vehicle may report the license
plate number and a general description of the vehicle and the operator of the
vehicle to the law enforcement agency exercising jurisdiction over the area
where the alleged violation occurred.
      (2)   A.   Upon receipt of a report under division (e)(1) of this
section, the law enforcement agency may conduct an investigation to attempt to
determine or confirm the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time of
the alleged violation.
         B.   If the identity of the operator at the time of an alleged
violation of division (a) of this section is established, the law enforcement
agency has probable cause to issue either a written warning or a citation for
that violation, and the agency shall issue a written warning or a citation to
the operator.
         C.   If the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time of the
alleged violation cannot be established, the law enforcement agency may issue a
written warning to the person who owned the vehicle at the time of the alleged
violation. However, in the case of a leased or rented vehicle, the law
enforcement agency shall issue the written warning to the person who leased or
rented the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation.
      (3)   A.   Whoever violates division (a) of this section based on a
report filed under division (e)(1) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor and shall be fined one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00).
         B.   If a person who is issued a citation for a violation of division
(a) of this section based on a report filed under division (e)(1) of this
section does not enter a written plea of guilty and does not waive the person’s
right to contest the citation but instead appears in person in the proper court
to answer the charge, the trier of fact cannot find beyond a reasonable doubt
that the person committed that violation unless the emergency personnel who
filed the report appears in person in the court and testifies.
      (4)   As used in this division (e):
         A.   “License plate.” Includes any temporary motor vehicle license
registration issued under R.C. § 4503.182 or similar law of another
jurisdiction.
         B.   “Public safety vehicle.” Does not include an unmarked public
safety vehicle or a vehicle used by a public law enforcement officer or other
person sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state or a vehicle
used by the motor carrier enforcement unit for the enforcement of orders and
rules of the public utilities commission.
(R.C. § 4511.454)
§ 432.195 DRIVING WHILE APPROACHING STATIONARY PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE AND
CERTAIN OTHER VEHICLES WITH FLASHING LIGHTS.
   (a)   The driver of a motor vehicle, upon approaching a stationary public
safety vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle, waste collection
vehicle, vehicle used by the Public Utilities Commission to conduct motor
vehicle inspections in accordance with Ohio R.C. 4923.04 and 4923.06, or a
highway maintenance vehicle that is displaying the appropriate visual signals
by means of flashing, oscillating or rotating lights, as prescribed in R.C. §
4513.17, shall do either of the following:
      (1)   If the driver of the motor vehicle is traveling on a highway that
consists of at least two lanes that carry traffic in the same direction of
travel as that of the driver’s motor vehicle, the driver shall proceed with due
caution and, if possible and with due regard to the road, weather, and traffic
conditions, shall change lanes into a lane this is not adjacent to that of the
stationary public safety vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle,
waste collection vehicle, vehicle used by the Public Utilities Commission to
conduct motor vehicle inspections in accordance with Ohio R.C. 4923.04 and
4923.06, or a highway maintenance vehicle.
      (2)   If the driver is not traveling on a highway of a type described in
division (a)(1) of this section, or if the driver is traveling on a highway of
that type but it is not possible to change lanes or if to do so would be
unsafe, the driver shall proceed with due caution, reduce the speed of the
motor vehicle, and maintain a safe speed for the road, weather, and traffic
conditions.
   (b)   This section does not relieve the driver of a public safety vehicle,
emergency vehicle, road service vehicle, waste collection vehicle, vehicle used
by the Public Utilities Commission to conduct motor vehicle inspections in
accordance with Ohio R.C. 4923.04 and 4923.06, or a highway maintenance vehicle
from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons and
property upon the highway.
   (c)   No person shall fail to drive a motor vehicle in compliance with
divisions (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section when so required by division (a) of
this section.
   (d)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Notwithstanding §
698.02 or Ohio R.C. 2929.28, upon a finding that a person operated a motor
vehicle in violation of division (c) of this section, the court, in addition to
all other penalties provided by law, shall impose a fine of two times the usual
amount imposed for the violation.
      (3)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
   (e)   The offense established under this section is a strict liability
offense and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of this offense as a
strict liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other
offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict
liability offense.
(R.C. § 4511.213)
§ 432.20 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT PRIVATE DRIVEWAY, ALLEY OR BUILDING.
   (a)   (1)   The operator of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from
any place other than another roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all
traffic approaching on the roadway to be entered or crossed.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (a) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
division (a) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates
division (a) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (3)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.44)
   (b)   (1)   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, building,
private road, or driveway within a business or residence district shall stop
the vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk
area extending across the alley, building entrance, road, or driveway, or in
the event there is no sidewalk area, shall stop at the point nearest the street
to be entered where the driver has a view of approaching traffic thereon.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (b) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
division (b) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates
division (b) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (3)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.431)
   (c)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn into a private road or
driveway, alley or building from a public street or highway shall be governed
by the following rules:
      (1)   Approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close
as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
      (2)   Upon a roadway where traffic is proceeding in opposite directions,
approach for a left turn and a left turn shall be made from that portion of the
right half of the roadway nearest the centerline thereof.
      (3)   Upon a roadway where traffic is restricted to one direction,
approach for a left turn and a left turn shall be made as close as practicable
to the left-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   (d)   It shall be the duty of the driver of any vehicle entering a private
road or driveway, alley or building to yield the right-of-way to pedestrians
lawfully using the sidewalk or sidewalk area extending across the private road
or driveway, alley or building.
§ 432.205 STOP SIGNS ON PRIVATE ROADS AND DRIVEWAYS.
   (a)   The owner of a private road or driveway located in a private
residential area containing 20 or more dwelling units may erect stop signs at
places where the road or driveway intersects with another private road or
driveway in the residential area, in compliance with all of the following
requirements:
      (1)   The stop sign is sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily
observant person and meets the specifications of and is placed in accordance
with the manual adopted by the Department of Transportation pursuant to Ohio
R.C. 4511.09.
      (2)   The owner has posted a sign at the entrance of the private road or
driveway that is in plain view and clearly informs persons entering the road or
driveway that they are entering private property, stop signs have been posted
and must be obeyed, and the signs are enforceable by law enforcement officers
under state law. The sign required by this division, where appropriate, may be
incorporated with the sign required by Ohio R.C. 4511.211(A)(2), or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (b)   Ohio R.C. 4511.43(A) and Ohio R.C. 4511.46, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, shall be deemed to apply to the driver of a
vehicle on a private road or driveway where a stop sign is placed in accordance
with division (a) of this section and to a pedestrian crossing such a road or
driveway at an intersection where a stop sign is in place.
   (c)   When a stop sign is placed in accordance with division (a) of this
section, any law enforcement officer may apprehend a person found violating the
stop sign and may stop and charge the person with violating the stop sign.
   (d)   As used in this section, and for the purpose of applying Ohio R.C.
4511.43(A) and Ohio R.C. 4511.46, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, to conduct under this section:
      (1)   “Intersection” means:
         A.   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two private roads or driveways which join one another at, or
approximately at, right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling
upon different private roads or driveways joining at any other angle may come
in conflict.
         B.   Where a private road or driveway includes two roadways 30 feet or
more apart, then every crossing of two roadways of such private roads or
driveways shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
      (2)   “Owner” and “private residential area containing 20 or more
dwelling units” have the same meanings as in Ohio R.C. 4511.211.
      (3)   “Roadway” means that portion of a private road or driveway
improved, designed or ordinarily used for vehicular travel, except the berm or
shoulder. If a private road or driveway includes two or more separate roadways,
the term “roadway” means any such roadway separately but not all such roadways
collectively.
   (e)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC 4511.432)
§ 432.21 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF FUNERAL PROCESSION.
   (a)   As used in this section, “funeral procession” means two or more
vehicles accompanying the cremated remains or the body of a deceased person in
the daytime when each of the vehicles has its headlights lighted and is
displaying a purple and white or an orange and white pennant attached to each
vehicle in such a manner as to be clearly visible to traffic approaching from
any direction.
   (b)   Excepting public safety vehicles proceeding in accordance with Ohio
R.C. 4511.45 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or when
directed otherwise by a police officer, pedestrians and the operators of all
vehicles shall yield the right-of-way to each vehicle that is a part of a
funeral procession. Whenever the lead vehicle in a funeral procession lawfully
enters an intersection, the remainder of the vehicles in the procession may
continue to follow the lead vehicle through the intersection, notwithstanding
any traffic-control devices or right-of-way provisions of the Revised Code,
provided that the operator of each vehicle exercises due care to avoid
colliding with any other vehicle or pedestrian.
   (c)   No person shall operate any vehicle as a part of a funeral procession
without having the headlights of the vehicle lighted and without displaying a
purple and white or an orange and white pennant in such a manner as to be
clearly visible to traffic approaching from any direction.
   (d)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (e)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.451)
§ 432.22 DRIVING UPON SIDEWALKS, TREE LAWNS OR CURBS.
   (a)   (1)   No person shall drive any vehicle, other than a bicycle or an
electric bicycle if the motor is not engaged, upon a sidewalk or sidewalk area,
except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary driveway.
      (2)   This prohibition does not apply to a law enforcement officer, or
other person sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state, using
an electric bicycle with the motor engaged while in the performance of the
officer’s duties.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting local
authorities from regulating the operation of bicycles or electric bicycles,
except that no local authority may require that bicycles or electric bicycles
be operated on sidewalks.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.711)
   (d)   No person shall drive a vehicle on a tree lawn area or the curb of a
street, except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary driveway or when
otherwise lawfully authorized.
§ 432.23 DRIVER’S VIEW AND CONTROL TO BE UNOBSTRUCTED BY LOAD OR PERSONS.
   (a)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there
are in the front seat such number of persons, as to obstruct the view of the
driver to the front or sides of the vehicle, or to interfere with the driver’s
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (b)   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in a position as to interfere
with the driver’s view ahead or to the sides, or to interfere with the driver’s
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (c)   No person shall open the door of a vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, and can be done
without interfering with the movement of other traffic, nor shall any person
leave a door open on the side of a vehicle available to moving traffic for a
period of time longer than necessary to load or unload passengers.
   (d)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC 4511.70)
§ 432.24 DRIVING UPON STREET POSTED AS CLOSED FOR REPAIR.
   (a)   No person shall drive upon, along, or across a street or highway, or
any part of a street or highway that has been closed in the process of its
construction, reconstruction, or repair, and posted with appropriate signs by
the authority having jurisdiction to close the highway.
(R.C. § 4511.71(A))
   (b)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle on or onto a public street or
highway that is temporarily covered by a rise in water level, including
groundwater or an overflow of water, and that is clearly marked by a sign that
specifies that the road is closed due to the rise in water level and that any
person who uses the closed portion of the road may be fined up to two thousand
dollars ($2,000).
      (2)   A person who is issued a citation for a violation of division (b)
(1) of this section is not permitted to enter a written plea of guilty and
waive the person’s right to contest the citation in court, but instead must
appear in person in the proper court to answer the charge.
(R.C. § 4511.714(A), (B))
   (c)   (1)   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever
violates division (a) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If,
within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of
or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates division (a) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever
violates division (a) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
         B.   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under § 408.02(b).
(ORC 4511.71(B))
      (2)   A.   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
         B.   In addition to the financial sanctions authorized or required
under R.C. § 2929.28 and to any costs otherwise authorized or required under
any provision of law, the court imposing the sentence upon an offender who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of division (b) of this section
shall order the offender to reimburse one or more rescuers for the cost any
such rescuer incurred in rescuing the person, excluding any cost of
transporting the rescued person to a hospital or other facility for treatment
of injuries, up to a cumulative maximum of two thousand dollars ($2,000). If
more than one rescuer was involved in the emergency response, the court shall
allocate the reimbursement proportionately, according to the cost each rescuer
incurred. A financial sanction imposed under this section is a judgment in
favor of the rescuer and, subject to a determination of indigency under R.C. §
2929.28(B), a rescuer may collect the financial sanction in the same manner as
provided in R.C. § 2929.28.
(R.C. § 4511.714(C))
   (d)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Emergency medical service organization.” Has the same meanings as
in R.C. § 9.60.
      (2)   “Firefighting agency.” Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 9.60.
      (3)   “Private fire company.” Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 9.60.
      (4)   “Rescuer.” Means a state agency, political subdivision,
firefighting agency, private fire company, or emergency medical service
organization.
(R.C. § 4511.714(D))
§ 432.25 FOLLOWING AND PARKING NEAR EMERGENCY OR SAFETY VEHICLES.
   (a)   The driver of any vehicle, other than an emergency vehicle or public
safety vehicle on official business, shall not follow any emergency vehicle or
public safety vehicle traveling in response to an alarm closer than 500 feet,
or drive into or park the vehicle within the block where the fire apparatus has
stopped in answer to a fire alarm, unless directed to do so by a police officer
or a firefighter.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC 4511.72)
§ 432.26 DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (a)   No vehicle shall, without the consent of the Fire Department official
in command, be driven over any unprotected hose of a Fire Department that is
laid down on any street or private driveway to be used at any fire or alarm of
fire.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.73)
§ 432.27 DRIVING THROUGH SAFETY ZONE.
   (a)   No vehicle shall at any time be driven through or within a safety
zone.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.60)
§ 432.28 ONE-WAY STREETS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS.
   (a)   (1)   Upon a roadway designated and posted with signs for one-way
traffic, a vehicle shall be driven only in the direction designated.
      (2)   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island shall be driven
only to the right of the rotary traffic island.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.32)
§ 432.29 DRIVING UPON DIVIDED ROADWAYS.
   (a)   Whenever any highway has been divided into two roadways by an
intervening space, or by a physical barrier, or a clearly indicated dividing
section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle shall be
driven only upon the right-hand roadway, and no vehicle shall be driven over,
across, or within any dividing space, barrier, or section, except through an
opening, crossover, or intersection established by public authority. This
section does not prohibit the occupancy of the dividing space, barrier, or
section for the purpose of an emergency stop, or in compliance with an order of
a police officer.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.35)
§ 432.30 STOPPING FOR SCHOOL BUS; ACTUATING VISUAL SIGNALS; DISCHARGING
CHILDREN.
   (a)   The driver of a vehicle, upon meeting or overtaking from either
direction any school bus stopped for the purpose of receiving or discharging
any school child, person attending programs offered by community boards of
mental health and county boards of developmental disabilities, or child
attending a program offered by a head start agency, shall stop at least ten
feet from the front or rear of the school bus and shall not proceed until such
school bus resumes motion, or until signaled by the school bus driver to
proceed. It is no defense to a charge under this division that the school bus
involved failed to display or be equipped with an automatically extended stop
warning sign as required by division (b) of this section.
   (b)   Every school bus shall be equipped with amber and red visual signals
meeting the requirements of R.C. § 4511.771 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, and an automatically extended stop warning sign of a type
approved by the Ohio Department of Education and Workforce, which shall be
actuated by the driver of the bus whenever but only whenever the bus is stopped
or stopping on the roadway for the purpose of receiving or discharging school
children, persons attending programs offered by community boards of mental
health and county boards of developmental disabilities, or children attending
programs offered by head start agencies. A school bus driver shall not actuate
the visual signals or the stop warning sign in designated school bus loading
areas where the bus is entirely off the roadway or at school buildings when
children or persons attending programs offered by community boards of mental
health and county boards of developmental disabilities are loading or unloading
at curbside or at buildings when children attending programs offered by head
start agencies are loading or unloading at curbside. The visual signals and
stop warning sign shall be synchronized or otherwise operated as required by
the Ohio Administrative Code.
   (c)   Where a highway has been divided into four or more traffic lanes, a
driver of a vehicle need not stop for a school bus approaching from the
opposite direction which has stopped for the purpose of receiving or
discharging any school child, persons attending programs offered by community
boards of mental health and county boards of developmental disabilities, or
children attending programs offered by head start agencies. The driver of any
vehicle overtaking the school bus shall comply with division (a) above.
   (d)   School buses operating on divided highways or on highways with four or
more traffic lanes shall receive and discharge all school children, persons
attending programs offered by community boards of mental health and county
boards of developmental disabilities, and children attending programs offered
by head start agencies on their residence side of the highway.
   (e)   No school bus driver shall start the driver’s bus until after any
child, person attending programs offered by community boards of mental health
and county boards of developmental disabilities, or child attending a program
offered by a head start agency who may have alighted therefrom has reached a
place of safety on the child’s or person’s residence side of the road.
   (f)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section may be fined an
amount not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00). A person who is issued a
citation for a violation of division (a) of this section is not permitted to
enter a written plea of guilty and waive the person’s right to contest the
citation in a trial but instead must appear in person in the proper court to
answer the charge.
      (2)   In addition to and independent of any other penalty provided by
law, the court or Mayor may impose upon an offender who violates this section a
class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in Ohio R.C. 4510.02(A)(7). When a
license is suspended under this section, the court or Mayor shall cause the
offender to deliver the license to the court, and the court or Clerk of the
Court immediately shall forward the license to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles,
together with notice of the court’s action.
   (g)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Head start agency” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 3301.32.
      (2)   “School bus” as used in relation to children who attend a program
offered by a head start agency, means a bus that is owned and operated by a
head start agency, is equipped with an automatically extended stop warning sign
of a type approved by the Ohio Department of Education and Workforce, is
painted the color and displays the markings described in R.C. § 4511.77, and is
equipped with amber and red visual signals meeting the requirements of R.C. §
4511.771, irrespective of whether or not the bus has 15 or more children aboard
at any time. The term does not include a van owned and operated by a head start
agency, irrespective of its color, lights or markings.
(ORC 4511.75)
§ 432.31 DRIVING ACROSS GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (a)   (1)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad
grade crossing, the person shall stop within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet
from the nearest rail of the railroad if any of the following circumstances
exist at the crossing:
         A.   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a train.
         B.   A crossing gate is lowered.
         C.   A flagperson gives or continues to give a signal of the approach
or passage of a train.
         D.   There is insufficient space on the other side of the railroad
grade crossing to accommodate the vehicle the person is operating without
obstructing the passage of other vehicles, pedestrians or railroad trains,
notwithstanding any traffic-control signal indication to proceed.
         E.   An approaching train is emitting an audible signal or is plainly
visible, and is in hazardous proximity to the crossing.
         F.   There is insufficient undercarriage clearance to safely negotiate
the crossing.
      (2)   A person who is driving a vehicle and who approaches a railroad
grade crossing shall not proceed as long as any of the circumstances described
in divisions (a)(1)A. through (a)(1)F. of this section exist at the crossing.
   (b)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around, or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while the gate or barrier is
closed, or is being opened or closed unless the person is signaled by a law
enforcement officer or flagperson that it is permissible to do so.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(ORC 4511.62)
§ 432.32 STOPPING AT GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (a)   (1)   Except as provided in division (a)(2) of this section, the
operator of any bus, any school vehicle, or any vehicle transporting material
required to be placarded under 49 C.F.R. Parts 100 to 185, before crossing at
grade any track of a railroad, shall stop the vehicle, and while so stopped,
shall listen through an open door or open window, and look in both directions
along the track for any approaching train and for signals indicating the
approach of a train, and shall proceed only upon exercising due care after
stopping, looking, and listening as required by this section. Upon proceeding,
the operator of such a vehicle shall cross only in a gear that will ensure
there will be no necessity for changing gears while traversing the crossing,
and shall not shift gears while crossing the tracks.
      (2)   Division (a) of this section does not apply at grade crossings when
any local authority has filed an application with the Public Utilities
Commission requesting the approval of an exempt crossing, and the Public
Utilities Commission has authorized and approved an exempt crossing as provided
in Ohio R.C. 4511.63(B).
      (3)   As used in division (a) of this section:
         A.   “Bus” means any vehicle originally designed by its manufacturer
to transport 16 or more passengers, including the driver, or carries 16 or more
passengers, including the driver.
         B.   “Exempt crossing” means a highway rail grade crossing authorized
and approved by the Public Utilities Commission under Ohio R.C. 4511.63(B) at
which vehicles may cross without making the stop otherwise required by this
section.
         C.   “School vehicle” means any vehicle used for the transportation of
pupils to and from a school or school-related function if the vehicle is owned
or operated by, or operated under contract with, a public or nonpublic school.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (a) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of
division (a) of this section or Ohio R.C. 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762,
4511.764, 4511.77, or 4511.79, or a municipal ordinance that is substantially
equivalent to any of those sections, whoever violates division (a) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(ORC 4511.63)
   (b)   (1)   As used in this section, “active grade crossing warning device”
means signs, signals, gates, or other protective devices erected or installed
at a public highway-railway crossing at common grade and activated by an
electrical circuit.
      (2)   The Department of Transportation and local authorities, with the
approval of the Department, may designate dangerous highway crossings over
railroad tracks and erect stop signs thereat.
      (3)   A.   The Department and local authorities shall erect stop signs at
a railroad highway grade crossing in either of the following circumstances:
            1.   New warning devices that are not active grade crossing warning
devices are being installed at the grade crossing, and railroad crossbucks were
the only warning devices at the grade crossing prior to the installation of the
new warning devices.
            2.   The grade crossing is constructed after July 1, 2013 and only
warning devices that are not active grade crossing warning devices are
installed at the grade crossing.
         B.   Division (b)(3)A. of this section does not apply to a railroad
highway grade crossing that the Director of Transportation has exempted from
that division because of traffic flow or other considerations or factors.
      (4)   When stop signs are erected pursuant to division (b)(2) or (b)(3)
of this section, the operator of any vehicle shall stop within 50, but not less
than 15, feet from the nearest rail of the railroad tracks and shall exercise
due care before proceeding across such grade crossing.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (b)(4) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within
one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If,
within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of
two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (f)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.61)
§ 432.33 SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES OR EQUIPMENT AT GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (a)   No person shall operate or move any crawler-type tractor, steam
shovel, derrick, roller, or any equipment or structure having a normal
operating speed of six or less miles per hour or a vertical body or load
clearance of less than nine inches above the level surface of a roadway, upon
or across any tracks at a railroad grade crossing without first complying with
divisions (a)(1) and (2) of this section.
      (1)   Before making any such crossing, the person operating or moving any
such vehicle or equipment shall first stop the same, and while stopped, the
person shall listen and look in both directions along the track for any
approaching train and for signals indicating the approach of a train, and shall
proceed only upon exercising due care.
      (2)   No such crossing shall be made when warning is given by automatic
signal, crossing gates, or a flagperson, or otherwise of the immediate approach
of a railroad train or car.
   (b)   If the normal sustained speed of the vehicle, equipment, or structure
is not more than three miles per hour, the person owning, operating, or moving
the same shall also give notice of the intended crossing to a station agent or
superintendent of the railroad, and a reasonable time shall be given to the
railroad to provide proper protection for the crossing. Where the vehicles or
equipment are being used in constructing or repairing a section of highway
lying on both sides of a railroad grade crossing, and in this construction or
repair it is necessary to repeatedly move the vehicles or equipment over the
crossing, one daily notice specifying when the work will start and stating the
hours during which it will be prosecuted is sufficient.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (d)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.64)
§ 432.34 OBSTRUCTING INTERSECTIONS, CROSSWALKS OR GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (a)   No driver shall enter an intersection or marked crosswalk, or drive
onto any railroad grade crossing, unless there is sufficient space on the other
side of the intersection, crosswalk, or grade crossing to accommodate the
vehicle the driver is operating without obstructing the passage of other
vehicles, pedestrians, or railroad trains, notwithstanding any traffic-control
signal indication to proceed.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.712)
§ 432.35 “PEELING;” CRACKING EXHAUST NOISES.
   No person shall operate any motor vehicle, except when necessary for safe
operation, or in compliance with law, in such a manner that the vehicle is so
rapidly accelerated or started from a stopped position, or in the shifting of
gears while in motion, that the exhaust system emits a loud, cracking or
chattering noise unusual to its normal operation, or that the rubber tires of
such vehicle squeal or leave tire marks on the roadway, commonly known as
“peeling.”
§ 432.36 SHORTCUTTING ACROSS PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No operator of a motor vehicle shall enter upon private property for the
sole purpose of driving across such property, between abutting streets or other
public ways thereof. The failure to stop on such property in connection with or
in furtherance of the enterprise or activities being conducted on the property
shall constitute prima facie evidence of the violation.
§ 432.37 ENTERING AND EXITING CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY.
   No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled-access highway
except at such entrances and exits as are established by public authority.
§ 432.38 WEAVING; FULL TIME AND ATTENTION.
   (a)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or motorcycle upon any street
or highway in a weaving or zigzag course unless such irregular course is
necessary for safe operation or in compliance with law.
   (b)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or motorcycle without giving
his or her full time and attention to the operation of such vehicle.
§ 432.39 OPERATION ON PATHS SET ASIDE FOR BICYCLES.
   (a)   (1)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle, snowmobile, or all-
purpose vehicle upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, when
an appropriate sign giving notice of such use is posted on the path.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect any rule of
the Director of Natural Resources governing the operation of motor vehicles,
snowmobiles, all-purpose vehicles, and bicycles on lands under the Director’s
jurisdiction.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC 4511.713(A), (B))
§ 432.40 LITTERING FROM MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (a)   No operator or occupant of a motor vehicle shall, regardless of
intent, throw, drop, discard, or deposit litter from any motor vehicle in
operation upon any street, road, or highway, except into a litter receptacle in
a manner that prevents its being carried away or deposited by the elements.
   (b)   No operator of a motor vehicle in operation upon any street, road, or
highway shall allow litter to be thrown, dropped, discarded, or deposited from
the motor vehicle, except into a litter receptacle in a manner that prevents
its being carried away or deposited by the elements.
   (c)   As used in this section, “litter” means garbage, trash, waste,
rubbish, ashes, cans, bottles, wire, paper, cartons, boxes, automobile parts,
furniture, glass, or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature.
   (d)   Whoever violates division (a) or (b) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4511.82)
§ 432.41 USE OF EARPHONES WHILE DRIVING.
   (a)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Earphones.” Any device that covers all or a portion of both ears
and that does either of the following:
         A.   Through either a physical connection to another device or a
wireless connection, provides the listener with radio programs, music, or other
information;
         B.   Provides hearing protection.
         “Earphones” does not include speakers or other listening devices that
are built into protective headgear.
      (2)   “Earplugs.” Any device that can be inserted into one or both ears
and that does either of the following:
         A.   Through either a physical connection to another device or a
wireless connection, provides the listener with radio programs, music, or other
information;
         B.   Provides hearing protection.
   (b)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle while wearing earphones over,
or earplugs in, both ears.
   (c)   This section does not apply to:
      (1)   Any person wearing a hearing aid;
      (2)   Law enforcement personnel while on duty;
      (3)   Fire Department personnel and emergency medical service personnel
while on duty;
      (4)   Any person engaged in the operation of equipment for use in the
maintenance or repair of any highway;
      (5)   Any person engaged in the operation of refuse collection equipment;
      (6)   Any person wearing earphones or earplugs for hearing protection
while operating a motorcycle.
   (d)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.84)
§ 432.42 DRIVING ON FLOODWALL.
   (a)   No person shall operate a vehicle on any floodwall or levee.
(Ord. 79-10, passed 3-8-1979)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree. Punishment shall be as provided in §
408.01.
§ 432.43 CRUISING ON PUBLIC STREETS.
    (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following words and phrases
shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
      (1)   “Cruising” means the repetitive driving of any motor vehicle past a
traffic-control point more than once from dusk until dawn in traffic which is
congested at or near the traffic-control point.
      (2)   “Congested traffic” has the following meanings:
         A.   Traffic on any public street, alley, or highway which is delayed
to the point that:
            1.   Motor vehicles cannot move through a 100-yard approach
corridor to an intersection controlled by a traffic light within two complete
green light cycles where the delay in forward movement is due to the position
of other motor vehicles; or
            2.   Motor vehicles cannot move through a 100-yard approach
corridor to an intersection controlled by a traffic light, stop sign, or yield
sign within a five minute period of time where the delay in forward movement is
due to the position of other motor vehicles; or
            3.   Motor vehicles cannot readily move forward on portions of
public streets, alleys or rights-of-way between intersections because traffic
speed is slowed to less than five miles per hour, and the delay in movement is
due to the position of other motor vehicles.
         B.   The determination that a street, alley or highway is congested
shall be made by the ranking peace officer on duty within the affected area.
      (3)   “Green light cycle” means the period commencing upon the switching
of a traffic light from a red light to a green light through to the return of a
red light.
      (4)   “Traffic-control point” means a location along a public street,
alley, or right-of-way utilized by a peace officer on duty within the affected
area as an observation point in order to monitor traffic conditions for
potential violations of this section.
   (b)   No person shall operate or permit a motor vehicle under his or her
care, custody, or control to be driven in such a manner so as to constitute
cruising.
   (c)   This section may be enforced in any area which has been posted as a
“no cruising zone.” “No cruising” signs or signals shall be posted at
reasonable intervals along any public street, alley or right-of-way or portion
thereof which is a “no cruising zone.” The Mayor is hereby authorized to
designate “no cruising zones” in which it is found that conditions of congested
traffic exist.
   (d)   Nothing in this section shall apply to: taxi cabs for hire, buses,
authorized emergency vehicles, vehicles used under contract with the city, or
other vehicles being driven solely for business purposes while engaged in
delivery services.
   (e)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree for the first offense and is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree
on each subsequent offense, and the motor vehicle being driven at the time the
citation is issued for a subsequent offense may be impounded for up to 48
hours.
(Ord. 96-63, passed 8-22-1996)
§ 432.44 TEXTING WHILE DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   (a)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on any street, highway, or
property open to the public for vehicular traffic while using, holding, or
physically supporting with any part of the person’s body an electronic wireless
communications device.
   (b)   Division (a) of this section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device to make
contact, for emergency purposes, with a law enforcement agency, hospital or
health care provider, fire department, or other similar emergency agency or
entity;
      (2)   A person driving a public safety vehicle while using an electronic
wireless communications device in the course of the person’s duties;
      (3)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device when
the person’s motor vehicle is in a stationary position and is outside a lane of
travel, at a traffic control signal that is currently directing traffic to
stop, or parked on a road or highway due to an emergency or road closure;
      (4)   A person using and holding an electronic wireless communications
device directly near the person’s ear for the purpose of making, receiving, or
conducting a telephone call, provided that the person does not manually enter
letters, numbers, or symbols into the device;
      (5)   A person receiving wireless messages on an electronic wireless
communications device regarding the operation or navigation of a motor vehicle;
safety-related information, including emergency, traffic, or weather alerts; or
data used primarily by the motor vehicle, provided that the person does not
hold or support the device with any part of the person’s body;
      (6)   A person using the speaker phone function of the electronic
wireless communications
device, provided that the person does not hold or support the device with any
part of the person’s body;
      (7)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device for
navigation purposes, provided that the person does not do either of the
following during the use:
         A.   Manually enter letters, numbers, or symbols into the device;
         B.   Hold or support the device with any part of the person’s body;
      (8)   A person using a feature or function of the electronic wireless
communications device with a single touch or single swipe, provided that the
person does not do either of the following during the use:
         A.   Manually enter letters, numbers, or symbols into the device;
         B.   Hold or support the device with any part of the person’s body;
      (9)   A person operating a commercial truck while using a mobile data
terminal that transmits and receives data;
      (10)   A person operating a utility service vehicle or a vehicle for or
on behalf of a utility, if the person is acting in response to an emergency,
power outage, or circumstance that affects the health or safety of individuals;
      (11)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device in
conjunction with a voice-operated or hands-free feature or function of the
vehicle or of the device without the use of either hand except to activate,
deactivate, or initiate the feature or function with a single touch or swipe,
provided the person does not hold or support the device with any part of the
person’s body;
      (12)   A person using technology that physically or electronically
integrates the device into the motor vehicle, provided that the person does not
do either of the following during the use:
         A.   Manually enter letters, numbers, or symbols into the device;
         B.   Hold or support the device with any part of the person’s body.
      (13)   A person storing an electronic wireless communications device in a
holster, harness, or article of clothing on the person’s body.
   (c)   If a law enforcement officer issues an offender a ticket, citation, or
summons for a violation of division (a) of this section, the officer shall do
both of the following:
      (1)   Report the issuance of the ticket, citation, or summons to the
officer’s law enforcement agency;
      (2)   Ensure that such report indicates the offender’s race.
   (d)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of operating a
motor vehicle while using an electronic wireless communication device, an
unclassified misdemeanor, and shall be punished as provided in divisions (d)(1)
to (d)(5) of this section.
      (1)   The offender shall be fined, and is subject to a suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege, as follows:
         A.   Except as provided in divisions (d)(1)B., (d)(1)C., (d)(1)D., and
(d)(2) of this section, the court shall impose upon the offender a fine of not
more than $150.
         B.   If, within two years of the violation, the offender has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one prior violation of this section, R.C. §
4511.204, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court shall
impose upon the offender a fine of not more than $250.
         C.   If, within two years of the violation, the offender has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more prior violations of this section,
R.C. § 4511.204, or a substantially equivalent or municipal ordinance, the
court shall impose upon the offender a fine of not more than $500. The court
also may impose a suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial
driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or
nonresident operating privilege for 90 days.
         D.   Notwithstanding divisions (d)(1)A. to (d)(1)C. of this section,
if the offender was operating the motor vehicle at the time of the violation in
a construction zone where a sign was posted in accordance with R.C. § 4511.98,
the court, in addition to all other penalties provided by law, shall impose
upon the offender a fine of two times the amount imposed for the violation
under division (d)(1)A., (d)(1)B., or (d)(1)C. of this section, as applicable.
      (2)   If the offender is in the category of offenders to whom division
(d)(1)A. of this section applies, in lieu of payment of the fine of $150 under
division (d)(1)A. of this section and the assessment of points under division
(d)(4) of this section, the offender instead may elect to attend the distracted
driving safety course, as described in R.C. § 4511.991. If the offender attends
and successfully completes the course, the offender shall be issued written
evidence that the offender successfully completed the course. The offender
shall not be required to pay the fine and shall not have the points assessed
against that offender’s driver’s license if the offender submits the written
evidence to the court within 90 days of the violation of division (a) of this
section. However, successful completion of the course does not result in a
dismissal of the charges for the violation, and the violation is a prior
offense under divisions (d)(1)B. and (d)(1)C. of this section if the offender
commits a subsequent violation or violations of division (a) of this section
within two years of the offense for which the course was completed. This
division does not apply with respect to any offender in the category of
offenders to whom division (d)(1)B., (d)(1)C., or (d)(1)D. of this section
applies.
      (3)   The court may impose any other penalty authorized under R.C. §§
2929.21 to 2929.28. However, the court shall not impose a fine or a suspension
not otherwise specified in division (d)(1) of this section. The court also
shall not impose a jail term or community residential sanction.
      (4)   Except as provided in division (d)(2) of this section, points shall
be assessed for a violation of division (a) of this section in accordance with
R.C. § 4510.036.
      (5)   The offense established under this section is a strict liability
offense and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of this offense as a
strict liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other
offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict
liability offense.
   (e)   A prosecution for an offense in violation of this section does not
preclude a prosecution for an offense in violation of R.C. § 4511.204 based on
the same conduct. However, the two offenses are allied offenses of similar
import under R.C. § 2941.25.
   (f)   (1)   A law enforcement officer does not have probable cause and shall
not stop the operator of a motor vehicle for purposes of enforcing this section
unless the officer visually observes the operator using, holding, or physically
supporting with any part of the person’s body the electronic wireless
communications device.
      (2)   A law enforcement officer who stops the operator of a motor vehicle
for a violation of division (a) of this section shall inform the operator that
the operator may decline a search of the operator’s electronic wireless
communications device. The officer shall not do any of the following:
         A.   Access the device without a warrant, unless the operator
voluntarily and unequivocally gives consent for the officer to access the
device;
         B.   Confiscate the device while awaiting the issuance of a warrant to
access the device;
         C.   Obtain consent from the operator to access the device through
coercion or any other improper means. Any consent by the operator to access the
device shall be voluntary and unequivocal before the officer may access the
device without a warrant.
   (g)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Electronic wireless communications device.” Includes any of the
following:
         A.   A wireless telephone;
         B.   A text-messaging device;
         C.   A personal digital assistant;
         D.   A computer, including a laptop computer and a computer tablet;
         E.   Any device capable of displaying a video, movie, broadcast
television image, or visual image;
         F.   Any other substantially similar wireless device that is designed
or used to communicate text, initiate or receive communication, or exchange
information or data.
      An “electronic wireless communications device” does not include a two-way
radio transmitter or receiver used by a person who is licensed by the federal
communications commission to participate in the amateur radio service.
      (2)   “Utility.” An entity specified in R.C. § 4905.03(A), (C), (D), (E),
or (G).
      (3)   “Utility service vehicle.” A vehicle owned or operated by a
utility.
      (4)   “Voice-operated or hands-free feature or function.” A feature or
function that allows a person to use an electronic wireless communications
device without the use of either hand, except to activate, deactivate, or
initiate the feature or function with a single touch or single swipe.
(R.C. § 4511.204)
Statutory reference:
   No preemption for local regulations imposing greater penalties, see Ohio
R.C. 4511.204(E)
§ 432.45 USE OF ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATION DEVICES BY MINORS OR
PROBATIONARY DRIVERS WHILE DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   (a)   No holder of a temporary instruction permit who has not attained the
age of 18 years and no holder of a probationary driver's license shall drive a
motor vehicle on any street, highway, or property used by the public for
purposes of vehicular traffic or parking while using in any manner an
electronic wireless communications device.
   (b)   Division (a) of this section does not apply to either of the
following:
      (1)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device for
emergency purposes, including an emergency contact with a law enforcement
agency, hospital or health care provider, fire department, or other similar
emergency agency or entity;
      (2)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device whose
motor vehicle is in a stationary position and the motor vehicle is outside a
lane of travel;
      (3)   A person using a navigation device in a voice-operated or hands-
free manner who does not manipulate the device while driving.
   (c)   (1)   Except as provided in division (c)(2) of this section, whoever
violates division (a) of this section shall be fined one hundred fifty dollars
($150.00). In addition, the court shall impose a class seven suspension of the
offender's driver's license or permit for a definite period of 60 days.
      (2)   If the person previously has been adjudicated a delinquent child or
a juvenile traffic offender for a violation of this section, whoever violates
this section shall be fined three hundred dollars ($300.00). In addition, the
court shall impose a class seven suspension of the person’s driver’s license or
permit for a definite period of one year.
   (d)   The filing of a sworn complaint against a person for a violation of
this section does not preclude the filing of a sworn complaint for a violation
of R.C. § 4511.205 for the same conduct. However, if a person is adjudicated a
delinquent child or a juvenile traffic offender for a violation of this section
and is also adjudicated a delinquent child or a juvenile traffic offender for a
violation of R.C. § 4511.205 for the same conduct, the two offenses are allied
offenses of similar import under R.C. § 2941.25.
   (e)   As used in this section, “electronic wireless communications device”
includes any of the following:
      (1)   A wireless telephone;
      (2)   A personal digital assistant;
      (3)   A computer, including a laptop computer and a computer tablet;
      (4)   A text-messaging device;
      (5)   Any other substantially similar electronic wireless device that is
designed or used to communicate via voice, image, or written word.
(ORC 4511.205)
§ 432.99 PENALTY.
   ( Editor’s note: See §§
408.01 and
408.02 for general Traffic Code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.)
CHAPTER 434: O.V.I., RECKLESS OPERATION; SPEED
Section
434.01   Driving or physical control of vehicle while under the influence of
alcohol or drugs
434.011   Immobilizing or disabling device violation
434.02   Reckless operation on streets, public or private property
434.025   Reasonable control
434.03   Maximum speed limits; assured clear distance ahead
434.035   Speed limits on private roads and driveways
434.04   Slow speed; posted minimum speeds
434.05   Speed limitations over bridges
434.06   Speed exceptions for emergency or safety vehicles
434.07   Street racing prohibited
434.08   Vehicular homicide; vehicular manslaughter; vehicular assault
434.09   Operation restricted for mini-trucks and low-speed, under-speed, or
utility vehicles
434.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Criminal offenses by drivers of commercial vehicles, see TRAF.
442.05,
442.09
   Driving upon sidewalks, tree lawns or curbs, see TRAF.
432.22
   DWI by commercial drivers, see TRAF.
442.05,
442.08
   Intoxicated pedestrians, see TRAF.
416.10
   “Peeling,” see TRAF.
432.35
   Liquor consumption in motor vehicle, see GEN. OFF.
612.04
   Weaving; full time and attention, see TRAF.
432.38
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see section histories
   Alcohol defined, see Ohio R.C. 4301.01(B)(1)
   Alteration of prima facie speed limits, see Ohio R.C. 4511.21, 4511.22
(B),4511.23
   Drug of abuse defined, see Ohio R.C. 3719.011(A)
§ 434.01 DRIVING OR PHYSICAL CONTROL OF VEHICLE WHILE UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF
ALCOHOL OR DRUGS.
   (a)   Driving under the influence.
      (1)   No person shall operate any vehicle within this municipality, if,
at the time of the operation, any of the following apply:
         A.   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or
a combination of them.
         B.   The person has a concentration of 0.08 percent or more but less
than 0.17 percent by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole
blood.
         C.   The person has a concentration of 0.096 percent or more but less
than 0.204 percent by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood
serum or plasma.
         D.   The person has a concentration of 0.08 grams or more but less
than 0.17 grams by weight of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath.
         E.   The person has a concentration of 0.11 grams or more but less
than 0.238 grams by weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s
urine.
         F.   The person has a concentration of 0.17 percent or more by weight
per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood.
         G.   The person has a concentration of 0.204 percent or more by weight
per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or plasma.
         H   The person has a concentration of 0.17 grams or more by weight of
alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath.
         I.   The person has a concentration of 0.238 grams or more by weight
of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s urine.
         J.   Except as provided in division (k) of this section, the person
has a concentration of any of the following controlled substances or
metabolites of a controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum
or plasma, or urine that equals or exceeds any of the following:
            1.   The person has a concentration of amphetamine in the person’s
urine of at least 500 nanograms of amphetamine per milliliter of the person’s
urine or has a concentration of amphetamine in the person’s whole blood or
blood serum or plasma of at least 100 nanograms of amphetamine per milliliter
of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            2.   The person has a concentration of cocaine in the person’s
urine of at least 150 nanograms of cocaine per milliliter of the person’s urine
or has a concentration of cocaine in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma of at least 50 nanograms of cocaine per milliliter of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma.
            3.   The person has a concentration of cocaine metabolite in the
person’s urine of at least 150 nanograms of cocaine metabolite per milliliter
of the person’s urine or has a concentration of cocaine metabolite in the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 50 nanograms of
cocaine metabolite per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma.
            4.   The person has a concentration of heroin in the person’s urine
of at least 2,000 nanograms of heroin per milliliter of the person’s urine or
has a concentration of heroin in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma of at least 50 nanograms of heroin per milliliter of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma.
            5.   The person has a concentration of heroin metabolite (6-
monoacetyl morphine) in the person’s urine of at least 10 nanograms of heroin
metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) per milliliter of the person’s urine or has
a concentration of heroin metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) in the person’s
whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 10 nanograms of heroin
metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) per milliliter of the person’s whole blood
or blood serum or plasma.
            6.   The person has a concentration of L.S.D. in the person’s urine
of at least 25 nanograms of L.S.D. per milliliter of the person’s urine or a
concentration of L.S.D. in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of
at least 10 nanograms of L.S.D. per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or
blood serum or plasma.
            7.   The person has a concentration of marihuana in the person’s
urine of at least 10 nanograms of marihuana per milliliter of the person’s
urine or has a concentration of marihuana in the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma of at least 2 nanograms of marihuana per milliliter of the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            8.   Either of the following applies:
               a.   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of
abuse, or a combination of them, and the person has a concentration of
marihuana metabolite in the person’s urine of at least 15 nanograms of
marihuana metabolite per milliliter of the person’s urine or has a
concentration of marihuana metabolite in the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma of at least 5 nanograms of marihuana metabolite per milliliter
of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
               b.   The person has a concentration of marihuana metabolite in
the person’s urine of at least 35 nanograms of marihuana metabolite per
milliliter of the person’s urine or has a concentration of marihuana metabolite
in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 50 nanograms
of marihuana metabolite per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma.
            9.   The person has a concentration of methamphetamine in the
person’s urine of at least 500 nanograms of methamphetamine per milliliter of
the person’s urine or has a concentration of methamphetamine in the person’s
whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 100 nanograms of
methamphetamine per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma.
            10.   The person has a concentration of phencyclidine in the
person’s urine of at least 25 nanograms of phencyclidine per milliliter of the
person’s urine or has a concentration of phencyclidine in the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 10 nanograms of phencyclidine per
milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            11.   The State Board of Pharmacy has adopted a rule pursuant to
R.C. § 4729.041 that specifies the amount of salvia divinorum and the amount of
salvinorin A that constitute concentrations of salvia divinorum and salvinorin
A in a person’s urine, in a person’s whole blood, or in a person’s blood serum
or plasma at or above which the person is impaired for purposes of operating
any vehicle within this state, the rule is in effect, and the person has a
concentration of salvia divinorum or salvinorin A of at least that amount so
specified by rule in the person’s urine, in the person’s whole blood, or in the
person’s blood serum or plasma.
      (2)   No person who, within 20 years of the conduct described in division
(a)(2)A. of this section, previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to
a violation of this division or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a violation of division (a)(1) of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or any other
equivalent offense shall do both of the following:
         A.   Operate any vehicle within this municipality while under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them;
         B.   Subsequent to being arrested for operating the vehicle as
described in division (a)(2)A. of this section, being asked by a law
enforcement officer to submit to a chemical test or tests under Ohio R.C.
4511.191 or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and being advised
by the officer in accordance with Ohio R.C. 4511.192 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance of the consequences of the person’s refusal or
submission to the test or tests, refuse to submit to the test or tests.
   (b)   Underage alcohol consumption. No person under 21 years of age shall
operate any vehicle within this municipality if, at the time of the operation,
any of the following apply:
      (1)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.02 percent but less
than 0.08 percent by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole
blood;
      (2)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.03 percent but less
than 0.096 percent by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood
serum or plasma;
      (3)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.02 grams but less than
0.08 grams by weight of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath;
      (4)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.028 grams but less
than 0.11 grams by weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s urine.
   (c)   Prosecution; limitation on convictions. In any proceeding arising out
of one incident, a person may be charged with a violation of division (a)(1)A.
or (a)(2) and a violation of division (b)(1), (2), or (3) of this section, but
the person may not be convicted of more than one violation of these divisions.
   (d)   Evidence; tests.
      (1)   A.   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a
violation of division (a)(1)A. of this section or for an equivalent offense
that is vehicle-related, the result of any test of any blood or urine withdrawn
and analyzed at any health care provider, as defined in Ohio R.C. 2317.02, may
be admitted with expert testimony to be considered with any other relevant and
competent evidence in determining the guilt or innocence of the defendant.
         B.   In any criminal prosecution for a violation of division (a) or
(b) of this section or for an equivalent offense that is vehicle-related, the
court may admit evidence on the concentration of alcohol, drugs of abuse,
controlled substances, metabolites of a controlled substance, or a combination
of them in the defendant’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, urine,
or other bodily substance at the time of the alleged violation as shown by
chemical analysis of the substance withdrawn within three hours of the time of
the alleged violation. The three-hour time limit specified in this division
regarding the admission of evidence does not extend or affect the two-hour time
limit specified in Ohio R.C. 4511.192(A) as the maximum period of time during
which a person may consent to a chemical test or tests as described in that
section. The court may admit evidence on the concentration of alcohol, drugs of
abuse, or a combination of them as described in this division when a person
submits to a blood test at the request of a law enforcement officer under Ohio
R.C. 4511.191 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or a blood or
urine sample is obtained pursuant to a search warrant. Only a physician, a
registered nurse, an emergency medical technician-intermediate, an emergency
medical technician-paramedic, or a qualified technician, chemist, or
phlebotomist shall withdraw a blood sample for the purpose of determining the
alcohol, drug, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance, or
combination content of the whole blood, blood serum, or blood plasma. This
limitation does not apply to the taking of breath or urine specimens. A person
authorized to withdraw blood under this division may refuse to withdraw blood
under this division, if in that person's opinion, the physical welfare of the
person would be endangered by the withdrawing of blood. The bodily substance
withdrawn under this division (d)(1)B. shall be analyzed in accordance with
methods approved by the Director of Health by an individual possessing a valid
permit issued by the Director pursuant to Ohio R.C. 3701.143.
         C.   As used in division (d)(1)B. of this section, “emergency medical
technician-intermediate” and “emergency medical technician-paramedic” have the
same meanings as in Ohio R.C. 4765.01.
      (2)   In a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (a) of this
section or for an equivalent offense that is vehicle-related, if there was at
the time the bodily substance was withdrawn a concentration of less than the
applicable concentration of alcohol specified in divisions (a)(1)B., (a)(1)C.,
(a)(1)D. and (a)(1)E. of this section or less than the applicable concentration
of a listed controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled
substance specified for a violation of division (a)(1)J. of this section, that
fact may be considered with other competent evidence in determining the guilt
or innocence of the defendant. This division does not limit or affect a
criminal prosecution for a violation of division (b) of this section.
      (3)   Upon the request of the person who was tested, the results of the
chemical test shall be made available to the person or the person's attorney,
immediately upon the completion of the chemical test analysis. If the chemical
test was obtained pursuant to division (d)(1)B. of this section, the person
tested may have a physician, a registered nurse, or a qualified technician,
chemist, or phlebotomist of the person's own choosing administer a chemical
test or tests, at the person's expense, in addition to any administered at the
request of a law enforcement officer. If the person was under arrest as
described in R.C. § 4511.191(A)(5), the arresting officer shall advise the
person at the time of the arrest that the person may have an independent
chemical test taken at the person’s own expense. If the person was under arrest
other than described in R.C. § 4511.191(A)(5), the form to be read to the
person to be tested, as required under division (g) of this section, shall
state that the person may have an independent test performed at the person's
expense. The failure or inability to obtain an additional chemical test by a
person shall not preclude the admission of evidence relating to the chemical
test or tests taken at the request of a law enforcement officer.
      (4)   A.   As used in division (d)(4)B. and C. of this section, “National
Highway Traffic Safety Administration” means the National Highway Traffic
Safety Administration established as an administration of the United States
Department of Transportation under 96 Stat. 2415 (1983), 49 U.S.C. 105.
         B.   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a
violation of division (a) or (b) of this section, of a municipal ordinance
relating to operating a vehicle while under the influence of alcohol, a drug of
abuse, or alcohol and a drug of abuse, or of a municipal ordinance relating to
operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a controlled
substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, breath, or urine, if a law enforcement officer has
administered a field sobriety test to the operator of the vehicle involved in
the violation and if it is shown by clear and convincing evidence that the
officer administered the test in substantial compliance with the testing
standards for any reliable, credible, and generally accepted field sobriety
tests that were in effect at the time the tests were administered, including,
but not limited to, any testing standards then in effect that were set by the
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, all of the following apply:
            1.   The officer may testify concerning the results of the field
sobriety test so administered.
            2.   The prosecution may introduce the results of the field
sobriety test so administered as evidence in any proceedings in the criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding.
            3.   If testimony is presented or evidence is introduced under
division (d)(4)B.1. or 2. of this section and if the testimony or evidence is
admissible under the Rules of Evidence, the court shall admit the testimony or
evidence and the trier of fact shall give it whatever weight the trier of fact
considers to be appropriate.
         C.   Division (d)(4)B. of this section does not limit or preclude a
court, in its determination of whether the arrest of a person was supported by
probable cause or its determination of any other matter in a criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding of a type described in that division,
from considering evidence or testimony that is not otherwise disallowed by
division (d)(4)B. of this section.
   (e)   (1)   Subject to division (e)(3) of this section, in any criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a violation of division (a)(1)B.,
(a)(1)C., (a)(1)D., (a)(1)E., (a)(1)F., (a)(1)G., (a)(1)H., (a)(1)I. or (a)
(1)J. or (b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(3), or (b)(4) of this section or for an equivalent
offense that is substantially equivalent to any of those divisions, a
laboratory report from any laboratory personnel issued a permit by the
Department of Health authorizing an analysis as described in this division that
contains an analysis of the whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, urine,
or other bodily substance tested and that contains all of the information
specified in this division shall be admitted as prima facie evidence of the
information and statements that the report contains. The laboratory report
shall contain all of the following:
         A.   The signature, under oath, of any person who performed the
analysis;
         B.   Any findings as to the identity and quantity of alcohol, a drug
of abuse, a controlled substance, a metabolite of a controlled substance, or a
combination of them that was found;
         C.   A copy of a notarized statement by the laboratory director of a
designee of the director that contains the name of each certified analyst or
test performer involved with the report, the analyst’s or test performer’s
employment relationship with the laboratory that issued the report, and a
notation that performing an analysis of the type involved is part of the
analyst’s or test performer’s regular duties;
         D.   An outline of the analyst’s or test performer’s education,
training, and experience in performing the type of analysis involved and a
certification that the laboratory satisfies appropriate quality control
standards in general and, in this particular analysis, under rules of the
Department of Health.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law regarding the admission
of evidence, a report of the type described in division (e)(1) of this section
is not admissible against the defendant to whom it pertains in any proceeding,
other than a preliminary hearing or a grand jury proceeding, unless the
prosecutor has served a copy of the report on the defendant’s attorney or, if
the defendant has no attorney, on the defendant.
      (3)   A report of the type described in division (e)(1) of this section
shall not be prima facie evidence of the contents, identity, or amount of any
substance if, within seven days after the defendant to whom the report pertains
or the defendant’s attorney receives a copy of the report, the defendant or the
defendant’s attorney demands the testimony of the person who signed the report.
The judge in the case may extend the seven-day time limit in the interest of
justice.
   (f)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, any physician,
registered nurse, emergency medical technician-intermediate, emergency medical
technician-paramedic, or qualified technician, chemist, or phlebotomist who
withdraws blood from a person pursuant to this section or Ohio R.C. 4511.19,
4511.191 or 4511.192, and any hospital, first-aid station, or clinic at which
blood is withdrawn from a person pursuant to this section or Ohio R.C. 4511.19,
4511.191 or 4511.192, is immune from criminal liability and civil liability
based upon a claim of assault and battery or any other claim that is not a
claim of malpractice, for any act performed in withdrawing blood from the
person. The immunity provided in this division also extends to an emergency
medical service organization that employs an emergency medical technician-
intermediate or emergency medical technician-paramedic who withdraws blood
under this section. The immunity provided in this division is not available to
a person who withdraws blood if the person engages in willful or wanton
misconduct.
      (2)   As used in division (f)(1), “emergency medical technician-
intermediate” and “emergency medical technician-paramedic” have the same
meanings as in Ohio R.C. 4765.01.
(ORC 4511.19(A) - (F))
   (g)   Implied consent.
      (1)   Definitions. As used in this section:
         A.   “Alcohol monitoring device” means any device that provides for
continuous alcohol monitoring, any ignition interlock device, any immobilizing
or disabling device other than an ignition interlock device that is constantly
available to monitor the concentration of alcohol in a person’s system, or any
other device that provides for the automatic testing and periodic reporting of
alcohol consumption by a person and that a court orders a person to use as a
sanction imposed as a result of the person’s conviction of or plea of guilty to
an offense.
         B.   “Community addiction services provider” has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 5119.01.
         C.   “Physical control” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 4511.194.
      (2)   Implied consent to chemical tests. Any person who operates a
vehicle upon a highway or any public or private property used by the public for
vehicular travel or parking within this municipality or who is in physical
control of a vehicle shall be deemed to have given consent to a chemical test
or tests of the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine
to determine the alcohol, drug of abuse, controlled substance, metabolite of a
controlled substance, or combination content of the person’s whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, breath, or urine if arrested for a violation of division (a),
(b) or (o) of this section, Ohio R.C. 4511.19(A) or (B), Ohio R.C. 4511.194 or
a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or any other municipal O.V.I.
ordinance.
      (3)   The chemical test or tests under division (g)(2) of this section
shall be administered at the request of a law enforcement officer having
reasonable grounds to believe the person was operating or in physical control
of a vehicle in violation of a division, section, or ordinance identified in
division (g)(2) of this section. The law enforcement agency by which the
officer is employed shall designate which of the tests shall be administered.
      (4)   Effect of death or unconsciousness. Any person who is dead or
unconscious, or who otherwise is in a condition rendering the person incapable
of refusal, shall be deemed to have consented as provided in division (g)(2) of
this section and the test or tests may be administered, subject to Ohio R.C.
313.12 to 313.16.
(ORC 4511.191(A))
      (5)   A.   If a law enforcement officer arrests a person for a violation
of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or a municipal O.V.I. ordinance and if the person if
convicted would be required to be sentenced under R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(c), (G)
(1)(d) or (G)(1)(e), the law enforcement officer shall request the person to
submit, and the person shall submit, to a chemical test or tests of the
person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine for the purpose
of determining the alcohol, drug of abuse, controlled substance, metabolite of
a controlled substance, or combination content of the person’s whole blood,
blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine. A law enforcement officer who makes a
request pursuant to this division that a person submit to a chemical test or
tests is not required to advise the person of the consequences of submitting
to, or refusing to submit to, the test or tests and is not required to give the
person the form described in division (g)(7) of this section, but the officer
shall advise the person at the time of the arrest that if the person refuses to
take a chemical test the officer may employ whatever reasonable means are
necessary to ensure that the person submits to a chemical test of the person's
whole blood or blood serum or plasma. The officer shall also advise the person
at the time of the arrest that the person may have an independent chemical test
taken at the person’s own expense. Divisions (g)(3) and (g)(4) of this section
apply to the administration of a chemical test or tests pursuant to this
division.
         B.   If a person refuses to submit to a chemical test upon a request
made pursuant to division (g)(5)A. of this section, the law enforcement officer
who made the request may employ whatever reasonable means are necessary to
ensure that the person submits to a chemical test of the person’s whole blood
or blood serum or plasma. A law enforcement officer who acts pursuant to this
division to ensure that a person submits to a chemical test of the person’s
whole blood or blood serum or plasma is immune from criminal and civil
liability based upon a claim for assault and battery or any other claim for the
acts, unless the officer so acted with malicious purpose, in bad faith, or in a
wanton or reckless manner.
      (6)   Advice required. Except as provided in division (g)(5) of this
section, the arresting law enforcement officer shall give advice in accordance
with this division to any person under arrest for a violation of division (a),
(b) or (o) of this section, Ohio R.C. 4511.19(A) or (B), Ohio R.C. 4511.194 or
a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or any other municipal O.V.I.
ordinance. The officer shall give that advice in a written form that contains
the information described in division (g)(7) of this section and shall read the
advice to the person. The form shall contain a statement that the form was
shown to the person under arrest and read to the person by the arresting
officer. One or more persons shall witness the arresting officer’s reading of
the form, and the witnesses shall certify to this fact by signing the form. The
person must submit to the chemical test or tests, subsequent to the request of
the arresting officer, within two hours of the time of the alleged violation
and, if the person does not submit to the test or tests within that two-hour
time limit, the failure to submit automatically constitutes a refusal to submit
to the test or tests.
      (7)   Certification of arrest. Except as provided in division (g)(5) of
this section, if a person is under arrest as described in division (g)(6) of
this section, before the person may be requested to submit to a chemical test
or tests to determine the alcohol, drug of abuse, controlled substance,
metabolite of a controlled substance, or combination content of the person’s
whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine, the arresting officer
shall read the following form to the person:
      “You now are under arrest for (specifically state the offense under state
law or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance for which the person was
arrested – operating a vehicle under the influence of alcohol, a drug, or a
combination of them; operating a vehicle while under the influence of a listed
controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance;
operating a vehicle after underage alcohol consumption; or having physical
control of a vehicle while under the influence).
      “If you refuse to take any chemical test required by law, your Ohio
driving privileges will be suspended immediately, and you will have to pay a
fee to have the privileges reinstated. If you have a prior conviction of OVI or
operating a vehicle while under the influence of a listed controlled substance
or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance under state or municipal law
within the preceding 20 years, you are now under arrest for state OVI, and, if
you refuse to take a chemical test, you will face increased penalties if you
subsequently are convicted of the state OVI.
      (Read this part unless the person is under arrest for solely having
physical control of a vehicle while under the influence.) If you take any
chemical test required by law and are found to be at or over the prohibited
amount of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled
substance in your whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine as set
by law, your Ohio driving privileges will be suspended immediately, and you
will have to pay a fee to have the privileges reinstated.
      If you take a chemical test, you may have an independent chemical test
taken at your own expense.”
      (8)   Actions required by arresting officer. If the arresting law
enforcement officer does not ask a person under arrest as described in division
(g)(5) or (g)(6) of this section to submit to a chemical test or tests under
Ohio R.C. 4511.191 or this section, the arresting officer shall seize the Ohio
or out-of-state driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit of the person
and immediately forward it to the court in which the arrested person is to
appear on the charge. If the arrested person is not in possession of the
person’s license or permit or it is not in the person’s vehicle, the officer
shall order the person to surrender it to the law enforcement agency that
employs the officer within 24 hours after the arrest, and, upon the surrender,
the agency immediately shall forward the license or permit to the court in
which the person is to appear on the charge. Upon receipt of the license or
permit, the court shall retain it pending the arrested person’s initial
appearance and any action taken under Ohio R.C. 4511.196.
      (9)   A.   If a law enforcement officer asks a person under arrest as
described in division (g)(5) of this section to submit to a chemical test or
tests under that division and the test results indicate a prohibited
concentration of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a
controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma,
breath, or urine at the time of the alleged offense, or if a law enforcement
officer asks a person under arrest as described in division (g)(6) of this
section to submit to a chemical test or tests under Ohio R.C. 4511.191 or this
section, if the officer advises the person in accordance with this section of
the consequences of the person’s refusal or submission, and if either the
person refuses to submit to the test or tests or, unless the arrest was for a
violation of division (o) of this section, Ohio R.C. 4511.194 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the person submits to the test or
tests and the test results indicate a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a
controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the person’s
whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine at the time of the alleged
offense, the arresting officer shall do all of the following:
            1.   On behalf of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, notify the
person that, independent of any penalties or sanctions imposed upon the person,
the person’s Ohio driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege is suspended immediately, that the suspension
will last at least until the person’s initial appearance on the charge, which
will be held within five days after the date of the person’s arrest or the
issuance of a citation to the person, and that the person may appeal the
suspension at the initial appearance or during the period of time ending 30
days after that initial appearance;
            2.   Seize the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit of
the person and immediately forward it to the Registrar. If the arrested person
is not in possession of the person’s license or permit or it is not in the
person’s vehicle, the officer shall order the person to surrender it to the law
enforcement agency that employs the officer within 24 hours after the person is
given notice of the suspension, and, upon the surrender, the officer’s
employing agency immediately shall forward the license or permit to the
Registrar;
            3.   Verify the person’s current residence and, if it differs from
that on the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit, notify
the Registrar of the change;
            4.   Send to the Registrar, within 48 hours after the arrest of the
person, a sworn report that includes all of the following statements:
               a.   That the officer had reasonable grounds to believe that, at
the time of the arrest, the arrested person was operating a vehicle in
violation of Ohio R.C. 4511.19(A) or (B) or a municipal O.V.I. ordinance or for
being in physical control of a stationary vehicle in violation of Ohio R.C.
4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
               b.   That the person was arrested and charged with a violation
of Ohio R.C. 4511.19(A) or (B), Ohio R.C. 4511.194 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, or a municipal O.V.I. ordinance;
               c.   Unless division (g)(9)A.4.e. of this section applies, that
the officer asked the person to take the designated chemical test or tests,
advised the person in accordance with this section of the consequences of
submitting to, or refusing to take, the test or tests, and gave the person the
form described in division (g)(7) of this section;
               d.   Unless division (g)(9)A.4.e. of this section applies, that
either the person refused to submit to the chemical test or tests or, unless
the arrest was for a violation of Ohio R.C. 4511.194 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the person submitted to the chemical test or
tests and the test results indicate a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a
controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the person’s
whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine at the time of the alleged
offense;
               e.   If the person was under arrest as described in division (g)
(5) of this section and the chemical test or tests were performed in accordance
with that division, that the person was under arrest as described in that
division, that the chemical test or tests were performed in accordance with
that division, and that test results indicated a prohibited concentration of
alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in
the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine at the time
of the alleged offense.
         B.   Division (g)(9)A. of this section does not apply to a person who
is arrested for a violation of division (o) of this section, Ohio R.C. 4511.194
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or any other substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, who is asked by a law enforcement officer to
submit to a chemical test or tests under this section, and who submits to the
test or tests, regardless of the amount of alcohol, a controlled substance, or
a metabolite of a controlled substance that the test results indicate is
present in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine.
      (10)   Sworn report of arresting officer.
         A.   The arresting officer shall give the officer’s sworn report that
is completed under this section to the arrested person at the time of the
arrest, or the Registrar of Motor Vehicles shall send the report to the person
by regular first class mail as soon as possible after receipt of the report,
but not later than 14 days after receipt of it. An arresting officer may give
an unsworn report to the arrested person at the time of the arrest provided the
report is complete when given to the arrested person and subsequently is sworn
to by the arresting officer. As soon as possible, but not later than 48 hours
after the arrest of the person, the arresting officer shall send a copy of the
sworn report to the court in which the arrested person is to appear on the
charge for which the person was arrested.
         B.   The sworn report of an arresting officer completed under this
section is prima facie proof of the information and statements that it
contains. It shall be admitted and considered as prima facie proof of the
information and statements that it contains in any appeal under Ohio R.C.
4511.197 relative to any suspension of a person’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege that results from
the arrest covered by the report.
(ORC 4511.192)
      (11)   Suspension effective immediately. A suspension of a person’s
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating
privilege under this section for the time described in Ohio R.C. 4511.191(B) or
(C) is effective immediately from the time at which the arresting officer
serves the notice of suspension upon the arrested person. Any subsequent
finding that the person is not guilty of the charge that resulted in the
person’s being requested to take the chemical test or tests under division (g)
(1) through (g)(5) of this section does not affect the suspension.
      (12)   Initial appearance. If a person arrested for operating a vehicle
in violation of division (a) or (b) of this section, Ohio R.C. 4511.19(A) or
(B), or any other municipal O.V.I. ordinance, or for being in physical control
of a vehicle in violation of division (o) of this section or Ohio R.C. 4511.194
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, regardless of whether the
person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privilege is or is not suspended under Ohio R.C. 4511.191(B) or (C)
or Ohio R.C. Chapter 4510, the person’s initial appearance on the charge
resulting from the arrest shall be held within five days of the persons’ arrest
or the issuance of the citation to him or her, subject to any continuance
granted by the court pursuant to Ohio R.C. 4511.197 regarding the issues
specified in that section.
(ORC 4511.191(D))
   (h)   Penalty for driving under the influence.
      (1)   Whoever violates any provisions of divisions (a)(1)A. through (a)
(1)I. or (a)(2) of this section is guilty of operating a vehicle under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them. Whoever
violates division (a)(1)J. of this section is guilty of operating a vehicle
while under the influence of a listed controlled substance or a listed
metabolite of a controlled substance. The court shall sentence the offender for
either offense under Ohio R.C. Chapter 2929, except as otherwise authorized or
required by divisions (h)(1)A. through (h)(1)E. of this section:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (h)(1)B., C., D., or E.
of this section, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree
and the court shall sentence the offender to all of the penalties and sanctions
provided in Ohio R.C. 4511.19(G)(1)(a)(i) to (iv).
         B.   Except as otherwise provided in division (h)(1)E. of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one violation of division (a) of this section
or one other equivalent offense is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
The court shall sentence the offender to all of the penalties and sanctions
provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(b)(i) through (G)(1)(b)(v).
         C.   Except as otherwise provided in division (h)(1)E. of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of division (a) of this
section or other equivalent offenses is guilty of a misdemeanor. The court
shall sentence the offender to all of the penalties and sanctions provided in
R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(c)(i) through (G)(1)(c)(vi).
         D.   Except as otherwise provided in division (h)(1)E. of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of division (a) of
this section or other equivalent offenses or an offender who, within 20 years
of the offense, previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to five or
more violations of that nature, or an offender who previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to a specification of the type described in R.C.
§ 2941.1413, is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
         E.   An offender who previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of Ohio R.C. 4511.19(A) that was a felony, regardless of
when the violation and the conviction or guilty plea occurred, is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   An offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (a) of this section and who subsequently seeks reinstatement of the
driver’s or occupational driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating
privilege suspended under this section or Ohio R.C. 4511.19 as a result of the
conviction or guilty plea shall pay a reinstatement fee as provided in Ohio
R.C. 4511.191(F)(2).
      (3)   A.   If an offender is sentenced to a jail term under Ohio R.C.
4511.19(G)(1)(b)(i) or (ii) or (G)(1)(c)(i) or (ii) and if, within 60 days of
sentencing of the offender, the court issues a written finding on the record
that, due to the unavailability of space at the jail where the offender is
required to serve the term, the offender will not be able to begin serving that
term within the 60-day period following the date of sentencing, the court may
impose an alternative sentence as specified in Ohio R.C. 4511.19(G)(3) that
includes a term of house arrest with electronic monitoring, with continuous
alcohol monitoring, or with both electronic monitoring and continuous alcohol
monitoring.
         B.   As an alternative to the mandatory jail terms as required by Ohio
R.C. 4511.19(G)(1), the court may sentence the offender as provided in Ohio
R.C. 4511.19(G)(3).
      (4)   If an offender’s driver’s or occupational driver’s license or
permit or nonresident operating privilege is suspended under division (h) of
this section or Ohio R.C. 4511.19(G) and if Ohio R.C. 4510.13 permits the court
to grant limited driving privileges, the court may grant the limited driving
privileges in accordance with that section. If division (A)(7) of that section
requires the court impose as a condition of the privileges that the offender
must display on the vehicle that is driven subject to the privileges restricted
license plates that are issued under Ohio R.C. 4503.231, except as provided in
division (B) of that section, the court shall impose that condition as one of
the conditions of the limited driving privileges granted to the offender,
except as provided in Ohio R.C. 4503.231(B).
      (5)   Fines imposed under this section for a violation of division (a) of
this section shall be distributed as provided in Ohio R.C. 4511.19(G)(5).
      (6)   If title to a motor vehicle that is subject to an order of criminal
forfeiture under division (h)(1)C., D., or E. of this section is assigned or
transferred and Ohio R.C. 4503.234(B)(2) or (3) applies, in addition to or
independent of any other penalty established by law, the court may fine the
offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of the National
Automobile Dealers Association. The proceeds of any fine so imposed shall be
distributed in accordance with division (C)(2) of that section.
      (7)   In all cases in which an offender is sentenced under division (h)
of this section, the offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in Ohio R.C. 4509.01. If the offender fails to
provide that proof of financial responsibility, the court, in addition to any
other penalties provided by law, may order restitution pursuant to § 698.02(f)
or Ohio R.C. 2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding five thousand
dollars ($5,000) for any economic loss arising from an accident or collision
that was the direct and proximate result of the offender’s operation of the
vehicle before, during, or after committing the offense for which the offender
is sentenced under division (h) of this section.
      (8)   A court may order an offender to reimburse a law enforcement agency
for any costs incurred by the agency with respect to a chemical test or tests
administered to the offender if all of the following apply:
         A.   The offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (a) of this section.
         B.   The test or tests were of the offender’s whole blood, blood serum
or plasma, or urine.
         C.   The test or tests indicated that the offender had a prohibited
concentration of a controlled substance or a metabolite of a controlled
substance in the offender’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or urine at the
time of the offense.
      (9)   As used in division (g) of this section, “electronic monitoring”
has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2929.01.
   (i)   Penalty for operating a vehicle after underage alcohol consumption.
Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of operating a motor
vehicle after underage alcohol consumption and shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (i)(2) of this section,
the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. In addition to
any other sanction imposed for the offense, the court shall impose a class six
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privilege from the range specified in Ohio R.C. 4510.02(A)(6). The court may
grant limited driving privileges relative to the suspension under R.C. §§
4510.021 and 4510.13. The court may grant unlimited driving privileges with an
ignition interlock device relative to the suspension and may reduce the period
of suspension as authorized under R.C. § 4510.022. If the court grants
unlimited driving privileges under R.C. § 4510.022, the court shall suspend any
jail term imposed under division (i)(1) of this section as required under that
section.
      (2)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of division (a)
of this section or other equivalent offenses, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. In addition to any other sanction imposed for
the offense, the court shall impose a class four suspension of the offender’s
driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit,
probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4). The court may grant limited driving
privileges relative to the suspension under R.C. §§ 4510.021 and 4510.13.
      (3)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. §
2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss arising from an
accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result of the
offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after committing the
violation of division (b) of this section.
   (j)   (1)   No court shall sentence an offender to an alcohol treatment
program under this section unless the treatment program complies with the
minimum standards for alcohol treatment programs adopted under Ohio R.C.
Chapter 5119 by the Director of Mental Health and Addiction Services.
      (2)   An offender who stays in a drivers’ intervention program or in an
alcohol treatment program under an order issued under this section shall pay
the cost of the stay in the program. However, if the court determines that an
offender who stays in an alcohol treatment program under an order issued under
this section is unable to pay the cost of the stay in the program, the court
may order that the cost be paid from the court’s indigent drivers’ alcohol
treatment fund.
   (k)   If a person whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege is suspended under this section or Ohio R.C.
4511.19 files an appeal regarding any aspect of the person’s trial or sentence,
the appeal itself does not stay the operation of the suspension.
   (l)   Division (a)(1)J. of this section does not apply to a person who
operates a vehicle while the person has a concentration of a listed controlled
substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance in the person’s
whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or urine that equals or exceeds the amount
specified in that division, if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs.
      (2)   The person injected, ingested, or inhaled the controlled substance
in accordance with the health professional’s directions.
   (m)   The prohibited concentrations of a controlled substance or a
metabolite of a controlled substance listed in division (a)(1)J. of this
section also apply in a prosecution of a violation of Ohio R.C. 2923.16(D) in
the same manner as if the offender is being prosecuted for a prohibited
concentration of alcohol.
   (n)   All terms defined in Ohio R.C. 4510.01 apply to this section. If the
meaning of a term defined in Ohio R.C. 4510.01 conflicts with the meaning of
the same term as defined in Ohio R.C. 4501.01 or 4511.01, the term as defined
in Ohio R.C. 4510.01 applies to this section.
(ORC 4511.19(G) - (M))
   (o)   Physical control of vehicle while under the influence.
      (1)   Definition. As used in this division, “physical control” means
being in the driver’s position of the front seat of a vehicle and having
possession of the vehicle’s ignition key or other ignition device.
      (2)   Generally. No person shall be in physical control of a vehicle if,
at the time of the physical control, any of the following apply:
         A.   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or
a combination of them.
         B.   The person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine
contains at least the concentration of alcohol specified in divisions (a)(1)B.,
(a)(1)C., (a)(1)D., or (a)(1)E. of this section.
         C.   Except as provided in division (o)(5) of this section, the person
has a concentration of a listed controlled substance or a listed metabolite of
a controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or
urine that equals or exceeds the concentration specified in division (a)(1)J.
of this section.
      (3)   A.   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a
violation of this section, if a law enforcement officer has administered a
field sobriety test to the person in physical control of the vehicle involved
in the violation and if it is shown by clear and convincing evidence that the
officer administered the test in substantial compliance with the testing
standards for any reliable, credible, and generally acceptable field sobriety
tests that were in effect at the time the tests were administered, including
but not limited to any testing standards then in effect what were set by the
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, all of the following apply:
            1.   The officer may testify concerning the results of the field
sobriety test so administered.
            2.   The prosecution may introduce the results of the field
sobriety test so administered as evidence in any proceedings in the criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding.
            3.   If testimony is presented or evidence is introduced under
division (o)(3)A.1. or 2. of this section and if the testimony or evidence is
admissible under the Rules of Evidence, the court shall admit the testimony or
evidence, and the trier of fact shall give it whatever weight the trier of fact
considers to be appropriate.
         B.   Division (o)(3)A. of this section does not limit or preclude a
court, in its determination of whether the arrest of a person was supported by
probable cause or its determination of any other matter in a criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding of a type described in that division,
from considering evidence or testimony that is not otherwise disallowed by
division (o)(3)A. of this section.
      (4)   Penalty. Whoever violates this division (o) is guilty of having
physical control of a vehicle while under the influence, a misdemeanor of the
first degree. In addition to other sanctions imposed, the court may impose on
the offender a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary
license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in Ohio
R.C. 4510.02(A)(7).
      (5)   Exception. Division (o)(2)C. of this section does not apply to a
person who is in physical control of a vehicle while the person has a
concentration of a listed controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a
controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or
urine that equals or exceeds the amount specified in division (a)(1)J. of this
section if both of the following apply:
         A.   The person obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs.
         B.   The person injected, ingested, or inhaled the controlled
substance in accordance with the health professional’s directions.
(ORC 4511.194)
   (p)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Community residential sanction,” “continuous alcohol monitoring”,
“jail,” “mandatory prison term,” “mandatory term of local incarceration,”
“prison term,” and “sanction” have the same meanings as in Ohio R.C. 2929.01.
      (2)   “Drug of abuse” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 4506.01.
      (3)   “Equivalent offense” means any of the following:
         A.   A violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A);
         B.   A violation of a municipal O.V.I. ordinance;
         C.   A violation of Ohio R.C. 2903.04 in a case in which the offender
was subject to the sanctions described in division (D) of that section;
         D.   A violation of Ohio R.C. 2903.06(A)(1) or Ohio R.C. 2903.08 or a
municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to either of those
divisions;
         E.   A violation of Ohio R.C. 2903.06(A)(2), (A)(3), or (A)(4), Ohio
R.C. 2903.08(A)(2), or former Ohio R.C. 2903.07, or a municipal ordinance that
is substantially equivalent to any of those divisions or that former section,
in a case in which a judge or jury as the trier of fact found that the offender
was under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them;
         F.   A violation of R.C. § 1547.11(A);
         G.   A violation of a municipal ordinance prohibiting a person from
operating or being in physical control of any vessel underway or from
manipulating any water skis, aquaplane, or similar device on the waters of this
state while under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination
of them or prohibiting a person from operating or being in physical control of
any vessel underway or from manipulating any water skis, aquaplane, or similar
device on the waters of this state with a prohibited concentration of alcohol,
a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine;
         H.   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance, law of
another state, or law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to
R.C. § 4511.19(A) or R.C. § 1547.11(A);
         I.   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to R.C. § 4511.19(A) or R.C. § 1547.11(A).
      (4)   “Equivalent offense that is vehicle-related” means an equivalent
offense that is any of the following:
         A.   A violation described in division A., B., C., D., or E. of the
definition for “equivalent offense” provided in this division (p);
         B.   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance, law of
another state, or law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to
R.C. § 4511.19(A);
         C.   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to R.C. § 4511.19(A).
      (5)   “Mandatory jail term” means the mandatory term in jail of 3, 6, 10,
20, 30, or 60 days that must be imposed under Ohio R.C. 4511.19(G)(1)(a), (G)
(1)(b), or (G)(1)(c) upon an offender convicted of a violation of division (A)
of that section and in relation to which all of the following apply:
         A.   Except as specifically authorized under Ohio R.C. 4511.19, the
term must be served in a jail.
         B.   Except as specifically authorized under Ohio R.C. 4511.19, the
term cannot be suspended, reduced, or otherwise modified pursuant to Ohio R.C.
2929.21 through 2929.28 or any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
      (6)   “Municipal O.V.I. ordinance” and “municipal O.V.I. offense” mean
any municipal ordinance prohibiting a person from operating a vehicle while
under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them or
prohibiting a person from operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration
of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance
in the whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine.
(ORC 4511.181)
Statutory reference:
   Disposition of fines, immobilization of vehicle and impoundment of license
plates, criminal forfeiture for municipal ordinance conviction, see Ohio R.C.
4511.193
   Effect of refusal to submit to test, seizure of license, suspension periods,
appeal procedures, occupational driving privileges, and indigent drivers
alcohol treatment funds, see Ohio R.C. 4511.191
   Judicial pretrial suspension, initial appearance, see Ohio R.C. 4511.196
   Mayor’s Court to suspend driver’s license, see Ohio R.C. 1905.201
   Seizure of vehicles upon arrest, see Ohio R.C. 4511.195
   Trial judge to suspend driver’s license, see Ohio R.C. 4510.05
§ 434.011 IMMOBILIZING OR DISABLING DEVICE VIOLATION.
   (a)   (1)   No offender who has been granted limited or unlimited driving
privileges, during any period that the offender is required to operate only a
motor vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device, shall request
or permit any other person to breathe into the device if it is an ignition
interlock device or another type of device that monitors the concentration of
alcohol in a person’s breath or to otherwise start the motor vehicle equipped
with the device, for the purpose of providing the offender with an operable
motor vehicle.
      (2)   No person shall breathe into an immobilizing or disabling device
that is an ignition interlock device or another type of device that monitors
the concentration of alcohol in a person’s breath or otherwise start a motor
vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device, for the purpose of
providing an operable motor vehicle to another person who has been granted
limited or unlimited driving privileges under the condition that the person
operate only a motor vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device.
      (3)   No unauthorized person shall tamper with or circumvent the
operation of an immobilizing or disabling device.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of an immobilizing or
disabling device violation, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(ORC 4510.44)
§ 434.02 RECKLESS OPERATION ON STREETS, PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (a)   No person shall operate a vehicle on any street or highway in willful
or wanton disregard of the safety of persons or property.
   (b)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle on any public or private
property other than streets or highways in willful or wanton disregard of the
safety of persons or property.
      (2)   Division (b)(1) of this section does not apply to the competitive
operation of vehicles on public or private property when the owner of such
property knowingly permits such operation thereon.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates any
provision of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year
of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates any
provision of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If,
within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of
two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates any
provision of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC 4511.20, 4511.201)
§ 434.025 REASONABLE CONTROL.
   (a)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle, agricultural tractor, or
agricultural tractor that is towing, pulling, or otherwise drawing a unit of
farm machinery on any street, highway, or property open to the public for
vehicular traffic without being in reasonable control of the vehicle,
agricultural tractor, or unit of farm machinery.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of operating a motor vehicle
or agricultural trailer without being in control of it, a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4511.202)
§ 434.03 MAXIMUM SPEED LIMITS; ASSURED CLEAR DISTANCE AHEAD.
   (a)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle at a speed greater or less
than is reasonable or proper, having due regard for the traffic, surface, and
width of the street or highway and any other conditions, and no person shall
drive any motor vehicle in and upon any street or highway at a greater speed
than will permit him or her to bring it to a stop within the assured clear
distance ahead.
   (b)   It is prima facie lawful, in the absence of a lower limit declared or
established pursuant to this section by the Director of Transportation or local
authorities, for the operator of a motor vehicle to operate the same at a speed
not exceeding the following:
      (1)   A.   Twenty miles per hour in school zones during school recess and
while children are going to or leaving school during the opening or closing
hours, and when 20 miles per hour school speed limit signs are erected, except
that on controlled-access highways and expressways, if the right-of-way line
fence has been erected without pedestrian opening, the speed shall be governed
by division (b)(4) of this section, and on freeways, if the right-of-way line
fence has been erected without pedestrian opening, the speed shall be governed
by divisions (b)(10) and (b)(11) of this section. The end of every school zone
may be marked by a sign indicating the end of the zone. Nothing in this section
or in the Manual and Specifications for a Uniform System of Traffic-Control
Devices shall be construed to require school zones to be indicated by signs
equipped with flashing or other lights, or giving other special notice of the
hours in which the school zone speed limit is in effect.
         B.   As used in this section, “school” means all of the following:
            1.   Any school chartered under R.C. § 3301.16;
            2.   Any nonchartered school that during the preceding year filed
with the Ohio Department of Education and Workforce in compliance with O.A.C. §
3301-35-08, a copy of the school’s report for the parents of the school’s
pupils certifying that the school meets state minimum standards for
nonchartered, nontax- supported schools and presents evidence of this filing to
the jurisdiction from which it is requesting the establishment of a school
zone;
            3.   Any special elementary school that in writing requests the
County Engineer to create a school zone at the location of the school. Upon
receipt of the written request, the County Engineer shall create a school zone
at that location by erecting appropriate signs;
            4.   Any preschool education program operated by an educational
service center that is located on a street or highway with a speed limit of 45
miles per hour or more, when the educational service center in writing requests
that the County Engineer create a school zone at the location of that program.
Upon receipt of such a written request, the County Engineer shall create a
school zone at that location by erecting the appropriate signs.
         C.   As used in this section, “school zone” means that portion of a
street or highway passing a school fronting upon the street or highway that is
encompassed by projecting the school property lines to the fronting street or
highway, and also includes that portion of a state highway. Upon request from
local authorities for streets and highways under their jurisdiction and that
portion of a state highway under the jurisdiction of the Director of
Transportation or a request from a County Engineer in the case of a school zone
for a special elementary school, the Director may extend the traditional school
zone boundaries. The distances in divisions (b)(1)C.1. through 3. below shall
not exceed 300 feet per approach per direction, and are bounded by whichever of
the following distances or combination thereof the Director approves as most
appropriate:
            1.   The distance encompassed by projecting the school building
lines normal to the fronting highway and extending a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction;
            2.   The distance encompassed by projecting the school property
lines intersecting the fronting highway and extending a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction;
            3.   The distance encompassed by the special marking of the
pavement for a principal school pupil crosswalk plus a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction of the highway.
         D.   Nothing in this section shall be construed to invalidate the
Director’s initial action on August 9, 1976, establishing all school zones at
the traditional school zone boundaries defined by projecting school property
lines, except when those boundaries are extended as provided in divisions (b)
(1)A. and (b)(1)C. of this section.
         E.   As used in this division, “crosswalk” has the meaning given that
term in Ohio R.C. 4511.01(LL)(2).
         F.   The Director may, upon request by resolution of the legislative
authority and upon submission by the municipality of such engineering, traffic,
and other information as the Director considers necessary, designate a school
zone on any portion of a state route lying within the municipality that
includes a crosswalk customarily used by children going to or leaving a school
during recess and opening and closing hours, whenever the distance, as measured
in a straight line, from the school property line nearest the crosswalk to the
nearest point of a crosswalk is no more than 1,320 feet. Such a school zone
shall include the distance encompassed by the crosswalk and extending 300 feet
in each appropriate direction of the state route.
         G.   As used in this section, “special elementary school” means a
school that meets all of the following:
            1.   It is not chartered and does not receive tax revenue from any
source.
            2.   It does not educate children beyond the eighth grade.
            3.   It is located outside the limits of a municipal corporation.
            4.   A majority of the total number of students enrolled at the
school are not related by blood.
            5.   The principal or other person in charge of the special
elementary school annually sends a report to the superintendent of the school
district in which the special elementary school is located indicating the total
number of students enrolled at the school, but otherwise the principal or other
person in charge does not report any other information or data to the
superintendent.
      (2)   Twenty-five miles per hour in all other portions of the
municipality, except on state routes outside business districts, through
highways outside business districts, and alleys;
      (3)   Thirty-five miles per hour on all state routes or through highways
within the municipality outside business districts, except as provided in
divisions (b)(4) and (b)(6) of this section;
      (4)   Fifty miles per hour on controlled-access highways and expressways
within the municipality, except as provided in divisions (b)(12), (b)(13), (b)
(14), (b)(15), and (b)(16) of this section;
      (5)   Fifty-five miles per hour on highways outside the municipality,
other than highways within island jurisdictions as provided in division (b)(8)
of this section, highways as provided in divisions (b)(9) and (b)(10) of this
section, and highways, expressways and freeways as provided in divisions (b)
(12), (b)(13), (b)(14), and (b)(16) of this section;
      (6)   Fifty miles per hour on state routes within the municipality
outside urban districts unless a lower prima facie speed is established as
further provided in this section;
      (7)   Fifteen miles per hour on all alleys within the municipality;
      (8)   Thirty-five miles per hour on highways outside the municipality
that are within an island jurisdiction;
      (9)   Sixty miles per hour on two-lane state routes outside municipal
corporations as established by the Director under Ohio R.C. 4511.21(H)(2);
      (10)   Sixty miles per hour on two-lane state routes outside municipal
corporations as established by the Director under Ohio R.C. 4511.21(H)(2);
      (11)   Fifty-five miles per hour on freeways with paved shoulders inside
the municipality, other than freeways as provided in divisions (b)(14) and (b)
(16) of this section;
      (12)   Sixty miles per hour on rural expressways with traffic control
signals and on all portions of rural divided highways, except as provided in
divisions (b)(13) and (b)(14) of this section;
      (13)   Sixty-five miles per hour on all rural expressways without traffic
control signals;
      (14)   Seventy miles per hour on all rural freeways;
      (15)   Fifty-five miles per hour on all portions of freeways or
expressways in congested areas as determined by the Director and that are
located within a municipal corporation or within an interstate freeway
outerbelt, except as provided in division (b)(16) of this section;
      (16)   Sixty-five miles per hour on all portions of freeways or
expressways without traffic control signals in urbanized areas.
   (c)   It is prima facie unlawful for any person to exceed any of the speed
limitations in divisions (b)(1)A., (b)(2), (b)(3), (b)(4), (b)(6), (b)(7), (b)
(8) and (b)(9) of this section or any declared or established pursuant to this
section by the Director or local authorities and it is unlawful for any person
to exceed any of the speed limitations in division (d) of this section. No
person shall be convicted of more than one violation of this section for the
same conduct, although violations of more than one provision of this section
may be charged in the alternative in a single affidavit.
   (d)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon a street or highway as
follows:
      (1)   At a speed exceeding 55 miles per hour, except upon a two-lane
state route as provided in division (b)(10) of this section and upon a highway,
expressway or freeway as provided in divisions (b)(12), (b)(13), (b)(14), and
(b)(16) of this section;
      (2)   At a speed exceeding 60 miles per hour upon a two-lane state route
as provided in division (b)(10) of this section and upon a highway as provided
in division (b)(12) of this section;
      (3)   At a speed exceeding 65 miles per hour upon an expressway as
provided in division (b)(13) of this section or upon a freeway as provided in
division (b)(16) of this section, except upon a freeway as provided in division
(b)(14) of this section;
      (4)   At a speed exceeding 70 miles per hour upon a freeway as provided
in division (b)(14) of this section;
      (5)   At a speed exceeding the posted speed limit upon a highway,
expressway or freeway for which the Director has determined and declared a
speed limit pursuant to Ohio R.C. 4511.21(I)(2) or (L)(2).
   (e)   Pursuant to Ohio R.C. 4511.21(E), in every charge of violating this
section, the affidavit and warrant shall specify the time, place and speed at
which the defendant is alleged to have driven, and in charges made in reliance
upon division (c) of this section also the speed which division (b)(1)A., (b)
(2), (b)(3), (b)(4), (b)(6), (b)(7), (b)(8) or (b)(9) of, or a limit declared
or established pursuant to, this section or Ohio R.C. 4511.21 declares is prima
facie lawful at the time and place of such alleged violation, except that in
affidavits where a person is alleged to have driven at a greater speed than
will permit the person to bring the vehicle to stop within the assured clear
distance ahead, the affidavit and warrant need not specify the speed at which
the defendant is alleged to have driven.
   (f)   Pursuant to Ohio R.C. 4511.21(F), when a speed in excess of both a
prima facie limitation and a limitation in division (d) of this section is
alleged, the defendant shall be charged in a single affidavit, alleging a
single act, with a violation indicated of both division (b)(1)A., (b)(2), (b)
(3), (b)(4), (b)(6), (b)(7), (b)(8) or (b)(9) of this section, or of a limit
declared or established pursuant to this section or Ohio R.C. 4511.21 by the
Director or local authorities, and of the limitation in division (d) of this
section. If the court finds a violation of division (b)(1)A., (b)(2), (b)(3),
(b)(4), (b)(6), (b)(7), (b)(8) or (b)(9) of, or a limit declared or established
pursuant to, this section or Ohio R.C. 4511.21 has occurred, it shall enter a
judgment of conviction under such division and dismiss the charge under
division (d) of this section. If it finds no violation of division (b)(1)A.,
(b)(2), (b)(3), (b)(4), (b)(6), (b)(7), (b)(8) or (b)(9) of, or a limit
declared or established pursuant to, this section or Ohio R.C. 4511.21, it
shall then consider whether the evidence supports a conviction under division
(d) of this section.
   (g)   Pursuant to Ohio R.C. 4511.21(G), points shall be assessed for a
violation of a limitation under division (d) of this section in accordance with
Ohio R.C. 4510.036.
(ORC 4511.21(A) - (G))
   (h)   Whenever, in accordance with Ohio R.C. 4511.21(H) through (N), the
maximum prima facie speed limitations as established herein have been altered,
either higher or lower, and the appropriate signs giving notice have been
erected as required, operators of motor vehicles shall be governed by the speed
limitations set forth on such signs. It is prima facie unlawful for any person
to exceed the speed limits posted upon such signs.
   (i)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Commercial bus.” A motor vehicle designed for carrying more than
nine passengers and used for the transportation of persons for compensation.
      (2)   “Divided.” Means a roadway having two or more travel lanes for
vehicles moving in opposite directions and that is separated by a median of
more than four feet, excluding turn lanes.
      (3)   “Interstate system.” Has the same meaning as in 23 U.S.C. 101.
      (4)   “Noncommercial bus.” Includes but is not limited to a school bus,
or a motor vehicle operated solely for the transportation of persons associated
with a charitable or nonprofit organization.
      (5)   “Outerbelt.” A portion of a freeway that is part of the interstate
system and is located in the outer vicinity of a major municipal corporation or
group of municipal corporations, as designated by the Director.
      (6)   “Rural.” Means an area outside urbanized areas and outside of a
business or urban district, and areas that extend within urbanized areas where
the roadway characteristics remain mostly unchanged from those outside the
urbanized areas.
      (7)   “Urbanized area.” Has the same meaning as in 23 U.S.C. § 101.
(R.C. § 4511.21(O))
   (j)   Penalty.
      (1)   A violation of any provision of this section is one of the
following:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (j)(1)B., (j)(1) C.,
and (j)(2) and (j)(3) of this section, a minor misdemeanor;
         B.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of any provision of this
section, Ohio R.C. 4511.21, or any provision of any other municipal ordinance
that is substantially equivalent to any provision of that section, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
         C.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of any
provision of this section, Ohio R.C. 4511.21, or any provision of any other
municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any provision of that
section, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   If the offender operated a motor vehicle faster than 35 miles an
hour in a business district of the municipality, faster than 50 miles an hour
in other portions of the municipality, or faster than 35 miles an hour in a
school zone during recess or while children are going to or leaving school
during the school’s opening or closing hours, a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. This division does not apply if penalties may be imposed under division
(j)(1)A.2. or (j)(1)A.3. of this section.
      (3)   Notwithstanding division (j)(1) of this section, if the offender
operated a motor vehicle in a construction zone where a sign was then posted in
accordance with Ohio R.C. 4511.98, the court, in addition to all other
penalties provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a fine of two times
the usual amount imposed for the violation. No court shall impose a fine of two
times the usual amount imposed for the violation upon an offender if the
offender alleges, in an affidavit filed with the court prior to the offender’s
sentencing, that the offender is indigent and is unable to pay the fine imposed
pursuant to this division and if the court determines that the offender is an
indigent person and unable to pay the fine.
      (4)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.21(P))
§ 434.035 SPEED LIMITS ON PRIVATE ROADS AND DRIVEWAYS.
   (a)   The owner of a private road or driveway located in a private
residential area containing 20 or more dwelling units may establish a speed
limit on the road or driveway by complying with all of the following
requirements:
      (1)   The speed limit is not less than 25 miles per hour and is indicated
by a sign that is in a proper position, is sufficiently legible to be seen by
an ordinarily observant person, and meets the specifications for the basic
speed limit sign included in the manual adopted by the Department of
Transportation pursuant to Ohio R.C. 4511.09;
      (2)   The owner has posted a sign at the entrance of the private road or
driveway that is in plain view and clearly informs persons entering the road or
driveway that they are entering private property, a speed limit has been
established for the road or driveway, and the speed limit is enforceable by law
enforcement officers under state law.
   (b)   No person shall operate a vehicle upon a private road or driveway as
provided in division (a) of this section at a speed exceeding any speed limit
established and posted pursuant to division (a).
   (c)   When a speed limit is established and posted in accordance with
division (a) of this section, a law enforcement officer may apprehend a person
violating the speed limit of the residential area by utilizing any of the means
described in Ohio R.C. 4511.091 or by any other accepted method of determining
the speed of a motor vehicle and may stop and charge the person with exceeding
the speed limit.
   (d)   Pursuant to Ohio R.C. 4511.211(D), points shall be assessed for
violation of a speed limit established and posted in accordance with division
(a) of this section in accordance with Ohio R.C. 4510.036.
   (e)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Owner” includes but is not limited to a person who holds title to
the real property in fee simple, a condominium owners’ association, a property
owners’ association, a board of directors or trustees of a private community,
and a nonprofit corporation governing a private community.
      (2)   “Private residential area containing 20 or more dwelling units”
does not include a Chautauqua assembly as defined in Ohio R.C. 4511.90.
   (f)   Penalty. A violation of division (b) of this section is one of the
following:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (f)(2) and (f)(3) of this
section, a minor misdemeanor;
      (2)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of this section, Ohio
R.C. 4511.211(B), or any other municipal ordinance that is substantially
equivalent to that division, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
      (3)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of this
section, Ohio R.C. 4511.211(B), or any other municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to that division, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (4)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.211)
§ 434.04 SLOW SPEED; POSTED MINIMUM SPEEDS.
   (a)   No person shall stop or operate a vehicle at such an unreasonably slow
speed as to impede or block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic,
except when stopping or reduced speed is necessary for safe operation or to
comply with law.
   (b)   Whenever the Director of Transportation or local authorities determine
on the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation that slow speeds on
any part of a controlled-access highway, expressway, or freeway consistently
impede the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, the Director or such
local authority may declare a minimum speed limit below which no person shall
operate a motor vehicle, except when necessary for safe operation or in
compliance with the law. No minimum speed limit established hereunder shall be
less than 30 miles per hour, greater than 50 miles per hour, nor effective
until the provisions of Ohio R.C. 4511.21 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, relating to appropriate signs, have been fulfilled and
local authorities have obtained the approval of the Director.
   (c)   In a case involving a violation of this section, the trier of fact, in
determining whether the vehicle was being operated at an unreasonably slow
speed, shall consider the capabilities of the vehicle and its operator.
   (d)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (e)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.22)
§ 434.05 SPEED LIMITATIONS OVER BRIDGES.
   (a)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle over any bridge or other
elevated structure constituting a part of a highway at a speed which is greater
than the maximum speed that can be maintained with safety to such bridge or
structure, when such structure is posted with signs as provided in this
section.
      (2)   The Department of Transportation upon request from any local
authority shall, or upon its own initiative may, conduct an investigation of
any bridge or other elevated structure constituting a part of a highway, and if
it finds that such structure cannot with safety withstand traffic traveling at
the speed otherwise permissible under this Traffic Code, the Department shall
determine and declare the maximum speed of traffic which such structure can
withstand, and shall cause or permit suitable signs stating such maximum speed
to be erected and maintained at a distance of a least 100 feet before each end
of the structure.
      (3)   Upon the trial of any person charged with a violation of this
section, proof of such determination of the maximum speed by the Department and
the existence of such signs shall constitute prima facie evidence of the
maximum speed which can be maintained with safety to such bridge or structure.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.23)
§ 434.06 SPEED EXCEPTIONS FOR EMERGENCY OR SAFETY VEHICLES.
   The prima facie speed limitations set forth in Ohio R.C. 4511.21 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance do not apply to emergency vehicles
or public safety vehicles when they are responding to emergency calls and are
equipped with and displaying at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating
light visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet
to the front of the vehicle, and when the drivers thereof sound audible signals
by bell, siren, or exhaust whistle. This section does not relieve the driver of
an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons using the street or highway.
(ORC 4511.24)
§ 434.07 STREET RACING PROHIBITED.
   (a)   As used in this section, “street racing” means the operation of two or
more vehicles from a point side by side at accelerating speeds in a competitive
attempt to outdistance each other, or the operation of one or more vehicles
over a common selected course, from the same point to the same point, wherein
timing is made of the participating vehicles involving competitive
accelerations or speeds. Persons rendering assistance in any manner to such
competitive use of vehicles shall be equally charged as the participants. The
operation of two or more vehicles side by side either at speeds in excess of
prima facie lawful speeds established by Ohio R.C. 4511.21(B)(1)(a) through (B)
(9) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or rapidly accelerating
from a common starting point to a speed in excess of such prima facie lawful
speeds shall be prima facie evidence of street racing.
   (b)   No person shall participate in street racing upon any public road,
street, or highway in this municipality.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of street racing, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. In addition to any other sanctions, the court
shall suspend the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privileges for not less than 30 days or more than three years. No judge shall
suspend the first 30 days of any suspension of an offender’s license, permit,
or privilege imposed under this division.
(ORC 4511.251)
§ 434.08 VEHICULAR HOMICIDE; VEHICULAR MANSLAUGHTER; VEHICULAR ASSAULT.
   (a)   No person, while operating or participating in the operation of a
motor vehicle, motorcycle, snowmobile, locomotive, watercraft, or aircraft,
shall cause the death of another or the unlawful termination of another’s
pregnancy in any of the following ways:
      (1)   A.   As the proximate result of committing a violation of Ohio R.C.
4511.19(A) or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
         B.   As the proximate result of committing a violation of Ohio R.C.
1547.11(A) or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
         C.   As the proximate result of committing a violation of Ohio R.C.
4561.15(A)(3) or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   In one of the following ways:
         A.   Recklessly;
         B.   As the proximate result of committing, while operating or
participating in the operation of a motor vehicle or motorcycle in a
construction zone, a reckless operation offense, provided that this division
applies only if the person whose death is caused or whose pregnancy is
unlawfully terminated is in the construction zone at the time of the offender’s
commission of the reckless operation offense in the construction zone and does
not apply as described in division (d) of this section.
      (3)   In one of the following ways:
         A.   Negligently;
         B.   As the proximate result of committing, while operating or
participating in the operation of a motor vehicle or motorcycle in a
construction zone, a speeding offense, provided that this division applies only
if the person whose death is caused or whose pregnancy is unlawfully terminated
is in the construction zone at the time of the offender’s commission of the
speeding offense in the construction zone and does not apply as described in
division (d) of this section.
      (4)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of any provision
of any section contained in Ohio R.C. Title 45 that is a minor misdemeanor or
of a municipal ordinance that, regardless of the penalty set by ordinance for
the violation, is substantially equivalent to any provision of any section
contained in Ohio R.C. Title 45 that is a minor misdemeanor.
   (b)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a)(1) or (2) of this section is
guilty of aggravated vehicular homicide, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   A.   Whoever violates division (a)(3) of this section is guilty of
vehicular homicide. Except as otherwise provided in this division, vehicular
homicide is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Vehicular homicide committed in
violation of division (a)(3) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if, at the time of the offense, the offender was driving
under a suspension or cancellation imposed under R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other
provision of the Ohio Revised Code or was operating a motor vehicle or
motorcycle, did not have a valid driver's license, commercial driver's license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privilege, and was not eligible for renewal of the offender's driver's license
or commercial driver's license without examination under R.C. § 4507.10 or if
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation
of this section or any traffic-related homicide, manslaughter, or assault
offense.
         B.   In addition to any other sanctions imposed pursuant to this
division, the court shall impose upon the offender a class four suspension of
the offender's driver's license, commercial driver's license, temporary
instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
      (3)   A.   Whoever violates division (a)(4) of this section is guilty of
vehicular manslaughter. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
vehicular manslaughter is a misdemeanor of the second degree. Vehicular
manslaughter is a misdemeanor of the first degree if, at the time of the
offense, the offender was driving under a suspension or cancellation imposed
under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other provision of the Revised Code or was
operating a motor vehicle or motorcycle, did not have a valid driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license
or nonresident operating privilege, and was not eligible for renewal of the
offender’s driver’s license or commercial driver’s license without examination
under R.C. § 4507.10 or if the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to a violation of this section or any traffic-related homicide,
manslaughter, or assault offense.
         B.   In addition to any other sanctions imposed pursuant to this
division, the court shall impose upon the offender a class six suspension of
the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in Ohio R.C. 4510.02(A)(6) or, if the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this
section, any traffic-related homicide, manslaughter, or assault offense, or a
traffic-related murder, felonious assault, or attempted murder offense, a class
four suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in Ohio R.C. 4510.02(A)(4).
   (c)   The court shall impose a mandatory jail term of at least 15 days on an
offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor violation of
division (a)(3)B. of this section and may impose upon the offender a longer
jail term as authorized pursuant to R.C. § 2929.24.
   (d)   Divisions (a)(2)B. and (a)(3)B. of this section do not apply in a
particular construction zone unless signs of the type described in Ohio R.C.
2903.081 are erected in that construction zone in accordance with the
guidelines and design specifications established by the Director of
Transportation under Ohio R.C. 5501.27. The failure to erect signs of the type
described in Ohio R.C. 2903.081 in a particular construction zone in accordance
with those guidelines and design specifications does not limit or affect the
application of division (a)(1), (a)(2)A., (a)(3)A., or (a)(4) of this section
in that construction zone or the prosecution of any person who violates any of
those divisions in that construction zone.
   (e)   (1)   As used in this section:
         A.   “Construction zone” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 5501.27.
         B.   “Mandatory prison term” and “mandatory jail term” have the same
meanings as in Ohio R.C. 2929.01.
         C.   “Motor vehicle” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 4501.01.
         D.   “Reckless operation offense” means a violation of Ohio R.C.
4511.20 or a municipal ordinance substantially equivalent to Ohio R.C. 4511.20.
         E.   “Speeding offense” means a violation of Ohio R.C. 4511.21 or a
municipal ordinance pertaining to speed.
         F.   “Traffic-related homicide, manslaughter, or assault offense”
means a violation of Ohio R.C. 2903.04 in circumstances in which division (D)
of that section applies, a violation of Ohio R.C. 2903.06 or 2903.08, or a
violation of Ohio R.C. 2903.06, 2903.07, or 2903.08 as they existed prior to
March 23, 2000.
         G.   “Traffic-related murder, felonious assault, or attempted murder
offense” means a violation of Ohio R.C. 2903.01 or Ohio R.C. 2903.02 in
circumstances in which the offender used a motor vehicle as the means to commit
the violation, a violation of Ohio R.C. 2903.11(A)(2) in circumstances in which
the deadly weapon used in the commission of the violation is a motor vehicle,
or an attempt to commit aggravated murder or murder in violation of Ohio R.C.
2923.02 in circumstances in which the offender used a motor vehicle as the
means to attempt to commit the aggravated murder or murder.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, when a penalty or suspension is
enhanced because of a prior or current violation of a specified law or a prior
or current specified offense, the reference to the violation of the specified
law or the specified offense includes any violation of any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, former law of this state, or current or former
law of this or another state or the United States.
   (f)   Vehicular assault.
      (1)   No person, while operating or participating in the operation of a
motor vehicle or motorcycle, shall cause serious physical harm to another
person or another’s unborn as the proximate result of committing, while
operating or participating in the operation of a motor vehicle or motorcycle in
a construction zone, a speeding offense, provided that this division applies
only if the person to whom the serious physical harm is caused or to whose
unborn the serious physical harm is caused is in the construction zone at the
time of the offender’s commission of the speeding offense in the construction
zone and does not apply as described in division (f)(4) of this section.
      (2)   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this division, vehicular
assault committed in violation of division (f)(1) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. Vehicular assault committed in violation of
division (f)(1) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law if, at the time of the offense, the offender was driving under a
suspension imposed under R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other provision of the Ohio
Revised Code or if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (f)(1) of this section, R.C. § 2903.08, or
any traffic-related homicide, manslaughter, or assault offense.
         B.   In addition to any other sanctions imposed, the court shall
impose upon the offender a class four suspension of the offender’s driver’s
license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit,
probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
      (3)   The court shall impose a mandatory jail term of at least seven days
on an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor violation
of division (f)(1) of this section and may impose upon the offender a longer
jail term as authorized pursuant to R.C. § 2929.24.
      (4)   Division (f)(1) of this section does not apply in a particular
construction zone unless signs of the type described in R.C. § 2903.081 are
erected in that construction zone in accordance with the guidelines and design
specifications established by the Director of Transportation under R.C. §
5501.27.
      (5)   As used in this division (f):
         A.   “Construction zone.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5501.27.
         B.   “Mandatory jail term.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
         C.   “Speeding offense.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2903.06.
         D.   “Traffic-related homicide, manslaughter, or assault offense.” Has
the same meaning as in R.C. § 2903.06.
      (6)   For the purposes of this division (f), when a penalty or suspension
is enhanced because of a prior or current violation of a specified law or a
prior or current specified offense, the reference to the violation of the
specified law or the specified offense includes any violation of any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, former law of this state, or
current or former law of another state or the United States.
(R.C. 2903.08(A)(3), (C)(3), (D)(3), (E) - (G))
Statutory reference:
   Vehicular assault and aggravated vehicular assault, felony offenses, see
Ohio R.C. 2903.08
   Trial court to suspend driver’s license, see Ohio R.C. 4510.05, 4510.10
§ 434.09 OPERATION RESTRICTED FOR MINI-TRUCKS AND LOW-SPEED, UNDER-SPEED, OR
UTILITY VEHICLES.
   (a)   (1)   No person shall operate a low-speed vehicle upon any street or
highway having an established speed limit greater than 35 miles per hour.
      (2)   No person shall operate an under-speed or utility vehicle or a
mini-truck upon any street or highway except as follows:
         A.   Upon a street or highway having an established speed limit not
greater than 35 miles per hour and only upon such streets or highways where the
Municipality has granted permission for such operation in accordance with
division (e) of this section;
         B.   A state park or political subdivision employee or volunteer
operating a utility vehicle exclusively within the boundaries of state parks or
political subdivision parks for the operation or maintenance of state or
political subdivision park facilities.
      (3)   No person shall operate a motor-driven cycle or motor scooter upon
any street or highway having an established speed limit greater than 45 miles
per hour.
   (b)   This section does not prohibit either of the following:
      (1)   A person operating a low-speed, under-speed, or utility vehicle or
a mini-truck from proceeding across an intersection of a street or highway
having a speed limit greater than 35 miles per hour;
      (2)   A person operating a motor-driven cycle or motor scooter from
proceeding across an intersection of a street or highway having a speed limit
greater than 45 miles per hour.
   (c)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the municipality from adopting
more stringent local ordinances, resolutions, or regulations governing the
operation of a low-speed vehicle or a mini-truck, or a motor-driven cycle or
motor scooter.
   (d)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (a) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC 4511.214)
   (e)   By ordinance or resolution, the Municipality may authorize the
operation of under-speed or utility vehicles or mini-trucks on a public street
or highway under its jurisdiction. The Municipality shall do all of the
following:
      (1)   Limit the operation of those vehicles to streets and highways
having an established speed limit not greater than 35 miles per hour;
      (2)   Require the vehicle owner who wishes to operate an under-speed or
utility vehicle or a mini-truck on the public streets or highways to submit the
vehicle to an inspection conducted by a local law enforcement agency that
complies with inspection requirements established by the Department of Public
Safety under Ohio R.C. 4513.02;
      (3)   Permit the operation on public streets or highways of only those
vehicles that successfully pass the required vehicle inspection, are registered
in accordance with Ohio R.C. Chapter 4503, and are titled in accordance with
Ohio R.C. Chapter 4505;
      (4)   Notify the Director of Public Safety, in a manner the Director
determines, of the authorization for the operation of under-speed or utility
vehicles or mini-trucks.
   (f)   The municipality may establish additional requirements for the
operation of under-speed or utility vehicles or mini-trucks on its streets and
highways.
(ORC 4511.215)
   (g)   Notwithstanding divisions (a) through (f) of this section, a person
may operate a utility vehicle on any public roads or right-of-way, other than a
freeway, when traveling from one farm field to another for agricultural
purposes if the vehicle is displaying a triangular slow-moving vehicle emblem
as described in R.C. § 4513.112.
(R.C. § 4511.216)
   (h)   (1)   Except as provided in this division (h) and divisions (e) and
(f) of this section, no person shall operate a mini-truck within this
municipality.
      (2)   A person may operate a mini-truck on a farm for agricultural
purposes only when the owner of the farm qualifies for the current agricultural
use valuation tax credit. A mini-truck may be operated by or on behalf of such
a farm owner on public roads and rights-of-way only when traveling from one
farm field to another.
      (3)   A person may operate a mini-truck on property owned or leased by a
dealer who sells mini-trucks at retail.
      (4)   Whoever violates this division (h) shall be penalized as provided
in division (d) of this section.
(ORC 4519.401)
§ 434.99 PENALTY.
   ( Editor’s note: See §§
408.01 and
408.02 for general Traffic Code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.)
CHAPTER 436: LICENSING; ACCIDENTS
Section
436.01   Driver’s or commercial driver’s license required
436.02   Possession of more than one license prohibited
436.03   Driving with temporary instruction permit
436.035   Driving with probationary license
436.04   Certain acts prohibited
436.05   Owner or operator allowing another to drive
436.06   Display of license
436.07   Driving under suspension or revocation or without proof of financial
responsibility or in violation of license restrictions (Repealed)
436.071   Driving under suspension or in violation of license restrictions
436.072   Operating motor vehicle or motorcycle without valid license
436.073   Driving under O.V.I. suspension
436.074   Driving under financial responsibility law suspension or
cancellation; driving under a nonpayment of judgment suspension
436.075   Failure to reinstate license
436.08   Operation or sale without certificate of title
436.09   Display of license plates; registration; obstructions
436.10   Use of illegal license plates
436.11   Failure to stop after accident
436.12   Stopping after accident on other than public roads or highways
436.13   Vehicle accident resulting in damage to realty
436.14   Removal of vehicles after accidents
 
436.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Glass removal from street after accident, see TRAF.
412.01
   Licensing requirements of snowmobile and all-purpose vehicle operator, see
TRAF.
476.05
   Snowmobile and all-purpose vehicle accident reports, see TRAF.
476.06
   Suspension of driver’s license, see TRAF.
408.03; GEN. OFF.
698.07
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see section histories
   Driver’s license law, see Ohio R.C. Ch. 4507
   Employment of a minor to operate a taxicab prohibited, see Ohio R.C.
4507.321
   Motor vehicle licensing law, see Ohio R.C. Ch. 4503
   Power of trial court of record to suspend or revoke license for certain
violations, see Ohio R.C. 4510.05, 4510.15
   State accident reports, see Ohio R.C. 4509.01(J), 4509.06, 4509.74, 5502.11
   State point system suspension, see Ohio R.C. 4510.037
§ 436.01 DRIVER’S OR COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (a)   No person shall permit the operation of a motor vehicle upon any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking, knowing the operator does not have a valid driver's license issued
to the operator by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a deputy registrar under
R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid commercial driver's license issued under R.C.
Chapter 4506. Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this division is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When the offense is an
unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced pursuant to §
698.02, §
698.03, R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
698.02(d) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
698.02(f)(1)B.1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
698.02(e)(1)C. and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
698.02(e)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case. If, within three years of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to
two or more violations of this section or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.02(A)(1))
   (b)   (1)   No person shall be required to obtain a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license for the purpose of temporarily driving, operating, drawing,
moving, or propelling a road roller or road machinery upon a street or highway.
      (2)   No person shall be required to obtain a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license for the purpose of temporarily driving, operating, drawing,
moving, or propelling any agricultural tractor or implement of husbandry upon a
street or highway at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less.
      (3)   No person shall drive, operate, draw, move, or propel any
agricultural tractor or implement of husbandry upon a street or highway at a
speed greater than 25 miles per hour unless the person has a current, valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license.
      (4)   No person having a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license
shall be required to have a motorcycle operator’s endorsement to operate a
motorcycle having three wheels with a motor of not more than 50 cubic
centimeters piston displacement.
      (5)   No person having a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license
shall be required to have a motorcycle operator’s endorsement to operate an
autocycle or a cab- enclosed motorcycle.
      (6)   Every person on active duty in the military or naval forces of the
United States, when furnished with a driver’s permit and when operating an
official motor vehicle in connection with such duty, is exempt from the license
requirements of Ohio R.C. Chapters 4506 and 4507. Every person on active duty
in the military or naval forces of the United States or in service with the
peace corps, volunteers in service to America, or the foreign service of the
United States, is exempt from the license requirements of such sections for the
period of the person’s active duty or service and for six months thereafter,
provided such person was a licensee under such sections at the time the person
commenced the person’s active duty or service. This section does not prevent
such a person or the person’s spouse or dependent from making an application,
as provided in Ohio R.C. 4507.10(C), for the renewal of a driver's license or
motorcycle operator’s endorsement or as provided in Ohio R.C. 4506.14 for the
renewal of a commercial driver’s license during the period of the person’s
active duty or service.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (b)(3) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(ORC 4507.03)
   (c)   Nonresidents, permitted to drive upon the highways of their own state,
may operate any motor vehicle upon any highway in this state without
examination or license under Ohio R.C. 4507.01 to 4507.39, inclusive, upon
condition that such nonresident may be required at any time or place to prove
lawful possession or their right to operate such motor vehicle, and to
establish proper identity.
(ORC 4507.04)
   (d)   Surrender of driver’s license from another state.
      (1)   Any person who becomes a resident of this state, within 30 days of
becoming a resident, shall surrender any driver's license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card issued by another state to the
Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a deputy registrar. If such a person intends to
operate a motor vehicle upon the public roads or highways, the person shall
apply for a temporary instruction permit or driver's license in this state. If
the person fails to apply for a driver's license or temporary instruction
permit or within 30 days of becoming a resident, the person shall not operate
any motor vehicle in this state under a license or permit issued by another
state.
      (2)   A.   Whoever violates division (d)(1) of this section is guilty of
a minor misdemeanor.
         B.   The offense established under division (d)(2)A. of this section
is a strict liability offense and strict liability is a culpable mental state
for purposes of R.C. § 2901.20. The designation of this offense as a strict
liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
      (3)   For purposes of division (d)(1) of this section, “resident” means
any person to whom any of the following applies:
         A.   The person maintains their principal residence in this state and
does not reside in this state as a result of the person’s active service in the
United States armed forces.
         B.   The person is determined by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles to be
a resident in accordance with standards adopted by the Registrar under R.C. §
4507.01.
(R.C. § 4507.213)
§ 436.02 POSSESSION OF MORE THAN ONE LICENSE PROHIBITED.
   (a)   (1)   No person shall receive a driver's license, or a motorcycle
operator's endorsement of a driver's or commercial driver's license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card unless and until the person
surrenders to the Registrar or a deputy registrar all valid licenses, temporary
instruction permits, and identification cards issued to the person by another
jurisdiction recognized by this state.
      (2)   The Registrar shall report the cancellation of a license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card to the issuing authority, together
with information that the license, temporary instruction permit, or
identification card is now issued in this state. The Registrar or a deputy
registrar shall destroy any such license, temporary instruction permit, or
identification card that is not returned to the issuing authority.
      (3)   No person shall possess more than one valid license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card at any time.
(R.C. § 4507.02(A)(2))
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4507.99)
§ 436.03 DRIVING WITH TEMPORARY INSTRUCTION PERMIT.
   (a)   No holder of a temporary instruction permit issued under Ohio R.C.
4507.05(A) shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or
private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking
in violation of the conditions established under Ohio R.C. 4507.05(A).
   (b)   Except as provided in division (c) of this section, no holder of a
temporary instruction permit that is issued under Ohio R.C. 4507.05(A) and that
is issued on or after July 1, 1998, and who has not attained the age of 18
years, shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or private
property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking between
the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m.
   (c)   The holder of a temporary instruction permit issued under Ohio R.C.
4507.05(A) on or after July 1, 1998, who has not attained the age of 18 years,
may operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or private property
used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking between the
hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m. if, at the time of such operation, the holder
is accompanied by the holder’s parent, guardian, or custodian, and the parent,
guardian, or custodian holds a current valid driver’s or commercial driver’s
license issued by this state, is actually occupying a seat beside the permit
holder, and does not have a prohibited concentration of alcohol in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine as provided in Ohio R.C. 4511.19
(A).
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4507.05(F), (I))
§ 436.035 DRIVING WITH PROBATIONARY LICENSE.
   (a)   (1)   A.   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has held
the license for less than 12 months shall operate a motor vehicle upon a
highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m. unless
the holder is accompanied by the holder’s parent or guardian.
         B.   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has held the
license for 12 months or longer shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or
any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. unless the
holder is accompanied by the holder’s parent or guardian.
      (2)   A.   Subject to division (c)(1) of this section, division (a)(1)A.
of this section does not apply to the holder of a probationary driver’s license
who is doing either of the following:
            1.   Traveling to or from work between the hours of midnight and 6:
00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession
written documentation from the holder’s employer.
            2.   Traveling to or from an official function sponsored by the
school the holder attends between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m., provided
that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession written documentation
from an appropriate official of the school;
            3.   Traveling to or from an official religious event between the
hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s
immediate possession written documentation from an appropriate official
affiliated with the event.
         B.   Division (a)(1)B. of this section does not apply to the holder of
a probationary driver’s license who is doing either of the following:
            1.   Traveling to or from work between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and
5:00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession
written documentation from the holder’s employer.
            2.   Traveling to or from an official function sponsored by the
school the holder attends between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m.,
provided that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession written
documentation from an appropriate official of the school;
            3.   Traveling to or from an official religious event between the
hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s
immediate possession written documentation from an appropriate official
affiliated with the event.
      (3)   An employer, school official, or official affiliated with a
religious event is not liable in damages in a civil action for any injury,
death, or loss to person or property that allegedly arises from, or is related
to, the fact that the employer, school official, or official affiliated with a
religious event provided the holder of a probationary driver’s license with the
written documentation described in division (a)(2) of this section. The
Registrar of Motor Vehicles shall make available at no cost a form to serve as
the written documentation described in division (a)(2) of this section, and
employers, school officials, officials affiliated with religious events, and
holders of probationary driver’s licenses may utilize that form or may choose
to utilize any other written documentation to meet the requirements of that
division.
      (4)   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has held the
license for less than 12 months shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or
any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking with more than one person who is not a family member
occupying the vehicle unless the probationary license holder is accompanied by
the probationary license holder’s parent, guardian, or custodian.
   (b)   It is an affirmative defense to a violation of division (a)(1)A. or
(a)(1)B. of this section if, at the time of the violation, an emergency existed
that required the holder of the probationary driver’s license to operate a
motor vehicle in violation of division (a)(1)A. or (a)(1)B. of this section or
the holder was an emancipated minor.
   (c)   (1)   If a person is issued a probationary driver’s license prior to
attaining the age of 17 years and the person pleads guilty to, is convicted of,
or is adjudicated in juvenile court of having committed a moving violation
during the six-month period commencing on the date on which the person is
issued the probationary driver’s license, the court with jurisdiction over the
violation may order that the holder must be accompanied by the holder’s parent
or guardian whenever the holder is operating a motor vehicle upon a highway or
any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking for a period not to exceed six months or the date the holder
attains the age of 17 years, whichever occurs first.
      (2)   Any person who is subject to the operating restrictions established
under division (c)(1) of this section as a result of a first moving violation
may petition the court for driving privileges without being accompanied by the
holder’s parent or guardian during the period of time determined by the court
under that division. In granting the driving privileges, the court shall
specify the purposes of the privileges and shall issue the person appropriate
forms setting forth the privileges granted. If a person is convicted of, pleads
guilty to, or is adjudicated in juvenile court of having committed a second or
subsequent moving violation, the court with jurisdiction over the violation may
terminate any driving privileges previously granted under this division.
      (3)   No person shall violate any operating restriction imposed under
division (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this section.
   (d)   No holder of a probationary license shall operate a motor vehicle upon
a highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking unless the total number of occupants of the vehicle
does not exceed the total number of occupant restraining devices originally
installed in the motor vehicle by its manufacturer, and each occupant of the
vehicle is wearing all of the available elements of a properly adjusted
occupant restraining device.
   (e)   A restricted license may be issued to a person who is 14 or 15 years
of age under proof of hardship satisfactory to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles.
   (f)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether each occupant of the motor vehicle is wearing all of the
available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device as
required by division (d) of this section, or for the sole purpose of issuing a
ticket, citation or summons if that requirement has been or is being violated,
or for causing the arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for a
violation of that requirement.
   (g)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of division (a)(1)A. or (a)(1)B. of this
section has been or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a
ticket, citation or summons for such a violation or for causing the arrest or
commencing a prosecution of a person for such a violation.
   (h)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Family member” of a probationary license holder includes any of
the following:
         A.   A spouse;
         B.   A child or stepchild;
         C.   A parent, stepparent, grandparent, or parent-in-law;
         D.   An aunt or uncle;
         E.   A sibling, whether of the whole or half blood or by adoption, a
brother- in-law, or a sister-in-law;
         F.   A son or daughter of the probationary license holder’s stepparent
if the stepparent has not adopted the probationary license holder;
         G.   An eligible adult, as defined in Ohio R.C. 4507.05.
      (2)   “Moving violation” means any violation of any statute or ordinance
that regulates the operation of vehicles on the highways or streets. “Moving
violation” does not include a violation of Ohio R.C. 4513.263 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or a violation of any statute or
ordinance regulating pedestrians or the parking of vehicles, vehicle size or
load limitations, vehicle fitness requirements, or vehicle registration.
      (3)   “Occupant restraining device” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C.
4513.263.
   (i)   Whoever violates divisions (a)(1), (a)(4), (c)(3), or (d) of this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4507.071(B) - (J))
§ 436.04 CERTAIN ACTS PROHIBITED.
   (a)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Display or cause or permit to be displayed, or possess any
identification card, driver’s or commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, or commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit
knowing the same to be fictitious, or to have been canceled, suspended, or
altered;
      (2)   Lend to a person not entitled thereto, or knowingly permit a person
not entitled thereto to use any identification card, driver’s or commercial
driver’s license, temporary instruction permit or commercial driver’s license
temporary instruction permit issued to the person so lending or permitting the
use thereof;
      (3)   Display, or represent as one’s own, any identification card,
driver’s or commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or
commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit not issued to the
person so displaying the same;
      (4)   Fail to surrender to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, upon the
Registrar’s demand, any identification card, driver’s or commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit that has been suspended or canceled;
      (5)   In any application for an identification card, driver's or
commercial driver's license, temporary instruction permit or commercial
driver's license temporary instruction permit or any renewal, reprint, or
duplicate thereof, knowingly conceal a material fact or present any physician's
statement required under R.C. § 4507.08 or 4507.081 when knowing the same to be
false or fictitious.
   (b)   Whoever violates any division of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.30)
§ 436.05 OWNER OR OPERATOR ALLOWING ANOTHER TO DRIVE.
   (a)   No person shall permit a motor vehicle owned by the person or under
the person’s control to be driven by another if any of the following apply:
      (1)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person does not have a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit or valid nonresident driving privileges.
      (2)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privileges have been suspended or canceled under Ohio R.C. Chapter
4510 or any other provision of the Revised Code.
      (3)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s act of driving the motor vehicle would violate any prohibition
contained in Ohio R.C. Chapter 4509.
      (4)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s act of driving would violate Ohio R.C. 4511.19 or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (5)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
vehicle is the subject of an immobilization waiver order issued under R.C.
4503.235 and the other person is prohibited from operating the vehicle under
that order.
   (b)   Without limiting or precluding the consideration of any other evidence
in determining whether a violation of division (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4)
or (a)(5) of this section has occurred, it shall be prima facie evidence that
the offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the operator of the
motor vehicle owned by the offender or under the offender's control is in a
category described in division (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4) or (a)(5) of this
section if any of the following applies:
      (1)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (a)(1), (a)(3) or (a)(5) of this section, the offender and the
operator of the motor vehicle reside in the same household and are related by
consanguinity or affinity.
      (2)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (a)(2) of this section, the offender and the operator of the motor
vehicle reside in the same household, and the offender knows or has reasonable
cause to believe that the operator has been charged with or convicted of any
violation of law or ordinance, or has committed any other act or omission, that
would or could result in the suspension or cancellation of the operator’s
license, permit, or privilege.
      (3)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (a)(4) of this section, the offender and the operator of the motor
vehicle occupied the motor vehicle together at the time of the offense.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of wrongful entrustment of a
motor vehicle, and shall be punished as provided in divisions (c) to (h) of
this section.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (c)(2) of this section, whoever
violates division (a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) of this section is guilty of an
unclassified misdemeanor. When the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the
offender shall be sentenced pursuant to §
698.02, §
698.03 or Ohio R.C. 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
698.02(d) or Ohio R.C. 2929.26; notwithstanding §
698.02(f)(1)B.1. and Ohio R.C. 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up
to one thousand dollars ($1,000); and, notwithstanding §
698.02(e)(1)C. and Ohio R.C. 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered
pursuant to §
698.02(e)(3) or Ohio R.C. 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up
to 500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community
service imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt
under Ohio R.C. 2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   A.   If, within three years of a violation of division (a)(1), (a)
(2), or (a)(3) of this section, the offender previously has pleaded guilty to
or been convicted of two or more violations of division (a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)
(3) of this section, Ohio R.C. 4511.203(A)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         B.   Whoever violates division (a)(4) or (a)(5) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   For any violation of this section, in addition to the penalties
imposed under this Code or Ohio R.C. Chapter 2929, the court may impose a class
seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in Ohio R.C. 4510.02(A)(7), and,
if the vehicle involved in the offense is registered in the name of the
offender, the court may order one of the following:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (c)(3)B. or (c)(3)C. of
this section, the court may order, for 30 days, the immobilization of the
vehicle involved in the offense and the impoundment of that vehicle’s license
plates. If issued, the order shall be issued and enforced under Ohio R.C.
4503.233.
         B.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one violation of this section, Ohio R.C. 4511.203, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the court may order, for 60 days, the
immobilization of the vehicle involved in the offense and the impoundment of
that vehicle’s license plates. If issued, the order shall be issued and
enforced under Ohio R.C. 4503.233.
         C.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section, Ohio R.C. 4511.203, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court may order the criminal
forfeiture to the state of the vehicle involved in the offense. If issued, the
order shall be issued and enforced under Ohio R.C. 4503.234.
      (4)   If title to a motor vehicle that is subject to an order for
criminal forfeiture under division (c)(3)C. of this section is assigned or
transferred and Ohio R.C. 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, in addition to or
independent of any other penalty established by law, the court may fine the
offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of the National
Automobile Dealers Association. The proceeds from any fine imposed under this
division shall be distributed in accordance with Ohio R.C. 4503.234(C)(2).
   (d)   If a court orders the criminal forfeiture of a vehicle under division
(c)(3)A. or (c)(3)B. of this section, the court shall not release the vehicle
from the immobilization before the termination of the period of immobilization
ordered unless the court is presented with current proof of financial
responsibility with respect to that vehicle.
   (e)   If a court orders the criminal forfeiture of a vehicle under division
(c)(3)C. of this section, upon receipt of the order from the court, neither the
Registrar of Motor Vehicles nor any deputy registrar shall accept any
application for the registration or transfer of registration of any motor
vehicle owned or leased by the person named in the order. The period of denial
shall be five years after the date the order is issued, unless, during that
five-year period, the court with jurisdiction of the offense that resulted in
the order terminates the forfeiture and notifies the Registrar of the
termination. If the court terminates the forfeiture and notifies the Registrar,
the Registrar shall take all necessary measures to permit the person to
register a vehicle owned or leased by the person or to transfer the
registration of the vehicle.
   (f)   This section does not apply to motor vehicle rental dealers or motor
vehicle leasing dealers, as defined in Ohio R.C. 4549.65.
   (g)   Evidence of a conviction of, plea of guilty to, or adjudication as a
delinquent child for a violation of this section shall not be admissible as
evidence in any civil action that involves the offender or delinquent child who
is the subject of the conviction, plea, or adjudication and that arises from
the wrongful entrustment of a motor vehicle.
   (h)   For purposes of this section, a vehicle is owned by a person if, at
the time of a violation of this section, the vehicle is registered in the
person’s name.
(ORC 4511.203)
§ 436.06 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   (a)   The operator of a motor vehicle shall display the operator’s driver’s
license, or furnish satisfactory proof that the operator has a driver’s
license, upon demand of any peace officer or of any person damaged or injured
in any collision in which the licensee may be involved. When a demand is
properly made, and the operator has the operator’s driver’s license on or about
the operator’s person, the operator shall not refuse to display the license. A
person’s failure to furnish satisfactory evidence that the person is licensed
under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4507 when the person does not have the person’s license
on or about the person’s person shall be prima facie evidence of the person’s
not having obtained a driver’s license.
   (b)   (1)   Except as provided in division (b)(2) of this section, whoever
violates this section is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
698.02, §
698.03 or Ohio R.C. 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
698.02(d) or Ohio R.C. 2929.26; notwithstanding §
698.02(f)(1)B.1. and Ohio R.C. 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up
to one thousand dollars ($1,000); and notwithstanding §
698.02(e)(1)C. and Ohio R.C. 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered
pursuant to §
698.02(e)(3) or Ohio R.C. 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up
to 500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community
service imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt
under Ohio R.C. 2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section,
Ohio R.C. 4507.35, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the
offense is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(ORC 4507.35)
§ 436.07 DRIVING UNDER SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OR WITHOUT PROOF OF FINANCIAL
RESPONSIBILITY OR IN VIOLATION OF LICENSE RESTRICTIONS. (REPEALED)
   ( Editor’s note: Section 436.07 was repealed as part of the 2004 updating
and revision of these Codified Ordinances because substantially equivalent
state law (Ohio R.C. 4507.02(B) - (H)) was repealed by the Ohio General
Assembly. See §§
436.071 through
436.075 for current provisions.)
§ 436.071 DRIVING UNDER SUSPENSION OR IN VIOLATION OF LICENSE RESTRICTION.
   (a)   Driving under suspension or in violation of license restriction.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (a)(2) of this section, division (b)
of this section, §
436.074 and in Ohio R.C. 4510.111 and 4510.16, no person whose driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege has
been suspended under any provision of the Revised Code, other than Ohio R.C.
Chapter 4509, or under any applicable law in any other jurisdiction in which
the person’s license or permit was issued shall operate any motor vehicle upon
the public roads and highways or upon any public or private property used by
the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking within this municipality
during the period of suspension unless the person is granted limited driving
privileges and is operating the vehicle in accordance with the terms of the
limited driving privileges.
      (2)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking in this municipality in violation of any restriction of the person’s
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit imposed under Ohio R.C.
4506.10(D) or 4507.14.
      (3)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a
noncertified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a
noncertified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section may be admitted into
evidence as prima facie evidence that the license of the person was under
suspension at the time of the alleged violation of division (a)(1) of this
section or the person operated a motor vehicle in violation of a restriction at
the time of the alleged violation of division (a)(2) of this section. The
person charged with a violation of division (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section
may offer evidence to rebut this prima facie evidence.
      (4)   A.   Whoever violates division (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. The court may impose upon the
offender a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary
license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in Ohio
R.C. 4510.02(A)(7).
         B.   1.   Except as provided in division (a)(4)B.2. or (a)(4)B.3. of
this section, the court, in addition to any other penalty that it imposes on
the offender and if the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to one violation of this section, Ohio R.C. 4510.11,
4510.111 or 4510.16, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the
court, in addition to or independent of any other sentence that it imposes upon
the offender, may order the immobilization of the vehicle involved in the
offense for 30 days and the impoundment of that vehicle’s license plates for 30
days in accordance with Ohio R.C. 4503.233.
            2.   If the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to two violations of this section, or any combination of
two violations of this section, Ohio R.C. 4510.11, 4510.111 or 4510.16, or of a
substantially similar municipal ordinance, the court, in addition to any other
sentence that it imposes on the offender, may order the immobilization of the
vehicle involved in the offense for 60 days and the impoundment of that
vehicle’s license plates for 60 days in accordance with Ohio R.C. 4503.233.
            3.   If the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of this section, or any
combination of three or more violations of this section or Ohio R.C. 4510.11,
4510.111 or 4510.16, or of a substantially similar municipal ordinance, the
court, in addition to any other sentence that it imposes on the offender, may
order the criminal forfeiture of the vehicle involved in the offense to the
state.
      (5)   Any order for immobilization and impoundment under this section
shall be issued and enforced under Ohio R.C. 4503.233 and 4507.02, as
applicable. The court shall not release a vehicle from immobilization ordered
under this section unless the court is presented with current proof of
financial responsibility with respect to that vehicle.
      (6)   Any order of criminal forfeiture under this section shall be issued
and enforced under Ohio R.C. 4503.234. Upon receipt of the copy of the order
from the court, neither the Registrar of Motor Vehicles nor a deputy registrar
shall accept any application for the registration or transfer of registration
of any motor vehicle owned or leased by the person named in the declaration of
forfeiture. The period of registration denial shall be five years after the
date of the order, unless, during that period, the court having jurisdiction of
the offense that led to the order terminates the forfeiture and notifies the
registrar of the termination. The registrar then shall take necessary measures
to permit the person to register a vehicle owned or leased by the person or to
transfer registration of the vehicle.
      (7)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in Ohio R.C. 4509.01. If the offender fails to
provide that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
698.02(f) or Ohio R.C. 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding five thousand dollars
($5,000) for any economic loss arising from an accident or collision that was
the direct and proximate result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle
before, during, or after committing the offense for which the offender is
sentenced under this section.
(ORC 4510.11)
   (b)   Driving under suspension in violation of other provisions.
      (1)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking in this municipality whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license
has been suspended pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2151.354, 2151.87, 2935.27, 3123.58,
4301.99, 4510.032, 4510.22, or 4510.33, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
      (2)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a
noncertified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a
noncertified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (b)(1) of this section may be admitted into evidence as
prima facie evidence that the license of the person was under suspension at the
time of the alleged violation of division (b)(1) of this section. The person
charged with a violation of division (b)(1) of this section may offer evidence
to rebut this prima facie evidence.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (b)(1) of this section is guilty of
driving under suspension and shall be punished as provided in division (b)(3)A.
or division (b)(3)B. of this section.
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (b)(3)B. of this
section, the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. The offender shall be
sentenced pursuant to §
698.02, §
698.03 or Ohio R.C. 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
698.02(d) or Ohio R.C. 2929.26; notwithstanding §
698.02(f)(1)B.1. and Ohio R.C. 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up
to one thousand dollars ($1,000); and, notwithstanding §
698.02(e)(1)C. and Ohio R.C. 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered
pursuant to §
698.02(e)(3) or Ohio R.C. 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up
to 500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community
service imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt
under Ohio R.C. 2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
         B.   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously
was convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of division (b)(1)
of this section, or any combination of two or more violations of division (b)
(1) of this section, Ohio R.C. 4510.11, 4510.111 or 4510.16, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree, and the offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. § 2929.28 in
an amount not exceeding five thousand dollars ($5,000) for any economic loss
arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result
of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after committing
the offense for which the offender is sentenced under this section.
(ORC 4510.111)
   (c)   Repeat traffic offender; point system suspension. Any person whose
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating
privileges are suspended as a repeat traffic offender under Ohio R.C. 4510.037
and who, during the suspension, operates any motor vehicle upon any public
roads and highways is guilty of driving under a 12-point suspension, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. The court shall sentence the offender to a
minimum term of three days in jail. No court shall suspend the first three days
of jail time imposed pursuant to this division.
(ORC 4510.037(J))
   (d)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
§ 436.072 OPERATING MOTOR VEHICLE OR MOTORCYCLE WITHOUT VALID LICENSE.
   (a)   (1)   No person, except those expressly exempted under Ohio R.C.
4507.03, 4507.04, and 4507.05, shall operate any motor vehicle upon a public
road or highway or any public or private property used by the public for
purposes of vehicular travel or parking in this municipality unless the person
has a valid driver’s license issued under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4507 or a
commercial driver’s license issued under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4506.
      (2)   No person, except a person expressly exempted under Ohio R.C.
4507.03, 4507.04, and 4507.05, shall operate any motorcycle upon a public road
or highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking in this municipality unless the person has a valid
license as a motorcycle operator that was issued upon application by the
Registrar of Motor Vehicles under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4507. The license shall be
in the form of an endorsement, as determined by the Registrar, upon a driver’s
or commercial driver’s license, if the person has a valid license to operate a
motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle, or in the form of a restricted
license as provided in Ohio R.C. 4507.14, if the person does not have a valid
license to operate a motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle.
   (b)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a
noncertified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a
noncertified copy of a record of the registrar of motor vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section may be admitted into
evidence as prima facie evidence that the person did not have either a valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license at the time of the alleged violation of
division (a)(1) of this section or a valid license as a motorcycle operator
either in the form of an endorsement upon a driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or a restricted license at the time of the alleged violation of
division (a)(2) of this section. The person charged with a violation of
division (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section may offer evidence to rebut this
prima facie evidence.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of operating a motor vehicle
or motorcycle without a valid license and shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   If the trier of fact finds that the offender never has held a valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license issued by this state or any other
jurisdiction, or, in a case involving the operation of a motorcycle by the
offender, if the offender has never held a valid license as a motorcycle
operator, either in the form of an endorsement upon a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or in the form of a restricted license, except as otherwise
provided in this division, the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
698.02, §
698.03 or Ohio R.C. 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
698.02(d) or Ohio R.C. 2929.26; notwithstanding §
698.02(f)(1)B.1. and Ohio R.C. 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up
to one thousand dollars ($1,000); and, notwithstanding §
698.02(e)(1)C. and Ohio R.C. 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered
pursuant to §
698.02(e)(3) or Ohio R.C. 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up
to 500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community
service imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt
under Ohio R.C. 2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation of
this section or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is
a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit
or, in a case involving the operation of a motorcycle by the offender, the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license bearing the motorcycle
endorsement or the offender’s restricted license was expired at the time of the
offense, except as otherwise provided in this division, the offense is a minor
misdemeanor. If within three years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
   (d)   The court shall not impose a license suspension for a first violation
of this section or if more than three years have passed since the offender’s
last violation of Ohio R.C. 4510.12, this section, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (e)   If the offender is sentenced under division (c)(2) of this section, if
within three years of the offense the offender previously was convicted of or
pleaded guilty to one or more violations of Ohio R.C. 4510.12, this section, or
a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance within the past three years, and
if the offender’s license was expired for more than six months at the time of
the offense, the court may impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s
driver license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit,
probationary license or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in Ohio R.C. 4510.02(A)(7).
(ORC 4510.12)
§ 436.073 DRIVING UNDER O.V.I. SUSPENSION.
   (a)   No person whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege has been suspended under Ohio R.C. 4511.19,
4511.191, or 4511.196 or under Ohio R.C. 4510.07 for a conviction of a
violation of a municipal O.V.I. ordinance shall operate any motor vehicle upon
the public roads or highways within this municipality during the period of the
suspension.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of driving under O.V.I.
suspension. The court shall sentence the offender under Ohio R.C. Chapter 2929,
subject to the differences authorized or required by this section.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (b)(2) or (3) of this
section, driving under O.V.I. suspension is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
The court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         A.   A mandatory jail term of three consecutive days. The three-day
term shall be imposed, unless, subject to division (c) of this section, the
court instead imposes a sentence of not less than 30 consecutive days of house
arrest with electronic monitoring. A period of house arrest with electronic
monitoring imposed under this division shall not exceed six months. If the
court imposes a mandatory three-day jail term under this division, the court
may impose a jail term in addition to that term, provided that in no case shall
the cumulative jail term imposed for the offense exceed six months;
         B.   A fine of not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) and
not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00);
         C.   A license suspension under division (e) of this section;
         D.   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender’s name, immobilization for 30 days of the
offender’s vehicle and impoundment for 30 days of the identification license
plates of that vehicle. The order for immobilization and impoundment shall be
issued and enforced in accordance with Ohio R.C. 4503.233.
      (2)   If, within six years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one violation of this section or one
equivalent offense, driving under O.V.I. suspension is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         A.   A mandatory jail term of ten consecutive days. Notwithstanding
the jail terms provided in Ohio R.C. 2929.21 to 2929.28, the court may sentence
the offender to a longer jail term of not more than one year. The ten-day
mandatory jail term shall be imposed unless, subject to division (c) of this
section, the court instead imposes a sentence of not less than 90 consecutive
days of house arrest with electronic monitoring. The period of house arrest
with electronic monitoring shall not exceed one year;
         B.   Notwithstanding the fines provided for in Ohio R.C. Chapter 2929,
a fine of not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) and not more than two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00);
         C.   A license suspension under division (e) of this section;
         D.   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender’s name, immobilization of the offender’s
vehicle for 60 days and the impoundment for 60 days of the identification
license plates of that vehicle. The order for immobilization and impoundment
shall be issued and enforced in accordance with Ohio R.C. 4503.233.
      (3)   If, within six years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section
or two or more equivalent offenses, driving under O.V.I. suspension is a
misdemeanor. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         A.   A mandatory jail term of 30 consecutive days. Notwithstanding the
jail terms provided in Ohio R.C. 2929.21 to 2929.28, the court may sentence the
offender to a longer jail term of not more than one year. The court shall not
sentence the offender to a term of house arrest with electronic monitoring in
lieu of the mandatory portion of the jail term;
         B.   Notwithstanding the fines set forth in Ohio R.C. Chapter 2929, a
fine of not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) and not more than two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00);
         C.   A license suspension under division (e) of this section;
         D.   IIf the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender’s name, criminal forfeiture to the state
of the offender’s vehicle. The order of criminal forfeiture shall be issued and
enforced in accordance with Ohio R.C. 4503.234. If title to a motor vehicle
that is subject to an order for criminal forfeiture under this division is
assigned or transferred and Ohio R.C. 4503.234(B)(2) or (3) applies, the court
may fine the offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of
the National Automobile Dealers Association. The proceeds from any fine so
imposed shall be distributed in accordance with Ohio R.C. 4503.234(C)(2).
   (c)   (1)   No court shall impose an alternative sentence of house arrest
with electronic monitoring under division (b)(1) or (2) of this section unless,
within 60 days of the date of sentencing, the court issues a written finding on
the record that, due to the unavailability of space at the jail where the
offender is required to serve the jail term imposed, the offender will not be
able to begin serving that term within the 60-day period following the date of
sentencing.
      (2)   An offender sentenced under this section to a period of house
arrest with electronic monitoring shall be permitted work release during that
period.
   (d)   Fifty percent of any fine imposed by a court under division (b)(1),
(2), or (3) of this section shall be deposited into the Municipal Indigent
Drivers’ Alcohol Treatment Fund under the control of that court, as created by
the municipality pursuant to Ohio R.C. 4511.191(H).
   (e)   In addition to or independent of all other penalties provided by law
or ordinance, the trial judge of any court of record or the mayor of a mayor’s
court shall impose on an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
violation of this section a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in Ohio R.C. 4510.02 (A)(7).
      (1)   When permitted as specified in Ohio R.C. 4510.021, if the court
grants limited driving privileges during a suspension imposed under this
section, the privileges shall be granted on the additional condition that the
offender must display restricted license plates, issued under Ohio R.C.
4503.231, on the vehicle driven subject to the privileges, except as provided
in Ohio R.C. 4503.231(B).
      (2)   A suspension of a commercial driver’s license under this section
shall be concurrent with any period of suspension or disqualification under
Ohio R.C. 3123.58 or 4506.16. No person who is disqualified for life from
holding a commercial driver’s license under Ohio R.C. 4506.16 shall be issued a
driver’s license under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period for which the
commercial driver’s license was suspended under this section, and no person
whose commercial driver’s license is suspended under this section shall be
issued a driver’s license under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period of the
suspension.
   (f)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in Ohio R.C. 4509.01. If the offender fails to
provide that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
698.02(f) or Ohio R.C. 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding five thousand dollars
($5,000) for any economic loss arising from an accident or collision that was
the direct and proximate result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle
before, during, or after committing the offense that is a misdemeanor of the
first degree under this section for which the offender is sentenced.
   (g)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Electronic monitoring” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C.
2929.01.
      (2)   “Equivalent offense” means any of the following:
         A.   A violation of a municipal ordinance, law of another state, or
law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to division (a) of
this section;
         B.   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to division (a) of this section.
      (3)   “Jail” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2929.01.
      (4)   “Mandatory jail term” means the mandatory term in jail of 3, 10, or
30 consecutive days that must be imposed under division (b)(1), (2), or (3) of
this section upon an offender convicted of a violation of division (a) of this
section and in relation to which all of the following apply:
         A.   Except as specifically authorized under this section, the term
must be served in a jail.
         B.   Except as specifically authorized under this section, the term
cannot be suspended, reduced, or otherwise modified pursuant to any provision
of the Ohio Revised Code.
(ORC 4510.14)
   (h)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(ORC 4510.04)
Statutory reference:
   Immobilization of vehicle; impoundment of license plates; criminal
forfeiture of vehicle, see Ohio R.C.4510.161
§ 436.074 DRIVING UNDER FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY LAW SUSPENSION OR
CANCELLATION; DRIVING UNDER A NONPAYMENT OF JUDGMENT SUSPENSION.
   (a)   No person, whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or temporary
instruction permit or nonresident’s operating privilege has been suspended or
canceled pursuant to Ohio R.C. Chapter 4509, shall operate any motor vehicle
within this municipality, or knowingly permit any motor vehicle owned by the
person to be operated by another person in the municipality, during the period
of the suspension or cancellation, except as specifically authorized by Ohio
R.C. Chapter 4509. No person shall operate a motor vehicle within this
municipality, or knowingly permit any motor vehicle owned by the person to be
operated by another person in the municipality, during the period in which the
person is required by Ohio R.C. 4509.45 to file and maintain proof of financial
responsibility for a violation of Ohio R.C. 4509.101, unless proof of financial
responsibility is maintained with respect to that vehicle.
   (b)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any public
or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking in this municipality if the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or temporary instruction permit or nonresident operating privilege has
been suspended pursuant to Ohio R.C. 4509.37 or 4509.40 for nonpayment of a
judgment.
   (c)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a
noncertified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a
noncertified copy of a record of the registrar of motor vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (a) or (b) of this section may be admitted into evidence
as prima facie evidence that the license of the person was under either a
financial responsibility law suspension at the time of the alleged violation of
division (a) of this section or a nonpayment of judgment suspension at the time
of the alleged violation of division (b) of this section. The person charged
with a violation of division (a) or (b) of this section may offer evidence to
rebut this prima facie evidence.
   (d)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of driving
under financial responsibility law suspension or cancellation and shall be
punished as provided in this division (d). Whoever violates division (b) of
this section is guilty of driving under a nonpayment of judgment suspension and
shall be punished as provided in this division (d).
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (d)(2) of this
section, the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. When the offense is an
unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced pursuant to §
698.02, §
698.03 or Ohio R.C. 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
698.02(d) or Ohio R.C. 2929.26; notwithstanding §
698.02(f)(1)B.1. and Ohio R.C. 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up
to one thousand dollars ($1,000); and, notwithstanding §
698.02(e)(1)C. and Ohio R.C. 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered
pursuant to §
698.02(e)(3) or Ohio R.C. 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up
to 500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community
service imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt
under Ohio R.C. 2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously was
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section, or
any combination of two violations of this section, Ohio R.C. 4510.11, 4510.111
or 4510.16, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. § 2929.28 in
an amount not exceeding five thousand dollars ($5,000) for any economic loss
arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result
of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after committing
the offense for which the offender is sentenced under this section.
(ORC 4510.16)
   (e)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(ORC 4510.04)
Statutory reference:
   Immobilization of vehicle; impoundment of license plates; criminal
forfeiture of vehicle, see Ohio R.C.4510.161
§ 436.075 FAILURE TO REINSTATE LICENSE.
   (a)   No person whose driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, or nonresident’s operating privilege has been
suspended shall operate any motor vehicle upon a public road or highway or any
public or private property after the suspension has expired unless the person
has complied with all license reinstatement requirements imposed by the court,
the Bureau of Motor Vehicles, or another provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
   (b)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a
noncertified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a
noncertified copy of a record of the registrar of motor vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (a) of this section may be admitted into evidence as
prima facie evidence that the license of the person had not been reinstated by
the person at the time of the alleged violation of division (a) of this
section. The person charged with a violation of division (a) of this section
may offer evidence to rebut this prima facie evidence.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to reinstate a
license, and shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   Except as provided in division (c)(2) of this section, whoever
violates this section is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
698.02, §
698.03 or Ohio R.C. 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
698.02(d) or Ohio R.C. 2929.26; notwithstanding §
698.02(f)(1)B.1. and Ohio R.C. 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up
to one thousand dollars ($1,000); and, notwithstanding §
698.02(e)(1)C. and Ohio R.C. 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered
pursuant to §
698.02(e)(3) or Ohio R.C. 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up
to 500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community
service imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt
under Ohio R.C. 2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of a violation of division (a) of this
section, the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted of two
or more violations of this section, Ohio R.C. 4510.21 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (3)   In all cases, the court may impose upon the offender a class seven
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary driver's license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in Ohio R.C. 4510.02(A)(7).
(ORC 4510.21)
   (d)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(ORC 4510.04)
§ 436.08 OPERATION OR SALE WITHOUT CERTIFICATE OF TITLE.
   (a)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate in this municipality a motor vehicle for which a
certificate of title is required without having that certificate in accordance
with Ohio R.C. Chapter 4505 or, if a physical certificate of title has not been
issued for a motor vehicle, operate the motor vehicle in this state knowing
that the ownership information relating to the vehicle has not been entered
into the automated title processing system by a Clerk of a Court of Common
Pleas;
      (2)   Display or display for sale or sell as a dealer or acting on behalf
of a dealer, a motor vehicle without having obtained a manufacturer’s or
importer’s certificate, a certificate of title, or an assignment of a
certificate of title for it as provided in Ohio R.C. Chapter 4505;
      (3)   Fail to surrender any certificate of title or any certificate of
registration or license plates upon cancellation of the same by the Registrar
of Motor Vehicles and notice of the cancellation as prescribed in Ohio R.C.
Chapter 4505;
      (4)   Fail to surrender the certificate of title to a Clerk of a Court of
Common Pleas as provided in Ohio R.C. Chapter 4505 in case of the destruction
or dismantling or change of a motor vehicle in such respect that it is not the
motor vehicle described in the certificate of title;
      (5)   Violate any rules adopted pursuant to Ohio R.C. Chapter 4505;
      (6)   Except as otherwise provided in Ohio R.C. Chapters 4505 and 4517,
sell at wholesale a motor vehicle ownership of which is not evidenced by an
Ohio certificate of title, or the current certificate of title issued for the
motor vehicle, or the manufacturer’s certificate of origin, and all title
assignments that evidence the seller’s ownership of the motor vehicle, and an
odometer disclosure statement that complies with Ohio R.C. 4505.06 and
subchapter IV of the “Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act,” 86 Stat.
961 (1972), 15 U.S.C. 1981;
      (7)   Operate in this state a motor vehicle knowing that the certificate
of title to the vehicle or ownership of the vehicle as otherwise reflected in
the automated title processing system has been canceled.
   (b)   This section does not apply to persons engaged in the business of
warehousing or transporting motor vehicles for the purpose of salvage
disposition.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than two hundred
dollars ($200.00), imprisoned not more than 90 days, or both.
(ORC 4505.18)
§ 436.09 DISPLAY OF LICENSE PLATES; REGISTRATION; OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (a)   (1)   No person who is the owner or operator of a motor vehicle shall
fail to display in plain view on the rear of the motor vehicle a license plate
that displays the distinctive number and registration mark assigned to the
motor vehicle by the Ohio Director of Public Safety, including any county
identification sticker and any validation sticker when required by and issued
under R.C. §§ 4503.19 and 4503.191. However, a commercial tractor shall display
the license plate on the front of the commercial tractor.
      (2)   The license plate shall be securely fastened so as not to swing,
and shall not be covered by any material that obstructs its visibility.
      (3)   No person to whom a temporary motor vehicle license registration
has been issued for the use of a motor vehicle under R.C. § 4503.182, and no
operator of that motor vehicle, shall fail to display the temporary motor
vehicle license registration in plain view from the rear of the vehicle either
in the rear window or on an external rear surface of the motor vehicle.
      (4)   No person shall cover a temporary motor vehicle license
registration by any material that obstructs its visibility.
(R.C. § 4503.21(A))
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided by R.C. §§ 4503.103, 4503.107, 4503.173,
4503.41, 4503.43, and 4503.46, no person who is the owner or chauffeur of a
motor vehicle operated or driven upon the public roads or highways shall fail
to file annually the application for registration or to pay the tax therefor.
(R.C. § 4503.11(A))
   (c)   (1)   Within 30 days of becoming a resident of this state, any person
who owns a motor vehicle operated or driven upon the public roads or highways
shall register the vehicle in this state. If such a person fails to register a
vehicle owned by the person, the person shall not operate any motor vehicle in
this state under a license issued by another state.
      (2)   For purposes of division (c)(1) of this section, “resident” means
any person to whom any of the following applies:
         A.   The person maintains their principal residence in this state and
does not reside in this state as a result of the person’s active service in the
United States armed forces.
         B.   The person is determined by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles to be
a resident in accordance with standards adopted by the Registrar under R.C. §
4507.01.
(R.C. § 4503.111(A), (C))
   (d)   Upon the transfer of ownership of a motor vehicle, the registration of
the motor vehicle expires, and the original owner immediately shall remove the
license plates from the motor vehicle, except as otherwise provided in R.C. §
4503.12.
(R.C. § 4503.12(A))
   (e)   No person shall operate or drive upon the highways of this
municipality a motor vehicle acquired from a former owner who has registered
the motor vehicle, while the motor vehicle displays the distinctive number or
identification mark assigned to it upon its original registration.
(ORC 4549.11(A))
   (f)   No person who is the owner of a motor vehicle and a resident of this
state shall operate or drive the motor vehicle upon the highways of this
municipality while it displays a distinctive number or identification mark
issued by or under the authority of another state, without complying with the
laws of this state relating to the registration and identification of motor
vehicles.
(ORC 4549.12(A))
   (g)   (1)   A.   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of
a minor misdemeanor.
         B.   The offenses established under division (a) of this section are
strict liability offenses and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of
these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be construed to imply
that any other offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability,
is not a strict liability offense.
(R.C. § 4503.21(B), (C))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4503.11(C))
      (3)   A.   Whoever violates division (c) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
         B.   The offense established under division (g)(3)A. of this section
is a strict liability offense and strict liability is a culpable mental state
for purposes of R.C. § 2901.20. The designation of this offense as a strict
liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
(R.C. § 4503.111(B))
      (4)   Whoever violates division (d) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4503.12(D))
      (5)   Whoever violates division (e) of this section is guilty of
operation of a motor vehicle bearing license plates or an identification mark
issued to another, a minor misdemeanor on a first offense and a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.11(B))
      (6)   Whoever violates division (f) of this section is guilty of illegal
operation by a resident of this state of a motor vehicle bearing the
distinctive number or identification mark issued by a foreign jurisdiction, a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4549.12(B))
§ 436.10 USE OF ILLEGAL LICENSE PLATES.
   (a)   No person shall operate or drive a motor vehicle upon the public roads
and highways in this municipality if it displays a license plate or a
distinctive number or identification mark that meets any of the following
criteria:
      (1)   It is fictitious;
      (2)   It is a counterfeit or an unlawfully made copy of any distinctive
number or identification mark;
      (3)   It belongs to another motor vehicle, provided that this section
does not apply to a motor vehicle that is operated on the public roads and
highways in this municipality when the motor vehicle displays license plates
that originally were issued for a motor vehicle that previously was owned by
the same person who owns the motor vehicle that is operated on the public roads
and highways in this municipality during the 30-day period described in Ohio
R.C. 4503.12(A)(4).
   (b)   A person who fails to comply with the transfer of registration
provisions of Ohio R.C. 4503.12 and is charged with a violation of that section
shall not be charged with a violation of this section.
   (c)   Whoever violates division (a)(1), (2), or (3) of this section is
guilty of operating a motor vehicle bearing an invalid license plate or
identification mark, this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the third degree on each
subsequent offense.
(ORC 4549.08)
§ 436.11 FAILURE TO STOP AFTER ACCIDENT.
   (a)   (1)   In the case of a motor vehicle accident or collision with
persons or property on a public road or highway, the operator of the motor
vehicle, having knowledge of the accident or collision, immediately shall stop
the operator’s motor vehicle at the scene of the accident or collision. The
operator shall remain at the scene of the accident or collision until the
operator has given the operator’s name and address and, if the operator is not
the owner, the name and address of the owner of that motor vehicle, together
with the registered number of that motor vehicle, to all of the following:
         A.   Any person injured in the accident or collision;
         B.   The operator, occupant, owner, or attendant of any motor vehicle
damaged in the accident or collision;
         C.   The police officer at the scene of the accident or collision.
      (2)   In the event an injured person is unable to comprehend and record
the information required to be given under division (a)(1) of this section, the
other operator involved in the accident or collision shall notify the nearest
police authority concerning the location of the accident or collision, and the
operator’s name, address, and the registered number of the motor vehicle the
operator was operating. The operator shall remain at the scene of the accident
or collision until a police officer arrives, unless removed from the scene by
an emergency vehicle operated by a political subdivision or an ambulance.
      (3)   If the accident or collision is with an unoccupied or unattended
motor vehicle, the operator who collides with the motor vehicle shall securely
attach the information required to be given in this section, in writing, to a
conspicuous place in or on the unoccupied or unattended motor vehicle.
   (b)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after an accident. Except as otherwise provided in division (b)
(2) or (b)(3) of this section, failure to stop after an accident is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the accident or collision results in serious physical harm to a
person, failure to stop after an accident is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the accident or collision results in the death of a person,
failure to stop after an accident is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (4)   In all cases, the court, in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a class five suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(5). No judge shall suspend the first six months
of suspension of an offender’s license, permit, or privilege required by this
division.
      (5)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. §
2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding five thousand dollars ($5,000)
for any economic loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct
and proximate result of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before,
during, or after committing the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.02)
§ 436.12 STOPPING AFTER ACCIDENT ON OTHER THAN PUBLIC ROADS OR HIGHWAYS.
   (a)   (1)   In the case of a motor vehicle accident or collision resulting
in injury or damage to persons or property on any public or private property
other than a public road or highway, the operator of the motor vehicle, having
knowledge of the accident or collision, shall stop at the scene of the accident
or collision. Upon request of any person who is injured or damaged, or any
other person, the operator shall give that person the operator’s name and
address, and, if the operator is not the owner, the name and address of the
owner of that motor vehicle, together with the registered number of that motor
vehicle, and, if available, exhibit the operator’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license.
      (2)   If the operator of the motor vehicle involved in the accident or
collision does not provide the information specified in division (a)(1) of this
section, the operator shall give that information, within 24 hours after the
accident or collision, to the police department of the city or village in which
the accident or collision occurred, or if it occurred outside the corporate
limits of a city or village, to the sheriff of the county in which the accident
or collision occurred.
      (3)   If the accident or collision is with an unoccupied or unattended
motor vehicle, the operator who collides with the motor vehicle shall securely
attach the information required under division (a)(1) of this section, in
writing, to a conspicuous place in or on the unoccupied or unattended motor
vehicle.
   (b)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident. Except as otherwise provided
in division (b)(2) or (b)(3) of this section, failure to stop after a nonpublic
road accident is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the accident or collision results in serious physical harm to a
person, failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the accident or collision results in the death of a person,
failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (4)   In all cases, the court, in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a class five suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(5). No judge shall suspend the first six months
of suspension of an offender’s license, permit, or privilege required by this
division.
      (5)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. §
2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding five thousand dollars ($5,000)
for any economic loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct
and proximate result of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before,
during, or after committing the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.021)
§ 436.13 VEHICLE ACCIDENT RESULTING IN DAMAGE TO REALTY.
   (a)   (1)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in
damage to real property, or personal property attached to real property,
legally upon or adjacent to a public road or highway immediately shall stop and
take reasonable steps to locate and notify the owner or person in charge of the
property of that fact, of the driver’s name and address, and of the
registration number of vehicle the driver is driving and, upon request and if
available, shall exhibit the driver’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license.
      (2)   If the owner or person in charge of the property cannot be located
after reasonable search, the driver of the vehicle involved in the accident
resulting in damage to the property within 24 hours after the accident, shall
forward to the Police Department of the municipality the same information
required to be given to the owner or person in control of the property and give
the location of the accident and a description of the damage insofar as it is
known.
   (b)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after an accident involving the property of others, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in Ohio R.C. 4509.01. If the offender fails to
provide that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to § 698.02
(f) or Ohio R.C. 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding five thousand dollars
($5,000) for any economic loss arising from an accident or collision that was
the direct and proximate result of the offender’s operation of the motor
vehicle before, during, or after committing the offense charged under this
section.
(ORC 4549.03)
§ 436.14 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES AFTER ACCIDENTS.
   (a)   If a motor vehicle accident occurs on any highway, public street, or
other property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel and if any
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property that has been damaged or spilled as
a result of the motor vehicle accident is blocking the highway, street, or
other property or is otherwise endangering public safety, a public safety
official may do either of the following without the consent of the owner but
with the approval of the law enforcement agency conducting any investigation of
the accident:
      (1)   Remove, or order the removal of, the motor vehicle if the motor
vehicle is unoccupied, cargo, or personal property from the portion of the
highway, public street, or property ordinarily used for vehicular travel on the
highway, public street, or other property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular travel.
      (2)   If the motor vehicle is a commercial motor vehicle, allow the owner
or operator of the vehicle the opportunity to arrange for the removal of the
motor vehicle within a period of time specified by the public safety official.
If the public safety official determines that the motor vehicle cannot be
removed within the specified period of time, the public safety official shall
remove or order the removal of the motor vehicle.
   (b)   (1)   Except as provided in division (b)(2) of this section, the
Department of Transportation, any employee of the Department of Transportation,
or a public safety official who authorizes or participates in the removal of
any unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property as authorized by
division (a) of this section, regardless of whether the removal is executed by
a private towing service, is not liable for civil damages for any injury,
death, or loss to person or property that results from the removal of that
unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property. Further, except as
provided in division (b)(2) of this section, if a public safety official
authorizes, employs, or arranges to have a private towing service remove any
unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property as authorized by division
(a) of this section, that private towing service is not liable for civil
damages for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that results from
the removal of that unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property.
      (2)   Division (b)(1) of this section does not apply to any of the
following:
         A.   Any person or entity involved in the removal of an unoccupied
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property pursuant to division (a) of this
section if that removal causes or contributes to the release of a hazardous
material or to structural damage to the roadway;
         B.   A private towing service that was not authorized, employed, or
arranged by a public safety official to remove an unoccupied motor vehicle,
cargo, or personal property under this section;
         C.   Except as provided in division (b)(2)D. of this section, a
private towing service that was authorized, employed, or arranged by a public
safety official to perform the removal of the unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo,
or personal property but the private towing service performed the removal in a
negligent manner;
         D.   A private towing service that was authorized, employed, or
arranged by a public safety official to perform the removal of the unoccupied
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property that was endangering public safety
but the private towing service performed the removal in a reckless manner.
   (c)   As used in divisions (a) and (b) of this section:
      (1)   “Hazardous material.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.232.
      (2)   “Public safety official.” Means any of the following:
         A.   The sheriff of the county, or the chief of a law enforcement
agency in the municipal corporation, township, port authority, conservancy
district, or township or joint police district, in which the accident occurred;
         B.   A state highway patrol trooper;
         C.   The chief of the fire department having jurisdiction where the
accident occurred;
         D.   A duly authorized subordinate acting on behalf of an official
specified in divisions A. to C. of this definition.
(R.C. § 4513.66)
   (d)   If a towing service is removing a motor vehicle, and the removal was
not authorized under R.C. § 4513.60, 4513.601, 4513.61, or 4513.66, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, prior to removing the motor
vehicle, the towing service shall provide a written estimate of the price for
the removal to the operator of the motor vehicle, if requested.
   (e)   The towing service shall ensure that any estimate provided under
division (d) of this section includes the fees, services to be rendered, and
destination of the vehicle.
   (f)   If a towing service fails to provide a written estimate as required by
this section, the towing service shall not charge fees for the towing and
storage of the motor vehicle that exceed 25% of any applicable fees established
by the public utilities commission in rules adopted under R.C. § 4921.25(B)(4)
or, if the vehicle was towed within a municipal corporation that has
established vehicle removal and storage fees, 25% of the fees established by
the municipal corporation.
   (g)   Any storage facility that accepts towed vehicles shall conspicuously
post a notice at the entrance to the storage facility that states the
limitation on fees established under division (f) of this section.
(R.C. § 4513.68)
§ 436.99 PENALTY.
   ( Editor’s note: See §§
408.01 and
408.02 for general Traffic Code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.)
CHAPTER 438: SAFETY AND EQUIPMENT
Section
438.01   Driving unsafe vehicles; application
438.02   Lighted lights; measurement of distances and heights
438.03   Headlights on motor vehicles and motorcycles
438.04   Tail light; illumination of rear license plate
438.05   Rear red reflectors
438.06   Safety lighting on commercial vehicles
438.07   Obscured lights on vehicles in combination
438.08   Red light or red flag on extended loads
438.09   Lights on parked or stopped vehicles
438.10   Lights, emblems, and reflectors on slow-moving vehicles, farm
machinery, agricultural tractors, and animal-drawn vehicles
438.11   Spotlight and auxiliary lights
438.12   Cowl, fender and back-up lights
438.13   Two lights displayed
438.14   Use of headlight beams
438.15   Lights of less intensity on slow-moving vehicles
438.16   Number of lights permitted; red and flashing lights
438.165   Lights and sound-producing devices on coroners’ vehicles
438.17   Vehicles transporting preschool children
438.18   Focus and aim of headlights
438.19   Motor vehicle and motorcycle brakes
438.20   Horn, siren and theft alarm signal
438.21   Muffler; muffler cutout; excessive smoke, gas or noise
438.22   Rear-view mirror; clear view to front, both sides and rear
438.23   Windshield required; sign or poster upon windshield; windshield wiper
438.24   Tinted glass; materials on glass
438.25   Limited load extension on left side of passenger vehicle
438.26   Motor vehicle stop lights
438.27   Bumpers
438.28   Air cleaner required
438.29   Use of child restraints
438.30   Use of occupant restraining devices
438.31   Ignition interlock devices (Repealed)
438.32   Air bags
438.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Bicycle equipment, see TRAF.
474.05
   Improperly handling firearms in a motor vehicle, see GEN. OFF.
672.04
   Occupying travel trailers while in motion, see TRAF.
440.08
   Snowmobile and all-purpose vehicle equipment, see TRAF.
476.02 
   Towing requirements, see TRAF.
440.05
   Use of stop and turn signals, see TRAF.
432.13(d)
   Vehicles transporting explosives, see TRAF.
440.04
   Wheel protectors for commercial vehicles, see TRAF.
440.03
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see section histories
   Collector’s vehicles, see Ohio R.C. 4513.38, 4513.41
   Warning devices for commercial vehicles disabled upon freeways, see Ohio
R.C. 4513.28
§ 438.01 DRIVING UNSAFE VEHICLES; APPLICATION.
   (a)   No person shall drive or move, or cause or knowingly permit to be
driven or moved, on any highway any vehicle or combination of vehicles which is
in such unsafe condition as to endanger any person.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.02(A), (H))
§ 438.02 LIGHTED LIGHTS; MEASUREMENT OF DISTANCES AND HEIGHTS.
   (a)   Every vehicle, other than a motorized bicycle, operated upon a street
or highway within this state shall display lighted lights and illuminating
devices as required by R.C. §§ 4513.04 through 4513.37 during all of the
following times:
      (1)   The time from sunset to sunrise;
      (2)   At any other time when, due to insufficient natural light or
unfavorable atmospheric conditions, persons, vehicles and substantial objects
on the highway are not discernible at a distance of 1,000 feet ahead;
      (3)   At any time when the windshield wipers of the vehicle are in use
because of precipitation on the windshield.
   (b)   Every motorized bicycle shall display at such times lighted lights
meeting the rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety under R.C. §
4511.521. No motor vehicle, during any time specified in this section, shall be
operated upon a street or highway within this state using only parking lights
as illumination.
   (c)   Whenever in such sections a requirement is declared as to the distance
from which certain lamps and devices shall render objects visible, or within
which such lamps or devices shall be visible, such distance shall be measured
upon a straight level unlighted highway under normal atmospheric conditions
unless a different condition is expressly stated.
   (d)   Whenever in such sections a requirement is declared as to the mounted
height of lights or devices, it shall mean from the center of such light or
device to the level ground upon which the vehicle stands.
   (e)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a vehicle being operated upon a
street or highway within this state to stop the vehicle solely because the
officer observes that a violation of division (a)(3) of this section has been
or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or
summons for a violation of that division, or causing the arrest of or
commencing a prosecution of a person for a violation of that division.
   (f)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.03)
§ 438.03 HEADLIGHTS ON MOTOR VEHICLES AND MOTORCYCLES.
   (a)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, shall be equipped
with at least two headlights with at least one near each side of the front of
the motor vehicle.
      (2)   Every motorcycle shall be equipped with at least one and not more
than two headlights.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.04)
§ 438.04 TAIL LIGHT; ILLUMINATION OF REAR LICENSE PLATE.
   (a)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, pole trailer or
vehicle which is being drawn at the end of a train of vehicles shall be
equipped with at least one tail light mounted on the rear which, when lighted,
shall emit a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear,
provided that in the case of a train of vehicles only the tail light on the
rearmost vehicle need be visible from the distance specified.
      (2)   Either a tail light or a separate light shall be so constructed and
placed as to illuminate with a white light the rear registration plate, when
such registration plate is required, and render it legible from a distance of
50 feet to the rear. Any tail light, together with any separate light for
illuminating the rear registration plate, shall be so wired as to be lighted
whenever the headlights or auxiliary driving lights are lighted, except where
separate lighting systems are provided for trailers for the purpose of
illuminating such registration plate.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.05)
§ 438.05 REAR RED REFLECTORS.
   (a)   (1)   Every new motor vehicle sold after September 6, 1941, and
operated on a highway, other than a commercial tractor to which a trailer or
semitrailer is attached, shall carry at the rear, either as a part of the tail
lamps or separately, two red reflectors meeting the requirements of this
section, except that vehicles of the type mentioned in Ohio R.C. 4513.07 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance shall be equipped with reflectors
as required by the regulations provided for in that section.
      (2)   Every such reflector shall be of such size and characteristics and
so maintained as to be visible at night from all distances within 300 feet to
50 feet from such vehicle.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.06)
§ 438.06 SAFETY LIGHTING ON COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (a)   (1)   When the Director of Public Safety prescribes and promulgates
regulations relating to clearance lights, marker lights, reflectors and stop
lights on buses, trucks, commercial tractors, trailers, semitrailers and pole
trailers, when operated upon any highway, these vehicles shall be equipped as
required by such regulations, and such equipment shall be lighted at all times
mentioned in Ohio R.C. 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, except that clearance lights and side marker lights need not be
lighted on any such vehicle when it is operated within the municipality where
there is sufficient light to reveal any person or substantial object on the
highway at a distance of 500 feet.
      (2)   Such equipment shall be in addition to all other lights
specifically required by Ohio R.C. 4513.03 through 4513.16, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinances.
      (3)   Vehicles operated under the jurisdiction of the Public Utilities
Commission are not subject to this section.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.07)
§ 438.07 OBSCURED LIGHTS ON VEHICLES IN COMBINATION.
   Whenever motor and other vehicles are operated in combination during the
time that lights are required, any light, except tail lights, which by reason
of its location on a vehicle of the combination would be obscured by another
vehicle of the combination, need not be lighted, but this section does not
affect the requirement that lighted clearance lights be displayed on the front
of the foremost vehicle required to have clearance lights or that all lights
required on the rear of the rearmost vehicle of any combination shall be
lighted.
(ORC 4513.08)
§ 438.08 RED LIGHT OR RED FLAG ON EXTENDED LOADS.
   (a)   Whenever the load upon any vehicle extends to the rear four feet or
more beyond the bed or body of this vehicle, there shall be displayed at the
extreme rear end of the load, at the times specified in Ohio R.C. 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, a red light or lantern plainly
visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to the sides and rear. The red
light or lantern required by this section is in addition to the red rear light
required upon every vehicle. At any other time there shall be displayed at the
extreme rear end of such load a red flag or cloth not less than 16 inches
square.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.09)
§ 438.09 LIGHTS ON PARKED OR STOPPED VEHICLES.
   (a)   Except in case of an emergency, whenever a vehicle is parked or
stopped upon a roadway open to traffic or a shoulder adjacent thereto, whether
attended or unattended, during the times mentioned in Ohio R.C. 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, such vehicle shall be equipped
with one or more lights which shall exhibit a white or amber light on the
roadway side visible from a distance of 500 feet to the front of such vehicle,
and a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear. No lights need
be displayed upon any such vehicle when it is stopped or parked within the
municipality where there is sufficient light to reveal any person or
substantial object within a distance of 500 feet upon such highway. Any lighted
headlights upon a parked vehicle shall be depressed or dimmed.
(ORC 4513.10)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.99)
§ 438.10 LIGHTS, EMBLEMS, AND REFLECTORS ON SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES, FARM
MACHINERY, AGRICULTURAL TRACTORS, AND ANIMAL-DRAWN VEHICLES.
   (a)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      (1)   “Boat trailer.” Means any vehicle designed and used exclusively to
transport a boat between a place of storage and a marina, or in and around a
marina, when drawn or towed on a street or highway for a distance of no more
than ten miles and at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less.
      (2)   “Slow-moving vehicle” and “SMV.” Mean a boat trailer, unit of farm
machinery, road construction machinery, or other machinery designed by the
manufacturer to operate at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less. The term does
not include a bicycle, motorized bicycle, electric bicycle, or animal-drawn
vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.11)
   (b)   Generally.
      (1)   At the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03, no person shall operate
either of the following vehicles unless it is equipped with and displays the
lamps described in division (b)(2) of this section:
         A.   A vehicle not specifically required to be equipped with lamps or
other lighting devices by R.C. §§ 4513.03 to 4513.10;
         B.   A vehicle referred to in R.C. § 4513.02(G).
      (2)   Vehicles described in division (b)(1) of this section shall be
equipped with both of the following:
         A.   At least one lamp displaying a white light visible from a
distance of not less than 1,000 feet to the front of the vehicle;
         B.   Two lamps displaying red light visible from a distance of not
less than 1,000 feet to the rear of the vehicle, or as an alternative, one lamp
displaying a red light visible from a distance of not less than 1,000 feet to
the rear and two red reflectors visible from all distances of 600 feet to 100
feet to the rear when illuminated by the lawful lower beams of headlamps.
      (3)   A.   At the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03, no person shall
operate a multi- wheel agricultural tractor model year 2001 or earlier on a
street or highway unless it is equipped with and displays reflectors and
illuminated amber lamps so that the extreme left and right projections of the
tractor are indicated by all of the following:
            1.   Flashing lamps displaying amber light, visible to the front
and the rear. The lamps need not flash simultaneously and need not flash in
conjunction with any directional signals of the tractor.
            2.   Amber reflectors, all visible to the front;
            3.   Red reflectors, all visible to the rear.
         B.   Rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety under R.C. §
4513.111 governing the lamps and reflectors described in division (b)(3)A. of
this section and their placement correlate with and, as far as possible,
conform with paragraphs 4.1.4.1, 4.1.7.1, and 4.1.7.2 respectively of the
American Society of Agricultural Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE S279.10 OCT 98,
Lighting and Marking of Agricultural Equipment on Highways.
      (4)   At the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03, no person shall operate a
unit of farm machinery model year 2002 or later on a street or highway unless
it is equipped with and displays markings and illuminated lamps that meet or
exceed the lighting, illumination, and marking standards and specifications
that are applicable to that type of farm machinery for the unit's model year
specified in the American society of agricultural engineers standard ANSI/ASAE
S279.10 OCT 98, lighting and marking of agricultural equipment on highways.
      (5)   Any unit of farm machinery designed by its manufacturer to operate
at a speed of 25 miles per hour or greater or any SMV may be equipped with and
display a red flashing light that is visible from a distance of not less than
1,000 feet to the rear at all times specified in R.C. § 4513.03. When a double-
faced light is used, it shall display amber light to the front and red light to
the rear.
      (6)   Lights and reflectors required under divisions (b)(3) and (b)(4) of
this section and authorized under division (b)(5) of this section are in
addition to other lights required or permitted by this division (B) or R.C. §
4513.17.
      (7)   The Ohio Director of Public Safety shall adopt rules in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 119 that establish standards and specifications for lamps and
reflectors required or authorized by this section. Lamps and reflectors
required or authorized by this section shall meet those standards and
specifications.
      (8)   This division (b) does not apply to a bicycle, motorized bicycle,
electric bicycle, or animal-drawn vehicle.
      (9)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.111)
   (c)   Slow-moving vehicles.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, no person shall
operate an SMV on a street or highway as follows:
         A.   At a speed exceeding 25 miles per hour;
         B.   Without displaying the triangular SMV emblem mounted in
accordance with division (c)(2) of this section.
      (2)   The SMV emblem shall be mounted so as to be visible from a distance
of not less than 500 feet to the rear. In accordance with R.C. Chapter 119, the
Ohio Director of Public Safety shall adopt standards and specifications for the
design and position of mounting the SMV emblem. The standards and
specifications for the SMV emblem correlate with and, so far as possible,
conform with those approved by the American Society of Agricultural Engineers.
      (3)   A person may operate an SMV on a street or highway without
displaying the triangular SMV emblem when any of the following apply:
         A.   The SMV is being used in actual construction and maintenance work
in an area guarded by a flagperson, or where flares are used.
         B.   The SMV is operating or traveling within the limits of a
construction area designated by the Ohio Director of Transportation, a city
engineer, or the county engineer of the several counties, when such
construction area is marked in accordance with requirements of the Ohio
Director of Transportation and the Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices,
as set forth in R.C. § 4511.09.
      (4)   No person shall display an SMV emblem on any of the following:
         A.   Any vehicle not required to use the SMV emblem by this division
(C) or R.C. § 4513.113 or 4513.114;
         B.   An SMV being transported upon any other vehicle;
         C.   Any stationary object on the highway.
      (5)   No person shall sell, lease, rent, or operate an SMV, except a unit
designed to be completely mounted on a primary power unit that is manufactured
or assembled on or after April 1, 1966, unless it is equipped with an SMV
emblem mounting device.
      (6)   Whoever violates this division (c) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.112)
   (d)   Farm machinery and agricultural tractors.
      (1)   No person shall sell, lease, rent, or operate on a street or
highway any unit of farm machinery that is designed by its manufacturer to
operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour unless the unit displays both
of the following:
         A.   The SMV emblem mounted in accordance with R.C. § 4513.112(B);
         B.   A speed identification symbol that does both of the following:
            1.   Meets the specifications contained in the American Society of
Agricultural Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE S584 JAN2005, Agricultural Equipment:
Speed Identification Symbol (SIS);
            2.   Indicates the maximum speed in miles per hour at which the
unit of farm machinery is designed by its manufacturer to operate.
      (2)   No person operating a tractor on a street or highway that is
designed by its manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per
hour and that is towing, pulling, or otherwise drawing a unit of farm machinery
while operating at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour shall fail to display
both of the following on the unit of farm machinery:
         A.   The SMV emblem;
         B.   The speed identification symbol that matches the speed
identification symbol required to be displayed on the agricultural tractor.
      (3)   No person shall operate an agricultural tractor that is designed by
its manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour unless
the person possesses documentation published or provided by the manufacturer
indicating the maximum speed in miles per hour at which the manufacturer
designed the agricultural tractor to operate.
      (4)   Whoever violates this division (d) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.113)
   (e)   Animal-drawn vehicles.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (e)(4) of this section, no
person shall operate an animal-drawn vehicle on a street or highway unless it
is equipped with and displays, at the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03, both
of the following:
         A.   At least one lamp displaying a white light visible from a
distance of not less than 1,000 feet to the front of the animal-drawn vehicle;
         B.   Two lamps displaying red light visible from a distance of not
less than 1,000 feet to the rear of the animal-drawn vehicle, or as an
alternative, one lamp displaying a red light visible from a distance of not
less than 1,000 feet to the rear and two red reflectors visible from all
distances of 600 feet to one hundred feet to the rear when illuminated by the
lawful lower beams of headlamps.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (e)(4) of this section, no
person shall operate an animal-drawn vehicle on a street or highway unless it
is equipped with and displays, at all times, all of the following:
         A.   One yellow flashing lamp displaying yellow light that is visible
from a distance of not less than 1,000 feet and that is mounted in either of
the following positions:
            1.   On the top most portion of the rear of the animal-drawn
vehicle;
            2.   On the top of the animal-drawn vehicle.
         B.   At least one of the following:
            1.   An SMV emblem mounted in accordance with R.C. § 4513.112(B);
            2.   Micro-prism reflective tape that is visible from a distance of
not less than 500 feet to the rear when illuminated by the lawful lower beams
of headlamps;
            3.   Both an SMV emblem and micro-prism reflective tape, as
specified in this division.
         C.   Lamps and micro- prism reflective tape required by this section
shall meet standards and specifications adopted by the Ohio Director of Public
Safety under R.C. § 4513.114.
      (3)   The Ohio Director of Public Safety, in accordance with R.C. Chapter
119, shall adopt rules establishing standards and specifications for the
position and mounting of the lamps and micro- prism reflective tape required by
R.C. § 4513.114. The rules permit the micro-prism reflective tape to be red,
amber, white, or silver in color.
      (4)   A.   Divisions (e)(1) and (e)(2) of this section do not apply to
the operator of animal-drawn agricultural equipment who is not transporting any
livestock or a person other than the operator.
         B.   No operator described in division (e)(4)A. of this section shall
operate animal-drawn agricultural equipment unless it is equipped with and
displays, at all times, the SMV emblem mounted in accordance with R.C. §
4513.112(B).
         C.   As used in division (e)(4) of this section, “animal-drawn
agricultural equipment” means equipment drawn by the muscular power of an
animal that is used solely for agricultural purposes. “Animal-drawn
agricultural equipment” includes any of the following:
            1.   A plow;
            2.   A manure spreader;
            3.   A thresher.
      (5)   Whoever violates this division (e) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.114)
   (f)   Strict liability offenses. The offenses established under this section
are strict liability offenses, and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The
designation of these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be
construed to imply that any other offense, for which there is no specified
degree of culpability, is not a strict liability offense.
(R.C. § 4513.115)
§ 438.11 SPOTLIGHT AND AUXILIARY LIGHTS.
   (a)   (1)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than one
spotlight and every lighted spotlight shall be so aimed and used upon
approaching another vehicle that no part of the high-intensity portion of the
beam will be directed to the left of the prolongation of the extreme left side
of the vehicle, nor more than 100 feet ahead of the vehicle.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than three
auxiliary driving lights mounted on the front of the vehicle. Any such lights
which do not conform to the specifications for auxiliary driving lights and the
regulations for their use prescribed by the Director of Public Safety shall not
be used.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.12)
§ 438.12 COWL, FENDER AND BACK-UP LIGHTS.
   (a)   (1)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with side cowl or fender
lights which shall emit a white or amber light without glare.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with lights on each side thereof
which shall emit a white or amber light without glare.
      (3)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with back-up lights, either
separately or in combination with another light. No back-up lights shall be
continuously lighted when the motor vehicle is in forward motion.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.13)
§ 438.13 TWO LIGHTS DISPLAYED.
   (a)   At all times mentioned in §
438.02 at least two state approved lighted lights shall be displayed conforming
to state regulations, one near each side of the front of every motor vehicle,
except when such vehicle is parked subject to the regulations governing lights
on parked vehicles.
(Adopting Ordinance)
   (b)   On a motorcycle there shall be displayed at least one and not more
than two lighted lights as required in division (a) hereof.
   (c)   Punishment shall be as set forth in §§
408.01 and
408.02.
(Ord. 76-36, passed 6-22-1976)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see Ohio R.C. 4513.14
§ 438.14 USE OF HEADLIGHT BEAMS.
   (a)   Whenever a motor vehicle is being operated on a roadway or shoulder
adjacent thereto during the times specified in Ohio R.C. 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the driver shall use a
distribution of light, or composite beam, directed high enough and of
sufficient intensity to reveal persons, vehicles and substantial objects at a
safe distance in advance of the vehicle, subject to the following requirements:
      (1)   Whenever the driver of a vehicle approaches an oncoming vehicle,
such driver shall use a distribution of light, or composite beam, so aimed that
the glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of the oncoming driver.
      (2)   Every new motor vehicle registered in this state which has
multiple-beam road lighting equipment shall be equipped with a beam indicator,
which shall be lighted whenever the uppermost distribution of light from the
headlights is in use, and shall not otherwise be lighted. This indicator shall
be so designed and located that, when lighted, it will be readily visible
without glare to the driver of the vehicle.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.15)
§ 438.15 LIGHTS OF LESS INTENSITY ON SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES.
   (a)   Any motor vehicle may be operated under the conditions specified in
Ohio R.C. 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance when it is
equipped with two lighted lights upon the front thereof capable of revealing
persons and substantial objects 75 feet ahead, in lieu of lights required in
Ohio R.C. 4513.14 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, provided
that such vehicle shall not be operated at a speed in excess of 20 miles per
hour.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.16)
§ 438.16 NUMBER OF LIGHTS PERMITTED; RED AND FLASHING LIGHTS.
   (a)   Whenever a motor vehicle equipped with headlights is also equipped
with any auxiliary lights or spotlight or any other light on the front thereof
projecting a beam of an intensity greater than 300 candlepower, not more than a
total of five of any such lights on the front of a vehicle shall be lighted at
any one time when the vehicle is upon a highway.
   (b)   Any lighted light or illuminating device upon a motor vehicle, other
than headlights, spotlights, signal lights, or auxiliary driving lights, that
projects a beam of light of an intensity greater than 300 candlepower shall be
so directed that no part of the beam will strike the level of the roadway on
which the vehicle stands at a distance of more than 75 feet from the vehicle.
   (c)   (1)   Flashing lights are prohibited on motor vehicles, except as a
means for indicating a right or a left turn, or in the presence of a vehicular
traffic hazard requiring unusual care in approaching, or overtaking or passing.
      (2)   The prohibition in division (c)(1) of this section does not apply
to any of the following:
         A.   Emergency vehicles, road service vehicles servicing or towing a
disabled vehicle, stationary waste collection vehicles actively collecting
garbage, refuse, trash, or recyclable materials on the roadside, rural mail
delivery vehicles, vehicles as provided in R.C. § 4513.182, highway maintenance
vehicles, and similar equipment operated by state or local authorities,
provided such vehicles are equipped with and display, when used on a street or
highway for the special purpose necessitating such lights, a flashing,
oscillating, or rotating amber light;
         B.   Vehicles or machinery permitted by R.C. § 4513.111 to have a
flashing red light;
         C.   Farm machinery and vehicles escorting farm machinery, provided
such machinery and vehicles are equipped with and display, when used on a
street or highway, a flashing, oscillating, or rotating amber light. Farm
machinery also may display the lights described in R.C. § 4513.111.
         D.   A funeral hearse or funeral escort vehicle, provided that the
funeral hearse or funeral escort vehicle is equipped with and displays, when
used on a street or highway for the special purpose necessitating such lights,
a flashing, oscillating, or rotating purple or amber light;
         E.   A vehicle being used for emergency preparedness, response, and
recovery activities, as those terms are defined in R.C. § 5502.21, that is
equipped with and displays, when used on a street or highway for the special
purpose necessitating such lights, a flashing, oscillating, or rotating amber
or red and white light, provided that the vehicle is being operated by a person
from one of the following and the vehicle is clearly marked with the applicable
agency’s or authority’s insignia:
            1.   The Ohio Emergency Management Agency;
            2.   A countywide emergency management agency established under
R.C. § 5502.26;
            3.   A regional authority for emergency management established
under R.C. § 5502.27;
            4.   A program for emergency management established under R.C. §
5502.271.
      (3)   Division (c)(1) of this section does not apply to animal-drawn
vehicles subject to R.C. § 4513.114.
   (d)   (1)   Except a person operating a public safety vehicle, as defined in
R.C. § 4511.01(E), an emergency management agency vehicle, as described in
division (c)(2)E. of this section, or a school bus, no person shall operate,
move, or park upon, or permit to stand within the right-of-way of any public
street or highway any vehicle or equipment that is equipped with and displaying
a flashing red or a flashing combination red and white light, or an oscillating
or rotating red light, or a combination red and white oscillating or rotating
light.
      (2)   Except a public law enforcement officer, or other person sworn to
enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state, operating a public safety
vehicle when on duty, no person shall operate, move, or park upon, or permit to
stand within the right-of-way of any street or highway any vehicle or equipment
that is equipped with, or upon which is mounted, and displaying a flashing blue
or a flashing combination blue and white light, or an oscillating or rotating
blue light, or a combination blue and white oscillating or rotating light.
   (e)   This section does not prohibit the use of warning lights required by
law or the simultaneous flashing of turn signals on disabled vehicles or on
vehicles being operated in unfavorable atmospheric conditions in order to
enhance their visibility. This section also does not prohibit the simultaneous
flashing of turn signals or warning lights whether on farm machinery or
vehicles escorting farm machinery when used on a street or highway.
   (f)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.17)
§ 438.165 LIGHTS AND SOUND-PRODUCING DEVICES ON CORONERS’ VEHICLES.
   (a)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a motor vehicle operated
by a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator may be equipped with a
flashing, oscillating or rotating red or blue light and siren, whistle or bell
capable of emitting sound audible under normal conditions from a distance of
not less than 500 feet. Such a vehicle may display the flashing, oscillating or
rotating red or blue light and may give the audible signal of the siren,
whistle or bell only when responding to a fatality or a fatal motor vehicle
accident on a street or highway and only at those locations where the stoppage
of traffic impedes the ability of the coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s
investigator to arrive at the site of the fatality.
   (b)   This section does not relieve the coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s
investigator operating a motor vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard
for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.171)
§ 438.17 VEHICLES TRANSPORTING PRESCHOOL CHILDREN.
   (a)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle owned, leased, or hired by a
nursery school, kindergarten, or child care center, while transporting
preschool children to or from such an institution unless the motor vehicle is
equipped with and displaying two amber flashing lights mounted on a bar
attached to the top of the vehicle, and a sign bearing the designation “caution
– children”, which shall be attached to the bar carrying the amber flashing
lights in such a manner as to be legible to persons both in front of and behind
the vehicle. The lights and sign shall meet standards and specifications
adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety.
   (b)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle displaying the lights and sign
required by this section for any purpose other than the transportation of
preschool children as provided in this section.
(ORC 4513.182)
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.99)
§ 438.18 FOCUS AND AIM OF HEADLIGHTS.
   (a)   No person shall use any lights mentioned in Ohio R.C. 4513.03 through
4513.18, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, upon any motor
vehicle, trailer or semitrailer unless these lights are equipped, mounted and
adjusted as to focus and aim in accordance with regulations which are
prescribed by the Director of Public Safety.
   (b)   The headlights on any motor vehicle shall comply with the headlamp
color requirements contained in Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number
108, 49 C.F.R. § 571.108. No person shall operate a motor vehicle in violation
of this division.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.19)
§ 438.19 MOTOR VEHICLE AND MOTORCYCLE BRAKES.
   (a)   The following requirements govern as to brake equipment on vehicles:
      (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, when operated upon a
highway shall be equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of and
to stop and hold the motor vehicle, including two separate means of applying
the brakes, each of which means shall be effective to apply the brakes to at
least two wheels. If these two separate means of applying the brakes are
connected in any way, then on such motor vehicles, manufactured or assembled
after January 1, 1942, they shall be so constructed that failure of any one
part of the operating mechanism shall not leave the motor vehicle without
brakes on at least two wheels.
      (2)   Every motorcycle, when operated upon a highway shall be equipped
with at least one adequate brake, which may be operated by hand or by foot.
      (3)   Every motorized bicycle shall be equipped with brakes meeting the
rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety under Ohio R.C. 4511.521.
      (4)   When operated upon the highways, the following vehicles shall be
equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and to
hold the vehicle, designed to be applied by the driver of the towing motor
vehicle from its cab, and also designed and connected so that, in case of a
breakaway of the towed vehicle, the brakes shall be automatically applied:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in this section, every trailer or
semitrailer, except a pole trailer, with an empty weight of 2,000 pounds or
more, manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1942;
         B.   Every manufactured home or travel trailer with an empty weight of
2,000 pounds or more, manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 2001.
      (5)   Every watercraft trailer with a gross weight or manufacturer’s
gross vehicle weight rating of 3,000 pounds or more that is manufactured or
assembled on or after January 1, 2008, shall have separate brakes equipped with
hydraulic surge or electrically operated brakes on two wheels.
      (6)   In any combination of motor-drawn trailers or semitrailers equipped
with brakes, means shall be provided for applying the rearmost brakes in
approximate synchronism with the brakes on the towing vehicle, and developing
the required braking effort on the rearmost wheels at the fastest rate; or
means shall be provided for applying braking effort first on the rearmost
brakes; or both of the above means, capable of being used alternatively, may be
employed.
      (7)   Every vehicle and combination of vehicles, except motorcycles and
motorized bicycles, and except trailers and semitrailers of a gross weight of
less than 2,000 pounds, and pole trailers, shall be equipped with parking
brakes adequate to hold the vehicle on any grade on which it is operated, under
all conditions of loading, on a surface free from snow, ice, or loose material.
The parking brakes shall be capable of being applied in conformance with the
foregoing requirements by the driver’s muscular effort or by spring action or
by equivalent means. Their operation may be assisted by the service brakes or
other source of power provided that failure of the service brake actuation
system or other power assisting mechanism will not prevent the parking brakes
from being applied in conformance with the foregoing requirements. The parking
brakes shall be so designed that when once applied they shall remain applied
with the required effectiveness despite exhaustion of any source of energy or
leakage of any kind.
      (8)   The same brake drums, brake shoes and lining assemblies, brake shoe
anchors, and mechanical brake shoe actuation mechanism normally associated with
the wheel brake assemblies may be used for both the service brakes and the
parking brakes. If the means of applying the parking brakes and the service
brakes are connected in any way, they shall be so constructed that failure of
any one part shall not leave the vehicle without operative brakes.
      (9)   Every motor vehicle or combination of motor-drawn vehicles shall,
at all times and under all conditions of loading, be capable of being stopped
on a dry, smooth, level road free from loose material, upon application of the
service or foot brake, within the following specified distances, or shall be
capable of being decelerated at a sustained rate corresponding to these
distances:
         A.   Vehicles or combinations of vehicles having brakes on all wheels
shall come to a stop in 30 feet or less from a speed of 20 miles per hour.
         B.   Vehicles or combinations of vehicles not having brakes on all
wheels shall come to a stop in 40 feet or less from a speed of 20 miles per
hour.
      (10)   All brakes shall be maintained in good working order and shall be
so adjusted as to operate as equally as practicable with respect to the wheels
on opposite sides of the vehicle.
(ORC 4513.20)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.99)
§ 438.20 HORN, SIREN AND THEFT ALARM SIGNAL.
   (a)   (1)   Every motor vehicle when operated upon a highway shall be
equipped with a horn which is in good working order and capable of emitting
sound audible, under normal conditions, from a distance of not less than 200
feet.
      (2)   No motor vehicle shall be equipped with, nor shall any person use
upon a vehicle, any siren, whistle, or bell. Any vehicle may be equipped with a
theft alarm signal device which shall be so arranged that it cannot be used as
an ordinary warning signal. Every emergency vehicle shall be equipped with a
siren, whistle or bell, capable of emitting sound audible under normal
conditions from a distance of not less than 500 feet and of a type approved by
the Director of Public Safety. Such equipment shall not be used except when
such vehicle is operated in response to an emergency call or is in the
immediate pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law, in which case
the driver of the emergency vehicle shall sound such equipment when it is
necessary to warn pedestrians and other drivers of the approach thereof.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.21)
§ 438.21 MUFFLER; MUFFLER CUTOUT; EXCESSIVE SMOKE, GAS OR NOISE.
   (a)   (1)   Every motor vehicle and motorcycle with an internal combustion
engine shall at all times be equipped with a muffler which is in good working
order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise, and no
person shall use a muffler cutout, bypass or similar device upon a motor
vehicle on a highway. Every motorcycle muffler shall be equipped with baffle
plates.
      (2)   No person shall own, operate or have in the person’s possession any
motor vehicle or motorcycle equipped with a device for producing excessive
smoke or gas, or so equipped as to permit oil or any other chemical to flow
into or upon the exhaust pipe or muffler of such vehicle, or equipped in any
way to produce or emit smoke or dangerous or annoying gases from any portion of
such vehicle, other than the ordinary gases emitted by the exhaust of an
internal combustion engine under normal operation.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.22)
§ 438.22 REAR-VIEW MIRROR; CLEAR VIEW TO FRONT, BOTH SIDES AND REAR.
   (a)   Every motor vehicle and motorcycle shall be equipped with a mirror so
located as to reflect to the operator a view of the highway to the rear of such
vehicle or motorcycle. Operators of vehicles and motorcycles shall have a clear
and unobstructed view to the front and to both sides of their vehicles and
motorcycles and shall have a clear view to the rear of their vehicles and
motorcycles by mirror.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.23)
§ 438.23 WINDSHIELD REQUIRED; SIGN OR POSTER UPON WINDSHIELD; WINDSHIELD WIPER.
   (a)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle on a street or highway in this
municipality, other than a motorcycle or motorized bicycle, that is not
equipped with a windshield.
   (b)   (1)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle, other than a bus, with
any sign, poster, or other nontransparent material upon the front windshield,
sidewings, side, or rear windows of such vehicle other than a certificate or
other paper required to be displayed by law, except that there may be in the
lower left-hand or right-hand corner of the windshield a sign, poster, or decal
not to exceed four inches in height by six inches in width. No sign, poster, or
decal shall be displayed in the front windshield in such a manner as to conceal
the vehicle identification number for the motor vehicle when, in accordance
with federal law, that number is located inside the vehicle passenger
compartment and so placed as to be readable through the vehicle glazing without
moving any part of the vehicle.
      (2)   Division (b)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
driving a passenger car with an electronic device, including an antenna,
electronic tolling or other transponder, camera, directional navigation device,
or other similar electronic device located in the front windshield if either of
the following apply to the device:
         A.   It is a “vehicle safety technology” as defined in 49 C.F.R. §
393.5 and complies with 49 C.F.R. § 393.60(e)(1)(ii).
         B.   It does not restrict the vehicle operator’s sight lines to the
road and highway signs and signals, and it does not conceal the vehicle
identification number.
      (3)   Division (b)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
driving a commercial car with an electronic device, including an antenna,
electronic tolling or other transponder, camera, directional navigation device,
or other similar electronic device located in the front windshield if either of
the following apply to the device:
         A.   It is a “vehicle safety technology” as defined in 49 C.F.R. §
393.5 and complies with 49 C.F.R. § 393.60(e)(1)(ii).
         B.   It does not restrict the vehicle operator’s sight lines to the
road and highway signs and signals, and it is mounted not more than 8.5 inches
below the upper edge of the windshield.
   (c)   The windshield on every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a device
for cleaning rain, snow, or other moisture from the windshield. The device
shall be maintained in good working order and so constructed as to be
controlled or operated by the operator of the vehicle.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.24)
§ 438.24 TINTED GLASS; MATERIALS ON GLASS.
   (a)   No person shall operate, on any highway or other public or private
property open to the public for vehicular travel or parking, lease, or rent any
motor vehicle that is registered in this state unless the motor vehicle
conforms to the requirements concerning tinted glass and reflectorized material
of Ohio R.C. 4513.241 and of any applicable rule adopted under that section.
   (b)   No person shall install in or on any motor vehicle any glass or other
material that fails to conform to the requirements of Ohio R.C. 4513.241 or of
any rule adopted under that section.
   (c)   (1)   No used motor vehicle dealer or new motor vehicle dealer, as
defined in Ohio R.C. 4517.01, shall sell any motor vehicle that fails to
conform to the requirements of Ohio R.C. 4513.241 or of any rule adopted under
that section.
      (2)   No manufacturer, remanufacturer, or distributor, as defined in Ohio
R.C. 4517.01, shall provide to a motor vehicle dealer licensed under Ohio R.C.
Chapter 4517 or to any other person, a motor vehicle that fails to conform to
the requirements of Ohio R.C. 4513.241 or of any rule adopted under that
section.
   (d)   No reflectorized materials shall be permitted upon or in any front
windshield, side windows, sidewings, or rear window.
   (e)   This section does not apply to the manufacturer’s tinting or glazing
of motor vehicle windows or windshields that is otherwise in compliance with or
permitted by Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard #205.
   (f)   With regard to any side window behind a driver's seat or any rear
window other than any window on an emergency door, this division (b) does not
apply to any school bus used to transport a child with disabilities pursuant to
Ohio R.C. Chapter 3323, whom it is impossible or impractical to transport by
regular school bus in the course of regular route transportation provided by a
school district. As used in this division, “child with disabilities” has the
same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 3323.01.
   (g)   This section does not apply to any school bus that is to be sold and
operated outside the municipality.
(ORC 4513.241(C) - (I))
   (h)   (1)   This section does not apply to a motor vehicle used by a law
enforcement agency under either of the following circumstances:
         A.   The vehicle does not have distinctive markings of a law
enforcement vehicle but is operated by or on behalf of the law enforcement
agency in an authorized investigation or other activity requiring that the
presence and identity of the vehicle occupants be undisclosed.
         B.   The vehicle primarily is used by the law enforcement canine unit
for transporting a police dog.
      (2)   As used in this division, “law enforcement agency” means a police
department, the office of a sheriff, the State Highway Patrol, a county
prosecuting attorney, or a Federal, State, or local governmental body that
enforces criminal laws and that has employees who have a statutory power of
arrest.
(ORC 4513.241(C) - (J))
   (i)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor on a first offense; on a second offense within one year after
the first offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
on each subsequent offense within one year after the first offense, the person
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC 4513.99)
      (2)   Whoever violates division (b), (c)(2) or (d) of this section is
guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (c)(1) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor if the dealer or the dealer’s agent knew of the nonconformity
at the time of sale.
      (4)   A.   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree, except that an organization may not be
convicted unless the act of installation was authorized by the board of
directors, trustees, partners, or by a high managerial officer acting on behalf
of the organization, and installation was performed by an employee of the
organization acting within the scope of the person’s employment.
         B.   In addition to any other penalty imposed under this section,
whoever violates division (b) of this section is liable in a civil action to
the owner of a motor vehicle on which was installed the nonconforming glass or
material for any damages incurred by that person as a result of the
installation of the nonconforming glass or material, costs of maintaining the
civil action, and attorney fees.
         C.   In addition to any other penalty imposed under this section, if
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation
of division (b) of this section and the offender is a motor vehicle repair
operator registered under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4775 or a motor vehicle dealer
licensed under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4517, whoever violates division (b) of this
section is subject to a registration or license suspension, as applicable, for
a period of not more than 180 days.
(ORC 4513.241(K))
Statutory reference:
   Administrative regulations, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-41
   Recording and reporting violations, certain court requirements, see Ohio
R.C. 4513.241(L)
§ 438.25 LIMITED LOAD EXTENSION ON LEFT SIDE OF PASSENGER VEHICLE.
   (a)   No passenger-type vehicle shall be operated on a highway with any load
carried on the vehicle which extends more than six inches beyond the line of
the fenders on the vehicle’s left side.
(ORC 4513.30)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.99)
§ 438.26 MOTOR VEHICLE STOP LIGHTS.
   (a)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, and pole trailer when
operated upon a highway shall be equipped with two or more stop lights, except
that passenger cars manufactured or assembled prior to January 1, 1967,
motorcycles, and motor-driven cycles shall be equipped with at least one stop
light. Stop lights shall be mounted on the rear of the vehicle, actuated upon
application of the service brake, and may be incorporated with other rear
lights. Such stop lights when actuated shall emit a red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear; provided that in the case of a train of
vehicles only the stop lights on the rearmost vehicle need be visible from the
distance specified.
      (2)   Such stop lights when actuated shall give a steady warning light to
the rear of a vehicle or train of vehicles to indicate the intention of the
operator to diminish the speed of or stop a vehicle or train of vehicles.
      (3)   When stop lights are used as required by this section, they shall
be constructed or installed so as to provide adequate and reliable illumination
and shall conform to the appropriate rules and regulations established under
Ohio R.C. 4513.19.
      (4)   Historical motor vehicles as defined in Ohio R.C. 4503.181, not
originally manufactured with stop lights, are not subject to this section.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.071)
§ 438.27 BUMPERS.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   “Gross vehicle weight rating” means the manufacturer’s gross
vehicle weight rating established for that vehicle.
      (2)   “Manufacturer” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 4501.01.
      (3)   “Multipurpose passenger vehicle” means a motor vehicle with motive
power, except a motorcycle, designed to carry ten persons or less, that is
constructed either on a truck chassis or with special features for occasional
off-road operation.
      (4)   “Passenger car” means any motor vehicle with motive power, designed
for carrying ten persons or less, except a multipurpose passenger vehicle or
motorcycle.
      (5)   “Truck” means every motor vehicle, except trailers and
semitrailers, designed and used to carry property and having a gross vehicle
weight rating of 10,000 pounds or less.
   (b)   Rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety, in accordance with
Ohio R.C. Chapter 119, shall govern the maximum bumper height or, in the
absence of bumpers and in cases where bumper height have been lowered or
modified, the maximum height to the bottom of the frame rail of any passenger
car, multipurpose passenger vehicle or truck.
   (c)   No person shall operate upon a street or highway any passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle or truck registered in this state that does not
conform to the requirements of this section or any applicable rule adopted
pursuant to Ohio R.C. 4513.021.
   (d)   No person shall modify any motor vehicle registered in this state in
such a manner as to cause the vehicle body or chassis to come in contact with
the ground, expose the fuel tank to damage from collision, or cause the wheels
to come in contact with the body under normal operation, and no person shall
disconnect any part of the original suspension system of the vehicle to defeat
the safe operation of that system.
   (e)   Nothing contained in this section or in the rules adopted pursuant to
Ohio R.C. 4513.021 shall be construed to prohibit either of the following:
      (1)   The installation upon a passenger car, multipurpose passenger
vehicle or truck registered in this state of heavy duty equipment, including
shock absorbers and overload springs.
      (2)   The operation on a street or highway of a passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle, or truck registered in this state with normal
wear to the suspension system if the normal wear does not adversely affect the
control of the vehicle.
   (f)   This section and the rules adopted pursuant to Ohio R.C. 4513.021 do
not apply to any specially designed or modified passenger car, multipurpose
passenger vehicle, or truck when operated off a street or highway in races and
similar events.
   (g)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.021)
Statutory reference:
   Maximum height on bumpers, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-43
§ 438.28 AIR CLEANER REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate upon any street, alley or other public place any
motor vehicle which is not equipped with a functioning air cleaner, except for
motor vehicles equipped with electronic fuel-injection engines.
§ 438.29 USE OF CHILD RESTRAINTS.
   (a)   When any child who is in either or both of the following categories is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety
vehicle as defined in Ohio R.C. 4511.01, that is required by the United States
Department of Transportation to be equipped with seat belts at the time of
manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child
properly secured in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions in a child
restraint system that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards:
      (1)   A child who is less than four years of age;
      (2)   A child who weighs less than 40 pounds.
   (b)   When any child who is in either or both of the following categories is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab, that is owned,
leased, or otherwise under the control of a nursery school or child care
center, the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child properly secured
in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions in a child restraint system
that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards:
      (1)   A child who is less than four years of age;
      (2)   A child who weighs less than 40 pounds.
   (c)   When any child who is less than eight years of age and less than four
feet nine inches in height, who is not required by division (a) or (b) of this
section to be secured in a child restraint system, is being transported in a
motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 4511.01 or a vehicle that is regulated under R.C. § 5104.015, that is
required by the United States Department of Transportation to be equipped with
seat belts at the time of manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor
vehicle shall have the child properly secured in accordance with the
manufacturer’s instructions on a booster seat that meets federal motor vehicle
safety standards.
   (d)   When any child who is at least eight years of age but not older than
15 years of age, and who is not otherwise required by division (a), (b), or (c)
of this section to be secured in a child restraint system or booster seat, is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety
vehicle as defined in Ohio R.C. 4511.01, that is required by the United States
Department of Transportation to be equipped with seat belts at the time of
manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child
properly restrained either in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions
in a child restraint system that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards
or in an occupant restraining device as defined in Ohio R.C. 4513.263.
   (e)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause an operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of division (c) or (d) of this section has been
or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation or
summons for a violation of division (c) or (d) of this section or causing the
arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for a violation of division
(c) or (d) of this section, and absent another violation of law, a law
enforcement officer’s view of the interior or visual inspection of a motor
vehicle being operated on any street or highway may not be used for the purpose
of determining whether a violation of division (c) or (d) of this section has
been or is being committed.
   (f)   The Director of Public Safety shall adopt such rules as are necessary
to carry out this section.
   (g)   The failure of an operator of a motor vehicle to secure a child in a
child restraint system, a booster seat or in an occupant restraining device as
required in this section is not negligence imputable to the child, is not
admissible as evidence in any civil action involving the rights of the child
against any other person allegedly liable for injuries to the child, is not to
be used as a basis for a criminal prosecution of the operator of the motor
vehicle other than a prosecution for a violation of this section, and is not
admissible as evidence in any criminal action involving the operator of the
motor vehicle other than a prosecution for a violation of this section.
   (h)   This section does not apply when an emergency exists that threatens
the life of any person operating or occupying a motor vehicle that is being
used to transport a child who otherwise would be required to be restrained
under this section. This section does not apply to a person operating a motor
vehicle who has an affidavit signed by a physician licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4731 or a chiropractor licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4734 that states that the child who otherwise would be
required to be restrained under this section has a physical impairment that
makes use of a child restraint system, booster seat or an occupant restraining
device impossible or impractical, provided that the person operating the
vehicle has safely and appropriately restrained the child in accordance with
any recommendations of the physician or chiropractor as noted on the affidavit.
   (i)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any person to
carry with the person the birth certificate of a child to prove the age of the
child, but the production of a valid birth certificate for a child showing that
the child was not of an age to which this section applies is a defense against
any ticket, citation or summons issued for violating this section.
   (j)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a), (b), (c), or (d) of this section
shall be punished as follows, provided that the failure of an operator of a
motor vehicle to secure more than one child in a child restraint system,
booster seat or occupant restraining device as required by this section that
occurred at the same time, on the same day and at the same location is deemed
to be a single violation of this section:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (j)(1)B. of this
section, the offender is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined not
less than $25 nor more than $75.
         B.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (a), (b), (c) or (d) of this section or of a
state law or municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent any of those
divisions, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   All fines imposed pursuant to division (j)(1) of this section shall
be forwarded to the State Treasurer for deposit in the Child Highway Safety
Fund created by Ohio R.C. 4511.81(I).
(ORC 4511.81(A) - (H), (K), (L))
§ 438.30 USE OF OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICES.
   (a)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      (1)   “Automobile” means any commercial tractor, passenger car,
commercial car, or truck that is required to be factory-equipped with an
occupant restraining device for the operator or any passenger by regulations
adopted by the United States Secretary of Transportation pursuant to the
“National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act of 1966,” 80 Stat. 719, 15
U.S.C. 1392.
      (2)   “Commercial tractor,” “passenger car,” and “commercial car” have
the same meanings as in Ohio R.C. 4501.01.
      (3)   “Occupant restraining device” means a seat safety belt, shoulder
belt, harness, or other safety device for restraining a person who is an
operator of or passenger in an automobile and that satisfies the minimum
federal vehicle safety standards established by the United States Department of
Transportation.
      (4)   “Passenger” means any person in an automobile, other than its
operator, who is occupying a seating position for which an occupant restraining
device is provided.
      (5)   “Tort action” means a civil action for damages for injury, death,
or loss to person or property. “Tort action” includes a product liability
claim, as defined in Ohio R.C. 2307.71, and as asbestos claim, as defined in
Ohio R.C. 2307.91, but does not include a civil action for damages for breach
of contract or another agreement between persons.
      (6)   “Vehicle” and “motor vehicle,” as used in the definitions of the
terms set forth above, have the same meanings as in Ohio R.C. 4511.01.
   (b)   Prohibited acts. No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate an automobile on any street or highway unless he or she is
wearing all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant
restraining device, or operate a school bus that has an occupant restraining
device installed for use in its operator’s seat unless he or she is wearing all
of the available elements of the device, as properly adjusted.
      (2)   Operate an automobile on any street or highway unless each
passenger in the automobile who is subject to the requirement set forth in
division (b)(3) of this section is wearing all of the available elements of a
properly adjusted occupant restraining device.
      (3)   Occupy, as a passenger, a seating position on the front seat of an
automobile being operated on any street or highway unless he or she is wearing
all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining
device.
      (4)   Operate a taxicab on any street or highway unless all factory-
equipped occupant restraining devices in the taxicab are maintained in usable
form.
   (c)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Division (b)(3) of this section does not apply to a person who is
required by R.C. § 4511.81 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to
be secured in a child restraint device or booster seat.
      (2)   Division (b)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
an employee of the United States Postal Service or of a newspaper home delivery
service, during any period in which the person is engaged in the operation of
an automobile to deliver mail or newspapers to addressees.
      (3)   Divisions (b)(1) and (b)(3) of this section do not apply to a
person who has an affidavit signed by a physician licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4731 or a chiropractor licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4734 that states the following:
         A.   That the person has a physical impairment that makes use of an
occupant restraining device impossible or impractical;
         B.   Whether the physical impairment is temporary, permanent, or
reasonably expected to be permanent;
         C.   If the physical impairment is temporary, how long the physical
impairment is expected to make the use of an occupant restraining device
impossible or impractical.
      (4)   Divisions (b)(1) and (b)(3) of this section do not apply to a
person who has registered with the Registrar of Motor Vehicles in accordance
with division (c)(5) of this section.
      (5)   A person who has received an affidavit under division (c)(3) of
this section stating that the person has a permanent or reasonably expected to
be permanent physical impairment that makes use of an occupant restraining
device impossible or impracticable may register with the Registrar of Motor
Vehicles attesting to that fact. Upon such registration, the Registrar shall
make that information available in the law enforcement automated data system. A
person included in the database under division (c)(5) of this section is not
required to have the affidavit obtained in accordance with division (c)(3) of
this section in their possession while operating or occupying an automobile.
      (6)   A physician or chiropractor who issues an affidavit for the
purposes of division (c)(3) or (c)(4) of this section is immune from civil
liability arising from any injury or death sustained by the person who was
issued the affidavit due to the failure of the person to wear an occupant
restraining device unless the physician or chiropractor, in issuing the
affidavit, acted in a manner that constituted willful, wanton, or reckless
misconduct.
      (7)   The Registrar of Motor Vehicles shall adopt rules in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 119 establishing a process for a person to be included in the
database under division (c)(5) of this section. The information provided and
included in the database under division (c)(5) of this section is not a public
record subject to inspection or copying under R.C. § 149.43.
   (d)   Officers not permitted to stop cars to determine violation.
Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law enforcement
officer shall cause an operator of an automobile being operated on any street
or highway to stop the automobile for the sole purpose of determining whether a
violation of division (b) of this section has been or is being committed or for
the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or summons for the violation or
for causing the arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for the
violation. No law enforcement officer shall view the interior or visually
inspect any automobile being operated on any street or highway for the sole
purpose of determining whether the violation has been or is being committed.
   (e)   Use of fines for educational program. All fines collected for
violations of division (b) of this section shall be forwarded to the State
Treasurer for deposit in the funds as set forth in Ohio R.C. 4513.263(E).
   (f)   Limitations on evidence used for prosecution.
      (1)   Subject to division (f)(2) of this section, the failure of a person
to wear all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant
restraining device in violation of division (b)(1) or (b)(3) of this section or
the failure of a person to ensure that each minor who is a passenger of an
automobile being operated by that person is wearing all of the available
elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device in violation of
division (b)(2) of this section shall not be considered or used by the trier of
fact in a tort action as evidence of negligence or contributory negligence.
But, the trier of fact may determine based on evidence admitted consistent with
the Ohio Rules of Evidence that the failure contributed to the harm alleged in
the tort action and may diminish a recovery of compensatory damages that
represents non-economic loss, as defined in Ohio R.C. 2307.011, in a tort
action that could have been recovered but for the plaintiff’s failure to wear
all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining
device. Evidence of that failure shall not be used as a basis for a criminal
prosecution of the person other than a prosecution for a violation of this
section; and shall not be admissible as evidence in a criminal action involving
the person other than a prosecution for a violation of this section.
      (2)   If, at the time of an accident involving a passenger car equipped
with occupant restraining devices, any occupant of the passenger car who
sustained injury or death was not wearing an available occupant restraining
device, was not wearing all of the available elements of such a device, or was
not wearing such a device as properly adjusted, then, consistent with the Rules
of Evidence, the fact that the occupant was not wearing the available occupant
restraining device, was not wearing all of the available elements of such a
device, or was not wearing such a device as properly adjusted is admissible in
evidence in relation to any claim for relief in a tort action to the extent
that the claim for relief satisfies all of the following:
         A.   It seeks to recover damages for injury or death to the occupant;
         B.   The defendant in question is the manufacturer, designer,
distributor, or seller of the passenger car;
         C.   The claim for relief against the defendant in question is that
the injury or death sustained by the occupant was enhanced or aggravated by
some design defect in the passenger car or that the passenger car was not
crashworthy.
   (g)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (b)(1) of this section shall be fined
thirty dollars ($30.00).
      (2)   Whoever violates division (b)(2) of this section shall be subject
to the penalty set forth in §
408.02.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (b)(3) of this section shall be fined
twenty dollars ($20.00).
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (b)(4) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of
division (b)(4) of this section, whoever violates division (b)(4) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC 4513.263)
§ 438.31 IGNITION INTERLOCK DEVICES. (REPEALED)
   ( Editor’s note: Section 438.31 was repealed as part of the 2003 updating
and revision of these Codified Ordinances because substantially equivalent
state law (Ohio R.C. 4511.83(A), (B), (E)) was repealed by the Ohio General
Assembly.)
§ 438.32 AIR BAGS.
   (a)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Air bag” has the same meaning as in 49 C.F.R. 579.4, as amended.
      (2)   “Counterfeit air bag” means an air bag displaying a mark identical
or similar to the genuine mark of a motor vehicle manufacturer, without the
authorization of the motor vehicle manufacturer.
      (3)   “Nonfunctional air bag” means any of the following:
         A.   A replacement air bag that has been previously deployed or
damaged;
         B.   A replacement air bag that has an electrical fault that is
detected by the air bag diagnostic system of a vehicle after the air bag is
installed;
         C.   A counterfeit air bag, air bag cover, or some other object that
is installed in a vehicle to deceive an owner or operator of the vehicle into
believing that a functional air bag has been installed.
   (b)   No person shall install or reinstall in any motor vehicle a
counterfeit or nonfunctional air bag or any object intended to fulfill the
function of an air bag other than an air bag that was designed in conformance
with or that is regulated by Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number 208
for the make, model, and model year of the vehicle, knowing that the object is
not in accordance with that standard.
   (c)   No person shall knowingly manufacture, import, sell, or offer for sale
any of the following:
      (1)   A counterfeit air bag;
      (2)   A nonfunctional air bag;
      (3)   Any other object that is intended to be installed in a motor
vehicle to fulfill the function of an air bag and that is not in conformance
with Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number 208 for the make, model, and
model year of the vehicle in which the object is intended to be installed.
   (d)   No person shall knowingly sell, install, or reinstall a device in a
motor vehicle that causes the diagnostic system of a vehicle to inaccurately
indicate that the vehicle is equipped with a functional air bag.
   (e)   (1)   Whoever violates division (b) or (d) of this section is guilty
of improper replacement of a motor vehicle air bag, a misdemeanor of the first
degree on a first offense. On each subsequent offense, or if the violation
results in serious physical harm to an individual, the person is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (c) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Each manufacture, importation, installation, reinstallation, sale,
or offer for sale in violation of this section shall constitute a separate and
distinct violation.
(ORC 4549.20)
§ 438.99 PENALTY.
   ( Editor’s note: See §§
408.01 and
408.02 for general Traffic Code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.)
CHAPTER 440: COMMERCIAL AND HEAVY VEHICLES
Section
440.01   Load limits
440.02   Maximum width, height and length
440.03   Wheel protectors
440.04   Vehicles transporting explosives
440.05   Towing requirements; exception to size and weight restrictions
440.06   Loads dropping or leaking; tracking mud; removal required
440.07   Vehicles with spikes, lugs and chains
440.08   Occupying travel trailer, fifth wheel vehicle, or manufactured or
mobile home while in motion
440.09   Route and load information
440.10   Shifting load; loose loads
440.11   Display of warning devices on disabled vehicles
440.12   Chauffeured limousines
440.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Bus stops and taxicab stands, see TRAF.
452.10
   Fatigued or ill drivers, see TRAF.
442.09
   Riding in cargo storage areas, see TRAF.
416.06
   Slow-moving equipment at grade crossings, see TRAF.
432.33
   Stopping at grade crossings, see TRAF.
432.32,
432.33
   Truck loading zones, see TRAF.
452.09
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see section histories
   Arrest notice of drivers, see Ohio R.C. 5577.14
   Display of certificates of registration, see Ohio R.C. 4549.18
§ 440.01 LOAD LIMITS.
   (a)   (1)   State regulations.
         A.   The municipality, with respect to highways under their
jurisdiction, upon application in writing, shall issue a special regional heavy
hauling permit authorizing the applicant to operate or move a vehicle or
combination of vehicles as follows:
            1.   At a size or weight of vehicle or load exceeding the maximum
specified in R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or otherwise not in conformity with
R.C. §§ 4513.01 to 4513.37.
            2.   Upon any highway under the jurisdiction of municipality except
those highways with a condition insufficient to bear the weight of the vehicle
or combination of vehicles as stated in the application.
            3.   Issuance of a special regional heavy hauling permit is subject
to the payment of a fee established by the municipality in accordance with this
section.
         B.   In circumstances where a person is not eligible to receive a
permit under division (a)(1)A. of this section, the municipality, with respect
to highways under its jurisdiction, upon application in writing and for good
cause shown, may issue a special permit in writing authorizing the applicant to
operate or move a vehicle or combination of vehicles of a size or weight of
vehicle or load exceeding the maximum specified in R.C. §§ 5577.01 through
5577.09, or otherwise not in conformity with R.C. §§ 4513.01 through 4513.37,
upon any highway under its jurisdiction.
      (2)   A.   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 715.22 and 723.01, the holder of a
permit issued by the Ohio Director of Transportation under R.C. § 4513.34 may
move the vehicle or combination of vehicles described in the permit on any
highway that is a part of the state highway system when the movement is partly
within and partly without the corporate limits of the municipality. No local
authority shall require any other permit or license or charge any license fee
or other charge against the holder of a permit for the movement of a vehicle or
combination of vehicles on any highway which is a part of the state highway
system. The Ohio Director of Transportation shall not require the holder of a
permit issued by the municipality to obtain a special permit for the movement
of vehicles or combination of vehicles on highways within the jurisdiction of
the municipality.
         B.   Except as provided in R.C. § 4513.34(B)(3), permits may be issued
for any period of time not to exceed one year, as the local authority in its
discretion determines advisable or for the duration of any public construction
project.
      (3)   A.   The application for a permit issued under this section shall
be in the form that the municipality prescribes. The municipality may prescribe
a permit fee to be imposed and collected when any permit described in this
section is issued. The permit fee may be in an amount sufficient to reimburse
the municipality for the administrative costs incurred in issuing the permit,
and also to cover the cost of normal and expected damage caused to the roadway
or a street or highway structure as the result of the operation of the
nonconforming vehicle or combination of vehicles.
         B.   For the purposes of this section and of rules adopted by the
Director under R.C. § 4513.34, milk transported in bulk by vehicle is deemed a
nondivisible load.
         C.   For purposes of this section and of rules adopted by the Director
under R.C. § 4513.34, three or fewer aluminum coils, transported by a vehicle,
are deemed a nondivisible load. The Director shall adopt rules establishing
requirements for an aluminum coil permit that are substantially similar to the
requirements for a steel coil permit under O.A.C. Chapter 5501:2-1.
      (4)   The municipality shall issue a special regional heavy hauling
permit under division (a)(1)A. of this section upon application and payment of
the applicable fee. However, the municipality may issue or withhold a special
permit specified in division (a)(1)B. of this section. If a permit is to be
issued, the municipality may limit or prescribe conditions of operation for the
vehicle and may require the posting of a bond or other security conditioned
upon the sufficiency of the permit fee to compensate for damage caused to the
roadway or a street or highway structure. In addition, the municipality, as a
condition of issuance of an overweight permit, may require the applicant to
develop and enter into a mutual agreement with the municipality to compensate
for or to repair excess damage caused to the roadway by travel under the
permit.
      (5)   Every permit issued under this section shall be carried in the
vehicle or combination of vehicles to which it refers and shall be open to
inspection by any police officer or authorized agent of any authority granting
the permit. No person shall violate any of the terms of a permit.
      (6)   The Director of Transportation may debar an applicant from applying
for a special permit under this section upon a finding based on a reasonable
belief that the applicant has done any of the actions specified in R.C. §
4513.34(F).
      (7)   Notice and procedures for debarment shall be as provided in R.C. §
4513.34(G).
      (8)   A.   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under
this section that relate to gross load limits.
         B.   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to axle load by more than 2,000 pounds per axle or group of
axles.
         C.   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to an approved route except upon order of a law enforcement
officer or authorized agent of the issuing authority.
      (9)   A permit issued by the municipality under this section for the
operation of a vehicle or combination of vehicles is valid for the purposes of
the vehicle operation in accordance with the conditions and limitations
specified on the permit. Such a permit is voidable by law enforcement only for
operation of a vehicle or combination of vehicles in violation of the weight,
dimension, or route provisions of the permit. However, a permit is not voidable
for operation in violation of a route provision of a permit if the operation is
upon the order of a law enforcement officer.
(R.C. § 4513.34)
      (10)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
   (b)   Local streets. No person shall operate a vehicle exceeding a size as
specified in § 440.02 or exceeding a gross weight of five tons, upon any street
in the municipality other than state routes and county roads, except those
local streets designated as a truck route and marked as such by appropriate
traffic signs, and except when such operation is necessary to load or unload
property, to go to or from the usual place of storage of such vehicle or to
perform any other legitimate business or act other than passage through the
municipality. Operators of vehicles so deviating from either a state route or a
designated truck route within the municipality shall confine such deviation to
that required in order to accomplish the purpose of the departure. On county
roads the Mayor or other duly designated local authority shall establish
reasonable weight limits commensurate with the construction and material
specifications for such roads and the load resistance of such roads as
determined by the County Engineer. County roads shall be posted with signs
indicating such weight limits.
   (c)   Local permit and conditions. Upon application and for good cause, the
Director of Public Works and Services may issue a local permit authorizing an
applicant to move an oversize or
overweight vehicle or combination of vehicles upon local streets and highways.
      (1)   No permittee shall be required to obtain a special permit from the
Ohio Director of Transportation for the movement of the vehicle or combination
of vehicles on streets or highways under local jurisdiction. However, the
approval of the Ohio Director of Transportation shall be required for movement
upon state routes as provided in division (a) hereof.
      (2)   The Director may grant a permit for a single or round trip, or for
such period of time, not to exceed one year, as the Director in his or her
discretion deems advisable, or for the duration of any construction project.
The Director may limit or prescribe terms or conditions of operation for such
vehicle or combination of vehicles by designating the route, hours, speed or
such other restrictions as may be necessary for the preservation of the public
peace, property, health and safety. The Director may require the posting of
bond or other security necessary to compensate for any damage to a roadway or
road structure.
      (3)   For each such permit, the Director shall charge five dollars
($5.00), and for each hour of time or any part thereof spent by the Department
of Public Works and Services in supervising the movement of such vehicle, the
applicant shall pay the sum of ten dollars ($10.00).
      (4)   Except as provided in divisions (a) and (b) hereof, streets and
highways shall be posted with signs indicating “no thru trucks - gross weight 5
tons” or words of similar import to apprise drivers of the limitations imposed
by this section. No driver shall disobey the instructions indicated on any such
sign.
      (5)   Violation of any of the limitations, terms or conditions of the
permit granted by the Director shall be cause for immediate revocation or
suspension of such permit and denial of request for any future permit. Such
violation shall also subject the violator to the penalties prescribed by §§
408.01 and 408.02.
(Adopting Ordinance)
   (d)   Truck routes.
      (1)   North end.
         A.   No vehicle, load, object or structure having a combined axle load
greater than 40,000 pounds shall be operated or moved upon the streets
designated in division (d)(1)B. hereof, except as provided in division (c)
hereof.
         B.   The weight limitation set forth in division (d)(1)A. hereof shall
be imposed on the following streets: Second Street from the north end of the
overhead to Center Street; Fourth Street from Etna Street to Center Street;
Etna Street from Second Street to Fourth Street; Railroad Street from Second
Street to Fourth Street; and Center Street from Second Street to Fourth Street.
(Ord. 76-85, passed 12-1-1976)
      (2)   Downtown. The downtown truck route shall be defined as Park Avenue
from the corporate limits to Second Street, along Second Street to Jefferson,
along Jefferson to Third Street and along Third Street to the Ice Creek Bridge.
In the opposite direction the route shall be from the Ice Creek Bridge along
Third Street to Jefferson, along Jefferson to Second and along Second Street to
Park Avenue. Such route shall also include Adams Street, from the Ironton-
Russell Bridge to Second Street.
(Ord. 82-52, passed 11-11-1982; Am. Ord. 88-42, passed 10-27-1988)
      (3)   Special route for coal trucks. Notwithstanding any other provision
of this division, all coal trucks desiring access to the city must enter the
city from either South Third Street from the Village of Coal Grove or by the
Lorain Street access to the city. Such coal truck traffic shall be limited to
South Third Street from the Village of Coal Grove to Dayton Lane, and Lorain
Street from Third Street to the origination of Lorain Street at the city
limits.
(Ord. 86-20, passed 4-10-1986)
   (e)   Fees for oversized loads.
      (1)   It is hereby established that an oversized load as defined in this
section, shall pay an annual permit fee of $500.
      (2)   In addition to the base fee, if the gross vehicle weight is between
80,000 and 90,000 pounds there will be a "per load" fee assessed in the amount
of $250.
      (3)   If the vehicle weight is between 90,001 and 105,000 pounds there
will be a "per load" fee assessed in the amount of $500.
      (4)   If the vehicle weight is between 105,001 and 120,000 pounds there
will be a "per load" fee assessed in the amount of $750.
      (5)   If the vehicle weight is in excess of 120,000 pounds there will be
a "per load" fee assessed in the amount of $1,000.
      (6)   These fees shall be adjusted annually pursuant to the Consumer
Price Index.
      (7)   In addition, if city workers are required to assist in transit, the
oversized vehicle will be billed at: two laborers, at two hours minimum pay at
time and one-half plus fringe benefits.
(Ord. 24-01, passed 1-11-2024)
   (f)   Enforcement.  This section shall be enforced by the Director of Public
Works and Services, with the assistance of the Police Department.
(Ord. 86-19, passed 3-27-1986)
   (g)   Allocation of fines.  All fines collected by the city from overweight
vehicles shall be allocated as follows:
 
Fund              Allocation (percent)
Street Department 50
Water Fund        25
Sewer Fund        25
 
(Ord. 87-13, passed 2-28-1987)
   (h)   Penalty. Whoever violates division (d)(3) hereof is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Punishment shall be as provided in §
408.01. Whoever violates any of the other provisions of this section shall be
punished as provided in §§
408.01 and
408.02.
§ 440.02 MAXIMUM WIDTH, HEIGHT AND LENGTH.
   (a)   No vehicle shall be operated upon the public highways, streets,
bridges, and culverts within this municipality whose dimensions exceed those
specified in this section.
   (b)   No such vehicle shall have a width in excess of:
      (1)   104 inches for passenger bus type vehicles operated exclusively
within the municipality.
      (2)   102 inches, excluding such safety devices as are required by law,
for passenger bus type vehicles operated over freeways, and such other state
roads with minimum pavement widths of 22 feet, except those roads or portions
of roads over which operation of 102-inch buses is prohibited by order of the
Director of Transportation.
      (3)   132 inches for traction engines.
      (4)   102 inches for recreational vehicles, excluding safety devices and
retracted awnings and other appurtenances of six inches or less in width and
except that the Director may prohibit the operation of 102-inch recreational
vehicles on designated state highways or portions of highways.
      (5)   102 inches, including load, for all other vehicles, except that the
Director may prohibit the operation of 102-inch vehicles on such state highways
or portions of state highways as the Director designates.
   (c)   No such vehicle shall have a length in excess of:
      (1)   66 feet for passenger bus type vehicles and articulated passenger
bus type vehicles operated by a regional transit authority pursuant to Ohio
R.C. 306.30 to 306.54.
      (2)   45 feet for all other passenger bus type vehicles.
      (3)   53 feet for any semitrailer when operated in a commercial tractor-
semitrailer combination, with or without load, except that the Director may
prohibit the operation of any such commercial tractor-semitrailer combination
on such state highways or portions of state highways as the Director
designates.
      (4)   28-1/2 feet for any semitrailer or trailer when operated in a
commercial tractor-semitrailer-trailer or commercial tractor-semitrailer-
semitrailer combination, except that the Director may prohibit the operation of
any such commercial tractor-semitrailer-trailer or commercial tractor-
semitrailer-semitrailer combination on such state highways or portions of state
highways as the Director designates.
      (5)   A.   97 feet for drive-away saddlemount vehicle transporter
combinations and drive-away saddlemount with fullmount vehicle transporter
combinations when operated on any interstate, United States route, or state
route, including reasonable access travel on all other roadways for a distance
not to exceed one road mile from any interstate, United States route, or state
route, not to exceed three saddlemounted vehicles, but which may include one
fullmount;
         B.   75 feet for drive-away saddlemount vehicle transporter
combinations and drive-away saddlemount with fullmount vehicle transporter
combinations when operated on any roadway not designated as an interstate,
United States route, or state route, not to exceed three saddlemounted
vehicles, but which may include one fullmount.
      (6)   65 feet for any other combination of vehicles coupled together,
with or without load, except as provided in division (c)(3) and (4), and in
division (e) below.
      (7)   45 feet for recreational vehicles.
      (8)   50 feet for all other vehicles, except trailers and semitrailers,
with or without load.
   (d)   No such vehicle shall have a height in excess of 13-1/2 feet, with or
without load.
   (e)   An automobile transporter or boat transporter shall be allowed a
length of 65 feet, and a stinger-steered automobile transporter or stinger-
steered boat transporter shall be allowed a length of 75 feet, except that the
load thereon may extend no more than four feet beyond the rear of such vehicles
and may extend no more than three feet beyond the front of such vehicles, and
except further that the Director may prohibit the operation of a stinger-
steered automobile transporter, stinger-steered boat transporter, or a B-train
assembly on any state highway or portion of any state highway that the Director
designates.
   (f)   (1)   The widths prescribed in division (b) of this section shall not
include side mirrors, turn signal lamps, marker lamps, handholds for cab entry
and egress, flexible fender extensions, mud flaps, splash and spray suppressant
devices, and load-induced tire bulge.
      (2)   The widths prescribed in division (b)(5) of this section shall not
include automatic covering devices, tarp and tarp hardware, and tiedown
assemblies, provided these safety devices do not extend more than three inches
from either side of the vehicle.
      (3)   The lengths prescribed in divisions (c)(2) to (c)(7) shall not
include safety devices, bumpers attached to the front or rear of such bus or
combination, non-property carrying devices or components that do not extend
more than 24 inches beyond the rear of the vehicle and are needed for loading
or unloading, B-train assembly used between the first and second semitrailer of
a commercial tractor-semitrailer-semitrailer combination, energy conservation
devices as provided in any regulations adopted by the Secretary of the United
States Department of Transportation, or any noncargo-carrying refrigerator
equipment attached to the front of trailers and semitrailers. In special cases,
vehicles that dimensions exceed those prescribed by this section may operate in
accordance with rules adopted by the Director.
   (g)   (1)   This section does not apply to fire engines, fire trucks, or
other vehicles or apparatus belonging to the municipality or to the Volunteer
Fire Department thereof or used by such department in the discharge of its
functions. This section does not apply to vehicles and pole trailers used in
the transportation of wooden and metal poles, nor to the transportation of
pipes or well-drilling equipment, nor to farm machinery and equipment.
      (2)   The owner or operator of any vehicle, machinery, or equipment not
specifically enumerated in this section but the dimensions of which exceed the
dimensions provided by this section, when operating the same on the highways
and streets of the municipality, shall comply with the rules of the Director
governing such movement. Any person adversely affected shall have the same
right of appeal as provided in Ohio R.C. Chapter 119.
      (3)   This section does not require the municipality or any railroad or
other private corporation to provide sufficient vertical clearance to permit
the operation of such vehicle, or to make any changes in or about existing
structures now crossing streets, roads, and other public thoroughfares.
   (h)   As used in this section, “recreational vehicle” has the same meaning
as in Ohio R.C. 4501.01.
(ORC 5577.05)
   (i)   No person shall violate any rule or regulation promulgated by the
Director of Transportation in accordance with Ohio R.C. 5577.05.
(ORC 5577.06)
   (j)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second or subsequent offense, such person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(ORC 5577.99(C))
§ 440.03 WHEEL PROTECTORS.
   (a)   No person shall drive or operate, or cause to be driven or operated,
any commercial car, trailer, or semitrailer, used for the transportation of
goods or property, the gross weight of which, with load, exceeds three tons,
upon the public highways, streets, bridges, and culverts within the
municipality, unless such vehicle is equipped with suitable metal protectors or
substantial flexible flaps on the rearmost wheels of such vehicle or
combination of vehicles to prevent, as far as practicable, the wheels from
throwing dirt, water, or other materials on the windshields of following
vehicles. Such protectors or flaps shall have a ground clearance of not more
than one-third of the distance from the center of the rearmost axle to the
center of the flaps under any conditions of loading of the vehicle, and they
shall be at least as wide as the tires they are protecting. If the vehicle is
so designed and constructed that such requirements are accomplished by means of
fenders, body construction, or other means of enclosure, then no such
protectors or flaps are required. Rear wheels not covered at the top by
fenders, bodies, or other parts of the vehicle shall be covered at the top by
protective means extending at least to the center line of the rearmost axle.
(ORC 5577.11)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than twenty-five
dollars ($25.00).
(ORC 5577.99(E))
§ 440.04 VEHICLES TRANSPORTING EXPLOSIVES.
   (a)   Any person operating any vehicle transporting explosives upon a
highway shall at all times comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   The vehicle shall be marked or placarded on each side and on the
rear with the word “EXPLOSIVES” in letters not less than eight inches high, or
there shall be displayed on the rear of such vehicle a red flag not less than
24 inches square marked with the word “DANGER” in white letters six inches
high, or shall be marked or placarded in accordance with Section 177.823 of the
United States Department of Transportation regulations.
      (2)   The vehicle shall be equipped with not less than two fire
extinguishers, filled and ready for immediate use, and placed at convenient
points on such vehicle.
(ORC 4513.29)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.99)
§ 440.05 TOWING REQUIREMENTS; EXCEPTION TO SIZE AND WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   (a)   (1)   When one vehicle is towing another vehicle, the drawbar or other
connection shall be of sufficient strength to pull all the weight towed
thereby, and the drawbar or other connection shall not exceed 15 feet from one
vehicle to the other, except the connection between any two vehicles
transporting poles, pipe, machinery, or other objects of structural nature
which cannot readily be dismembered.
      (2)   When one vehicle is towing another and the connection consists only
of a chain, rope, or cable, there shall be displayed upon such connection a
white flag or cloth not less than 12 inches square.
      (3)   In addition to such drawbar or other connection, each trailer and
each semitrailer which is not connected to a commercial tractor by means of a
fifth wheel shall be coupled with stay chains or cables to the vehicle by which
it is being drawn. These chains or cables shall be of sufficient size and
strength to prevent the towed vehicle’s parting from the drawing vehicle in
case the drawbar or other connection should break or become disengaged. In case
of a loaded pole trailer, the connecting pole to the drawing vehicle shall be
coupled to the drawing vehicle with stay chains or cables of sufficient size
and strength to prevent the towed vehicle’s parting from the drawing vehicle.
      (4)   Every trailer or semitrailer, except pole and cable trailers and
pole and cable dollies operated by a public utility as defined in Ohio R.C.
5727.01, shall be equipped with a coupling device which shall be so designed
and constructed that the trailer will follow substantially in the path of the
vehicle drawing it, without whipping or swerving from side to side. Vehicles
used to transport agricultural produce or agricultural production materials
between a local place of storage and supply and the farm, when drawn or towed
on a street or highway at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less, and vehicles
designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage
and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or
highway for a distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of 25 miles per
hour or less, shall have a drawbar or other connection, including the hitch
mounted on the towing vehicle, which shall be of sufficient strength to pull
all the weight towed thereby. Only one such vehicle used to transport
agricultural produce or agricultural production materials as provided in this
section may be towed or drawn at one time except as follows:
         A.   An agricultural tractor may tow or draw more than one such
vehicle;
         B.   A pickup truck or straight truck designed by the manufacturer to
carry a load of not less than one-half ton and not more than two tons may tow
or draw not more than two such vehicles that are being used to transport
agricultural produce from the farm to a local place of storage. No vehicle
being so towed by such a pickup truck or straight truck shall be considered to
be a motor vehicle.
(ORC 4513.32)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.99)
   (c)   Exception to size and weight restrictions.
      (1)   The size and weight provisions of this chapter and R.C. Chapter
5577 do not apply to any of the following:
         A.   A person who is engaged in the initial towing or removal of a
wrecked or disabled motor vehicle from the site of an emergency on a public
highway where the vehicle became wrecked or disabled to the nearest site where
the vehicle can be brought into conformance with the requirements of this
chapter and R.C. Chapter 5577, to the nearest storage facility, or to the
nearest qualified repair facility;
         B.   A person who is en route to the site of an emergency on a public
highway to remove a wrecked or disabled motor vehicle;
         C.   A person who is returning from delivering a wrecked or disabled
motor vehicle to a site, storage facility, or repair facility as specified in
division (c)(1)A. of this section.
      (2)   Any subsequent towing of a wrecked or disabled vehicle shall comply
with the size and weight provisions of this chapter and R.C. Chapter 5577.
      (3)   No court shall impose any penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99 or
the civil liability established in R.C. § 5577.12 upon a person who is
operating a vehicle in the manner described in division (c)(1) of this section.
(R.C. § 5577.15)
§ 440.06 LOADS DROPPING OR LEAKING; TRACKING MUD; REMOVAL REQUIRED.
   (a)   (1)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any highway unless the
vehicle is so constructed, loaded, or covered as to prevent any of its load
from dropping, sifting, leaking, or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that
sand or other substances may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction,
or water or other substances may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or
maintaining the roadway.
      (2)   Except for a farm vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or
agricultural production materials or a rubbish vehicle in the process of
acquiring its load, no vehicle loaded with garbage, swill, cans, bottles, waste
paper, ashes, refuse, trash, rubbish, waste, wire, paper, cartons, boxes,
glass, solid waste, or any other material of an unsanitary nature that is
susceptible to blowing or bouncing from a moving vehicle shall be driven or
moved on any highway unless the load is covered with a sufficient cover to
prevent the load or any part of the load from spilling onto the highway.
(ORC 4513.31)
   (b)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC 4513.99)
   (c)   No person shall operate any vehicle so as to track mud on any public
way or place.
   (d)   It shall be the duty of the driver of a vehicle who unlawfully drops
or deposits mud or permits the load or any portion thereof to be dropped or
deposited upon any public way or place to immediately remove the same or cause
it to be removed.
§ 440.07 VEHICLES WITH SPIKES, LUGS AND CHAINS.
   (a)   No person shall drive over the improved highways of this municipality
a traction engine or tractor with tires or wheels equipped with ice picks,
spuds, spikes, chains or other projections of any kind extending beyond the
cleats, and no person shall tow or in any way pull another vehicle over the
improved highways of this municipality which towed or pulled vehicle has tires
or wheels equipped with ice picks, spuds, spikes, chains or other projections
of any kind. “Traction engine” or “tractor,” as used in this section, applies
to all self-propelling engines equipped with metal-tired wheels operated or
propelled by any form of engine, motor or mechanical power.
   (b)   This municipality shall not adopt, enforce, or maintain any ordinance,
rule or regulation contrary to or inconsistent with division (a), nor shall
this municipality require any license tax upon or registration fee for any
traction engine, tractor, or trailer, or any permit or license to operate.
Operators of traction engines or tractors shall have the same rights upon the
public streets and highways as the drivers of any other vehicles, unless some
other safe and convenient way is provided, and no public road open to traffic
shall be closed to traction engines or tractors.
(ORC 5589.08)
   (c)   For the purposes of this section, “studded tire” means any tire
designed for use on a vehicle and equipped with metal studs or studs of wear-
resisting material that project beyond the tread of the traction surface of the
tire.
   (d)   (1)   Except as provided in division (d)(2) of this section, no person
shall operate any motor vehicle other than a public safety vehicle or school
bus that is equipped with studded tires on any street or highway in this
Municipality, except during the period extending from the first day of November
of each year through the fifteenth day of April of the succeeding year.
      (2)   A person may operate a motor vehicle that is equipped with
retractable studded tires with the studs retracted at any time of the year, but
shall operate the motor vehicle with the studs extended only as provided in
division (d)(1) of this section.
   (e)   Division (d) of this section does not apply to the use of tire chains
when there is snow or ice on the streets or highways where such chains are
being used, or the immediate vicinity thereof.
(ORC 5589.081)
   (f)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 5589.99(B))
§ 440.08 OCCUPYING TRAVEL TRAILER, FIFTH WHEEL VEHICLE, OR MANUFACTURED OR
MOBILE HOME WHILE IN MOTION.
   (a)   Except as provided in division (b) of this section, no person shall
occupy any travel trailer, fifth wheel trailer, or manufactured or mobile home
while it is being used as a conveyance upon a street or highway.
   (b)   (1)   Division (a) of this section does not apply to a fifth wheel
trailer when both of the following apply:
         A.   Any child riding in the fifth wheel trailer is properly secured
in the manner provided in R.C. § 4511.81.
         B.   The operator of the vehicle towing the fifth wheel trailer has
some means of viable communication with the passengers riding in the trailer.
      (2)   As used in this division, “viable communication” includes a
cellular or satellite telephone, a radio, or any other similar electronic
wireless communications device.
   (c)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   The offense established under this section is a strict liability
offense and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of this offense as a
strict liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other
offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict
liability offense.
(R.C. § 4511.701)
§ 440.09 ROUTE AND LOAD INFORMATION.
   Drivers of vehicles described in this chapter are required, upon request by
a police officer, to give full and true information as to the route they are
following and the name of the consignor and consignee and place of delivery or
removal and the location of any consignment being hauled or goods being
removed, and upon a designation by such police officer of a route to be
followed, shall immediately adopt and pursue such route.
§ 440.10 SHIFTING LOAD; LOOSE LOADS.
   (a)   In addition to any other lawful requirements of load distribution, no
person shall operate any vehicle upon a street or highway unless such vehicle
is so laden as to prevent its contents from shifting or otherwise unbalancing
the vehicle to such an extent as to interfere with the safe operation of the
same.
   (b)   No motor vehicle or trailer shall be driven unless the tailboard or
tailgate, tarpaulins, chains (except ground or contact chains), ropes, stakes,
poles, and the like, or any part of the load, are securely fastened to prevent
dangling, flapping, swinging or falling from the side, end or top of the load
or body. All projecting cargo shall be properly guarded by a red flag or cloth
or a red light or lantern as required by Ohio R.C. 4513.09, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
§ 440.11 DISPLAY OF WARNING DEVICES ON DISABLED VEHICLES.
   (a)   Whenever any motor truck, bus, commercial tractor, trailer,
semitrailer, or pole trailer is disabled upon any freeway, expressway, thruway
and connecting, entering, or exiting ramps within the municipality, at any time
when lighted lamps are required on vehicles, the operator of such vehicle shall
display the following warning devices upon the highway during the time the
vehicle is so disabled on the highway except as provided in division (b) of
this section:
      (1)   A lighted fusee shall be immediately placed on the roadway at the
traffic side of such vehicle, unless red electric lanterns or red reflectors
are displayed.
      (2)   Within the burning period of the fusee and as promptly as possible,
three lighted flares or pot torches, or three red reflectors or three red
electric lanterns shall be placed on the roadway as follows:
         A.   One at a distance of 40 paces or approximately 100 feet in
advance of the vehicle;
         B.   One at a distance of 40 paces or approximately 100 feet to the
rear of the vehicle, except as provided in this section, each in the center of
the lane of traffic occupied by the disabled vehicle;
         C.   One at the traffic side of the vehicle.
   (b)   Whenever any vehicle used in transporting flammable liquids in bulk,
or in transporting compressed flammable gases, is disabled upon a highway at
any time or place mentioned in division (a) of this section, the driver of such
vehicle shall display upon the roadway the following warning devices:
      (1)   One red electric lantern or one red reflector shall be immediately
placed on the roadway at the traffic side of the vehicle;
      (2)   Two other red electric lanterns or two other red reflectors shall
be placed to the front and rear of the vehicle in the same manner prescribed
for flares in division (a) of this section.
   (c)   When a vehicle of a type specified in division (b) of this section is
disabled, the use of flares, fusees, or any signal produced by flame as warning
signals is prohibited.
   (d)   Whenever any vehicle of a type referred to in this section is disabled
upon any freeway, expressway, thruway, and connecting, entering, or exiting
ramps within the municipality, at any time when the display of fusees, flares,
red reflectors, or electric lanterns is not required, the operator of such
vehicle shall display two red flags upon the roadway in the lane of traffic
occupied by the disabled vehicle, one at a distance of 40 paces or
approximately 100 feet in advance of the vehicle, and one at a distance of 40
paces or approximately 100 feet to the rear of the vehicle, except as provided
in this section.
   (e)   The flares, fusees, lanterns, red reflectors, and flags to be
displayed as required in this section shall conform with the applicable
requirements of R.C. § 4513.27 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (f)   In the event the vehicle is disabled near a curve, crest of a hill, or
other obstruction of view, the flare, flag, reflector, or lantern in that
direction shall be placed as to afford ample warning to other users of the
highway, but in no case shall it be placed less than 40 paces or approximately
100 feet nor more than 120 paces or approximately 300 feet from the disabled
vehicle.
   (g)   This section does not apply to the operator of any vehicle in a work
area designated by protection equipment devices that are displayed and used in
accordance with the manual adopted by the Department of Transportation under
R.C. § 4511.09.
(ORC § 4513.28)
   (h)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second offense within one year after the first offense, the
person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; on each subsequent
offense within one year after the first offense, the person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC § 4513.99)
§ 440.12 CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINES.
   (a)   The operator of a chauffeured limousine shall accept passengers only
on the basis of prearranged contracts, as defined in Ohio R.C. 4501.01, and
shall not cruise in search of patronage unless the limousine is in compliance
with any statute or ordinance governing the operation of taxicabs or other
similar vehicles for hire.
   (b)   The operator of a chauffeured limousine may provide transportation to
passengers who arrange for the transportation through an intermediary,
including a digital dispatching service. Notwithstanding any law to the
contrary, when providing transportation arranged through an intermediary, the
operator of a chauffeured limousine may establish the fare and method of fare
calculation, so long as the method of fare calculation is provided to the
passenger upon request.
   (c)   No person shall advertise or hold himself or herself out as doing
business as a limousine service or livery service or other similar designation
unless each vehicle used by the person to provide the service is registered in
accordance with Ohio R.C. 4503.24 and is in compliance with Ohio R.C. 4509.80.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(ORC 4511.85)
§ 440.99 PENALTY.
   ( Editor’s note: See §§
408.01 and
408.02 for general Traffic Code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.)
CHAPTER 442: DRIVERS OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES
Section
442.01   Definitions
442.02   Use of actual gross weight in lieu of rating
442.03   Licensing requirements
442.04   Physical qualification to operate commercial motor vehicles
442.05   Criminal offenses
442.06   Application of 49 C.F.R. 383
442.07   Information required of prospective drivers by employers; unauthorized
driving
442.08   Authority of peace officers re drunk driving
442.09   Permitting or driving while fatigued or ill prohibited
442.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Driving under the influence, generally, see TRAF.
434.01
   Load limits, see TRAF.
440.01
   Route and load information, see TRAF.
440.09
   Stopping after accidents, generally, see TRAF.
436.11,
436.12
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see section histories
   Arrest notice of drivers, see Ohio R.C. 5577.14
   Hours of service of truck drivers, see Ohio R.C. 4921.30
   Warning devices when disabled on freeways, see Ohio R.C. 4513.28
§ 442.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter:
   (a)   “Alcohol concentration” means the concentration of alcohol in a
person’s blood, breath or urine. When expressed as a percentage, it means grams
of alcohol per the following:
      (1)   100 milliliters of whole blood, blood serum, or blood plasma;
      (2)   210 liters of breath;
      (3)   100 milliliters of urine.
   (b)   “Commercial driver’s license.”
      (1)   A license issued in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4506 that
authorizes an individual to drive a commercial motor vehicle. Except as
otherwise specifically provided, “commercial driver’s license” includes an
“enhanced commercial driver’s license.”
      (2)   “Enhanced commercial driver’s license” means a commercial driver’s
license issued in accordance with R.C. §§ 4507.021 and 4506.072 that denotes
citizenship and identity and is approved by the United States Secretary of
Homeland Security or other designated federal agency for purposes of entering
the United States.
   (c)   “Commercial driver’s license information system” means the information
system established pursuant to the requirements of the “Commercial Motor
Vehicle Safety Act of 1986,” 100 Stat. 3207-171, 49 U.S.C. App. 2701.
   (d)   “Commercial motor vehicle” means, except when used in Ohio R.C.
4506.25, any motor vehicle designed or used to transport persons or property
that meets any of the following qualifications:
      (1)   Any combination of vehicles with a gross vehicle weight or combined
gross vehicle weight rating of 26,001 pounds or more, provided that the gross
vehicle weight or gross vehicle weight rating of the vehicle or vehicles being
towed is in excess of 10,000 pounds;
      (2)   Any single vehicle with a gross vehicle weight or gross vehicle
weight rating of 26,001 pounds or more;
      (3)   Any single vehicle or combination of vehicles that is not a Class A
or Class B vehicle, but is designed to transport 16 or more passengers
including the driver;
      (4)   Any school bus with a gross vehicle weight or gross vehicle weight
rating of less than 26,001 pounds that is designed to transport fewer than 16
passengers including the driver;
      (5)   Is transporting hazardous materials for which placarding is
required under 49 C.F.R. Part 172, Subpart F, as amended; or
      (6)   Any single vehicle or combination of vehicles that is designed to
be operated and to travel on a public street or highway and is considered by
the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration to be a commercial motor
vehicle, including, but not limited to, a motorized crane, a vehicle whose
function is to pump cement, a rig for drilling wells, and a portable crane.
   (e)   “Controlled substance” includes all of the following:
      (1)   Any substance classified as a controlled substance under the
“Controlled Substances Act,” 80 Stat. 1242 (1970), 21 U.S.C. 802(6), as
amended;
      (2)   Any substance included in Schedules I through V of 21 C.F.R. Part
1308, as amended;
      (3)   Any drug of abuse.
   (f)   “Conviction” means an unvacated adjudication of guilt or a
determination that a person has violated or failed to comply with the law in a
court of original jurisdiction or an authorized administrative tribunal, an
unvacated forfeiture of bail or collateral deposited to secure the person’s
appearance in court, a plea of guilty or nolo contendere accepted by the court,
the payment of a fine or court cost, or violation of a condition of release
without bail, regardless of whether or not the penalty is rebated, suspended or
probated.
   (g)   “Disqualification” means any of the following:
      (1)   The suspension, revocation, or cancellation of a person’s
privileges to operate a commercial motor vehicle;
      (2)   Any withdrawal of a person’s privileges to operate a commercial
motor vehicle as the result of a violation of state or local law relating to
motor vehicle traffic control other than parking, vehicle weight, or vehicle
defect violations;
      (3)   A determination by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
that a person is not qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle under 49
C.F.R. 391.
   (h)   "Domiciled" means having a true, fixed, principal, and permanent
residence to which an individual intends to return.
   (i)   “Downgrade” means any of the following, as applicable:
      (1)   A change in the commercial driver’s license, or commercial driver’s
license temporary instruction permit, holder’s self-certified status as
described in Ohio R.C. 4506.10(A)(1);
      (2)   A change to a lesser class of vehicle;
      (3)   Removal of commercial driver’s license privileges from the
individual’s driver’s license.
   (j)   “Drive” means to drive, operate or be in physical control of a motor
vehicle.
   (k)   “Driver” means any person who drives, operates or is in physical
control of a commercial motor vehicle or is required to have a commercial
driver’s license.
   (l)   “Driver’s license” means a license issued by the Bureau of Motor
Vehicles that authorizes an individual to drive.
   (m)   “Drug of abuse” means any controlled substance, dangerous drug as
defined in R.C. § 4729.01, harmful intoxicant as defined in R.C. § 2925.01, or
over-the-counter medication that, when taken in quantities exceeding the
recommended dosage, can result in impairment of judgment or reflexes.
   (n)   “Electronic device” includes a cellular telephone, a personal digital
assistant, a pager, a computer, and any other device used to input, write,
send, receive, or read text.
   (o)   “Eligible unit of local government” means a village, township, or
county that has a population of not more than 3,000 persons according to the
most recent federal census.
   (p)   “Employer” means any person, including the federal government, any
state, and a political subdivision of any state, that owns or leases a
commercial motor vehicle or assigns a person to drive such a motor vehicle.
   (q)   “Endorsement” means an authorization on a person’s commercial driver’s
license that is required to permit the person to operate a specified type of
commercial motor vehicle.
   (r)   “Farm truck” means a truck controlled and operated by a farmer for use
in the transportation to or from a farm, for a distance of not more than 150
miles, of products of the farm, including livestock and its products, poultry
and its products, floricultural and horticultural products, and in the
transportation to the farm, from a distance of not more than 150 miles, of
supplies for the farm, including tile, fence and every other thing or commodity
used in agricultural, floricultural, horticultural, livestock, and poultry
production, and livestock, poultry, and other animals and things used for
breeding, feeding, or other purposes connected with the operation of the farm,
when the truck is operated in accordance with this definition and is not used
in the operations of a motor carrier, as defined in Ohio R.C. 4923.01.
   (s)   “Fatality” means the death of a person as the result of a motor
vehicle accident occurring not more than 365 days prior to the date of death.
   (t)   “Felony” means any offense under federal or state law that is
punishable by death or imprisonment for a term exceeding one year and includes
any offense specifically classified as a felony under the law of this state,
regardless of the penalty that may be imposed.
   (u)   “Foreign jurisdiction” means any jurisdiction other than a state.
   (v)   “Gross vehicle weight rating” means the value specified by the
manufacturer as the maximum loaded weight of a single or a combination vehicle.
The gross vehicle weight rating of a combination vehicle is the gross vehicle
weight rating of the power unit plus the gross vehicle weight rating of each
towed unit.
   (w)   “Hazardous materials” means any material that has been designated as
hazardous under 49 U.S.C. 5103 and is required to be placarded under 49 C.F.R.
Part 172, Subpart F or any quantity of a material listed as a select agent or
toxin in 42 C.F.R. Part 73, as amended.
   (x)   “Imminent hazard” means the existence of a condition that presents a
substantial likelihood that death, serious illness, severe personal injury, or
a substantial endangerment to health, property, or the environment may occur
before the reasonably foreseeable completion date of a formal proceeding begun
to lessen the risk of death, illness, injury, or endangerment.
   (y)   “Medical variance” means one of the following received by a driver
from the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration that allows the driver to
be issued a medical certificate:
      (1)   An exemption letter permitting operation of a commercial motor
vehicle under 49 C.F.R. part 381, subpart C or 49 C.F.R. 391.64;
      (2)   A skill performance evaluation certificate permitting operation of
a commercial motor vehicle pursuant to 49 C.F.R. 391.49.
   (z)   “Mobile telephone” means a mobile communication device that falls
under or uses any commercial mobile radio service as defined in 47 C.F.R. part
20, except that mobile telephone does not include two-way or citizens band
radio services.
   (aa)   “Motor vehicle” means a vehicle, machine, tractor, trailer, or
semitrailer propelled or drawn by mechanical power used on highways, except
that such term does not include a vehicle, machine, tractor, trailer, or
semitrailer operated exclusively on a rail.
   (bb)   “Out-of-service order” means a declaration by an authorized
enforcement officer of a federal, state, local, Canadian, or Mexican
jurisdiction declaring that the driver, commercial motor vehicle, or commercial
motor carrier operation is out of service as defined in 49 C.F.R. 390.5.
   (cc)   “Peace officer” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2935.01.
   (dd)   “Portable tank” means a liquid or gaseous packaging designed
primarily to be loaded on or temporarily attached to a vehicle and equipped
with skids, mountings, or accessories to facilitate handling of the tank by
mechanical means.
   (ee)   “Public safety vehicle” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 4511.01
(E)(1) and (E)(3).
   (ff)   “Recreational vehicle” includes every vehicle that is defined as a
recreational vehicle in Ohio R.C. 4501.01 and is used exclusively for purposes
other than engaging in business for profit.
   (gg)   “Residence” means any person’s residence determined in accordance
with standards prescribed in the rules adopted by the Registrar.
   (hh)   “School bus” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 4511.01.
   (ii)   “Serious traffic violation” means any of the following:
      (1)   A conviction arising from a single charge of operating a commercial
motor vehicle in violation of any provision of Ohio R.C. 4506.03;
      (2)   A.   Except as provided in division (2)B. of this definition, a
violation while operating a commercial motor vehicle of a law of this state, or
any municipal ordinance or county or township resolution, or any other
substantially equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of
another state, prohibiting either of the following:
            1.   Texting while driving;
            2.   Using a handheld mobile telephone.
         B.   It is not a serious traffic violation if the person was texting
or using a handheld mobile telephone to contact law enforcement or other
emergency services.
      (3)   A conviction arising from the operation of any motor vehicle that
involves any of the following:
         A.   A single charge of any speed in excess of the posted speed limit
by 15 miles per hour or more;
         B.   Violations of Ohio R.C. 4511.20 or 4511.201 or any substantially
equivalent ordinance or resolution, or of any substantially equivalent law of
another state or political subdivision of another state;
         C.   Violation of a law of this state or an ordinance or resolution
relating to traffic control, other than a parking violation, or of any
substantially equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of
another state, that results in a fatal accident;
         D.   Violation of Ohio R.C. 4506.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance or county or township resolution, or of any substantially
equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of another state, that
involves the operation of a commercial motor vehicle without a valid commercial
driver’s license with the proper class or endorsement for the specific vehicle
group being operated or for the passengers or type of cargo being transported;
         E.   Violation of Ohio R.C. 4506.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance or county or township resolution, or of any substantially
equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of another state, that
involves the operation of a commercial motor vehicle without a valid commercial
driver’s license being in the person’s possession;
         F.   Violation of Ohio R.C. 4511.33 or 4511.34, or any municipal
ordinance or county or township resolution substantially equivalent to either
of those sections, or any substantially equivalent law of another state or
political subdivision of another state;
         G.   Violation of any other law of this state, any law of another
state, or any ordinance or resolution of a political subdivision of this state
or another state that meets both of the following requirements:
            1.   It relates to traffic control, other than a parking violation;
            2.   It is determined to be a serious traffic violation by the
United States Secretary of Transportation and is designated by the director as
such by rule.
   (jj)   “State” means a state of the United States and includes the District
of Columbia.
   (kk)   “Tank vehicle” means any commercial motor vehicle that is designed to
transport any liquid or gaseous materials within a tank or tanks that are
either permanently or temporarily attached to the vehicle or its chassis and
have an individual rated capacity of more than 119 gallons and an aggregate
rated capacity of 1,000 gallons or more. The term does not include a commercial
motor vehicle transporting an empty storage container tank that is not designed
for transportation, has a rated capacity of 1,000 gallons or more, and is
temporarily attached to a flatbed trailer.
   (ll)   “Tester” means a person or entity acting pursuant to a valid
agreement entered into pursuant to Ohio R.C. 4506.09(B).
   (mm)   “Texting” means manually entering alphanumeric text into, or reading
text from, an electronic device. “Texting” includes short message service
(SMS), e-mail, instant messaging, a command or request to access a world wide
web page, pressing more than a single button to initiate or terminate a voice
communication using a mobile telephone, or engaging in any other form of
electronic text retrieval or entry, for present or future communication.
“Texting” does not include the following:
      (1)   Using voice commands to initiate, receive, or terminate a voice
communication using a mobile telephone;
      (2)   Inputting, selecting, or reading information on a global
positioning system or navigation system;
      (3)   Pressing a single button to initiate or terminate a voice
communication using a mobile telephone; or
      (4)   Using, for a purpose that is not otherwise prohibited by law, a
device capable of performing multiple functions, such as a fleet management
system, a dispatching device, a mobile telephone, a citizens band radio, or a
music player.
   (nn)   “Texting while driving” means texting while operating a commercial
motor vehicle, with the motor running, including while temporarily stationary
because of traffic, a traffic control device, or other momentary delays.
Texting while driving does not include operating a commercial motor vehicle
with or without the motor running when the driver has moved the vehicle to the
side of, or off, a highway and is stopped in a location where the vehicle can
safely remain stationary.
   (oo)   “United States” means the 50 states and the District of Columbia.
   (pp)   “Upgrade” means a change in the class of vehicles, endorsements, or
self-certified status as described in Ohio R.C. 4506.10(A)(1) that expands the
ability of a current commercial driver’s license holder to operate commercial
motor vehicles under this chapter or Ohio R.C. Chapter 4506.
   (qq)   “Use of a handheld mobile telephone.” Means:
      (1)   Using at least one hand to hold a mobile telephone to conduct a
voice communication;
      (2)   Dialing or answering a mobile telephone by pressing more than a
single button; or
      (3)   Reaching for a mobile telephone in a manner that requires a driver
to maneuver so that the driver is no longer in a seated driving position, or
restrained by a seat belt that is installed in accordance with 49 C.F.R. §
393.93 and adjusted in accordance with the vehicle manufacturer’s instructions.
   (rr)   “Vehicle” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 4511.01.
(ORC 4506.01)
§ 442.02 USE OF ACTUAL GROSS WEIGHT IN LIEU OF RATING.
   For purposes of this chapter, the actual gross weight of a vehicle or
combination of vehicles may be used in lieu of a gross vehicle weight rating to
determine whether a vehicle or combination of vehicles qualifies as a
commercial motor vehicle if the gross vehicle weight rating specified by the
manufacturer for the vehicle of combination of vehicles is not determinable, or
if the manufacturer of the vehicle has not specified a gross vehicle weight
rating.
(ORC 4506.011)
§ 442.03 LICENSING REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having in the person’s
possession or otherwise under the person’s control more than one valid driver’s
license issued by this state, any other state, or by a foreign jurisdiction;
      (2)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle on a highway in this municipality
in violation of an out-of-service order while the person’s driving privilege is
suspended, revoked, or cancelled, or while the person is subject to
disqualification;
      (3)   Drive a motor vehicle on a highway in the municipality under the
authority of a commercial driver’s license issued by another state or a foreign
jurisdiction, after having been a resident of this state for 30 days or longer;
      (4)   Knowingly give false information in any application or
certification required by Ohio R.C. 4506.07;
      (5)   Knowingly provide false statements or engage in any fraudulent act
related to testing for a commercial driver’s license as required in R.C. §
4506.09.
   (b)   The municipality shall give every conviction occurring out of this
state and notice of which was received by the State Department of Public Safety
after December 31, 1989, full faith and credit and treat it for sanctioning
purposes under this chapter as though the conviction had occurred in this
state.
(ORC 4506.04(A), (B))
   (c)   No person shall drive any commercial motor vehicle for which an
endorsement is required under Ohio R.C. 4506.12 unless the proper endorsement
appears on the person’s commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s
license temporary instruction permit. No person shall drive a commercial motor
vehicle in violation of a restriction established under R.C. § 4506.12 that
appears on the person’s commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s
license temporary instruction permit.
(ORC 4506.12(I))
   (d)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a)(1), (2) or (3) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (a)(4) of this section is guilty of
falsification, a misdemeanor of the first degree. In addition, the provisions
of Ohio R.C. 4507.19 apply.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (a)(5) of this section is guilty of
falsification, a misdemeanor of the third degree. In addition, the provisions
of R.C. § 4507.19 apply.
(R.C. § 4506.04(C))
      (4)   A.   Whoever violates division (c) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         B.   The offenses established under division (c) of this section are
strict liability offenses and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of
these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be construed to imply
that any other offense for which there is no specified degree of culpability,
whether in this section or another section of this code or the Ohio Revised
Code, is not a strict liability offense.
(ORC 4506.12(F))
§ 442.04 PHYSICAL QUALIFICATION TO OPERATE COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (a)   No person who holds a valid commercial driver’s license shall drive a
commercial motor vehicle unless the person is physically qualified to do so.
      (1)   Any person applying for a commercial driver’s license or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit, the renewal or upgrade of a
commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit, or the transfer of a commercial driver’s license from out
of state shall self-certify to the Registrar for purposes of 49 C.F.R. § 383.71
one of the following in regard to the applicant’s operation of a commercial
motor vehicle, as applicable:
         A.   1.   If the applicant operates or expects to operate a commercial
motor vehicle in interstate or foreign commerce and is subject to and meets the
requirements under 49 C.F.R. part 391, the applicant shall self-certify that
the applicant is non-excepted interstate and shall provide the Registrar with
the original or a copy of a medical examiner’s certificate and each
subsequently issued medical examiner’s certificate prepared by a qualified
medical examiner to maintain a medically certified status on the applicant’s
commercial driver licensing system driver record;
            2.   If the applicant operates or expects to operate a commercial
motor vehicle in interstate commerce, but engages in transportation or
operations excepted under 49 C.F.R. 390.3(f), 391.2, 391.68, or 398.3 from all
or parts of the qualification requirements of 49 C.F.R. part 391, the applicant
shall self-certify that the applicant is excepted interstate and is not
required to obtain a medical examiner’s certificate;
         B.   1.   If the applicant operates only in intrastate commerce and is
subject to state driver qualification requirements, the applicant shall self-
certify that the applicant is non-excepted intrastate;
            2.   If the applicant operates only in intrastate commerce and is
excepted from all or parts of the state driver qualification requirements, the
applicant shall self-certify that the applicant is excepted intrastate.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the expiration date on a person’s commercial
driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit,
every commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit holder shall provide the Registrar with the certification
required by this section on or after January 30, 2012, but prior to January 30,
2014.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(ORC 4506.10(A), (E))
§ 442.05 CRIMINAL OFFENSES.
   (a)   No person who holds a commercial driver’s license or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit or who operates a motor vehicle
for which a commercial driver’s license or permit is required shall do any of
the following:
      (1)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having a measurable or
detectable amount of alcohol or of a controlled substance in the person’s
blood, breath, or urine;
      (2)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of 0.04 percent or more by whole blood or breath;
      (3)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of 0.048 percent or more by blood serum or blood plasma;
      (4)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of 0.056 percent or more by urine;
      (5)   Drive a motor vehicle while under the influence of a controlled
substance;
      (6)   Drive a motor vehicle in violation of Ohio R.C. 4511.19 or a
municipal O.V.I. ordinance as defined in Ohio R.C. 4511.181;
      (7)   Use a vehicle in the commission of a felony;
      (8)   Refuse to submit to a test under Ohio R.C. 4506.17 or Ohio R.C.
4511.191, or any substantially similar municipal ordinance;
      (9)   Operate a commercial motor vehicle while the person’s commercial
driver’s license or permit or other commercial driving privileges are revoked,
suspended, cancelled or disqualified;
      (10)   Cause a fatality through the negligent operation of a commercial
motor vehicle, including but not limited to the offenses of aggravated
vehicular homicide, vehicular homicide and vehicular manslaughter;
      (11)   Fail to stop after an accident in violation of Ohio R.C. 4549.02
to 4549.03, or any substantially similar municipal ordinance;
      (12)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle in violation of any provision of
Ohio R.C. 4511.61 to 4511.63 or any Federal or local law or ordinance
pertaining to railroad-highway grade crossings;
      (13)   Use a motor vehicle in the commission of a felony involving the
manufacture, distribution, or dispensing of a controlled substance as defined
in Ohio R.C. 3719.01 or the possession with intent to manufacture, distribute,
or dispense a controlled substance;
      (14)   Use a commercial motor vehicle in the commission of a violation of
R.C. § 2905.32 or any other substantially equivalent offense established under
federal law or the laws of another state.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
   (c)   The offenses established under division (a) of this section are strict
liability offenses and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of these
offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be construed to imply that any
other offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a
strict liability offense.
(R.C. §§ 4506.15)
Statutory reference:
   Alcohol or controlled substance testing, disqualification of drivers, see
Ohio R.C. 4506.17
   Disqualification of drivers for violations, see Ohio R.C. 4506.16
§ 442.06 APPLICATION OF 49 C.F.R. PART 383.
   (a)   The provisions of 49 C.F.R. Part 383, Subpart C (Notification
Requirements and Employer Responsibilities), as amended, shall apply to all
commercial drivers or persons who apply for employment as commercial drivers.
No person shall fail to make a report to the person’s employer as required by
this section.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(ORC 4506.19)
§ 442.07 INFORMATION REQUIRED OF PROSPECTIVE DRIVERS BY EMPLOYERS; UNAUTHORIZED
DRIVING.
   (a)   Each employer shall require every applicant for employment as a driver
of a commercial vehicle to provide the applicant’s employment history for the
10 years preceding the date the employment application is submitted to the
prospective employer. The following information shall be submitted:
      (1)   A list of the names and addresses of the applicant’s previous
employers for which the applicant was the operator of a commercial motor
vehicle;
      (2)   The dates the applicant was employed by these employers;
      (3)   The reason for leaving each of these employers.
   (b)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize any driver employed by
the employer to drive a commercial motor vehicle during any period in which any
of the following apply:
      (1)   The driver’s commercial driver’s license is suspended, revoked, or
cancelled by any state or a foreign jurisdiction;
      (2)   The driver has lost the privilege to drive, or currently is
disqualified from driving, a commercial motor vehicle in any state or foreign
jurisdiction;
      (3)   The driver, the commercial motor vehicle the driver is driving, or
the motor carrier operation is subject to an out-of-service order in any state
or a foreign jurisdiction;
      (4)   The driver has more than one driver’s license.
   (c)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate a
commercial motor vehicle in violation of Ohio R.C. 4506.15.
   (d)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate a
commercial motor vehicle if the driver does not hold a valid, current
commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit bearing the proper class or endorsements for the vehicle. No
employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate a commercial
motor vehicle in violation of the restrictions on the driver’s commercial
driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit.
   (e)   Whoever violates division (a), (b) or (d) of this section is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (f)   Whoever violates division (c) of this section is guilty of a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(ORC 4506.20)
§ 442.08 AUTHORITY OF PEACE OFFICERS RE DRUNK DRIVING.
   (a)   Within the jurisdictional limits of the appointing authority, any
peace officer shall stop and detain any person found violating Ohio R.C.
4506.15, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, without obtaining
a warrant. When there is reasonable ground to believe that a violation of Ohio
R.C. 4506.15, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, has been
committed and a test or tests of the person’s whole blood, blood plasma or
blood serum, breath or urine is necessary, the peace officer shall take the
person to an appropriate place for testing. If a person refuses to submit to a
test after being warned as provided in Ohio R.C. 4506.17(C), or submits to a
test that discloses the presence of a controlled substance or an alcohol
concentration of 0.04 percent or more by whole blood or breath, an alcohol
concentration of .048 percent or more by blood serum or blood plasma, or an
alcohol concentration of .056 percent or more by urine, the peace officer shall
require that the person immediately surrender the person’s commercial driver’s
license to the peace officer.
   (b)   As used in this section, “jurisdictional limits” means the limits
within which a peace officer may arrest and detain a person without a warrant
under Ohio R.C. 2935.03, except that the Superintendent and the troopers of the
State Highway Patrol may stop and detain, without warrant, any person who, in
the presence of the Superintendent or any trooper, is engaged in a violation of
any of the provisions of this subchapter or Ohio R.C. Chapter 4506.
(ORC 4506.23)
§ 442.09 PERMITTING OR DRIVING WHILE FATIGUED OR ILL PROHIBITED.
   (a)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle, as defined in Ohio
R.C. 4506.01, or a commercial car or commercial tractor, as defined in Ohio
R.C. 4501.01, while the person’s ability or alertness is so impaired by
fatigue, illness, or other causes that it is unsafe for the person to drive
such vehicle. No driver shall use any drug which would adversely affect the
driver’s ability or alertness.
   (b)   No owner, as defined in Ohio R.C. 4501.01, of a commercial motor
vehicle, commercial car or commercial tractor, or a person employing or
otherwise directing the driver of such vehicle, shall require or knowingly
permit a driver in any such condition described in division (a) of this section
to drive such vehicle upon any street or highway.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
Ohio R.C. 4511.79, or Ohio R.C. 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764,
or 4511.77 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(ORC 4511.79)
§ 442.99 PENALTY.
   ( Editor’s note: See §§
408.01 and
408.02 for general Traffic Code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.)
TITLE EIGHT - PARKING
CHAPTER 452: PARKING GENERALLY
Section
452.01   Prohibition against parking on streets or highways
452.02   Police may remove illegally parked vehicle
452.03   Prohibited standing or parking places
452.04   Manner of parallel and angle parking; handicapped persons
452.05   Willfully leaving vehicles on private or public property
452.055   Parking prohibitions on private property; private tow-away zones
452.06   Unattended vehicles; duty to lock ignition, remove key, set brake, and
the like
452.07   Opening doors on side available to traffic
452.08   Selling, washing or repairing vehicle upon roadway
452.09   Truck loading zones
452.10   Bus stops and taxicab stands
452.11   Parking in alleys and narrow streets; exceptions
452.12   Parking time limited for street cleaning
452.13   Selling from vehicles (Repealed)
452.14   Registered owner prima facie liable for unlawful parking
452.15   Waiver
452.16   Parking of certain vehicles upon city streets, alleys and public
rights-of-way prohibited
452.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Impounding; redemption, see TRAF.
404.05
   Lights on parked or stopped vehicles, see TRAF.
438.09
   Parking defined, see TRAF.
402.23
   Parking near stopped fire apparatus, see TRAF.
432.25
   Parking of bicycles; locks, see TRAF.
474.08
   Police may remove ignition key from unattended vehicle, see TRAF.
404.01
   Stop defined, see TRAF.
402.41
   Stopping and standing defined, see TRAF.
402.43
   Storage of junk vehicles, see GEN. OFF.
660.07
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see section histories
§ 452.01 PROHIBITION AGAINST PARKING ON STREETS OR HIGHWAYS.
   (a)   (1)   Upon any highway, no person shall stop, park, or leave standing
any vehicle, whether attended or unattended, upon the paved or main traveled
part of the highway if it is practicable to stop, park, or so leave such
vehicle off the paved or main traveled part of the highway. In every event a
clear and unobstructed portion of the highway opposite such standing vehicle
shall be left for the free passage of other vehicles, and a clear view of such
stopped vehicle shall be available from a distance of 200 feet in each
direction upon such highway.
      (2)   This section does not apply to the driver of any vehicle which is
disabled while on the paved or improved or main traveled portion of a highway
in such manner and to such extent that it is impossible to avoid stopping and
temporarily leaving the disabled vehicle in such position.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC 4511.66)
§ 452.02 POLICE MAY REMOVE ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLE.
   (a)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a highway in
violation of Ohio R.C. 4511.66 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, such officer may move such vehicle, or require the driver or other
person in charge of the vehicle to move the same, to a position off the paved
or improved or main traveled part of such highway.
   (b)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any
highway, bridge, or causeway, or in any tunnel, where such vehicles constitutes
an obstruction to traffic, such officer may provide for the removal of such
vehicle to the nearest garage or other place of safety.
(ORC 4511.67)
§ 452.03 PROHIBITED STANDING OR PARKING PLACES.
   (a)   No person shall stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or to comply with the provisions of this
Traffic Code, or while obeying the directions of a police officer or a traffic-
control device, in any of the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk, except as provided in division (b) of this section;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within ten feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (7)   Within 30 feet of, and upon the approach to, any flashing beacon,
stop sign, or traffic-control device;
      (8)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by a traffic-control device;
      (9)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (10)   Within 20 feet of a driveway entrance to any fire station and, on
the side of the street opposite the entrance to any fire station, within 75
feet of the entrance when it is properly posted with signs;
      (11)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
such standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (12)   Alongside any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street;
      (13)   Upon any bridge or elevated structure upon a street, or within a
street tunnel;
      (14)   At any place where signs prohibit stopping, standing or parking,
or where the curbing is painted yellow, or at any place in excess of the
maximum time limited by signs;
      (15)   Within one foot of another parked vehicle;
      (16)   On the roadway portion of a freeway, expressway, or thruway;
(ORC 4511.68)
      (17)   Within ten feet of an alley;
      (18)   Within five feet of a driveway entrance or exit;
      (19)   On the Center Street Boat Ramp.
(Ord. 5620, passed 6-8-1972; Am. Ord. 76-36, passed 6-22-1976; Am. Ord. 11-26,
passed 6-9-2011)
   (b)   A person is permitted, without charge or restriction, to stand or park
on a sidewalk a motor-driven cycle or motor scooter that has an engine not
larger than 150 cubic centimeters, a low-speed micromobility device, or a
bicycle or electric bicycle, provided that the motor-driven cycle, motor
scooter, low-speed micromobility device, bicycle, or electric bicycle does not
impede the normal flow of pedestrian traffic. This division does not authorize
any person to operate a vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4511.711, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 4511.68)
   (c)   Punishment shall be as provided in §§
408.01,
408.02, and
452.15.
§ 452.04 MANNER OF PARALLEL AND ANGLE PARKING; HANDICAPPED PERSONS.
   (a)   Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway where there is an
adjacent curb shall be stopped or parked with the right-hand wheels of the
vehicle parallel with and not more than 12 inches from the right-hand curb,
unless it is impossible to approach so close to the curb; in such case the stop
shall be made as close to the curb as possible and only for the time necessary
to discharge and receive passengers or to load or unload merchandise. Local
authorities by ordinance may permit angle parking on any roadway under their
jurisdiction, except that angle parking shall not be permitted on a state route
within the municipality unless an unoccupied roadway width of not less than 25
feet is available for free-moving traffic.
   (b)   Local authorities by ordinance may permit parking of vehicles with the
left-hand wheels adjacent to and within 12 inches of the left-hand curb of a
one-way roadway.
   (c)   (1)   A.   Except as provided in division (c)(2) of this section, no
vehicle shall be stopped or parked on a road or highway with the vehicle facing
in a direction other than the direction of travel on that side of the road or
highway.
         B.   The operator of a motorcycle may back the motorcycle into a
parking space that is located on the side of, and parallel to, a road or
highway. The motorcycle may face any direction when so parked. Not more than
two motorcycles at a time shall be parked in a parking space as described in
this division (c)(2) of this section irrespective of whether or not the space
is metered.
   (d)   Notwithstanding any statute or any rule, regulation, resolution, or
ordinance, air compressors, tractors, trucks, and other equipment, while being
used in the construction, reconstruction, installation, repair, or removal of
facilities near, on, over, or under a street or highway, may stop, stand, or
park where necessary in order to perform such work, provided a flagperson is on
duty or warning signs or lights are displayed as may be prescribed by the
Director of Transportation.
   (e)   Accessible parking locations and privileges for persons with
disabilities that limit or impair the ability to walk shall be provided and
designated by all political subdivisions and by the state and all agencies and
instrumentalities thereof at all offices and facilities where parking is
provided, whether owned, rented, or leased, and at all publicly owned parking
garages. The locations shall be designated through the posting of an elevated
sign, whether permanently affixed or movable, imprinted with the international
symbol of access and shall be reasonably close to exits, entrances, elevators,
and ramps. All elevated signs posted in accordance with this division and R.C.
§ 3781.111(C) shall be mounted on a fixed or movable post, and the distance
from the ground to the bottom edge of the sign shall measure not less than five
feet. If a new sign or a replacement sign designating an accessible parking
location is posted on or after October 14, 1999, there also shall be affixed
upon the surface of that sign or affixed next to the designating sign a notice
that states the fine applicable for the offense of parking a motor vehicle in
the designated accessible parking location if the motor vehicle is not legally
entitled to be parked in that location.
   (f)   (1)   A.   No person shall stop, stand, or park any motor vehicle at
accessible parking locations provided under division (e) of this section, or at
accessible clearly marked parking locations provided in or on privately owned
parking lots, parking garages, or other parking areas and designated in
accordance with that division, unless one of the following applies:
            1.   The motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of
a person with a disability that limits or impairs the ability to walk and is
displaying a valid removable windshield placard or accessible license plates;
or
            2.   The motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of
a person with a disability and is displaying a parking card or accessible
license plates.
         B.   Any motor vehicle that is parked in an accessible marked parking
location in violation of division (f)(1)A.1. or (f)(1)A.2. of this section may
be towed or otherwise removed from the parking location by the law enforcement
agency of the municipality. A motor vehicle that is so towed or removed shall
not be released to its owner until the owner presents proof of ownership of the
motor vehicle and pays all towing and storage fees normally imposed by the
municipality for towing and storing motor vehicles. If the motor vehicle is a
leased vehicle, it shall not be released to the lessee until the lessee
presents proof that that person is the lessee of the motor vehicle and pays all
towing and storage fees normally imposed by the municipality for towing and
storing motor vehicles.
         C.   If a person is charged with a violation of division (f)(1)A.1. or
(f)(1)A.2. of this section, it is an affirmative defense to the charge that
the person suffered an injury not more than 72 hours prior to the time the
person was issued the ticket or citation and that, because of the injury, the
person meets at least one of the criteria contained in R.C. § 4503.44(A)(1).
      (2)    No person shall stop, stand, or park any motor vehicle in an area
that is commonly known as an access aisle, which area is marked by diagonal
stripes and is located immediately adjacent to an accessible parking location
provided under division (e) of this section or at an accessible clearly marked
parking location provided in or on a privately owned parking lot, parking
garage, or other parking area and designated in accordance with that division.
   (g)   When a motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of a
person with a disability that limits or impairs the ability to walk and is
displaying a removable windshield placard or accessible license plates, or when
a motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of a person with a
disability and is displaying a parking card or accessible license plates, the
motor vehicle is permitted to park for a period of two hours in excess of the
legal parking period permitted by local authorities, except where local
ordinances or police rules provide otherwise or where the vehicle is parked in
such a manner as to be clearly a traffic hazard.
   (h)   No owner of an office, facility, or parking garage where accessible
parking locations are required to be designated in accordance with division (e)
of this section shall fail to properly mark the accessible parking locations in
accordance with that division or fail to maintain the markings of the
accessible locations, including the erection and maintenance of the fixed or
movable signs.
   (i)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require a person or
organization to apply for a removable windshield placard or accessible license
plates if the parking card or accessible license plates issued to the person or
organization under prior law have not expired or been surrendered or revoked.
   (j)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Accessible license plates” and “removable windshield placard.”
Mean any license plates, standard removable windshield placard, permanent
removable windshield placard, or temporary removable windshield placard issued
under R.C. § 4503.41 or 4503.44, and also mean any substantially similar
license plates or removable windshield placard issued by a state, district,
country, or sovereignty.
      (2)   “Person with a disability.” Means any person who has lost the use
of one or both legs or one or both arms, who is blind, deaf, or unable to move
without the aid of crutches or a wheelchair, or whose mobility is restricted by
a permanent cardiovascular, pulmonary, or other disabling condition.
      (3)   “Person with a disability that limits or impairs the ability to
walk.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4503.44.
   (k)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (a) or (c) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   A.   Whoever violates division (f)(1)A.1. or (f)(1)A.2. of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in
division (k)(2)A. and B. of this section. Except as otherwise provided in
division (k)(2)A. of this section, an offender who violates division (f)(1)A.1.
or (f)(1)A.2. of this section shall be fined not less than two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). An offender who
violates division (f)(1)A.1. or (f)(1)A.2. of this section shall be fined not
more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) if the offender, prior to sentencing,
proves either of the following to the satisfaction of the court:
            1.   At the time of the violation of division (f)(1)A.1. of this
section, the offender or the person for whose transport the motor vehicle was
being operated had been issued a removable windshield placard that then was
valid or accessible license plates that then were valid but the offender or the
person neglected to display the placard or license plates as described in
division (f)(1)A.1. of this section.
            2.   At the time of the violation of division (f)(1)A.2. of this
section, the offender or the person for whose transport the motor vehicle was
being operated had been issued a parking card that then was valid or accessible
license plates that then were valid but the offender or the person neglected to
display the card or license plates as described in division (f)(1)A.2. of this
section.
         B.   In no case shall an offender who violates division (f)(1)A.1. or
(f)(1)A.2. be sentenced to any term of imprisonment.
         C.   An arrest or conviction for a violation of division (f)(1)A.1. or
(f)(1)A.2. of this section does not constitute a criminal record and need not
be reported by the person so arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries
contained in any application for employment, license, or other right or
privilege, or made in connection with the person’s appearance as a witness.
         D.   The Clerk of the Court shall pay every fine collected under
divisions (k)(2) and (k)(3) of this section to the municipality. Except as
provided in division (k)(2) of this section, the municipality shall use the
fine moneys it receives under divisions (k)(2) and (k)(3) of this section to
pay the expenses it incurs in complying with the signage and notice
requirements contained in division (e) of this section. The municipality may
use up to 50 percent of each fine it receives under divisions (k)(2) and (k)(3)
of this section to pay the costs of educational, advocacy, support, and
assistive technology programs for persons with disabilities, and for public
improvements within the municipality that benefit or assist persons with
disabilities, if governmental agencies or nonprofit organizations offer the
programs.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (f)(2) of this section shall be fined not
less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00). In no case shall an offender who violates division (f)(2) of
this section be sentenced to any term of imprisonment. An arrest or conviction
for a violation of division (f)(2) of this section does not constitute a
criminal record and need not be reported by the person so arrested or convicted
in response to any inquiries contained in any application for employment,
license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection with the person’s
appearance as a witness.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (h) of this section shall be punished as
follows:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (k)(4) of this section,
the offender shall be issued a warning.
         B.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (h) of this section or of a municipal
ordinance that is substantially equivalent to that division, the offender shall
not be issued a warning but shall be fined not more than twenty-five dollars
($25.00) for each parking location that is not properly marked or whose
markings are not properly maintained.
(ORC 4511.69)
§ 452.05 WILLFULLY LEAVING VEHICLES ON PRIVATE OR PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (a)   The chief of a law enforcement agency of the municipal corporation,
within the chief’s territorial jurisdiction, or a state highway patrol trooper,
upon notification to the chief of such action and of the location of the place
of storage, may order into storage any motor vehicle, including an abandoned
junk motor vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4513.63, that:
      (1)   Has come into the possession of the chief or state highway patrol
trooper as a result of the performance of the chief’s or trooper’s duties; or
      (2)   Has been left on a public street or other property open to the
public for purposes of vehicular travel, or upon or within the right-of-way of
any road or highway, for 48 hours or longer without notification to the chief
of the reasons for leaving the motor vehicle in such place. However, when such
a motor vehicle constitutes an obstruction to traffic it may be ordered into
storage immediately unless either of the following applies:
         A.   The vehicle was involved in an accident and is subject to R.C. §
4513.66, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
         B.   The vehicle is a commercial motor vehicle. If the vehicle is a
commercial motor vehicle, the chief or state highway patrol trooper shall allow
the owner or operator of the vehicle the opportunity to arrange for the removal
of the motor vehicle within a period of time specified by the chief or state
highway patrol trooper. If the chief or state highway patrol trooper determines
that the vehicle cannot be removed within the specified period of time, the
chief or state highway patrol trooper shall order the removal of the vehicle.
      (3)   Subject to division (c) of this section, the chief shall designate
the place of storage of any motor vehicle so ordered removed.
   (b)   If the chief or a state highway patrol trooper issues an order under
division A. of this section and arranges for the removal of a motor vehicle by
a towing service, the towing service shall deliver the motor vehicle to the
location designated by the chief not more than two hours after the time it is
removed.
   (c)   (1)   The chief shall cause a search to be made of the records of an
applicable entity listed in R.C. § 4513.601(F)(1) to ascertain the identity of
the owner and any lienholder of a motor vehicle ordered into storage by the
chief or a state highway patrol trooper within five business days of the
removal of the vehicle. Upon obtaining such identity, the chief shall send or
cause to be sent to the owner or lienholder at the owner’s or lienholder’s last
known address by certified or express mail with return receipt requested, by
certified mail with electronic tracking, or by a commercial carrier service
utilizing any form of delivery requiring a signed receipt. The notice shall
inform the owner or lienholder that the motor vehicle will be declared a
nuisance and disposed of if not claimed within ten days of the date of the
sending of the notice.
      (2)   A.   The owner or lienholder of the motor vehicle may reclaim the
motor vehicle upon payment of any expenses or charges incurred in its removal
and storage, and presentation of proof of ownership, which may be evidenced by
a certificate of title or memorandum certificate of title to the motor vehicle,
a certificate of registration for the motor vehicle, or a lease agreement. Upon
presentation of proof of ownership evidenced as provided above, the owner of
the motor vehicle also may retrieve any personal items from the vehicle without
retrieving the vehicle and without paying any fee. However, a towing service or
storage facility may charge an after-hours retrieval fee established by the
Public Utilities Commission in rules adopted under R.C. § 4921.25 if the owner
retrieves the personal items after hours, unless the towing service or storage
facility fails to provide the notice required under R.C. § 4513.69(B)(3), if
applicable. However, the owner shall not do either of the following:
            1.   Retrieve any personal item that has been determined by the
chief or a state highway patrol trooper, as applicable, to be necessary to a
criminal investigation;
            2.   Retrieve any personal item from a vehicle if it would endanger
the safety of the owner, unless the owner agrees to sign a waiver of liability.
         B.   For purposes of division (c)(2) of this section, “personal items”
do not include any items that are attached to the vehicle.
      (3)   If the owner or lienholder of the motor vehicle reclaims it after a
search of the applicable records has been conducted and after notice has been
sent to the owner or lienholder as described in this section, and the search
was conducted by the place of storage, and the notice was sent to the motor
vehicle owner by the place of storage, the owner or lienholder shall pay to the
place of storage a processing fee of $25, in addition to any expenses or
charges incurred in the removal and storage of the vehicle.
   (d)   If the owner or lienholder makes no claim to the motor vehicle within
ten days of the date of sending the notice, and if the vehicle is to be
disposed of at public auction as provided in R.C. § 4513.62 or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the chief, without charge to any
party, shall file with the clerk of courts of the county in which the place of
storage is located an affidavit showing compliance with the requirements of
this section. Upon presentation of the affidavit, the clerk, without charge,
shall issue a salvage certificate of title, free and clear of all liens and
encumbrances, to the chief. If the vehicle is to be disposed of to a motor
vehicle salvage dealer or other facility as provided in R.C. § 4513.62 or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the chief shall execute in
triplicate an affidavit, as prescribed by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles,
describing the motor vehicle and the manner in which it was disposed of, and
that all requirements of this section have been complied with. The chief shall
retain the original of the affidavit for the chief’s records, and shall furnish
two copies to the motor vehicle salvage dealer or other facility. Upon
presentation of a copy of the affidavit by the motor vehicle salvage dealer,
the clerk of courts, within 30 days of the presentation, shall issue a salvage
certificate of title, free and clear of all liens and encumbrances.
   (e)   Whenever a motor vehicle salvage dealer or other facility receives an
affidavit for the disposal of a motor vehicle as provided in this section, the
dealer or facility shall not be required to obtain an Ohio certificate of title
to the motor vehicle in the dealer’s or facility’s own name if the vehicle is
dismantled or destroyed and both copies of the affidavit are delivered to the
clerk of courts.
   (f)   No towing service or storage facility shall fail to comply with this
section.
(R.C. § 4513.61)
   (g)   Abandonment of Junk Motor Vehicle Prohibited.
      (1)   A.   No person shall willfully leave an abandoned junk motor
vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4513.63 on private property for more than 72 hours
without the permission of the person having the right to the possession of the
property, or on a public street or other property open to the public for
purposes of vehicular travel or parking, or upon or within the right-of-way of
any road or highway for 48 hours or longer without notification to the chief of
a law enforcement agency of the municipal corporation of the reason for leaving
the motor vehicle in such place.
         B.   For purposes of this division (g)(1), the fact that a motor
vehicle has been so left without permission or notification is prima facie
evidence of abandonment.
         C.   Nothing contained in this section and R.C. §§ 4513.60, 4513.61
and 4513.63 shall invalidate or prevent the enactment of further provisions of
municipal ordinances regulating or prohibiting the abandonment of motor
vehicles on streets, highways, public property or private property within the
municipality.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (g) is guilty of a minor misdemeanor
and shall also be assessed any costs incurred by the municipality in disposing
of the abandoned junk motor vehicle, less any money accruing to the
municipality from the disposal.
(R.C. § 4513.64)
§ 452.055 PARKING PROHIBITIONS ON PRIVATE PROPERTY; PRIVATE TOW-AWAY ZONES.
   (a)   (1)   The chief of a law enforcement agency of the municipal
corporation, upon complaint of any person adversely affected, may order into
storage any motor vehicle, other than an abandoned junk motor vehicle as
defined in R.C. § 4513.63, that has been left on private residential or private
agricultural property for at least four hours without the permission of the
person having the right to the possession of the property. The chief, upon
complaint of a repair garage or place of storage, may order into storage any
motor vehicle, other than an abandoned junk motor vehicle, that has been left
at the garage or place of storage for a longer period than that agreed upon.
When ordering a motor vehicle into storage pursuant to this division, the chief
may arrange for the removal of the motor vehicle by a towing service and shall
designate a storage facility.
      (2)   A towing service towing a motor vehicle under division (a)(1) of
this section shall remove the motor vehicle in accordance with that division.
The towing service shall deliver the motor vehicle to the location designated
by the chief not more than two hours after the time it is removed from the
private property, unless the towing service is unable to deliver the motor
vehicle within two hours due to an uncontrollable force, natural disaster, or
other event that is not within the power of the towing service.
      (3)   Subject to division (b) of this section, the owner of a motor
vehicle that has been removed pursuant to this division may recover the vehicle
only in accordance with division (d) of this section.
      (4)   As used in this section, “private residential property” means
private property on which is located one or more structures that are used as a
home, residence, or sleeping place by one or more persons, if no more than
three separate households are maintained in the structure or structures. The
phrase does not include any private property on which is located one or more
structures that are used as a home, residence, or sleeping place by two or more
persons, if more than three separate households are maintained in the structure
or structures.
   (b)   (1)   If the owner or operator of a motor vehicle that has been
ordered into storage pursuant to division (a)(1) of this section arrives after
the motor vehicle has been prepared for removal, but prior to its actual
removal from the property, the towing service shall give the owner or operator
oral or written notification at the time of such arrival that the vehicle owner
or operator may pay a fee of not more than one-half of the fee for the removal
of the motor vehicle established by the Public Utilities Commission in rules
adopted under R.C. § 4921.25, in order to obtain release of the motor vehicle.
However, if the vehicle is within a municipal corporation and the municipal
corporation has established a vehicle removal fee, the towing service shall
give the owner or operator oral or written notification that the owner or
operator may pay not more than one-half of that fee to obtain release of the
motor vehicle. That fee may be paid by use of a major credit card unless the
towing service uses a mobile credit card processor and mobile service is not
available at the time of the transaction.
      (2)   Upon payment of the applicable fee, the towing service shall give
the vehicle owner or operator a receipt showing both the full amount normally
assessed and the actual amount received and shall release the motor vehicle to
the owner or operator. Upon its release, the owner or operator immediately
shall move it so that it is not on the private residential or private
agricultural property without the permission of the person having the right to
possession of the property, or is not at the garage or place of storage without
the permission of the owner, whichever is applicable.
   (c)   (1)   The chief of a law enforcement agency in the municipal
corporation shall maintain a record of motor vehicles that the chief orders
into storage pursuant to division (a)(1) of this section. The record shall
include an entry for each such motor vehicle that identifies the motor
vehicle’s license number, make, model, and color, the location from which it
was removed, the date and time of its removal, the telephone number of the
person from whom it may be recovered, and the address of the place to which it
has been taken and from which it may be recovered. The chief shall provide any
information in the record that pertains to a particular motor vehicle to any
person who, either in person or pursuant to a telephone call, identifies self
as the owner or operator of the motor vehicle and requests information
pertaining to its location.
      (2)   Any person who registers a complaint that is the basis of the
chief’s order for the removal and storage of a motor vehicle under division (a)
(1) of
this section shall provide the identity of the law enforcement agency with
which the complaint was registered to any person who identifies self as the
owner or operator of the motor vehicle and requests information pertaining to
its location.
   (d)   (1)   The owner or lienholder of a motor vehicle that is ordered into
storage pursuant to division (a)(1) of this section may reclaim it upon both of
the following:
         A.   Payment of all applicable fees established by the Public
Utilities Commission in rules adopted under R.C. § 4921.25 or, if the vehicle
was towed within a municipal corporation that has established fees for vehicle
removal and storage, payment of all applicable fees established by the
municipal corporation.
         B.   Presentation of proof of ownership, which may be evidenced by a
certificate of title to the motor vehicle, a certificate of registration for
the motor vehicle, or a lease agreement.
      (2)   When the owner of a vehicle towed under this section retrieves the
vehicle, the towing service or storage facility in possession of the vehicle
shall give the owner written notice that if the owner disputes that the motor
vehicle was lawfully towed, the owner may be able to file a civil action under
R.C. § 4513.611.
      (3)   Upon presentation of proof of ownership as required under division
(d)(1)B. of this section, the owner of a motor vehicle that is ordered into
storage under division (a)(1) of this section may retrieve any personal items
from the motor vehicle without retrieving the vehicle and without paying any
fee. However, a towing service or storage facility may charge an after-hours
retrieval fee established by the Public Utilities Commission in rules adopted
under R.C. § 4921.25 if the owner retrieves the personal items after hours,
unless the towing service or storage facility fails to provide the notice
required under R.C. § 4513.69(B)(3), if applicable. The owner of a motor
vehicle shall not do either of the following:
         A.   Retrieve any personal item that has been determined by the chief
to be necessary to a criminal investigation;
         B.   Retrieve any personal item from a vehicle if it would endanger
the safety of the owner, unless the owner agrees to sign a waiver of liability.
      (4)   For purposes of division (d)(3) of this section, “personal items”
do not include any items that are attached to the motor vehicle.
      (5)   If a motor vehicle that is ordered into storage pursuant to
division (a)(1) of this section remains unclaimed by the owner for 30 days, the
procedures established by R.C. §§ 4513.61 and 4513.62 apply.
   (e)   (1)   No person shall remove, or cause the removal of, any motor
vehicle from any private residential or private agricultural property other
than in accordance with division (a)(1) of this section or R.C. §§ 4513.61 to
4513.65.
      (2)   No towing service or storage facility shall fail to comply with the
requirements of this section.
   (f)   This section does not apply to any private residential or private
agricultural property that is established as a private tow-away zone in
accordance with division (h) of this section or R.C. § 4513.601.
   (g)   Whoever violates division (e) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.60)
   (h)   Private Tow-away Zones.
      (1)   The owner of a private property may establish a private tow-away
zone, but may do so only if all of the following conditions are satisfied:
         A.   The owner of the private property posts on the property a sign,
that is at least 18 inches by 24 inches in size, that is visible from all
entrances
to the property, and that includes all of the following information:
            1.   A statement that the property is a tow-away zone;
            2.   A description of persons authorized to park on the property.
If the property is a residential property, the owner of the private property
may include on the sign a statement that only tenants and guests may park in
the private tow-away zone, subject to the terms of the property owner. If the
property is a commercial property, the owner of the private property may
include on the sign a statement that only customers may park in the private
tow-away zone. In all cases, if it is not apparent which persons may park in
the private tow- away zone, the owner of the private property shall include on
the sign the address of the property on which the private tow-away zone is
located or the name of the business that is located on the property designated
as a private tow-away zone.
            3.   If the private tow-away zone is not enforceable at all times,
the times during which the parking restrictions are enforced;
            4.   The telephone number and the address of the place from which a
towed vehicle may be recovered at any time during the day or night;
            5.   A statement that the failure to recover a towed vehicle may
result in the loss of title to the vehicle as provided in R.C. § 4505.101(B).
            6.   In order to comply with the requirements of division (h)(1)A.
of this section, the owner of a private property may modify an existing sign by
affixing to the existing sign stickers or an addendum in lieu of replacing the
sign.
         B.   A towing service ensures that a vehicle towed under this division
(h) is taken to a location from which it may be recovered that complies with
all of the following:
            1.   It is located within 25 linear miles of the location of the
private tow-away zone, unless it is not practicable to take the vehicle to a
place of storage within 25 linear miles.
            2.   It is well- lighted.
            3.   It is on or within a reasonable distance of a regularly
scheduled route of one or more modes of public transportation, if any public
transportation is available in the municipal corporation or township in which
the private tow-away zone is located.
      (2)   A.   If a vehicle is parked on private property that is established
as a private tow- away zone in accordance with division (h)(1) of this section,
without the consent of the owner of the private property or in violation of any
posted parking condition or regulation, the owner of the private property may
cause the removal of the vehicle by a towing service. The towing service shall
remove the vehicle in accordance with this division (h). The vehicle owner and
the operator of the vehicle are considered to have consented to the removal and
storage of the vehicle, to the payment of the applicable fees established by
the Public Utilities Commission in rules adopted under R.C. § 4921.25, and to
the right of a towing service to obtain title to the vehicle if it remains
unclaimed as provided in R.C. § 4505.101. The owner or lienholder of a vehicle
that has been removed under this division (h), subject to division (h)(3) of
this section, may recover the vehicle in accordance with division (h)(7) of
this section.
         B.   If a municipal corporation requires tow trucks and tow truck
operators to be licensed, no owner of a private property located within the
municipal corporation shall cause the removal and storage of any vehicle
pursuant to division (h)(2) of this section by an unlicensed tow truck or
unlicensed tow truck operator.
         C.   No towing service shall remove a vehicle from a private tow-away
zone except pursuant to a written contract for the removal of vehicles entered
into with the owner of the private property on which the private tow-away zone
is located.
      (3)   If the owner or operator of a vehicle that is being removed under
authority of division (h)(2) of this section arrives after the vehicle has been
prepared for removal, but prior to its actual removal from the property, the
towing service shall give the vehicle owner or operator oral or written
notification at the time of such arrival that the vehicle owner or operator may
pay a fee of not more than one-half of the fee for the removal of the vehicle
established by the Public Utilities Commission in rules adopted under R.C. §
4921.25 in order to obtain release of the vehicle. That fee may be paid by use
of a major credit card unless the towing service uses a mobile credit card
processor and mobile service is not available at the time of the transaction.
Upon payment of that fee, the towing service shall give the vehicle owner or
operator a receipt showing both the full amount normally assessed and the
actual amount received and shall release the vehicle to the owner or operator.
Upon its release, the owner or operator immediately shall move the vehicle so
that the vehicle is not parked on the private property established as a private
tow-away zone without the consent of the owner of the private property or in
violation of any posted parking condition or regulation.
      (4)   A.   Prior to towing a vehicle under division (h)(2) of this
section, a towing service shall make all reasonable efforts to take as many
photographs as necessary to evidence that the vehicle is clearly parked on
private property in violation of a private tow-away zone established under
division (h)(1) of this section. The towing service shall record the time and
date of the photographs taken under this division (h). The towing service shall
retain the photographs and the record of the time and date, in electronic or
printed form, for at least 30 days after the date on which the vehicle is
recovered by the owner or lienholder or at least two years after the date on
which the vehicle was towed, whichever is earlier.
         B   A towing service shall deliver a vehicle towed under division (h)
(2) of this section to the location from which it may be recovered not more
than two hours after the time it was removed from the private tow-away zone,
unless the towing service is unable to deliver the motor vehicle within two
hours due to an uncontrollable force, natural disaster, or other event that is
not within the power of the towing service.
      (5)   A.   If an owner of a private property that is established as a
private tow- away zone in accordance with division (h)(1) of this section
causes the removal of a vehicle from that property by a towing service under
division (h)(2) of this section, the towing service, within two hours of
removing the vehicle, shall provide notice to the law enforcement agency of the
municipal corporation concerning all of the following:
            1.   The vehicle’s license number, make, model, and color;
            2.   The location from which the vehicle was removed;
            3.   The date and time the vehicle was removed;
            4.   The telephone number of the person from whom the vehicle may
be recovered;
            5.   The address of the place from which the vehicle may be
recovered.
         B.   The chief of a law enforcement agency of the municipal
corporation shall maintain a record of any vehicle removed from private
property in the chief’s jurisdiction that is established as a private tow-away
zone of which the chief has received notice under this division (h). The record
shall include all information submitted by the towing service. The chief shall
provide any information in the record that pertains to a particular vehicle to
a person who, either in person or pursuant to a telephone call, identifies self
as the owner, operator, or lienholder of the vehicle and requests information
pertaining to the vehicle.
      (6)   A.   When a vehicle is removed from private property in accordance
with this section, within three business days of the removal, the towing
service or storage facility from which the vehicle may be recovered shall cause
a search to be made of either of the following to ascertain the identity of the
owner and any lienholder of the vehicle:
            1.   The records of the Bureau of Motor Vehicles;
            2.   The records of any vendor or vendors, approved by the
Registrar of Motor Vehicles, that are capable of providing real-time access to
owner and lienholder information.
         B.   The towing service or storage facility may search the National
Motor Vehicle Title Information System in order to determine the state in which
the vehicle is titled. The entity that provides the record of the owner and any
lienholder under this division shall ensure that such information is provided
in a timely manner.
         C.   Subject to division (h)(6)F. of this section, the towing service
or storage facility shall send notice to the vehicle owner and any known
lienholder as follows:
            1.   Within five business days after the applicable entity provides
the identity of the owner and any lienholder of the motor vehicle, if the
vehicle remains unclaimed, to the owner's and lienholder's last known address
by certified or express mail with return receipt requested, by certified mail
with electronic tracking, or by a commercial carrier service utilizing any form
of delivery requiring a signed receipt;
            2.   If the vehicle remains unclaimed 30 days after the first
notice is sent, in the manner required under division (h)(6)C.1. of this
section.
         D.   Sixty days after any notice sent pursuant to division (h)(6)C. of
this section is received, as evidenced by a receipt signed by any person, or
the towing service or storage facility has been notified that delivery was not
possible, the towing service or storage facility, if authorized under R.C. §
4505.101(B), may initiate the process for obtaining a certificate of title to
the motor vehicle as provided in that section.
         E.   A towing service or storage facility that does not receive a
signed receipt of notice, or a notification that delivery was not possible,
shall not obtain, and shall not attempt to obtain, a certificate of title to
the motor vehicle under R.C. § 4505.101(B).
         F.   With respect to a vehicle concerning which a towing service or
storage facility is not eligible to obtain title under R.C. § 4505.101, the
towing service or storage facility need only comply with the initial notice
required under division (h)(6)C.1. of this section.
      (7)   A.   The owner or lienholder of a vehicle that is removed under
division (h)(2) of this section may reclaim it upon both of the following:
            1.   Presentation of proof of ownership, which may be evidenced by
a certificate of title to the vehicle, a certificate of registration for the
motor vehicle, or a lease agreement;
            2.   Payment of the following fees:
               a.   All applicable fees established by the Public Utilities
Commission in rules adopted under R.C. § 4921.25, except that the lienholder of
a vehicle may retrieve the vehicle without paying any storage fee for the
period of time that the vehicle was in the possession of the towing service or
storage facility prior to the date the lienholder received the notice sent
under division (h)(6)A.1. of this section;
               b.   If notice has been sent to the owner and lienholder as
described in division (h)(6) of this section, a processing fee of twenty-five
dollars ($25.00).
         B.   A towing service or storage facility in possession of a vehicle
that is removed under authority of division (h)(2) of this section shall show
the vehicle owner, operator, or lienholder who contests the removal of the
vehicle all photographs taken under division (h)(4) of this section. Upon
request, the towing service or storage facility shall provide a copy of all
photographs in the medium in which the photographs are stored, whether paper,
electronic, or otherwise.
         C.   When the owner of a vehicle towed under this section retrieves
the vehicle, the towing service or storage facility in possession of the
vehicle shall give the owner written notice that if the owner disputes that the
motor vehicle was lawfully towed, the owner may be able to file a civil action
under R.C. § 4513.611.
         D.   Upon presentation of proof of ownership, which may be evidenced
by a certificate of title to the vehicle, a certificate of registration for the
motor vehicle, or a lease agreement, the owner of a vehicle that is removed
under authority of division (h)(2) of this section may retrieve any personal
items from the vehicle without retrieving the vehicle and without paying any
fee. The owner of the vehicle shall not retrieve any personal items from a
vehicle if it would endanger the safety of the owner, unless the owner agrees
to sign a waiver of liability. For purposes of division (h)(7)D. of this
section, “personal items” do not include any items that are attached to the
vehicle.
      (8)   No person shall remove, or cause the removal of, any vehicle from
private property that is established as a private tow-away zone under this
division (h) or store such a vehicle other than in accordance with this
division (h), or otherwise fail to comply with any applicable requirement of
this division (h).
      (9)   This section does not affect or limit the operation of divisions
(a) through (g) of this section, R.C. § 4513.60 or R.C. §§ 4513.61 to 4613.65
asthey relate to property other than private property that is established as a
private tow-away zone under division (h)(1) of this section.
      (10)   Whoever violates division (h)(8) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
      (11)   As used in this section, “owner of a private property” or “owner
of the private property” includes, with respect to a private property, any of
the following:
         A.   Any person who holds title to the property;
         B.   Any person who is a lessee or sublessee with respect to a lease
or sublease agreement for the property;
         C.   A person who is authorized to manage the property;
         D.   A duly authorized agent of any person listed in divisions (h)
(11)A. to (h)(11)C. of this section.
(R.C. § 4513.601)
   (i)   If an owner of private property posts on the property in a conspicuous
manner a prohibition against parking on the property or conditions and
regulations under which parking is permitted, no person shall do either of the
following:
      (1)   Park a vehicle on the property without the owner’s consent;
      (2)   Park a vehicle on the property in violation of any condition or
regulation posted by the owner.
   (j)   Whoever violates division (i) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.681)
§ 452.06 UNATTENDED VEHICLES; DUTY TO LOCK IGNITION, REMOVE KEY, SET BRAKE, AND
THE LIKE.
   (a)   (1)   No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit
it to stand unattended without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition,
removing the key from the ignition, effectively setting the parking brake, and,
when the motor vehicle is standing upon any grade, turning the front wheels to
the curb or side of the highway.
      (2)   The requirements of this section relating to the stopping of the
engine, locking of the ignition, and removing the key from the ignition of a
motor vehicle do not apply to any of the following:
         A.   A motor vehicle that is parked on residential property;
         B.   A motor vehicle that is locked, regardless of where it is parked;
         C.   An emergency vehicle;
         D.   A public safety vehicle.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC 4511.661)
§ 452.07 OPENING DOORS ON SIDE AVAILABLE TO TRAFFIC.
   (a)   No person shall open the door of a vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, and can be done
without interfering with the movement of other traffic, nor shall any person
leave a door open on the side of a vehicle available to moving traffic for a
period of time longer than necessary to load or unload passengers.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC 4511.70)
§ 452.08 SELLING, WASHING OR REPAIRING VEHICLE UPON ROADWAY.
   (a)   No person shall stop, stand, and/or park a vehicle upon any roadway
for the principal purpose of:
      (1)   Displaying such vehicle for sale, or using the streets or public
ways as storage space for vehicles intended for sale;
      (2)   Washing, greasing, changing oil, or repairing such vehicle except
repairs necessitated by an emergency;
      (3)   Storing vehicles. Storing vehicles shall be deemed to exist when a
vehicle has been parked continuously and has not been moved for a period of
five consecutive days.
   (b)   Any vehicle found in violation of this section may be removed by
securing a wrecker upon the direction or order of any police officer. Such
vehicles will be released upon the payment of necessary and reasonable towing
and storage charges together with any other proper fines levied against the
owner thereof.
   (c)   Punishment shall be as provided in §§
408.01,
408.02, and
452.15.
(Ord. 93-27, passed 8-12-1993)
§ 452.09 TRUCK LOADING ZONES.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or length of
time, other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pickup and
loading of materials, in any place marked as a truck loading zone during hours
when the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect. In no case shall
the stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed 30 minutes.
§ 452.10 BUS STOPS AND TAXICAB STANDS.
   (a)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle other than a bus in a
bus stop, or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand, when any such stop or
stand has been officially designated and appropriately posted, except that the
driver of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of,
and while actually engaged in, loading or unloading passengers when such
stopping does not interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about
to enter such zone, and then only for a period not to exceed three minutes, if
such stopping is not prohibited therein by posted signs.
   (b)   No operator of a bus shall stop, stand or park such vehicle upon any
street or other public way at any place for the purpose of loading or unloading
passengers or their baggage other than at a bus stop so designated and posted
as such, except in case of an emergency.
   (c)   No operator of a bus shall fail to enter a bus stop on a street or
other public way in such a manner that the bus when stopped to load or unload
passengers or baggage is in a position with the right front wheel of such
vehicle not further than 18 inches from the curb and the bus approximately
parallel to the curb so as not to unduly impede the movement of other vehicular
traffic.
   (d)   No operator of a taxicab shall stand or park such vehicle upon any
street or other public way at any place other than in a taxicab stand so
designated and posted as such. This provision shall not prevent the operator of
a taxicab from temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or
parking provisions at any place for the purpose of, and while actually engaged
in, the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers.
§ 452.11 PARKING IN ALLEYS AND NARROW STREETS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (a)   No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle upon a street, other
than an alley, in such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available
less than ten feet of the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular
traffic, except that a driver may stop temporarily during the actual loading or
unloading of passengers or when directed to by a police officer or traffic-
control signal.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided by law, no person shall stop, stand or
park a vehicle within an alley except while actually loading and unloading, and
then only for a period not to exceed 30 minutes.
§ 452.12 PARKING TIME LIMITED FOR STREET CLEANING.
   No person shall park any vehicle in the congested traffic area between 4:30
a.m. and 6:30 a.m., except on Saturday, on the following named streets and
days:
   (a)   On the west side of the following streets: Second Street and Third
Street from Railroad Street to Washington Street and Fourth Street from
Railroad Street to Vernon Street on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays of each
week;
   (b)   On the east side of the following streets: Campbell Avenue from Center
Street to Vernon Street, Second Street and Third Street from Railroad Street to
Washington Street and Fourth Street from Railroad Street to Vernon Street on
Tuesdays, Thursdays and Sundays of each week;
   (c)   On the north side of the following streets: Railroad Street from
Fourth Street to Second Street, Center Street and Park Avenue from Fifth Street
to Campbell Avenue, Vernon Street from Fourth Street to Campbell Avenue and
Washington Street from Fourth Street to Second Street on Mondays, Wednesdays
and Fridays of each week;
   (d)   On the south side of the following streets: Railroad Street from
Fourth Street to Second Street, Center Street and Park Avenue from Fifth Street
to Campbell Avenue, Vernon Street from Fourth Street to Campbell Avenue and
Washington Street from Fourth Street to Second Street on Tuesdays, Thursdays
and Sundays of each week.
   (e)   Punishment shall be as provided in §§
408.01,
408.02, and
452.15.
(Ord. 4904, passed 5-26-1962)
§ 452.13 SELLING FROM VEHICLES.  (REPEALED)
   Editor’s note: This section was repealed by Ordinance 98-11, passed March
26, 1998.
§ 452.14 REGISTERED OWNER PRIMA FACIE LIABLE FOR UNLAWFUL PARKING.
   In any hearing on a charge of illegally parking a motor vehicle, testimony
that a vehicle bearing a certain license plate was found unlawfully parked as
prohibited by the provisions of this Traffic Code, and further testimony that
the record of the Ohio Registrar of Motor Vehicles shows that the license plate
was issued to the defendant, shall be prima facie evidence that the vehicle
which was unlawfully parked, was so parked by the defendant. A certified
registration copy, showing such fact, from the Registrar shall be proof of such
ownership.
§ 452.15 WAIVER.
   Any person charged with a violation of any provision of this chapter for
which payment of a prescribed fine may be made, may pay such sum in the manner
prescribed on the issued traffic ticket. Such payment shall be deemed a plea of
guilty, waiver of court appearance and acknowledgment of conviction of the
alleged offense and may be accepted in full satisfaction of the prescribed
penalty for such alleged violation. Payment of the prescribed fine need not be
accepted when laws prescribe that a certain number of such offenses shall
require court appearance.
§ 452.16 PARKING OF CERTAIN VEHICLES UPON CITY STREETS, ALLEYS AND PUBLIC
RIGHTS-OF-WAY PROHIBITED.
   (a)   No person shall park a large vehicle, tractor, trailer or recreational
vehicle on any city street, alley and/or public right-of-way within the
business and residential districts of the city.
   (b)   Definitions. For this section, the following definitions apply:
      “Large vehicle.” Any vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4511.01 of more than 22
feet in total overall length, or 7/et in width (excluding mirrors) or 8/eel in
height. All such measurements shall include any load being carried on the
vehicle. This section shall not apply to those trucks commonly known as pick-up
trucks unless it exceeds the listed size limits and has dual wheels on each
side of the rear axle or exceeds the listed size limits and has more than two
axles.
      “Recreational vehicle.” Any vehicle, with or without motive power,
designed or intended principally for recreational use, including, but not
limited to, travel trailers, campers, mobile homes, motor homes, truck campers,
house trailers, boats, dirt bikes, wet bikes, snow mobiles and all terrain
vehicles.
      “Tractor.” Any commercial tractor, agricultural tractor or multi-wheel
agricultural tractor as defined in R.C. § 4511.01.
      “Trailer.” Any trailer, semitrailer, pole trailer and trailer dolly as
defined in R.C. § 4511.01. All trailers, whether commercially manufactured or
homemade, are included in the definition for this section.
   (c)   Exceptions. This shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   A public safety vehicle being used in the line of duty.
      (2)   A vehicle owned by a governmental entity or any vehicle being used
as part of any public installation, construction, maintenance work or an
approved event.
      (3)   A vehicle stopped for the purpose of actively loading or unloading
goods, merchandise or passengers, or while its operator is actively involved in
a commercial service call.
      (4)   Parking that is necessary in connection with construction,
development or repair work for which any required permits have been obtained
and they are actively working at that location.
      (5)   Residents who rent or lease a commercial moving vehicle for the
purpose of moving their personal or household goods, shall have a 48 hour
period of parking in front of their residence to complete the loading or
unloading of those goods.
   (c)   Punishment for the violation of this section shall be as provided in
§§ 408.01 and 408.02.
   (d)   In addition to the punishment, any vehicle found in violation of this
section may be removed upon the direction or order of any police officer
provided the owner of said vehicle has not caused its removal from the streets
within five days of the citation being issued.
(Ord. 16-42, passed 11-21-2016; Ord. 17-10, passed 3-23-2017)
§ 452.99 PENALTY.
   ( Editor’s note: See §§
408.01 and
408.02 for general Traffic Code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.)
CHAPTER 454: PARKING METERS
Section
454.01   Definitions
454.02   Parking within marked lines of meter space
454.03   Deposit of coin required; illegal parking
454.04   Parking prohibited in meter space
454.05   Hours of operation
454.06   Parking meter coin collection
454.07   Free parking
454.08   Parking during Christmas season
454.09   Waiver
454.10   Fines
Cross-reference:
   Parking generally, see TRAF.
Ch. 452
   Off-street parking and loading in Business B-3 Districts, see P. & Z.
1268.05
   Off-street parking and loading in Health Service HS-1 Districts, see P. & Z.
1276.06
   Off-street parking and loading generally, see P. & Z.
Ch. 1280
§ 454.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter:
   (a)   “Parking meter” means a mechanical device installed for the regulation
of parking by lawful authority. Each parking meter shall contain a slot for the
deposit of lawful coin of the United States and a receptacle for receiving and
storing such coin. Each parking meter shall display brief directions as to its
operation and the value of lawful coin required to be deposited. Each parking
meter shall contain a timing mechanism which shall indicate either a balance of
legal parking time or overtime parking by an appropriate signal at the
expiration of such lawful time.
   (b)   “Parking meter space” means a space within a parking meter area, which
space is designated for the parking of a single vehicle by marked lines on the
curb or paved surface area adjacent to a parking meter. Posted notice on the
meter or on signs shall indicate the maximum consecutive parking time limit
during which a vehicle may be legally parked in a particular parking meter
space and the days and hours when the requirement to deposit lawful coin shall
apply.
(Ord. 76-36, passed 6-22-1976)
§ 454.02 PARKING WITHIN MARKED LINES OF METER SPACE.
   (a)   No person shall park a vehicle in a parking meter space in such a way
that the vehicle is not entirely within the limits of the space so designated
by marked lines.
   (b)   Punishment shall be as provided in §§
408.01,
408.02 and
454.10.
(Ord. 76-36, passed 6-22-1976)
§ 454.03 DEPOSIT OF COIN REQUIRED; ILLEGAL PARKING.
   (a)   No person shall cause, allow or permit a vehicle to occupy a parking
meter space during the hours when the provisions applicable to such space are
in effect, unless he or she deposits in the adjacent meter such lawful coin of
the United States of appropriate denomination as is required by directions on
the meter. Such person is not required to deposit a coin in a meter which
indicates a balance of unused legal parking time left by the previous occupant
of the space, so long as his or her occupancy of the space does not exceed the
indicated unused parking time. The parking meter space may be lawfully occupied
by such vehicle during the balance of legal parking time shown on the meter,
provided such occupancy does not exceed the established maximum time limit.
   (b)   No person shall fail to comply with directions displayed on the
parking meter or fail to set the timing mechanism in operation when so
required.
   (c)   No person shall cause, allow or permit a vehicle to occupy a meter
space beyond the maximum consecutive parking time limit lawfully prescribed,
for the particular space occupied, by appropriate notice on the meter or on
posted signs, irrespective of the number or amount of coin deposited in such
meter.
   (d)   Punishment shall be as provided in §§
408.01,
408.02 and
454.10.
(Ord. 76-36, passed 6-22-1976)
§ 454.04 PARKING PROHIBITED IN METER SPACE.
   (a)   Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter, no person shall park in
a parking meter space when otherwise directed by a police officer or
firefighter or when parking is prohibited by properly posted signs.
   (b)   Punishment shall be as provided in §§
408.01,
408.02 and
454.10.
(Ord. 76-36, passed 6-22-1976)
§ 454.05 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to vehicles parked or
standing upon the streets of the city in the congested traffic area from 9:00
p.m. until 9:00 a.m. of the following day on weekdays and between 9:00 p.m. on
Saturday until 9:00 a.m. on the following Monday.
(Ord. 4122, passed 5-11-1950)
§ 454.06 PARKING METER COIN COLLECTION.
   The Mayor shall designate members of the Police Department, or other
persons, to collect the coins deposited in parking meters. In collecting coins,
the persons designated shall remove and deliver the same to the Director of
Finance. The Director shall deposit the coins to the credit of the general
fund.
§ 454.07 FREE PARKING.
   (a)   Disabled veterans. Disabled war veterans who have been issued state
“DV” automobile license tags shall be granted free parking in the city at any
publicly owned parking space.
(Ord. 5611, passed 5-11-1972)
   (b)   POWs. Former prisoner of war veterans who have been issued state “POW”
automobile license tags shall be granted free parking in the city at any
publicly owned parking space.
(Ord. 80-29, passed 4-28-1980)
§ 454.08 PARKING DURING CHRISTMAS SEASON.
   (a)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, all metered
parking shall be free during the 15 business days immediately preceding
Christmas.
   (b)   Parking during such 15 days shall be limited to a maximum of three
consecutive hours by any vehicle at any parking meter within a one block
radius. No person shall park a vehicle for longer than three consecutive hours.
   (c)   Whoever violates division (b) hereof shall be fined five dollars
($5.00).
(Ord. 76-87, passed 11-23-1976)
§ 454.09 WAIVER.
   (a)   Any person charged with a violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter may, in lieu of any other penalty, pay a fine of two dollars ($2.00)
for each violation if such fine is paid within 24 hours of the time of the
violation, or five dollars ($5.00) for each violation if such fine is paid
after 24 hours but within seven days of the time of the violation.
   (b)   Such payment shall be deemed a plea of guilty, waiver of court
appearance and acknowledgment of conviction of the alleged offense and may be
accepted in full satisfaction of the prescribed penalty for such alleged
violation.
   (c)   This waiver shall not be applicable to a person who, within the
preceding 12 months, has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to five or more
violations of this chapter, nor to any person who has failed to pay the
prescribed fine within seven days of the violation.
(Ord. 93-31, passed 8-12-1993)
§ 454.10 FINES.
   Fines for violations of this chapter are as follows:
   (a)   A fine of five dollars ($5.00) per each violation of overtime parking
at a parking meter if the fine is paid within 24 hours of the time of the
violation, or ten dollars ($10.00) for each violation if the fine is paid after
24 hours but within seven days of the time of the violation.
(Ord. 05-38, passed 4-14-2005)
   (b)   (1)   The fine for illegal parking in a handicapped parking space
shall be one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) or as otherwise required by state
law.
      (2)   The fine for illegal parking near a fire hydrant shall be one
hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) or as otherwise required by state law.
      (3)   The fine for illegal parking in a fire lane shall be one hundred
fifty dollars ($150.00) or as otherwise required by state law.
(Ord. 05-39, passed 4-14-2005)
TITLE TEN - BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES AND SNOWMOBILES
CHAPTER 474: BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
Section
474.01   Code application to bicycles
474.02   Riding upon seats; carrying packages; motorcycle handle bars; helmets
and glasses
474.03   Attaching bicycles, motorcycles to other vehicles
474.04   Riding on right side of roadway; riding abreast
474.05   Lights, signal devices, brakes on bicycles
474.06   Riding bicycles upon sidewalks
474.07   Safe riding regulations for bicycles
474.08   Parking; locks
474.09   Parent’s responsibility
474.10   Suspension of riding privileges; impounding of bicycles
474.11   Operation of motorized bicycles
474.12   Voluntary bicycle licensing
474.13   Removal of serial number prohibited
474.14   Electric bicycles
 
474.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Bicycles prohibited on freeways, see TRAF.
412.05
   Bicycle defined, see TRAF.
402.05
   Motorcycle brakes, see TRAF.
438.19(b)
   Motorcycle defined, see TRAF.
402.21
   Motorcycle headlight, see TRAF.
438.03
   Motorcycle operator’s license required, see TRAF.
436.01(a)
   Off-highway motorcycles, see TRAF.
Ch. 476
   Operation of vehicles on bicycle paths, see TRAF.
432.39
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see section histories
   Bicycle regulations to be consistent with state law, see Ohio R.C. 4511.07
(A)(8)
§ 474.01 CODE APPLICATION TO BICYCLES.
   (a)   The provisions of this Traffic Code that are applicable to bicycles
and electric bicycles apply whenever a bicycle or electric bicycle is operated
upon any highway or upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (b)   Except as provided in division (d) of this section, a bicycle operator
or electric bicycle operator who violates any provisions of this Traffic Code
described in division (a) of this section that is applicable to bicycles or
electric bicycles may be issued a ticket, citation, or summons by a law
enforcement officer for the violation in the same manner as the operator of a
motor vehicle would be cited for the same violation. A person who commits any
such violation while operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall not have any
points assessed against the person’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, or probationary license under Ohio R.C.
4510.036.
   (c)   Except as provided in division (d) of this section, in the case of a
violation of any provision of this Traffic Code described in division (a) of
this section by a bicycle operator, electric bicycle operator, or motor vehicle
operator when the trier of fact finds that the violation by the motor vehicle
operator endangered the lives of bicycle riders or electric bicycle riders at
the time of the violation, the court, notwithstanding any provision of the Ohio
Revised Code to the contrary, may require the bicycle operator, electric
bicycle operator, or motor vehicle operator to take and successfully complete a
bicycling skills course approved by the court in addition to or in lieu of any
penalty otherwise prescribed by this Traffic Code or the Ohio Revised Code for
that violation.
   (d)   Divisions (b) and (c) of this section do not apply to violations of
Ohio R.C. 4511.19, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(ORC 4511.52)
   (e)   Every person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of
official traffic-control devices and signals applicable to vehicles, unless
otherwise directed by a police officer.
§ 474.02 RIDING UPON SEATS; CARRYING PACKAGES; MOTORCYCLE HANDLE BARS; HELMETS
AND GLASSES.
   (a)   For purposes of this section, “snowmobile” has the same meaning as
given that term in Ohio R.C. 4519.01.
   (b)   (1)   No person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall ride
other than upon or astride the permanent and regular seat attached thereto or
carry any other person upon such bicycle or electric bicycle other than upon a
firmly attached and regular seat thereon, and no person shall ride upon a
bicycle or electric bicycle other than upon such a firmly attached and regular
seat.
      (2)   No person operating a motorcycle shall ride other than upon or
astride the permanent and regular seat or saddle attached thereto, or carry any
other person upon such motorcycle other than upon a firmly attached and regular
seat or saddle thereon, and no person shall ride upon a motorcycle other than
upon such a firmly attached and regular seat or saddle.
      (3)   No person shall ride upon a motorcycle that is equipped with a
saddle other than while sitting astride the saddle, facing forward, with one
leg on each side of the motorcycle.
      (4)   No person shall ride upon a motorcycle that is equipped with a seat
other than while sitting upon the seat.
      (5)   No person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall carry any
package, bundle, or article that prevents the driver from keeping at least one
hand upon the handlebars.
      (6)   No bicycle, electric bicycle, or motorcycle shall be used to carry
more persons at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
No motorcycle shall be operated on a highway when the handlebars rise higher
than the shoulders of the operator when the operator is seated in the
operator’s seat or saddle.
   (c)   (1)   Except as provided in division (c)(3) of this section, no person
shall operate or be a passenger on a snowmobile or motorcycle without using
safety glasses or other protective eye device. Except as provided in division
(c)(3) of this section, no person who is under the age of 18 years, or who
holds a motorcycle operator’s endorsement or license bearing a “novice”
designation that is currently in effect as provided in R.C. § 4507.13, shall
operate a motorcycle on a highway, or be a passenger on a motorcycle, unless
wearing a protective helmet on the person’s head, and no other person shall be
a passenger on a motorcycle operated by such a person unless similarly wearing
a protective helmet. The helmet, safety glasses, or other protective eye device
shall conform with rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety. The
provisions of this paragraph or a violation thereof shall not be used in the
trial of any civil action.
      (2)   A.   Except as provided in division (c)(3) of this section, no
person shall operate a motorcycle with a valid temporary instruction permit and
temporary instruction permit identification card issued by the Registrar of
Motor Vehicles pursuant to R.C. § 4507.05 unless the person, at the time of
such operation, is wearing on the person’s head a protective helmet that
conforms with rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety.
         B.   No person shall operate a motorcycle with a valid temporary
instruction permit and temporary instruction permit identification card issued
by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles pursuant to R.C. § 4507.05 in any of the
following circumstances:
            1.   At any time when lighted lights are required by R.C. § 4513.03
(A)(1);
            2.   While carrying a passenger;
            3.   On any limited access highway or heavily congested roadway.
      (3)   Divisions (c)(1) and (c)(2)A. of this section do not apply to a
person who operates or is a passenger in an autocycle or cab- enclosed
motorcycle when the occupant compartment top is in place enclosing the
occupants.
   (d)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting the carrying
of a child in a seat or trailer that is designed for carrying children and is
firmly attached to the bicycle or electric bicycle.
   (e)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (b) or (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates division (b) or (c)(2) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the offense, the
offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle
or traffic offenses, whoever violates division (b) or (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC 4511.53)
§ 474.03 ATTACHING BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES TO OTHER VEHICLES.
   (a)   (1)   No person riding upon any bicycle, electric bicycle, coaster,
roller skates, sled, skateboard, or toy vehicle shall attach the same or
himself or herself to any vehicle upon a roadway.
      (2)   No operator shall knowingly permit any person riding upon any
bicycle, electric bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, skateboard, or toy
vehicle to attach the same or himself or herself to any vehicle while it is
moving upon a roadway.
      (3)   This section does not apply to towing a disabled vehicle.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.54)
§ 474.04 RIDING ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY; RIDING ABREAST.
   (a)   Every person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle upon a roadway
shall ride as near to the right side of the roadway as practicable obeying all
traffic rules applicable to vehicles and exercising due care when passing a
standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (b)   Persons riding bicycles, electric bicycles, or motorcycles upon a
roadway shall ride not more than two abreast in a single lane, except on paths
or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, electric
bicycles, or motorcycles.
   (c)   This section does not require a person operating a bicycle or electric
bicycle to ride at the edge of the roadway when it is unreasonable or unsafe to
do so. Conditions that may require riding away from the edge of the roadway
include when necessary to avoid fixed or moving objects, parked or moving
vehicles, surface hazards, or if it otherwise is unsafe or impracticable to do
so, including if the lane is too narrow for the bicycle or electric bicycle and
an overtaking vehicle to travel safely side by side within the lane.
   (d)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (e)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.55)
§ 474.05 LIGHTS, SIGNAL DEVICES, BRAKES ON BICYCLES.
   (a)   Every bicycle or electric bicycle when in use at the times specified
in Ohio R.C. 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance shall be
equipped with the following:
      (1)   A lamp mounted on the front of either the bicycle or electric
bicycle or the operator that shall emit a white light visible from a distance
of at least 500 feet to the front and 300 feet to the sides. A generator-
powered lamp that emits light only when the bicycle or electric bicycle is
moving may be used to meet this requirement.
      (2)   A red reflector on the rear that shall be visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet to the rear when directly in front of
lawful lower beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle;
      (3)   A lamp emitting either flashing or steady red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear shall be used in addition to the red
reflector. If the red lamp performs as a reflector in that it is visible as
specified in division (a)(2) of this section, the red lamp may serve as the
reflector and a separate reflector is not required.
   (b)   Additional lamps and reflectors may be used in addition to those
required under division (a) of this section, except that red lamps and red
reflectors shall not be used on the front of the bicycle or electric bicycle
and white lamps and white reflectors shall not be used on the rear of the
bicycle or electric bicycle.
   (c)   A bicycle or electric bicycle may be equipped with a device capable of
giving an audible signal, except that a bicycle or electric bicycle shall not
be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a bicycle or electric bicycle
any siren or whistle.
   (d)   Every bicycle or electric bicycle shall be equipped with an adequate
brake when used on a street or highway.
   (e)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC 4511.56)
§ 474.06 RIDING BICYCLES UPON SIDEWALKS.
   A person operating a bicycle shall ride upon the sidewalk rather than the
roadway when sidewalks are available, except that no person shall ride a
bicycle upon a sidewalk upon or along which signs have been erected by
authority of Council or other duly designated local authority prohibiting such
bicycle riding, or within a business district. At no time shall a person under
the age of 11 years operate a bicycle on a street.
§ 474.07 SAFE RIDING REGULATIONS FOR BICYCLES.
   (a)   Whenever a designated usable path for bicycles has been provided
adjacent to a street, bicycle riders shall use such path and shall not use the
street.
   (b)   Whenever a person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk or street, such
person shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall give an audible
signal before attempting to overtake and pass a pedestrian or another bicycle.
This audible signal must be given only by bell or other warning device capable
of giving an audible signal and shall be given at such a distance and in such a
manner as not to startle the person being overtaken and passed.
   (c)   No person shall ride a bicycle across or through any intersection
involving a through street. Such intersections are to be crossed by walking the
bicycle across or through the intersection.
   (d)   Whenever a person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, the person,
before overtaking and passing a blind person carrying a white or metallic cane,
shall dismount and overtake or pass on foot.
   (e)   When a bicycle is operated on the street, the operator shall give hand
signals before turning, changing lanes or stopping. Such signals shall conform
with Ohio R.C. 4511.40, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (f)   Every rider of a bicycle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding
with any pedestrian or any vehicle upon any roadway, sidewalk or bicycle path,
or endangering the life, limb or property of any person while in the lawful use
of the streets, sidewalks or any other private or public property.
   (g)   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is
reasonable and proper under the conditions then existing.
   (h)   The operator of a bicycle emerging from or turning into an alley,
driveway or building shall, upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area
extending across any alley, driveway or building, yield the right-of-way to all
pedestrians approaching on such sidewalk area. Upon entering the street, such
operator shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on such
street.
   (i)   No person shall engage in trick riding or operate a bicycle without
both hands upon the handle grips except when necessary to give the hand signals
required herein.
§ 474.08 PARKING; LOCKS.
   (a)   No person shall park a bicycle upon a sidewalk in such a manner as to
interfere with pedestrian traffic or damage the property of another.
   (b)   No person shall park a bicycle upon a roadway in such a manner as to
interfere with vehicular traffic.
   (c)   No bicycle shall remain unlocked when parked upon any public way or
place.
§ 474.09 PARENT’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   No parent of any child or guardian of any ward shall authorize or knowingly
permit any such child or ward to violate any of the provisions of this chapter.
§ 474.10 SUSPENSION OF RIDING PRIVILEGES; IMPOUNDING OF BICYCLES.
   (a)   In addition to the penalties provided in §§
408.01 and
408.02, a court may prohibit any person who violates or fails to comply with
any of the provisions of this chapter relating to bicycles from riding a
bicycle for a period not to exceed three months. In addition, any person
violating or failing to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter
relating to bicycles may be punished by having his bicycle impounded for a
period not exceeding 30 days.
(Adopting Ordinance)
   (b)   Whenever any impounded bicycle remains in the possession of the Police
Department, unclaimed for 90 days, the Chief of Police may, at his or her
discretion, donate the bicycle to a needy, charitable, nonprofit organization.
(Ord. 5634, passed 7-27-1972)
§ 474.11 OPERATION OF MOTORIZED BICYCLES.
   (a)   No person shall operate a motorized bicycle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking, unless all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The person is 14 or 15 years of age and holds a valid probationary
motorized bicycle license issued after the person has passed the test provided
for in this section, or the person is 16 years of age or older and holds either
a valid commercial driver’s license issued under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4506 or a
driver’s license issued under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid motorized
bicycle license issued after the person has passed the test provided for in
this section, except that if a person is 16 years of age, has a valid
probationary motorized bicycle license and desires a motorized bicycle license,
the person is not required to comply with the testing requirements provided for
in this section.
      (2)   The motorized bicycle is equipped in accordance with the rules
adopted under division (b) of this section and is in proper working order.
      (3)   The person, if under 18 years of age, is wearing a protective
helmet on the person’s head with the chin strap properly fastened and the
motorized bicycle is equipped with a rearview mirror.
      (4)   The person operates the motorized bicycle when practicable within
three feet of the right edge of the roadway obeying all traffic rules
applicable to vehicles.
   (b)   The Director of Public Safety, subject to Ohio R.C. Chapter 119, shall
adopt and promulgate rules concerning protective helmets, the equipment of
motorized bicycles, and the testing and qualifications of persons who do not
hold a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license. The test shall be as near
as practicable to the examination required for a motorcycle operator’s
endorsement under Ohio R.C. 4507.11. The test shall also require the operator
to give an actual demonstration of the operator’s ability to operate and
control a motorized bicycle by driving one under the supervision of an
examining officer.
   (c)   Every motorized bicycle license expires on the birthday of the
applicant in the fourth or eighth year after the date it is issued, based on
the period of renewal requested by the applicant. No motorized bicycle license
shall be issued for a period longer than eight years. A person who is 65 years
of age or older may only apply for a motorized bicycle license that expires on
the birthday of the applicant in the fourth year after the date it is issued.
   (d)   No person operating a motorized bicycle shall carry another person
upon the motorized bicycle.
   (e)   The protective helmet and rearview mirror required by division (a)(3)
of this section shall, on and after January 1, 1985, conform with rules adopted
by the Director under division (b) of this section.
   (f)   Each probationary motorized bicycle license or motorized bicycle
license shall be laminated with a transparent plastic material.
   (g)   Whoever violates division (a), (d), or (e) of this section is guilty
of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.521)
Statutory reference:
   Suspension of probationary motorized bicycle license by the state, see Ohio
R.C. 4510.34
§ 474.12 VOLUNTARY BICYCLE LICENSING.
   Bicycles may be voluntarily registered with the Police Department. In making
such registration, the owner’s name and address, the date of registration and
the make, color and serial number of the bicycle shall be recorded.
§ 474.13 REMOVAL OF SERIAL NUMBER PROHIBITED.
   (a)   No person shall willfully or maliciously remove, destroy, mutilate or
alter the number of any bicycle.
   (b)   Punishment shall be as provided in §§
408.01 and
408.02.
(Ord. 5634, passed 7-27-1972)
§ 474.14 ELECTRIC BICYCLES.
   (a)   (1)   On and after January 1, 2020, manufacturers and distributors of
electric bicycles shall permanently affix a label, in a prominent location, to
each electric bicycle. The label shall specify whether the electric bicycle is
a class 1, class 2, or class 3 electric bicycle, the top assisted speed that
the electric bicycle is capable of reaching, and the motor wattage of the
electric bicycle.
      (2)   No person shall modify an electric bicycle in a manner that changes
the top assisted speed that the electric bicycle is capable of reaching unless
the person also modifies the label required under division (a)(1) of this
section to reflect the modification.
   (b)   (1)   The manufacturer of an electric bicycle shall ensure that the
electric bicycle complies with the equipment and manufacturing requirements for
bicycles established by the consumer product safety commission under 16 C.F.R.
§§ 1512 et seq.
      (2)   The manufacturer shall manufacture all class 1 electric bicycles
and class 3 electric bicycles so that when the rider ceases pedaling the
electric motor ceases to provide assistance. The manufacturer shall manufacture
all class 2 electric bicycles so that when the rider applies the brakes or
releases or activates a switch or similar mechanism the electric motor ceases
to provide assistance.
      (3)   All class 3 electric bicycles shall be equipped with a speedometer
that displays the speed of the electric bicycle in miles per hour.
   (c)   (1)   The operation of a class 1 electric bicycle and a class 2
electric bicycle is permitted on a path set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles or on a shared-use path, unless the county, township, municipal
corporation, other local authority, or state agency as defined in R.C. § 1.60
with control over the path by resolution, ordinance, or rule prohibits the use
of a class 1 electric bicycle or class 2 electric bicycle on such a path.
      (2)   No person shall operate a class 3 electric bicycle on a path set
aside for the exclusive use of bicycles or a shared-use path unless that path
is within or adjacent to a highway or the county, township, municipal
corporation, or local authority, or state agency as defined in R.C. § 1.60 with
control over the path by resolution, ordinance, or rule authorizes the use of a
class 3 electric bicycle on such a path.
      (3)   No person shall operate a class 1 electric bicycle, a class 2
electric bicycle, or a class 3 electric bicycle on a path that is intended to
be used primarily for mountain biking, hiking, equestrian use, or other similar
uses, or any other single track or natural surface trail that has historically
been reserved for non-motorized use, unless the county, township, municipal
corporation, other local authority, or state agency as defined in R.C. § 1.60
with control over the path by resolution, ordinance, or rule authorizes the use
of a class 1 electric bicycle, a class 2 electric bicycle, or a class 3
electric bicycle on such a path.
      (4)   Divisions (c)(2) and (c)(3) of this section do not apply to a law
enforcement officer, or other person sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic
laws of the state, using an electric bicycle while in the performance of the
officer's duties.
   (d)   (1)   No person under 16 years of age shall operate a class 3 electric
bicycle; however, a person under 16 years of age may ride as a passenger on a
class 3 electric bicycle that is designed to accommodate passengers.
      (2)   No person shall operate or be a passenger on a class 3 electric
bicycle unless the person is wearing a protective helmet that meets the
standards established by the Consumer Product Safety Commission or the American
Society for Testing and Materials.
   (e)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever operates
an electric bicycle in a manner that is prohibited under division (c) of this
section and whoever violates division (d) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   The offenses established under division (e)(1) of this section are
strict liability offenses and strict liability is a culpable mental state for
purposes of R.C. § 2901.20. The designation of these offenses as strict
liability offenses shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
(R.C. § 4511.522)
§ 474.99 PENALTY.
   ( Editor’s note: See §§
408.01 and
408.02 for general Traffic Code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.)
CHAPTER 476: SNOWMOBILES AND ALL-PURPOSE VEHICLES
Section
476.01   Definitions
476.02   Equipment
476.03   Code application; prohibited operation
476.04   Permitted operation
476.05   Licensing requirements of operator
476.06   Accident reports
476.07   Local control within police power
476.08   Registration of vehicles
476.09   Operation of off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle without
certificate of title; failure to surrender
476.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Bicycles and motorcycles generally, see TRAF.
Ch. 474
   Operation on bicycle paths, see TRAF.
432.39
   Required usage of helmets and safety glasses, see TRAF.
474.02(f)
   Street or highway defined, see TRAF.
402.44
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see section histories
   Power of trial court of record to impound registration certificates for
certain violations, see Ohio R.C. 4519.47
§ 476.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter:
   (a)   “All-purpose vehicle” means any self-propelled vehicle designed
primarily for cross-country travel on land and water, or on more than one type
of terrain, and steered by wheels or caterpillar treads, or any combination
thereof, including vehicles that operate on a cushion of air, vehicles commonly
known as all-terrain vehicles, all season vehicles, mini-bikes and trail bikes.
The term does not include a utility vehicle as defined in Ohio R.C. 4501.01 or
any vehicle principally used in playing golf, any motor vehicle or aircraft
required to be registered under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4503 or Ohio R.C. Chapter
4561, and any vehicle excepted from definition as a motor vehicle by Ohio R.C.
4501.01(B).
   (b)   “Dealer” means any person or firm engaged in the business of
manufacturing or selling snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, or all-purpose
vehicles at wholesale or retail, or who rents, leases or otherwise furnishes
snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, or all-purpose vehicles for hire.
   (c)   “Electronic” and “electronic record” have the same meanings as in Ohio
R.C. 4501.01.
   (d)   “Electronic dealer” means a dealer whom the Registrar of Motor
Vehicles designates under Ohio R.C. 4519.511.
   (e)   “Interstate highway” means any part of the interstate system of
highways as defined in division (e), 90 Stat. 431 (1976), 23 U.S.C. 103, as
amended.
   (f)   “Limited access highway” or “freeway” have the same meanings as in
Ohio R.C. 5511.02.
   (g)   “Mini-truck.” A vehicle that has four wheels, is propelled by an
electric motor with a rated power of 7,500 watts or less or an internal
combustion engine with a piston displacement capacity of 660 cubic centimeters
or less, has a total dry weight of 900 to 2,200 pounds, contains an enclosed
cabin and a seat for the vehicle operator, resembles a pickup truck or van with
a cargo area or bed located at the rear of the vehicle, and was not originally
manufactured to meet federal motor vehicle safety standards.
   (h)   “Off-highway motorcycle” means every motorcycle, as defined in Ohio
R.C. 4511.01, that is designed to be operated primarily on lands other than a
street or highway.
   (i)   “Operator” means any person who operates or is in actual physical
control of a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle.
   (j)   “Owner” means any person or firm, other than a lienholder or dealer,
having title to a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle,
or other right to the possession thereof.
   (k)   “Proof of financial responsibility” has the same meaning as in R.C. §
4509.01.
   (l)   “Snowmobile” means any self- propelled vehicle designed primarily for
use on snow or ice, and steered by skis, runners or caterpillar treads.
   (m)   “State highway” and “state route” have the same meanings as in R.C. §
4511.01.
   (n)   “Street” or “highway” have the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 4511.01.
(ORC 4519.01)
§ 476.02 EQUIPMENT.
   (a)   In addition to any rules or regulations promulgated by the Ohio
Director of Public Safety pursuant to Ohio R.C. 4519.20 and Ohio R.C. Chapter
119, equipment of snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, and all-purpose
vehicles shall include but not necessarily be limited to requirements for the
following items of equipment:
      (1)   At least one headlight having a minimum candlepower of sufficient
intensity to reveal persons and objects at a distance of at least 100 feet
ahead under normal atmospheric conditions during hours of darkness;
      (2)   At least one red tail light having a minimum candlepower of
sufficient intensity to be plainly visible from a distance of 500 feet to the
rear under normal atmospheric conditions during hours of darkness;
      (3)   Every snowmobile, while traveling on packed snow, shall be capable
of carrying a driver who weighs 175 pounds or more, and, while carrying such
driver, be capable of stopping in no more than 40 feet from an initial steady
speed of 20 miles per hour, or locking its traction belt; and
      (4)   A muffler system capable of precluding the emission of excessive
smoke or exhaust fumes, and of limiting the engine noise of vehicles. On
snowmobiles manufactured after January 1, 1973, such requirement shall include
sound dampening equipment such that noise does not exceed 82 decibels on the
“A” scale at 50 feet as measured according to SAE J192 (September 1970).
   (b)   No person shall operate any snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or
all-purpose vehicle in violation of this section, except that equipment
specified in division (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section shall not be required
on snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, or all-purpose vehicles operated
during the daylight hours.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (b) of this section shall be fined not more than fifty dollars
($50.00). If the offender within the preceding year previously has committed a
violation of division (b) of this section or of Ohio R.C. 4519.20(B), whoever
violates division (b) of this section shall be fined not less than fifteen
dollars ($15.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00), imprisoned not
more than three days, or both.
(ORC 4519.20)
§ 476.03 CODE APPLICATION; PROHIBITED OPERATION.
   (a)   The applicable provisions of this traffic code apply to the operation
of snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, and all-purpose vehicles, except that
no person shall operate a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose
vehicle as follows:
      (1)   On any state highway, including a limited access highway or freeway
or the right-of-way thereof, except for emergency travel during such time and
in such manner as the Ohio Director of Public Safety designates or except as
authorized by R.C. § 4519.41(F);
      (2)   On any private property, or in any nursery or planting area,
without the permission of the owner or other person having the right to
possession of the property;
      (3)   On any land or waters controlled by the state, except at those
locations where a sign has been posted permitting such operation;
      (4)   On the tracks or right-of-way of any operating railroad;
      (5)   While transporting any firearm, bow or other implement for hunting
that is not unloaded and securely encased;
      (6)   For the purpose of chasing, pursuing, capturing or killing any
animal or wild fowl; or
      (7)   During the time from sunset to sunrise, unless displaying lighted
lights as required by Ohio R.C. 4519.20 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than fifty
dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00), or imprisoned
not less than 3 nor more than 30 days, or both.
(ORC 4519.40)
§ 476.04 PERMITTED OPERATION.
   Snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, and all-purpose vehicles may be
operated as follows:
   (a)   To make a crossing of a highway, other than a highway as designated in
Ohio R.C. 4519.40(A)(1) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
whenever the crossing can be made in safety and will not interfere with the
movement of vehicular traffic approaching from any direction on the highway,
and provided that the operator yields the right-of-way to any approaching
traffic that presents an immediate hazard;
   (b)   On highways in the county or township road systems whenever the local
authority having jurisdiction over such highways so permits;
   (c)   Off and alongside street or highway for limited distances from the
point of unloading from a conveyance to the point at which the snowmobile, off-
highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle is intended and authorized to be
operated;
   (d)   On the berm or shoulder of a highway, other than a highway as
designated in Ohio R.C. 4519.40(A)(1) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, when the terrain permits such operation to be undertaken safely and
without the necessity of entering any traffic lane;
   (e)   On the berm or shoulder or a county or township road, while traveling
from one area of operation of the snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-
purpose vehicle to another such area.
   (f)   For snowmobiles without metal studded tracks and all-purpose vehicles,
on state highways located on an island in Lake Erie, including limited access
highways and freeways, between the first day of November and the thirtieth day
of April, provided that all of the following conditions apply:
      (1)   The operator has a valid driver’s license as required under R.C. §
4519.44.
      (2)   The snowmobile or all- purpose vehicle is in compliance with rules
governing safety equipment adopted under R.C. § 4519.20.
      (3)   The owner of the snowmobile or all-purpose vehicle maintains proof
of financial responsibility for both on-road and off- road use of the
snowmobile or all-purpose vehicle.
      (4)   The operator obeys all traffic rules and regulations.
(R.C. § 4519.41)
§ 476.05 LICENSING REQUIREMENTS OF OPERATOR.
   (a)   No person who does not hold a valid, current motor vehicle driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, motorcycle operator’s endorsement or probationary
license, issued under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4506 or Ohio R.C. Chapter 4507 or a
valid, current driver’s license issued by another jurisdiction, shall operate a
snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all- purpose vehicle on any street or
highway in this municipality, on any portion of the right-of-way thereof, or on
any public land or waters.
   (b)   No person who is less than 16 years of age shall operate a snowmobile,
off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle on any land or waters other than
private property or waters owned by or leased to the person’s parent or
guardian, unless accompanied by another person who is 18 years of age or older,
and who holds a license as provided in division (a) of this section, except
that the Ohio Department of Natural Resources may permit such operation on
state controlled land under its jurisdiction when such person is less than 16
years of age and is accompanied by a parent or guardian who is a licensed
driver 18 years of age or older.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than fifty
dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00), or imprisoned
not less than 3 nor more than 30 days, or both.
(ORC 4519.44)
§ 476.06 ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   (a)   The operator of a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose
vehicle involved in any accident resulting in bodily injury to or death of any
person or damage to the property of any person in excess of one hundred dollars
($100.00) shall report the accident within 48 hours to the Chief of Police, and
within 30 days shall forward a written report of the accident to the Ohio
Registrar of Motor Vehicles on a form prescribed by the Registrar. If the
operator is physically incapable of making the reports and there is another
participant in the accident not so incapacitated, the participant shall make
the reports. In the event there is no other participant, and the operator is
other than the owner, the owner, within the prescribed periods of time, shall
make the reports.
   (b)   Any law enforcement officer or other person authorized by Ohio R.C.
4519.42 and 4519.43 who investigates or receives information of an accident
involving a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle shall
forward to the Registrar a written report of the accident within 48 hours.
(ORC 4519.46)
§ 476.07 LOCAL CONTROL WITHIN POLICE POWER.
   Nothing contained in this chapter shall prevent the municipality from
regulating the operation of snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycle, and all-
purpose vehicles on streets and highways and other public property under
municipal jurisdiction, and within the reasonable exercise of the police power,
except that no registration or licensing of any snowmobile, off-highway
motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle required to be registered or titled under
Ohio R.C. Chapter 4519 shall be required.
(ORC 4519.48)
§ 476.08 REGISTRATION OF VEHICLES.
   (a)   (1)   Except as provided in division (b), (c) and (d) of this section,
no person shall operate any snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose
vehicle within this municipality unless the snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle,
or all-purpose vehicle is registered and numbered in accordance with Ohio R.C.
4519.03 and 4519.04.
      (2)   Except as provided in Ohio R.C. 4511.215 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, no registration is required for a mini-truck
that is operated within this state. A mini-truck may be operated only in
accordance with Ohio R.C. 4511.215 and Ohio R.C. 4519.401, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (b)   (1)   No registration is required for a snowmobile or off-highway
motorcycle that is operated exclusively upon lands owned by the owner of the
snowmobile or off-highway motorcycle, or on lands to which the owner of the
snowmobile or off- highway motorcycle has a contractual right.
      (2)   No registration is required for an all- purpose vehicle that is
used primarily for agricultural purposes when the owner qualifies for the
current agricultural use valuation tax credit, unless it is to be used on any
public land, trail, or right-of-way.
      (3)   Any all-purpose vehicle exempted from registration under division
(b)(2) of this section and operated for agricultural purposes may use public
roads and rights-of-way when traveling from one farm field to another, when
such use does not violate R.C. § 4519.41.
      (4)   No registration is required for a snowmobile or all-purpose vehicle
that is operated on a state highway as authorized by R.C. § 4519.41(F).
   (c)   No registration is required for a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle,
or all-purpose vehicle owned and used in this state by a resident of another
state whenever that state has in effect a registration law similar to Ohio R.C.
Chapter 4519 and the snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle
is properly registered under that state’s law. Any snowmobile, off-highway
motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle owned and used in this state by a resident
of a state not having a registration law similar to Ohio R.C. Chapter 4519
shall comply with Ohio R.C. 4519.09.
   (d)   No registration is required for a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle,
or all-purpose vehicle owned and used in this municipality by the United
States, another state or a political subdivision thereof, but the snowmobile,
off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle shall display the name of the
owner thereon.
   (e)   The owner or operator of any all-purpose vehicle operated or used upon
the waters in this municipality shall comply with Ohio R.C. Chapter 1547 and
Ohio R.C. Chapter 1548 relative to the operation of watercraft.
   (f)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section shall be fined not less
than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00).
(ORC 4519.02)
Statutory reference:
   Destruction or disposal of vehicle; transfer of ownership; change of
address; loss of certificate, see Ohio R.C. 4519.05
   Registration of emergency vehicles, see Ohio R.C. 4519.08
   Registration procedure, see Ohio R.C. 4519.03
   Temporary license placards and fees, see Ohio R.C. 4519.10
   Temporary operating permit for certain nonresidents, see Ohio R.C. 4519.09
§ 476.09 OPERATION OF OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLE OR ALL-PURPOSE VEHICLE WITHOUT
CERTIFICATE OF TITLE; FAILURE TO SURRENDER.
   (a)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate in this state an off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose
vehicle without having a certificate of title for the off-highway motorcycle or
all-purpose vehicle if such a certificate is required by Ohio R.C. Chapter 4519
to be issued for the off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle, or, if a
physical certificate of title has not been issued for it, operate an off-
highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle knowing that the ownership
information related to the motorcycle or vehicle has not been entered into the
automated title processing system by a Clerk of a Court of Common Pleas.
      (2)   Operate in this municipality an off-highway motorcycle or all-
purpose vehicle if a certificate of title to the off-highway motorcycle or all-
purpose vehicle has been issued and then has been canceled.
      (3)   Fail to surrender any certificate of title upon cancellation of it
by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles and notice of the cancellation as prescribed
in Ohio R.C. Chapter 4519.
      (4)   Fail to surrender the certificate of title to a Clerk of a Court of
Common Pleas as provided in Ohio R.C. Chapter 4519, in case of the destruction
or dismantling of, or change in, the off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose
vehicle described in the certificate of title.
      (5)   Violate any provision of Ohio R.C. 4519.51 to 4519.70 for which no
penalty is otherwise provided or any lawful rules adopted pursuant to those
sections.
      (6)   Operate in this state an off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose
vehicle knowing that the certificate of title to or ownership of the motorcycle
or vehicle as otherwise reflected in the automated title processing system has
been canceled.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than two hundred
dollars ($200.00), or imprisoned not more than 90 days, or both.
(ORC 4519.66)
§ 476.99 PENALTY.
   ( Editor’s note: See §§
408.01 and
408.02 for general Traffic Code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.)
CHAPTER 477: GOLF CARTS AND UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLES
Section
477.01   Definitions
477.02   Inspection of golf carts
477.03   Usage and restrictions
477.04   Utility terrain vehicles
477.99    Penalty
§ 477.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter:
   (a)   "Golf cart" is a motor vehicle as that term is defined under Ohio R.C.
4501.01(B).
   (b)   "Motor vehicle" has the same meaning as set forth in Ohio R.C. 4501.01
(B).
   (c)   "Operator" has the same meaning as set forth in Ohio R.C. 4501.01(X).
   (d)   “Utility terrain vehicle” is an all-purpose vehicle as that term is
defined under Ohio R.C. 4519.01(B).
   (e)   “Vehicle” has the same meaning as set forth in Ohio R.C. 4501.01(A).
(Ord. 13-62, passed 9-12-2013; Am. Ord. 20-55, passed 9-10-2020)
§ 477.02 INSPECTION OF GOLF CARTS.
   (a)   No person shall operate a golf cart vehicle on the streets within the
city unless it has been inspected and approved by the Chief of Police, or his
designee or by another agent designated and approved by the State of Ohio, for
compliance with the applicable safety/equipment requirements of the State of
Ohio relative to motor vehicles. For purposes of this section, "golf cart"
means a motor vehicle that has not less than three wheels in contact with the
ground, that has an unladen weight of less than 1,800 pounds, that is designed
to be and is operated at not more than 25 miles per hour and that is designed
to carry not more than four persons, including the driver.
   (b)   If the Chief of Police, or his designee, or another agent designated
and approved by the State of Ohio, determines that the golf cart complies with
the State of Ohio's statutory requirements that are applicable to motor
vehicles, the Chief of Police shall issue the owner or operator a certificate
of compliance entitling the owner or operator to operate the golf cart on the
streets within the city. The owner or operator shall also show the Chief of
Police or designee proof of liability insurance for the golf cart before a
certificate of compliance is issued. The owner or operator of any golf cart
shall be required to pay a fee in the amount of twenty dollars ($20.00) to the
city through the Police Department before the golf cart may be operated on the
streets of the city. Any certificate issued pursuant to this section by the
Chief of Police expires after 365 days and the Chief of Police will designate
the issuing date and expiration date on each certificate. The Chief of Police
shall keep a copy of each certificate issued pursuant to this section. The
owner or operator of any golf cart shall keep a copy of any certificate issued
pursuant to this section inside the golf cart to which it pertains. The Chief
of Police shall issue a sticker or other similar device to the owner of each
golf cart once it is inspected. The sticker shall signify compliance with this
section and the expiration of the current inspection period. The owner of each
golf cart shall display the sticker in a conspicuous place on the rear of the
golf cart.
   (c)   The owner of a golf cart shall also comply with all requirements of
Ohio law regarding proper title, registration and license plates prior to
operating a golf cart on any street within the city. Compliance with this
section shall be in addition to, rather in lieu of, any applicable provisions
of state law relative to the operation of motor vehicles.
(Ord. 13-62, passed 9-12-2013) Penalty, see §
477.99
§ 477.03 USAGE AND RESTRICTIONS.
   (a)   No golf carts shall be permitted to travel on any city street where
the speed limit is greater than 35 miles per hour. Golf carts will be permitted
to cross intersections with higher speeds, so long as they remain on a street
that has a speed limit of 35 miles per hour or less.
   (b)   The operator of a golf cart must be at least 16 years of age and have
a valid driver's license.
   (c)   Any child who falls under the child restraint criteria set by Ohio
R.C. 4511.81 is prohibited from being a passenger in a golf cart operated on
any city street, right-of-way or public area in the city. (Children who are up
to four years old and less than 40 pounds which are required to be in a child
safety seat or any child who is eight years old or less and under 4'9" in
height who are required to be in a booster seat.)
   (d)   Golf carts must be operated in accord with all State of Ohio traffic
laws in addition to all applicable sections of the City of Ironton Municipal
Ordinances.
(Ord. 13-62, passed 9-12-2013) Penalty, see §
477.99
§ 477.04 UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLES.
   (a)   Definitions. The terms defined in §
477.01 shall apply to this section.
   (b)   Inspection of utility terrain vehicles.
      (1)   No person shall operate a “Utility Terrain Vehicle” on the streets
within the City of Ironton unless it has been inspected and approved by the
Chief of Police, or his designee or by another agent designated and approved by
the State of Ohio, for compliance with the applicable safety/equipment
requirements of the State of Ohio relative to motor vehicles.
      (2)   If the Chief of Police, or his designee, or another agent
designated and approved by the State of Ohio, determines that the utility
terrain vehicle complies with the State of Ohio’s statutory requirements that
are applicable to motor vehicles, the Chief of Police shall issue the owner or
operator a certificate of compliance entitling the owner or operator to operate
the utility terrain vehicle on the streets within the city. The owner or
operator shall also show the Chief of Police or designee proof of liability
insurance for the utility terrain vehicle before a certificate of compliance is
issued. The owner or operator of any utility terrain vehicle shall be required
to pay a fee in the amount of $20.00 to the City of Ironton through the City
Police Department before the utility terrain vehicle may be operated on the
streets of the City of Ironton, and such fees shall be diverted to Fund 26. Any
certificate issued pursuant to this section by the Chief of Police expires
after 365 days and the Chief of Police will designate the issuing date and
expiration date on each certificate. The Chief of Police shall keep a copy of
each certificate issued pursuant to this section. The owner or operator of any
utility terrain vehicle shall keep a copy of any certificate issued pursuant to
this section inside the utility terrain vehicle to which it pertains. The Chief
of Police shall issue a sticker or other similar device to the owner of each
utility terrain vehicle once it is inspected. The sticker shall signify
compliance with this section and the expiration of the current inspection
period. The owner of each utility terrain vehicle shall display the sticker in
a conspicuous place on the rear of the utility terrain vehicle.
   (c)   The owner of a utility terrain vehicle shall also comply with all
requirements of Ohio law regarding property title, registration and license
plates prior to operating a utility terrain vehicle on any street within the
City of Ironton. Compliance with this section shall be in addition to, rather
in a lieu of, any applicable provisions of state law relative to the operation
of motor vehicles.
   (d)   Usage and restrictions.
      (1)   No utility terrain vehicles shall be permitted to travel on any
city street where the speed limit is greater than 35 mph. Utility terrain
vehicles will be permitted to cross intersections with higher speeds, so long
as they remain on a street that has a speed limit of 35 mph or less.
      (2)   The operator of a utility terrain vehicle must be at least 16 years
of age and have a valid driver’s license.
      (3)   Any child who falls under the child restraint criteria set by R.C.
§ 4511.81 is prohibited from being a passenger in a utility terrain vehicle
operated on any city street, right-of-way or public area in the City of
Ironton. (Children who are up to 4 years old and less than 40 pounds which are
required to be in a child safety seat or any child who is 8 years old or less
and under 4'9" in height who are required to be in a booster seat.)
      (4)   Utility terrain vehicles must be operated in accord with all State
of Ohio traffic laws in addition to all applicable sections of the City of
Ironton Municipal Ordinances.
      (5)   The use of all utility terrain vehicles shall cease at 10:00 p.m.
and no person shall be permitted to operate a utility terrain vehicle between
the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.
(Ord. 20-55, passed 9-10-2020)
§ 477.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates this chapter is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a first
offense; on a second offense within one year after the first offense, the
person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; and each subsequent
offense within one year after the first offense, the person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(Ord. 13-62, passed 9-12-2013; Am. Ord. 20-55, passed 9-10-2020)
PART SIX - GENERAL OFFENSES CODE
         
Chap. 606.   General Provisions; Administration and Enforcement.
         
Chap. 612.   Alcoholic Beverages.
         
Chap. 618.   Animals.
         
Chap. 624.   Drugs.
         
Chap. 626.   Fair Employment.
         
Chap. 628.   Fair Housing.
         
Chap. 630.   Gambling.
         
Chap. 636.   Offenses Relating to Persons.
         
Chap. 642.   Offenses Relating to Property.
         
Chap. 648.   Peace Disturbances.
         
Chap. 654.   Railroads.
         
Chap. 660.   Safety, Sanitation and Health.
         
Chap. 666.   Sex Related Offenses.
         
Chap. 672.   Weapons and Explosives.
         
Chap. 698.   Penalties and Sentencing.
CHAPTER 606: GENERAL PROVISIONS; ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
Section
606.01   Definitions
606.02   Culpable mental states
606.03   Classification of offenses
606.04   Offenses defined
606.05   Rule of construction
606.055   Criminal law jurisdiction
606.06   Limitation on criminal prosecutions
606.07   Requirements for criminal liability; voluntary intoxication
606.08   Organizational criminal liability
606.09   Personal accountability for organizational conduct
606.10   Falsification
606.11   Compounding a crime
606.12   Failure to report a crime or death
606.13   Failure to aid a law enforcement officer
606.14   Obstructing official business
606.15   Obstructing justice
606.16   Resisting arrest
606.165   Compliance with lawful order of police officer; fleeing
606.17   Having an unlawful interest in a public contract
606.18   Soliciting or receiving improper compensation
606.19   Dereliction of duty
606.20   Interfering with civil rights
606.21   Attempt
606.22   Complicity
606.23   Detention of shoplifters and those committing motion picture piracy;
protection of institutional property
606.24   Disposition of unclaimed or forfeited property held by Police
Department
606.25   Impersonating an officer
606.26   Display of law enforcement agency emblem
606.27   Rewards
606.28   False report of child abuse or neglect
606.29   Using sham legal process
606.30   Failure to disclose personal information
606.31   Misuse of 9-1-1 system
606.32   Self defense: limitations on duty to retreat prior to using force
Cross-reference:
   Declaratory judgment in sex related offenses, see GEN. OFF.
666.15
   Injunction and abatement of nuisance in sex related offenses, see GEN. OFF.
666.16
   Justifiable use of force to suppress riot, see GEN. OFF.
648.03
   License or permit to possess dangerous ordnance, see GEN. OFF.
672.05
   Making false alarms, see GEN. OFF.
648.08
   Misconduct at an emergency, see GEN. OFF.
648.06
   Penalties and sentencing, see GEN. OFF.
Ch. 698
   Rabies quarantine, see GEN. OFF.
618.11
   Reports of vehicle accidents, see TRAF.
436.11 et seq.,
476.07
   Registration of dogs, see GEN. OFF.
618.08
   Rules of evidence in sex related offenses, see GEN. OFF.
666.10
Statutory reference:
   See section histories for similar state law
   Arrest without warrant for misdemeanor, see Ohio R.C. 2935.03
    Burden and degree of proof, see Ohio R.C. 2901.05
   Cordoning off riot areas; prohibiting sales of firearms and explosives, see
Ohio R.C. 3761.16
   Criteria for probation; conditions of probation, see Ohio R.C. 2951.02
   Definition of “imprisoned,” see Ohio R.C. 1.05
   Degree of offense; charge and verdict; prior conviction, see Ohio R.C.
2945.75
   Discharge for delay in trial, see Ohio R.C. 2945.73
   Disposition of unclaimed, abandoned and junk motor vehicles, see Ohio R.C.
737.32, 4513.61 et seq.
   Extension of time for hearing or trial, see Ohio R.C. 2945.72
   Payment of costs and expenses on change of venue, see Ohio R.C. 2931.31
   Procedure on affidavit or complaint; withdrawal of unexecuted warrants, see
Ohio R.C. 2935.10
   Procedure on change of venue, see Ohio R.C. 2931.29
   Registration of sex offenders in cities and counties, see Ohio R.C. 2950.01
et seq.
   Right of trial by jury, see Ohio R.C. 2945.17
        Satisfaction of fine; credit for time served, see Ohio R.C. 2947.14
   Time within which hearing or trial must be held, see Ohio R.C. 2945.71
   Transfer of prisoner on change of venue, see Ohio R.C. 2931.30
   Treatment of drug dependent persons in lieu of conviction, see Ohio R.C.
2951.041
   Venue, see Ohio R.C. 2901.12
§ 606.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (a)   “Campaign committee,” “contribution,” “legislative campaign fund,”
“political action committee,” “political contributing entity,” and “political
party.” Have the same meanings as in Ohio R.C. 3517.01.
   (b)   “Contraband.” Any property that is illegal for a person to acquire or
possess under a statute, ordinance, or rule, or that a trier of fact lawfully
determines to be illegal to possess by reason of the property’s involvement in
an offense. “Contraband” includes, but is not limited to, all of the following:
      (1)   Any controlled substance, as defined in Ohio R.C. 3719.01, or any
device or paraphernalia related thereto;
      (2)   Any unlawful gambling device or paraphernalia;
      (3)   Any dangerous ordnance or obscene material.
   (c)   “Deadly force.” Any force that carries a substantial risk that it will
proximately result in the death of any person.
   (d)   “Detention.” Arrest; confinement in any vehicle subsequent to an
arrest; confinement in any public or private facility for custody of persons
charged with or convicted of crime in this state or another state or under the
laws of the United States or alleged or found to be a delinquent child or
unruly child in this state or another state or under the laws of the United
States; hospitalization, institutionalization, or confinement in any public or
private facility that is ordered pursuant to or under the authority of Ohio
R.C. 2945.37, 2945.371, 2945.38, 2945.39, 2945.40, 2945.401 or 2945.402;
confinement in any vehicle for transportation to or from any facility of any of
those natures; detention for extradition or deportation; except as provided in
this division, supervision by any employee of any facility of any of those
natures that is incidental to hospitalization, institutionalization, or
confinement in the facility but that occurs outside the facility; supervision
by an employee of the Department of Rehabilitation and Correction of a person
on any type of release from a state correctional institution; or confinement in
any vehicle, airplane, or place while being returned from outside of this state
into this state by a private person or entity pursuant to a contract entered
into under Ohio R.C. 311.29(E) or Ohio R.C. 5149.03(B). For a person confined
in a county jail who participates in a county jail industry program pursuant to
Ohio R.C. 5147.30, “detention” includes time spent at an assigned work site and
going to and from the work site.
   (e)   “Detention facility.” Any public or private place used for the
confinement of a person charged with or convicted of any crime in this state or
another state or under the laws of the United States or alleged or found to be
a delinquent child or an unruly child in this state or another state or under
the laws of the United States.
   (f)   “Force.” Any violence, compulsion, or constraint physically exerted by
any means upon or against a person or thing.
   (g)   “Law enforcement officer.” Any of the following:
      (1)   A sheriff, deputy sheriff, constable, police officer of a township
or joint police district, marshal, deputy marshal, municipal police officer,
member of a police force employed by a metropolitan housing authority under
Ohio R.C. 3735.31(D) or state highway patrol trooper.
      (2)   An officer, agent, or employee of the state or any of its agencies,
instrumentalities, or political subdivisions, upon whom, by statute, a duty to
conserve the peace or to enforce all or certain laws is imposed and the
authority to arrest violators is conferred, within the limits of such statutory
duty and authority.
      (3)   The Mayor, in a capacity as chief conservator of the peace within
the municipality.
      (4)   A member of an auxiliary police force organized by the county,
township, or municipal law enforcement authorities, within the scope of the
member’s appointment or commission.
      (5)   A person lawfully called pursuant to Ohio R.C. 311.07 to aid a
sheriff in keeping the peace, for the purposes and during the time when the
person is called.
      (6)   A person appointed by a Mayor pursuant to R.C. § 737.10 as a
special patrolling officer during a riot or emergency, for the purposes and
during the time when the person is appointed.
      (7)   A member of the organized militia of this state or the armed forces
of the United States, lawfully called to duty to aid civil authorities in
keeping the peace or protect against domestic violence.
      (8)   A prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, secret
service officer, or municipal prosecutor.
      (9)   A veterans’ home police officer appointed under Ohio R.C. 5907.02.
      (10)   A member of a police force employed by a regional transit
authority under Ohio R.C. 306.35(Y).
      (11)   A special police officer employed by a port authority under Ohio
R.C. 4582.04 or 4582.28.
      (12)   The House of Representatives Sergeant at Arms if the House of
Representatives Sergeant at Arms has arrest authority pursuant to Ohio R.C.
101.311(E)(1) and an Assistant House of Representatives Sergeant at Arms.
      (13)   The Senate Sergeant at Arms and an Assistant Senate Sergeant at
Arms.
      (14)   A special police officer employed by a municipal corporation at a
municipal airport, or other municipal air navigation facility, that has
scheduled operations, as defined in 14 C.F.R. 119.3, as amended, and that is
required to be under a security program and is governed by aviation security
rules of the Transportation Security Administration of the United States
Department of Transportation as provided in 49 C.F.R. Parts 1542 and 1544, as
amended.
   (h)   “Not guilty by reason of insanity.” A person is “not guilty by reason
of insanity” relative to a charge of an offense only if the person proves, in
the manner specified in Ohio R.C. 2901.05, that at the time of the commission
of the offense, he or she did not know, as a result of a severe mental disease
or defect, the wrongfulness of his or her acts.
   (i)   “Offense of violence.”
      (1)   A violation of Ohio R.C. 2903.01, 2903.02, 2903.03, 2903.04,
2903.11, 2903.12, 2903.13, 2903.15, 2903.18, 2903.21, 2903.211, 2903.22,
2905.01, 2905.02, 2905.11, 2905.32, 2907.02, 2907.03, 2907.05, 2909.02,
2909.03, 2909.24, 2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2917.01, 2917.02, 2917.03,
2917.31, 2917.321, 2919.25, 2921.03, 2921.04, 2921.34, or 2923.161, of division
(A)(1) of R.C. § 2903.34, of division (A)(1), (2) or (3) of Ohio R.C. 2911.12,
or of division (B)(1), (2), (3) or (4) of Ohio R.C. 2919.22, or felonious
sexual penetration in violation of former Ohio R.C. 2907.12;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States, substantially equivalent to
any section, division or offense listed in division (1) of this definition;
      (3)   An offense, other than a traffic offense, under an existing or
former municipal ordinance or law of this or any other state or of the United
States, committed purposely or knowingly, and involving physical harm to
persons or a risk of serious physical harm to persons;
      (4)   A conspiracy or attempt to commit, or complicity in committing, any
offense under division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition;
      (5)   A violation of division (C) of R.C. § 959.131.
   (j)   “Official proceeding.” Any proceeding before a legislative, judicial,
administrative, or other governmental agency or official authorized to take
evidence under oath, and includes any proceeding before a referee, hearing
examiner, commissioner, notary, or other person taking testimony or a
deposition in connection with an official proceeding.
   (k)   “Party official.” Any person who holds an elective or appointive post
in a political party in the United States or this state, by virtue of which he
or she directs, conducts, or participates in directing or conducting party
affairs at any level of responsibility.
   (l)   “Person.”
      (1)   A.   Subject to division (2) of this definition, as used in any
section contained in this General Offenses Code that sets forth a criminal
offense, “person” includes all of the following:
            1.   An individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust,
partnership and association.
            2.   An unborn human who is viable.
         B.   As used in any section contained in this General Offenses Code
that does not set forth a criminal offense, “person” includes an individual,
corporation, business trust, estate, partnership and association.
         C.   As used in division (1)A.2. of this definition, “unborn human”
means an individual organism of the species Homo sapiens from fertilization
until live birth. “Viable” means the stage of development of a human fetus at
which there is a realistic probability of maintaining and nourishing of a life
outside the womb with or without temporary artificial life-sustaining support.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (1)A. of this definition, in no case shall
the portion of the definition of the term “person” that is set forth in
division (1)A.2. of this definition be applied or construed in any section
contained in this General Offenses Code that sets forth a criminal offense in
any of the following manners:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (2)A. of this
definition, in a manner so that the offense prohibits or is construed as
prohibiting any pregnant woman or her physician from performing an abortion
with the consent of the pregnant woman, with the consent of the pregnant woman
implied by law in a medical emergency, or with the approval of one otherwise
authorized by law to consent to medical treatment on behalf of the pregnant
woman. An abortion that violates the conditions described in the immediately
preceding sentence may be punished as a violation of Ohio R.C. 2903.01,
2903.02, 2903.03, 2903.04, 2903.05, 2903.06, 2903.08, 2903.11, 2903.12,
2903.13, 2903.14, 2903.21 or 2903.22, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, as applicable. An abortion that does not violate the conditions
described in the second immediately preceding sentence but that does violate
Ohio R.C. 2919.12, 2919.13(B), 2919.15, 2919.151, 2919.17 or 2919.18, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, may be punished as a violation of
such section, as applicable. Consent is sufficient under this division if it is
of the type otherwise adequate to permit medical treatment to the pregnant
woman, even if it does not comply with Ohio R.C. 2919.12.
         B.   In a manner so that the offense is applied or is construed as
applying to a woman based on an act or omission of the woman that occurs while
she is or was pregnant and that results in any of the following:
            1.   Her delivery of a stillborn baby.
            2.   Her causing, in any other manner, the death in utero of a
viable, unborn human that she is carrying.
            3.   Her causing the death of her child who is born alive but who
dies from one or more injuries that are sustained while the child is a viable,
unborn human.
            4.   Her causing her child who is born alive to sustain one or more
injuries while the child is a viable, unborn human.
            5.   Her causing, threatening to cause, or attempting to cause, in
any other manner, an injury, illness, or other psychological illness or
condition, regardless of its duration or gravity, to a viable, unborn human
that she is carrying.
   (m)   “Physical harm to persons.” Any injury, illness, or other
physiological impairment, regardless of its gravity or duration.
   (n)   “Physical harm to property.” Any tangible or intangible damage to
property that, in any degree, results in loss to its value or interferes with
its use or enjoyment. “Physical harm to property” does not include wear and
tear occasioned by normal use.
   (o)   “Privilege.” An immunity, license, or right conferred by law, or
bestowed by express or implied grant, or arising out of status, position,
office, or relationship, or growing out of necessity.
   (p)   “Property.”
      (1)   Any property, real or personal, tangible or intangible, and any
interest or license in that property. “Property” includes, but is not limited
to, cable television service, other telecommunications service,
telecommunications devices, information service, computers, data, computer
software, financial instruments associated with computers, other documents
associated with computers, or copies of the documents, whether in machine or
human-readable form, trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights, patents, and
property protected by a trademark, copyright or patent. “Financial instruments
associated with computers” include, but are not limited to, checks, drafts,
warrants, money orders, notes of indebtedness, certificates of deposit, letters
of credit, bills of credit or debit cards, financial transaction authorization
mechanisms, marketable securities, or any computer system representations of
any of them.
      (2)   As used in this definition, “trade secret” has the same meaning as
in Ohio R.C. 1333.61, and “telecommunications service” and “information
service” have the same meanings as in Ohio R.C. 2913.01.
      (3)   As used in this definition and in the definition of “contraband” in
this section, “cable television service,” “computer,” “computer network,”
“computer software,” “computer system,” “data,” and “telecommunications device”
have the same meanings as in Ohio R.C. 2913.01.
   (q)   “Provider agreement.” Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 5164.01.
   (r)   “Public official.” Any elected or appointed officer, employee, or
agent of the state or any political subdivision thereof, whether in a temporary
or permanent capacity, and includes but is not limited to legislators, judges,
and law enforcement officers. The term does not include an employee, officer,
or governor-appointed member of the board of directors of the nonprofit
corporation formed under Ohio R.C. 187.01.
   (s)   “Public servant.”
      (1)   Any of the following:
         A.   Any public official.
         B.   Any person performing ad hoc a governmental function, including
but not limited to a juror, member of a temporary commission, master,
arbitrator, advisor, or consultant.
         C.   A person who is a candidate for public office, whether or not he
or she is elected or appointed to the office for which he or she is a
candidate. A person is a candidate for purposes of this division if he or she
has been nominated according to law for election or appointment to public
office, or if he or she has filed a petition or petitions as required by law to
have his or her name placed on the ballot in a primary, general, or special
election, or if he or she campaigns as a write-in candidate in any primary,
general, or special election.
      (2)   The term does not include an employee, officer, or governor-
appointed member of the board of directors of the nonprofit corporation formed
under Ohio R.C. 187.01.
   (t)   “Risk.” A significant possibility, as contrasted with a remote
possibility, that a certain result may occur or that certain circumstances may
exist.
   (u)   “School,” “school building,” and “school premises.” Have the same
meanings as in Ohio R.C. 2925.01.
   (v)   “School activity.” Any activity held under the auspices of a board of
education of a city, local, exempted village, joint vocational, or cooperative
education school district; a governing authority of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314; a governing board of an educational
service center; or the governing body of a nonpublic school for which the
Director of Education and Workforce prescribes minimum standards under R.C. §
3301.07.
   (w)   “School bus.” Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 4511.01.
   (x)   “School safety zone.” Consists of a school, school building, school
premises, school activity, and school bus.
   (y)   “Serious physical harm to persons.” Any of the following:
      (1)   Any mental illness or condition of such gravity as would normally
require hospitalization or prolonged psychiatric treatment;
      (2)   Any physical harm that carries a substantial risk of death;
      (3)   Any physical harm that involves some permanent incapacity, whether
partial or total, or that involves some temporary, substantial incapacity;
      (4)   Any physical harm that involves some permanent disfigurement, or
that involves some temporary, serious disfigurement;
      (5)   Any physical harm that involves acute pain of such duration as to
result in substantial suffering, or that involves any degree of prolonged or
intractable pain.
   (z)   “Serious physical harm to property.” Any physical harm to property
that does either of the following:
      (1)   Results in substantial loss to the value of the property, or
requires a substantial amount of time, effort, or money to repair or replace;
      (2)   Temporarily prevents the use or enjoyment of the property, or
substantially interferes with its use or enjoyment for an extended period of
time.
   (aa)   “Substantial risk.” A strong possibility, as contrasted with a remote
or significant possibility, that a certain result may occur or that certain
circumstances may exist.
   (bb)   “Valuable thing” or “valuable benefit.” Includes, but is not limited
to, a contribution. This inclusion does not indicate or imply that a
contribution was not included in those terms before September 17, 1986.
(ORC 2901.01, 2921.01)
§ 606.02 CULPABLE MENTAL STATES.
   (a)   A person acts purposely when it is the person’s specific intention to
cause a certain result, or, when the gist of the offense is a prohibition
against conduct of a certain nature, regardless of what the offender intends to
accomplish thereby, it is the offender’s specific intention to engage in
conduct of that nature.
   (b)   A person acts knowingly, regardless of purpose, when the person is
aware that the person’s conduct will probably cause a certain result or will
probably be of a certain nature. A person has knowledge of circumstances when
the person is aware that such circumstances probably exist. When knowledge of
the existence of a particular fact is an element of an offense, such knowledge
is established if a person subjectively believes that there is a high
probability of its existence and fails to make inquiry or acts with a conscious
purpose to avoid learning the fact.
   (c)   A person acts recklessly when, with heedless indifference to the
consequences, the person disregards a substantial and unjustifiable risk that
the person’s conduct is likely to cause a certain result or is likely to be of
a certain nature. A person is reckless with respect to circumstances when, with
heedless indifference to the consequences, the person disregards a substantial
and unjustifiable risk that such circumstances are likely to exist.
   (d)   A person acts negligently when, because of a substantial lapse from
due care, the person fails to perceive or avoid a risk that the person’s
conduct may cause a certain result or may be of a certain nature. A person is
negligent with respect to circumstances when, because of a substantial lapse
from due care, the person fails to perceive or avoid a risk that such
circumstances may exist.
   (e)   When the section defining an offense provides that negligence suffices
to establish an element thereof, then recklessness, knowledge or purpose is
also sufficient culpability for that element. When recklessness suffices to
establish an element of an offense, then knowledge or purpose is also
sufficient culpability for that element. When knowledge suffices to establish
an element of an offense, then purpose is also sufficient culpability for that
element.
(R.C. § 2901.22)
§ 606.03 CLASSIFICATION OF OFFENSES.
   As used in this General Offenses Code:
   (a)   Offenses include misdemeanors of the first, second, third, and fourth
degree, minor misdemeanors, and offenses not specifically classified.
   (b)   Regardless of the penalty that may be imposed, any offense
specifically classified as a misdemeanor is a misdemeanor.
   (c)   Any offense not specifically classified is a misdemeanor if
imprisonment for not more than one year may be imposed as a penalty.
   (d)   Any offense not specifically classified is a minor misdemeanor if the
only penalty that may be imposed is one of the following:
      (1)   For an offense committed prior to January 1, 2004, a fine not
exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00);
      (2)   For an offense committed on or after January 1, 2004, a fine not
exceeding one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00), community service under Ohio
R.C. 2929.27(D), or a financial sanction other than a fine under Ohio R.C.
2929.28.
(ORC 2901.02)
§ 606.04 OFFENSES DEFINED.
   (a)   No conduct constitutes a criminal offense against the municipality
unless it is defined as an offense in this General Offenses Code.
   (b)   An offense is defined when one or more sections of this General
Offenses Code state a positive prohibition or enjoin a specific duty, and
provide a penalty for violation of such prohibition or failure to meet such
duty.
   (c)   This section does not affect the power of a court to punish for
contempt or to employ any sanction authorized by law to enforce an order, civil
judgment or decree.
(ORC 2901.03)
§ 606.05 RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (c) or (d) of this section,
sections of this General Offenses Code defining offenses or penalties shall be
strictly construed against the municipality and liberally construed in favor of
the accused.
   (b)   Rules of criminal procedure and sections of this General Offenses Code
providing for criminal procedure shall be construed so as to effect the fair,
impartial, speedy, and sure administration of justice.
   (c)   Any provision of a section of this General Offenses Code that refers
to a previous conviction of or plea of guilty to a violation of a section of
this General Offenses Code, the Ohio Revised Code or a division of a section of
this General Offenses Code or the Ohio Revised Code shall be construed to also
refer to a previous conviction of or plea of guilty to a substantially
equivalent offense under an existing or former law of this municipality, state,
another state, or the United States or under an existing or former municipal
ordinance.
   (d)   Any provision of this Code that refers to a section, or to a division
of a section, of this Code that defines or specifies a criminal offense shall
be construed to also refer to an existing or former law of this state, another
state, or the United States, to an existing or former municipal ordinance, or
to an existing or former division of any such existing or former law or
ordinance that defines or specifies, or that defined or specified, a
substantially equivalent offense.
(ORC 2901.04)
§ 606.055 CRIMINAL LAW JURISDICTION.
   (a)   A person is subject to criminal prosecution and punishment in this
municipality if any of the following occur:
      (1)   The person commits an offense under the laws of this municipality,
any element of which takes place in this municipality;
      (2)   While in this municipality, the person attempts to commit, or is
guilty of complicity in the commission of, an offense in another jurisdiction,
which offense is an offense under both the laws of this municipality and the
other jurisdiction, or, while in this municipality, the person conspires to
commit an offense in another jurisdiction, which offense is an offense under
both the laws of this municipality and the other jurisdiction, and a
substantial overt act in furtherance of the conspiracy is undertaken in this
municipality by the person or another person involved in the conspiracy,
subsequent to the person’s entrance into the conspiracy. In any case in which a
person attempts to commit, is guilty of complicity in the commission of, or
conspires to commit an offense in another jurisdiction as described in this
division, the person is subject to criminal prosecution and punishment in this
municipality for the attempt, complicity, or conspiracy, and for any resulting
offense that is committed or completed in the other jurisdiction;
      (3)   While out of this municipality, the person conspires or attempts to
commit, or is guilty of complicity in the commission of, an offense in this
municipality;
      (4)   While out of this municipality, the person omits to perform a legal
duty imposed by the laws of this municipality, which omission affects a
legitimate interest of the municipality in protecting, governing or regulating
any person, property, thing, transaction, or activity in this municipality;
      (5)   While out of this municipality, the person unlawfully takes or
retains property and subsequently brings any of the unlawfully taken or
retained property into this municipality;
      (6)   While out of this municipality, the person unlawfully takes or
entices another person and subsequently brings the other person into this
municipality;
      (7)   The person, by means of a computer, computer system, computer
network, telecommunication, telecommunications device, telecommunications
service, or information service, causes or knowingly permits any writing, data,
image or other telecommunication to be disseminated or transmitted into this
municipality in violation of the law of this state or municipality.
   (b)   In homicide, the element referred to in division (a)(1) of this
section includes the act that causes death, the physical contact that causes
death, the death itself, or any other element that is set forth in the offense
in question. If any part of the body of a homicide victim is found in this
municipality, the death is presumed to have occurred within this municipality.
   (c)   (1)   This municipality includes the land and water within its
boundaries and the air space above that land and water, with respect to which
this municipality has either exclusive or concurrent legislative jurisdiction.
Where the boundary between this municipality and another jurisdiction is
disputed, the disputed territory is conclusively presumed to be within this
municipality for purposes of this section.
      (2)   The courts of common pleas of Adams, Athens, Belmont, Brown,
Clermont, Columbiana, Gallia, Hamilton, Jefferson, Lawrence, Meigs, Monroe,
Scioto, and Washington counties have jurisdiction beyond the north or northwest
shore of the Ohio River extending to the opposite shore line, between the
extended boundary lines of any adjacent counties or adjacent state. Each of
those courts of common pleas has concurrent jurisdiction on the Ohio River with
any adjacent court of common pleas that borders on that river and with any
court of Kentucky or of West Virginia that borders on the Ohio River and that
has jurisdiction on the Ohio River under the law of Kentucky or the law of West
Virginia, whichever is applicable, or under federal law.
   (d)   When an offense is committed under the laws of this municipality, and
it appears beyond a reasonable doubt that the offense or any element of the
offense took place either in this municipality or in another jurisdiction or
jurisdictions, but it cannot reasonably be determined in which it took place,
the offense or element is conclusively presumed to have taken place in this
municipality for purposes of this section.
   (e)   When a person is subject to criminal prosecution and punishment in
this municipality for an offense committed or completed outside this
municipality, the person is subject to all specifications for that offense that
would be applicable if the offense had been committed within this municipality.
   (f)   Any act, conduct, or element that is a basis of a person being subject
under this section to criminal prosecution and punishment in this municipality
need not be committed personally by the person as long as it is committed by
another person who is in complicity or conspiracy with the person.
   (g)   This section shall be liberally construed, consistent with
constitutional limitations, to allow this municipality the broadest possible
jurisdiction over offenses and persons committing offenses in, or affecting,
this municipality.
   (h)   For purposes of division (a)(2) of this section, an overt act is
substantial when it is of a character that manifests a purpose on the part of
the actor that the object of the conspiracy should be completed.
   (i)   As used in this section, “computer,” “computer system,” “computer
network,” “information service,” “telecommunication,” “telecommunications
device,” “telecommunications service,” “data” and “writing” have the same
meanings as in Ohio R.C. 2913.01.
(ORC 2901.11)
§ 606.06 LIMITATION ON CRIMINAL PROSECUTIONS.
   (a)   (1)   Except as provided in division (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4), or (a)(5)
of this section or as otherwise provided in this section, a prosecution shall
be barred unless it is commenced within the following periods after an offense
is committed:
         A.   For a felony, six years;
         B.   For a misdemeanor other than a minor misdemeanor, two years;
         C.   For a minor misdemeanor, six months.
      (2)   There is no period of limitation for the prosecution of a violation
of R.C. § 2903.01 or R.C. § 2903.02 or for the prosecution of a conspiracy to
commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in committing a violation of R.C. §
2903.01 or R.C. § 2903.02.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (b) to (j) of this
section, a prosecution of any of the following offenses shall be barred unless
it is commenced within 20 years after the offense is committed:
         A.   A violation of Ohio R.C. 2903.03, 2903.04, 2905.01, 2905.32,
2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.21, 2909.02, 2909.22, 2909.23, 2909.24, 2909.26,
2909.27, 2909.28, 2909.29, 2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2911.12, or 2917.02, a
violation of Ohio R.C. 2903.11 or 2903.12 if the victim is a peace officer, a
violation of Ohio R.C. 2903.13 that is a felony, or a violation of former Ohio
R.C. 2907.12.
         B.   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing a violation set forth in division (a)(3)A. of this section.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (d) to (l) of this
section, a prosecution of a violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03 or a
conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in committing a
violation of either section shall be barred unless it is commenced within 25
years after the offense is committed.
      (5)   A.   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (a)(5)B. and (e) to
(i) of this section, a prosecution of a violation of R.C. § 2907.13 shall be
barred unless it is commenced within five years after the offense is committed.
         B.   Prosecution that would otherwise be barred under division (a)
(5)A. of this section may be commenced within five years after the date of the
discovery of the offense by either an aggrieved person or the aggrieved
person’s legal representative who is not a party to the offense.
         C.   As used in division (a)(5)B. of this section, “aggrieved person”
includes any of the following individuals with regard to a violation of R.C. §
2907.13:
            1.   A patient who was the victim of the violation;
            2.   The spouse or surviving spouse of a patient who was the victim
of the violation;
            3.   Any child born as a result of the violation.
   (b)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (b)(2) of this section,
if the period of limitation provided in division (a)(1) or (a)(3) of this
section has expired, prosecution shall be commenced for an offense of which an
element is fraud or breach of fiduciary duty within one year after discovery of
the offense either by an aggrieved person or by the aggrieved person’s legal
representative who is not a party to the offense.
      (2)   If the period of limitation provided in division (a)(1) or (a)(3)
of this section has expired, prosecution for a violation of Ohio R.C. 2913.49
shall be commenced within five years after discovery of the offense either by
an aggrieved person or the aggrieved person’s legal representative who is not a
party to the offense.
   (c)   (1)   If the period of limitation provided in division (a)(1) or (a)
(3) of this section has expired, prosecution shall be commenced for the
following offenses during the following specified periods of time:
         A.   For an offense involving misconduct in office by a public servant
at any time while the accused remains a public servant, or within two years
thereafter;
         B.   For an offense by a person who is not a public servant but whose
offense is directly related to the misconduct in office of a public servant, at
any time while that public servant remains a public servant, or within two
years thereafter.
      (2)   As used in this division:
         A.   The phrase “offense is directly related to the misconduct in
office of a public servant” includes, but is not limited to, a violation of
Ohio R.C. 101.71, 101.91, 121.61 or 2921.13, 102.03(F) or (H), 2921.02(A),
2921.43(A) or (B), or 3517.13(F) or (G), that is directly related to an offense
involving misconduct in office of a public servant, or a violation of any
municipal ordinance substantially equivalent to those Ohio Revised Code
sections listed in this division (c)(2)A.
         B.   “Public servant” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2921.01.
   (d)   (1)   If a DNA record made in connection with the criminal
investigation of the commission of a violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03 is
determined to match another DNA record that is of an identifiable person and if
the time of the determination is later than 25 years after the offense is
committed, prosecution of that person for a violation of the section may be
commenced within five years after the determination is complete.
      (2)   If a DNA record made in connection with the criminal investigation
of the commission of a violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03 is determined to
match another DNA record that is of an identifiable person and if the time of
the determination is within 25 years after the offense is committed,
prosecution of that person for a violation of the section may be commenced
within the longer of 25 years after the offense is committed or five years
after the determination is complete.
      (3)   As used in this division, “DNA record” has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 109.573.
   (e)   An offense is committed when every element of the offense occurs. In
the case of an offense of which an element is a continuing course of conduct,
the period of limitation does not begin to run until such course of conduct or
the accused’s accountability for it terminates, whichever occurs first.
   (f)   A prosecution is commenced on the date an indictment is returned or an
information filed, or on the date a lawful arrest without a warrant is made, or
on the date a warrant, summons, citation, or other process is issued, whichever
occurs first. A prosecution is not commenced by the return of an indictment or
the filing of an information unless reasonable diligence is exercised to issue
and execute process on the same. A prosecution is not commenced upon issuance
of a warrant, summons, citation, or other process unless reasonable diligence
is exercised to execute the same.
   (g)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time when the corpus
delicti remains undiscovered.
   (h)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time when the
accused purposely avoids prosecution. Proof that the accused departed this
municipality or conceals the accused’s identity or whereabouts is prima facie
evidence of the accused’s purpose to avoid prosecution.
   (i)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time a prosecution
against the accused based on the same conduct is pending in this state, even
though the indictment, information, or process that commenced the prosecution
is quashed or the proceedings on the indictment, information, or process are
set aside or reversed on appeal.
   (j)   The period of limitation for a violation of this Part 6 or Title XXIX
of the Ohio Revised Code that involves a physical or mental wound, injury,
disability, or condition of a nature that reasonably indicates abuse or neglect
of a child under 18 years of age or of a child with a developmental disability
or physical impairment under 21 years of age shall not begin to run until
either of the following occurs:
      (1)   The victim of the offense reaches the age of majority.
      (2)   A public children services agency, or a municipal or county peace
officer that is not the parent or guardian of the child, in the county in which
the child resides or in which the abuse or neglect is occurring or has occurred
has been notified that abuse or neglect is known, suspected, or believed to
have occurred.
   (k)   As used in this section, “peace officer” has the same meaning as in
Ohio R.C. 2935.01.
   (l)   (1)   The amendments to divisions (a) and (d) of this section that
took effect on July 16, 2015, apply to a violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03
committed on and after July 16, 2015, and apply to a violation of either of
those sections committed prior to July 16, 2015, if prosecution for that
violation was not barred under this section as it existed on July 16, 2015.
      (2)   The amendment to division (a)(2) of this section that took effect
on April 4, 2023, applies to a conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or
complicity in committing a violation of R.C. § 2903.01 or R.C. § 2903.02 if the
conspiracy, attempt, or complicity is committed on or after April 4, 2023, and
applies to a conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing a violation of either of those sections if the conspiracy, attempt,
or complicity was committed prior to April 4, 2023, and prosecution for that
conspiracy, attempt, or complicity was not barred under this section as it
existed on the day prior to April 4, 2023.
(R.C. § 2901.13)
§ 606.07 REQUIREMENTS FOR CRIMINAL LIABILITY; VOLUNTARY INTOXICATION.
   (a)   Except as provided in division (b) of this section, a person is not
guilty of an offense unless both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person’s liability is based on conduct that includes either a
voluntary act, or an omission to perform an act or duty that the person is
capable of performing;
   (b)   When the language defining an offense does not specify any degree of
culpability, and plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict criminal
liability for the conduct described in the section, then culpability is not
required for a person to be guilty of the offense. The fact that one division
of a section plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict liability for an
offense defined in that division does not by itself plainly indicate a purpose
to impose strict criminal liability for an offense defined in other divisions
of the section that do not specify a degree of culpability.
   (c)   (1)   When language defining an element of an offense that is related
to knowledge or intent or to which mens rea could fairly be applied neither
specifies culpability nor plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict
liability, the element of the offense is established only if a person acts
recklessly.
      (2)   Division (c)(1) of this section does not apply to offenses defined
in R.C. Title XLV.
      (3)   Division (c)(1) of this section does not relieve the prosecution of
the burden of proving the culpable mental state required by any definition
incorporated into the offense.
   (d)   Voluntary intoxication may not be taken into consideration in
determining the existence of a mental state that is an element of a criminal
offense. Voluntary intoxication does not relieve a person of a duty to act if
failure to act constitutes a criminal offense. Evidence that a person was
voluntarily intoxicated may be admissible to show whether or not the person was
physically capable of performing the act with which the person is charged.
   (e)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Culpability.” Purpose, knowledge, recklessness, or negligence, as
defined in Ohio R.C. 2901.22.
      (2)   “Intoxication.” Includes but is not limited to intoxication
resulting from the ingestion of alcohol, a drug, or alcohol and a drug.
      (3)   “Involuntary acts.” Reflexes, convulsions, body movements during
unconsciousness or sleep, and body movements that are not otherwise a product
of the actor’s volition are involuntary acts.
      (4)   “Possession.” A voluntary act if the possessor knowingly procured
or received the thing possessed, or was aware of the possessor’s control of the
thing possessed for a sufficient time to have ended possession.
(ORC 2901.21)
§ 606.08 ORGANIZATIONAL CRIMINAL LIABILITY.
   (a)   An organization may be convicted of an offense under any of the
following circumstances:
      (1)   The offense is a minor misdemeanor committed by an officer, agent,
or employee of the organization acting in its behalf and within the scope of
the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s office or employment, except that if the
section defining the offense designates the officers, agents, or employees for
whose conduct the organization is accountable or the circumstances under which
it is accountable, those provisions shall apply.
      (2)   A purpose to impose organizational liability plainly appears in the
section defining the offense, and the offense is committed by an officer,
agent, or employee of the organization acting in its behalf and within the
scope of the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s office or employment, except
that if the section defining the offense designates the officers, agents, or
employees for whose conduct the organization is accountable or the
circumstances under which it is accountable, those provisions shall apply.
      (3)   The offense consists of an omission to discharge a specific duty
imposed by law on the organization.
      (4)   If, acting with the kind of culpability otherwise required for the
commission of the offense, its commission was authorized, requested, commanded,
tolerated, or performed by the board of directors, trustees, partners, or by a
high managerial officer, agent, or employee acting in behalf of the
organization and within the scope of such a board’s or person’s office or
employment.
   (b)   If strict liability is imposed for the commission of an offense, a
purpose to impose organizational liability shall be presumed, unless the
contrary plainly appears.
   (c)   In a prosecution of an organization for an offense other than one for
which strict liability is imposed, it is a defense that the high managerial
officer, agent, or employee having supervisory responsibility over the subject
matter of the offense exercised due diligence to prevent its commission. This
defense is not available if it plainly appears inconsistent with the purpose of
the section defining the offense.
   (d)   As used in this section, “organization” means a corporation for profit
or not for profit, partnership, limited partnership, joint venture,
unincorporated nonprofit association, estate, trust, or other commercial or
legal entity. “Organization” does not include an entity organized as or by a
governmental agency for the execution of a governmental program.
(ORC 2901.23)
§ 606.09 PERSONAL ACCOUNTABILITY FOR ORGANIZATIONAL CONDUCT.
   (a)   An officer, agent, or employee of an organization, as defined in Ohio
R.C. 2901.23, may be prosecuted for an offense committed by such organization,
if he or she acts with the kind of culpability required for the commission of
the offense, and any of the following apply:
      (1)   In the name of the organization or in its behalf, he or she engages
in conduct constituting the offense, or causes another to engage in such
conduct, or tolerates such conduct when it is of a type for which he or she has
direct responsibility;
      (2)   He or she has primary responsibility to discharge a duty imposed on
the organization by law, and such duty is not discharged.
   (b)   When a person is convicted of an offense by reason of this section, he
or she is subject to the same penalty as if he or she had acted in his or her
own behalf.
(ORC 2901.24)
§ 606.10 FALSIFICATION.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly make a false statement, or knowingly swear
or affirm the truth of a false statement previously made, when any of the
following applies:
      (1)   The statement is made in any official proceeding.
      (2)   The statement is made with purpose to incriminate another.
      (3)   The statement is made with purpose to mislead a public official in
performing his or her official function.
      (4)   The statement is made with purpose to secure the payment of
unemployment compensation; Ohio Works First; prevention, retention and
contingency benefits and services; disability financial assistance; retirement
benefits or health care coverage from a state retirement system; economic
development assistance as defined in Ohio R.C. 9.66; or other benefits
administered by a governmental agency or paid out of a public treasury.
      (5)   The statement is made with purpose to secure the issuance by a
governmental agency of a license, permit, authorization, certificate,
registration, release, or provider agreement.
      (6)   The statement is sworn or affirmed before a notary public or
another person empowered to administer oaths.
      (7)   The statement is in writing on or in connection with a report or
return that is required or authorized by law.
      (8)   The statement is in writing, and is made with purpose to induce
another to extend credit to or employ the offender, or to confer any degree,
diploma, certificate of attainment, award of excellence, or honor on the
offender, or to extend to or bestow upon the offender any other valuable
benefit or distinction, when the person to whom the statement is directed
relies upon it to his or her detriment.
      (9)   The statement is made with purpose to commit or facilitate the
commission of a theft offense.
      (10)   The statement is knowingly made to a probate court in connection
with any action, proceeding, or other matter within its jurisdiction, either
orally or in a written document, including, but not limited to, an application,
petition, complaint, or other pleading, or an inventory, account, or report.
      (11)   The statement is made on an account, form, record, stamp, label or
other writing that is required by law.
      (12)   The statement is made in connection with the purchase of a
firearm, as defined in Ohio R.C. 2923.11, and in conjunction with the
furnishing to the seller of the firearm of a fictitious or altered driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit, a fictitious or altered identification
card, or any other document that contains false information about the
purchaser’s identity.
      (13)   The statement is made in a document or instrument of writing that
purports to be a judgment, lien, or claim of indebtedness and is filed or
recorded with the Secretary of State, a county recorder, or the clerk of a
court of record.
      (14)   The statement is made in an application filed with a county
sheriff pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2923.125 in order to obtain or renew a concealed
handgun license or is made in an affidavit submitted to a county sheriff to
obtain a concealed handgun license on a temporary emergency basis under Ohio
R.C. 2923.1213.
      (15)   The statement is required under Ohio R.C. 5743.71 in connection
with the person’s purchase of cigarettes or tobacco products in a delivery
sale.
   (b)   No person, in connection with the purchase of a firearm as defined in
Ohio R.C. 2923.11, shall knowingly furnish to the seller of the firearm a
fictitious or altered driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit, a
fictitious or altered identification card, or any other document that contains
false information about the purchaser’s identity.
   (c)   No person, in an attempt to obtain a concealed handgun license under
Ohio R.C. 2923.125, shall knowingly present to a sheriff a fictitious or
altered document that purports to be certification of the person’s competence
in handling a handgun as described in division (B)(3) of that section.
   (d)   It is no defense to a charge under division (a)(6) of this section
that the oath or affirmation was administered or taken in an irregular manner.
   (e)   If contradictory statements relating to the same fact are made by the
offender within the period of the statute of limitations for falsification, it
is not necessary for the prosecution to prove which statement was false, but
only that one or the other was false.
   (f)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a)(1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7),
(8), (10), (11), (13) or (15) of this section is guilty of falsification.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, falsification is, a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (a)(9) of this section is guilty of
falsification in a theft offense. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, falsification in a theft offense is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the value of the property or services stolen is one thousand dollars
($1,000) or more, falsification in a theft offense is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (a)(12) or (b) of this section is guilty
of falsification to purchase a firearm, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (a)(14) or (c) of this section is guilty
of falsification to obtain a concealed handgun license, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section in removal
proceedings under R.C. § 319.26, 321.37, 507.13 or 733.78 is guilty of
falsification regarding a removal proceeding, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(ORC 2921.13)
   (g)   (1)   No person who has knowingly failed to maintain proof of
financial responsibility in accordance with Ohio R.C. 4509.101 shall produce
any document or present to a peace officer an electronic wireless
communications device that is displaying any text or images with the purpose to
mislead a peace officer upon the request of a peace officer for proof of
financial responsibility made in accordance with Ohio R.C. 4509.101(D)(2).
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (g) is guilty of falsification, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(ORC 4509.102)
Statutory reference:
   Civil liability for violations of this section, see R.C. § 2921.13(G)
§ 606.11 COMPOUNDING A CRIME.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly demand, accept, or agree to accept anything
of value in consideration of abandoning or agreeing to abandon a pending
criminal prosecution.
   (b)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section when both
of the following apply:
      (1)   The pending prosecution involved is for a violation of Ohio R.C.
2913.02, 2913.11, 2913.21(B)(2), or 2913.47, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, of which the actor under this section was the victim.
      (2)   The thing of value demanded, accepted, or agreed to be accepted, in
consideration of abandoning or agreeing to abandon the prosecution, did not
exceed an amount that the actor reasonably believed due him or her as
restitution for the loss caused him or her by the offense.
   (c)   When a prosecuting witness abandons or agrees to abandon a prosecution
under division (b) of this section, the abandonment or agreement in no way
binds the state to abandoning the prosecution.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of compounding a crime, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(ORC 2921.21)
§ 606.12 FAILURE TO REPORT A CRIME OR DEATH.
   (a)   (1)   Except as provided in division (a)(2) of this section, no
person, knowing that a felony has been or is being committed, shall knowingly
fail to report the information to law enforcement authorities.
      (2)   No person, knowing that a violation of R.C. § 2913.04(B) has been
or is being committed or that the person has received information derived from
such a violation, shall knowingly fail to report the violation to law
enforcement authorities.
   (b)   Except for conditions that are within the scope of division (e) of
this section, no person giving aid to a sick or injured person shall
negligently fail to report to law enforcement authorities any gunshot or stab
wound treated or observed by the person, or any serious physical harm to
persons that the person knows or has reasonable cause to believe resulted from
an offense of violence.
   (c)   No person who discovers the body or acquires the first knowledge of
the death of a person shall fail to report the death immediately to a physician
or advanced practice registered nurse whom the person knows to be treating the
deceased for a condition from which death at such time would not be unexpected,
or to a law enforcement officer, an ambulance service, an emergency squad, or
the coroner in a political subdivision in which the body is discovered, the
death is believed to have occurred, or knowledge concerning the death is
obtained. For purposes of this division, “advanced practice registered nurse”
does not include a certified registered nurse anesthetist.
   (d)   No person shall fail to provide upon request of the person to whom a
report required by division (c) of this section was made, or to any law
enforcement officer who has reasonable cause to assert the authority to
investigate the circumstances surrounding the death, any facts within his or
her knowledge that may have a bearing on the investigation of the death.
   (e)   (1)   As used in this section, “burn injury” means any of the
following:
         A.   Second or third degree burns;
         B.   Any burns to the upper respiratory tract or laryngeal edema due
to the inhalation of super-heated air;
         C.   Any burn injury or wound that may result in death.
      (2)   No physician, nurse, physician assistant, or limited practitioner
who, outside a hospital, sanitarium, or other medical facility, attends or
treats a person who has sustained a burn injury inflicted by an explosion or
other incendiary device, or that shows evidence of having been inflicted in a
violent, malicious, or criminal manner, shall fail to report the burn injury
immediately to the local arson bureau, if there is such a bureau in the
jurisdiction in which the person is attended or treated, or otherwise to local
law enforcement authorities.
      (3)   No manager, superintendent, or other person in charge of a
hospital, sanitarium, or other medical facility in which a person is attended
or treated for any burn injury inflicted by an explosion or other incendiary
device, or that shows evidence of having been inflicted in a violent,
malicious, or criminal manner, shall fail to report the burn injury immediately
to the local arson bureau, if there is such a bureau in the jurisdiction in
which the person is attended or treated, or otherwise to local law enforcement
authorities.
      (4)   No person who is required to report any burn injury under division
(e)(2) or (3) of this section shall fail to file, within three working days
after attending or treating the victim, a written report of the burn injury
with the office of the State Fire Marshal. The report shall be made on a form
provided by the State Fire Marshal.
      (5)   Anyone participating in the making of reports under division (e) of
this section or anyone participating in a judicial proceeding resulting from
the reports is immune from any civil or criminal liability that otherwise might
be incurred or imposed as a result of such actions. Notwithstanding R.C. §
4731.22, the physician-patient relationship or advanced practice registered
nurse-patient relationship is not a ground for excluding evidence regarding a
person’s burn injury or the cause of the burn injury in any judicial proceeding
resulting from a report submitted under division (e) of this section.
   (f)   (1)   Any doctor of medicine or osteopathic medicine, hospital intern
or resident, nurse, psychologist, social worker, independent social worker,
social work assistant, licensed professional clinical counselor, licensed
professional counselor, independent marriage and family therapist, or marriage
and family therapist who knows or has reasonable cause to believe that a
patient or client has been the victim of domestic violence, as defined in R.C.
§ 3113.31, shall note that knowledge or belief and the basis for it in the
patient’s or client’s records.
      (2)   Notwithstanding R.C. § 4731.22, the physician-patient privilege or
advanced practice registered nurse-patient privilege shall not be a ground for
excluding any information regarding the report containing the knowledge or
belief noted under division (f)(1) of this section, and the information may be
admitted as evidence in accordance with the Rules of Evidence.
   (g)   Division (a) or (d) of this section does not require disclosure of
information, when any of the following applies:
      (1)   The information is privileged by reason of the relationship between
attorney and client; physician and patient; advanced practice registered nurse
and patient; licensed psychologist or licensed school psychologist and client;
licensed professional clinical counselor, licensed professional counselor,
independent social worker, social worker, independent marriage and family
therapist, or marriage and family therapist and client; member of the clergy,
rabbi, minister, or priest and any person communicating information
confidentially to the member of the clergy, rabbi, minister, or priest for a
religious counseling purpose of a professional character; husband and wife; or
a communications assistant and those who are a party to a telecommunications
relay service call.
      (2)   The information would tend to incriminate a member of the actor’s
immediate family.
      (3)   Disclosure of the information would amount to revealing a news
source, privileged under Ohio R.C. 2739.04 or 2739.12.
      (4)   Disclosure of the information would amount to disclosure by a
member of the ordained clergy of an organized religious body of a confidential
communication made to that member of the clergy in that member’s capacity as a
member of the clergy by a person seeking the aid or counsel of that member of
the clergy.
      (5)   Disclosure would amount to revealing information acquired by the
actor in the course of the actor’s duties in connection with a bona fide
program of treatment or services for persons with drug dependencies or persons
in danger of drug dependence, which program is maintained or conducted by a
hospital, clinic, person, agency, or community addiction services provider
whose alcohol and drug addiction services are certified pursuant to R.C. §
5119.36.
      (6)   Disclosure would amount to revealing information acquired by the
actor in the course of the actor’s duties in connection with a bona fide
program for providing counseling services to victims of crimes that are
violations of R.C. § 2907.02 or R.C. § 2907.05 or to victims of felonious
sexual penetration in violation of former R.C. § 2907.12. As used in this
division, “counseling services” include services provided in an informal
setting by a person who, by education or experience, is competent to provide
those services.
   (h)   No disclosure of information pursuant to this section gives rise to
any liability or recrimination for a breach of privilege or confidence.
   (i)   Whoever violates division (a) or (b) of this section is guilty of
failure to report a crime. Violation of division (a)(1) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Violation of division (a)(2) or (b) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (j)   Whoever violates division (c) or (d) of this section is guilty of
failure to report knowledge of a death, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (k)   (1)   Whoever negligently violates division (e) of this section is
guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Whoever knowingly violates division (e) of this section is guilty
of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (l)   As used in this section, “nurse” includes an advanced practice
registered nurse, registered nurse, and licensed practical nurse.
(ORC 2921.22)
§ 606.13 FAILURE TO AID A LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (a)   No person shall negligently fail or refuse to aid a law enforcement
officer, when called upon for assistance in preventing or halting the
commission of an offense, or in apprehending or detaining an offender, when the
aid can be given without a substantial risk of physical harm to the person
giving it.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to aid a law
enforcement officer, a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 2921.23)
§ 606.14 OBSTRUCTING OFFICIAL BUSINESS.
   (a)   No person, without privilege to do so and with purpose to prevent,
obstruct, or delay the performance by a public official of any authorized act
within the public official’s official capacity, shall do any act that hampers
or impedes a public official in the performance of the public official’s lawful
duties.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of obstructing official
business. Except as otherwise provided in this division, obstructing official
business is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If a violation of this section
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, obstructing official business is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(ORC 2921.31)
§ 606.15 OBSTRUCTING JUSTICE.
   (a)   No person, with purpose to hinder the discovery, apprehension,
prosecution, conviction, or punishment of another for crime, or to assist
another to benefit from the commission of a crime, and no person, with purpose
to hinder the discovery, apprehension, prosecution, adjudication as a
delinquent child, or disposition of a child for an act that if committed by an
adult would be a crime or to assist a child to benefit from the commission of
an act that if committed by an adult would be a crime, shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Harbor or conceal the other person or child.
      (2)   Provide the other person or child with money, transportation, a
weapon, a disguise, or other means of avoiding discovery or apprehension.
      (3)   Warn the other person or child of impending discovery or
apprehension.
      (4)   Destroy or conceal physical evidence of the crime or act, or induce
any person to withhold testimony or information or to elude legal process
summoning him or her to testify or supply evidence.
      (5)   Communicate false information to any person.
      (6)   Prevent or obstruct any person, by means of force, intimidation, or
deception, from performing any act to aid in the discovery, apprehension, or
prosecution of the other person or child.
   (b)   A person may be prosecuted for, and may be convicted of or adjudicated
a delinquent child for committing, a violation of division (a) of this section
regardless of whether the person or child aided ultimately is apprehended for,
is charged with, is convicted of, pleads guilty to, or is adjudicated a
delinquent child for committing the crime or act the person or child aided
committed. The crime or act the person or child aided committed shall be used
under division (c) of this section in determining the penalty for violation of
division (a) of this section, regardless of whether the person or child aided
ultimately is apprehended for, is charge with, is convicted of, pleads guilty
to, or is adjudicated a delinquent child for committing the crime or act the
person or child aided committed.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of obstructing justice.
      (1)   If the crime committed by the person aided is a misdemeanor or if
the act committed by the child aided would be a misdemeanor if committed by an
adult, obstructing justice is a misdemeanor of the same degree as the crime
committed by the person aided or a misdemeanor of the same degree that the act
committed by the child aided would be if committed by an adult.
      (2)   If the crime committed by the person aided is a felony or if the
act committed by the child aided would be a felony if committed by an adult, or
if the crime or act committed by the person or child aided is an act of
terrorism, obstructing justice is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (d)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Act of terrorism” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2909.21.
      (2)   “Adult” and “child” have the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2151.011.
      (3)   “Delinquent child” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2152.02.
(ORC 2921.32)
§ 606.16 RESISTING ARREST.
   (a)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of himself, herself or another.
   (b)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of the person or another person and, during the course of or as a
result of the resistance or interference, cause physical harm to a law
enforcement officer.
   (c)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of the person or another person if either of the following
applies:
      (1)   The offender, during the course of or as a result of the resistance
or interference, recklessly causes physical harm to a law enforcement officer
by means of a deadly weapon; or
      (2)   The offender, during the course of the resistance or interference,
brandishes a deadly weapon.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of resisting arrest. A
violation of division (a) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. A violation of division (b) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. A violation of division (c) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (e)   As used in this section, “deadly weapon” has the same meaning as in
Ohio R.C. 2923.11.
(ORC 2921.33)
Statutory reference:
   Unlawful taking of deadly weapon from law enforcement officer, felony, see
Ohio R.C. 2911.01
§ 606.165 COMPLIANCE WITH LAWFUL ORDER OF POLICE OFFICER; FLEEING.
   (a)   No person shall fail to comply with any lawful order or direction of
any police officer invested with authority to direct, control, or regulate
traffic.
   (b)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle so as willfully to elude or
flee a police officer after receiving a visible or audible signal from a police
officer to bring the person’s motor vehicle to a stop.
   (c)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to comply
with an order or signal of a police officer.
      (2)   A violation of division (a) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (3)   Except as provided in divisions (c)(4) and (5) of this section, a
violation of division (b) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (4)   Except as provided in division (c)(5) of this section, a violation
of division (b) of this section is a felony and shall be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if the jury or judge as trier of fact finds by proof
beyond a reasonable doubt that in committing the offense, the offender was
fleeing immediately after the commission of a felony.
      (5)   A.   A violation of division (b) of this section is a felony and
shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law if the jury or judge as trier
of fact finds any of the following by proof beyond a reasonable doubt:
            1.   The operation of the motor vehicle by the offender was a
proximate cause of serious physical harm to persons or property.
            2.   The operation of the motor vehicle by the offender caused a
substantial risk of serious physical harm to persons or property.
         B.   If a police officer pursues an offender who is violating division
(b) of this section and division (c)(5)A. of this section applies, the
sentencing court, in determining the seriousness of an offender’s conduct for
purposes of sentencing the offender for a violation of division (b) of this
section, shall consider, along with the factors set forth in Ohio R.C. 2929.12
and 2929.13 that are required to be considered, all of the following:
            1.   The duration of the pursuit;
            2.   The distance of the pursuit;
            3.   The rate of speed at which the offender operated the motor
vehicle during the pursuit;
            4.   Whether the offender failed to stop for traffic lights or stop
signs during the pursuit;
            5.   The number of traffic lights or stop signs for which the
offender failed to stop during the pursuit;
            6.   Whether the offender operated the motor vehicle during the
pursuit without lighted lights during a time when lighted lights are required;
            7.   Whether the offender committed a moving violation during the
pursuit;
            8.   The number of moving violations the offender committed during
the pursuit;
            9.   Any other relevant factors indicating that the offender’s
conduct is more serious than conduct normally constituting the offense.
   (d)   In addition to any other sanction imposed for a violation of division
(a) of this section or a misdemeanor violation of division (b) of this section,
the court shall impose a class five suspension from the range specified in Ohio
R.C. 4510.02(A)(5). If the offender previously has been found guilty of an
offense under this section or under Ohio R.C. 2921.331 or any other
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, in addition to any other sanction
imposed for the offense, the court shall impose a class one suspension as
described in Ohio R.C. 4510.02(A)(1). The court may grant limited driving
privileges to the offender on a suspension imposed for a misdemeanor violation
of this section as set forth in Ohio R.C. 4510.021. No judge shall suspend any
portion of the suspension under a class one suspension of an offender’s
license, permit, or privilege required by this division.
   (e)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Moving violation” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2743.70.
      (2)   “Police officer” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 4511.01.
(ORC 2921.331(A) - (C), (E), (F))
§ 606.17 HAVING AN UNLAWFUL INTEREST IN A PUBLIC CONTRACT.
   (a)   No public official shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Authorize or employ the authority of the public official’s office
to secure authorization of any public contract in which the public official, a
member of the public official’s family, or any of the public official’s
business associates has an interest.
      (2)   Authorize or employ the authority or influence of the public
official’s office to secure the investment of public funds in any share, bond,
mortgage, or other security with respect to which the public official, a member
of the public official’s family, or any of the public official’s business
associates either has an interest, is an underwriter, or receives any
brokerage, origination, or servicing fees.
      (3)   During the public official’s term of office or within one year
thereafter, occupy any position of profit in the prosecution of a public
contract authorized by the public official or by a legislative body,
commission, or board of which the public official was a member at the time of
authorization, unless the contract was let by competitive bidding to the lowest
and best bidder.
      (4)   Have an interest in the profits or benefits of a public contract
entered into by or for the use of the political subdivision or governmental
agency or instrumentality with which the public official is connected.
      (5)   Have an interest in the profits or benefits of a public contract
that is not let by competitive bidding when required by law, and that involves
more than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00).
   (b)   In the absence of bribery or a purpose to defraud, a public official,
member of a public official’s family, or any of a public official’s business
associates shall not be considered as having an interest in a public contract
or the investment of public funds, if all of the following apply:
      (1)   The interest of that person is limited to owning or controlling
shares of the corporation, or being a creditor of the corporation or other
organization, that is the contractor on the public contract involved, or that
is the issuer of the security in which public funds are invested.
      (2)   The shares owned or controlled by that person do not exceed five
percent of the outstanding shares of the corporation, and the amount due that
person as creditor does not exceed five percent of the total indebtedness of
the corporation or other organization.
      (3)   That person, prior to the time the public contract is entered into,
files with the political subdivision or governmental agency or instrumentality
involved, an affidavit giving that person’s exact status in connection with the
corporation or other organization.
   (c)   This section does not apply to a public contract in which a public
official, member of a public official’s family, or one of a public official’s
business associates has an interest, when all of the following apply:
      (1)   The subject of the public contract is necessary supplies or
services for the political subdivision or governmental agency or
instrumentality involved.
      (2)   The supplies or services are unobtainable elsewhere for the same or
lower cost, or are being furnished to the political subdivision or governmental
agency or instrumentality as part of a continuing course of dealing established
prior to the public official’s becoming associated with the political
subdivision or governmental agency or instrumentality involved.
      (3)   The treatment accorded the political subdivision or governmental
agency or instrumentality is either preferential to or the same as that
accorded other customers or clients in similar transactions.
      (4)   The entire transaction is conducted at arm’s length, with full
knowledge by the political subdivision or governmental agency or
instrumentality involved, of the interest of the public official, member of the
public official’s family, or business associate, and the public official takes
no part in the deliberations or decision of the political subdivision or
governmental agency or instrumentality with respect to the public contract.
   (d)   Division (a)(4) of this section does not prohibit participation by a
public employee in any housing program funded by public monies if the public
employee otherwise qualifies for the program and does not use the authority or
influence of the public employee’s office or employment to secure benefits from
the program and if the monies are to be used on the primary residence of the
public employee. Such participation does not constitute an unlawful interest in
a public contract in violation of this section.
   (e)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of having an unlawful interest
in a public contract. Violation of division (a)(1) or (2) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. Violation of division (a)
(3), (4), or (5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (f)   It is not a violation of this section for a prosecuting attorney to
appoint assistants and employees in accordance with Ohio R.C. 309.06 and
2921.421, or for a chief legal officer of a municipality or an official
designated as prosecutor in a municipality to appoint assistants and employees
in accordance with Ohio R.C. 733.621 and 2921.421, or for a township law
director appointed under Ohio R.C. 504.15 to appoint assistants and employees
in accordance with Ohio R.C. 504.151 and 2921.421.
   (g)   Any public contract in which a public official, a member of the public
official’s family, or any of the public official’s business associates has an
interest in violation of this section is void and unenforceable. Any contract
securing the investment of public funds in which a public official, a member of
the public official’s family, or any of the public official’s business
associates has an interest, is an underwriter, or receives any brokerage,
origination or servicing fees and that was entered into in violation of this
section is void and unenforceable.
   (h)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   “Chief legal officer” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 733.621.
      (2)   “Public contract” means any of the following:
         A.   The purchase or acquisition, or a contract for the purchase or
acquisition, of property or services by or for the use of the state or any of
its political subdivisions, or any agency or instrumentality of either,
including the employment of an individual by the state, any of its political
subdivisions, or any agency or instrumentality of either.
         B.   A contract for the design, construction, alteration, repair, or
maintenance of any public property.
(ORC 2921.42)
§ 606.18 SOLICITING OR RECEIVING IMPROPER COMPENSATION.
   (a)   No public servant shall knowingly solicit or accept and no person
shall knowingly promise or give to a public servant either of the following:
      (1)   Any compensation, other than as allowed by Ohio R.C. 102.03(G),
(H), (I), or other provisions of law, to perform the public servant’s official
duties, to perform any other act or service in the public servant’s public
capacity, for the general performance of the duties of the public servant’s
public office or public employment, or as a supplement to the public servant’s
public compensation.
      (2)   Additional or greater fees or costs than are allowed by law to
perform the public servant’s official duties.
   (b)   No public servant for the public servant’s own personal or business
use and no person for the person’s own personal or business use or for the
personal or business use of a public servant or party official, shall solicit
or accept anything of value in consideration of either of the following:
      (1)   Appointing or securing, maintaining, or renewing the appointment of
any person to any public office, employment, or agency.
      (2)   Preferring, or maintaining the status of, any public employee with
respect to compensation, duties, placement, location, promotion, or other
material aspects of employment.
   (c)   No person for the benefit of a political party, campaign committee,
legislative campaign fund, political action committee or political contributing
entity shall coerce any contribution in consideration of either of the
following:
      (1)   Appointing or securing, maintaining, or renewing the appointment of
any person to any public office, employment, or agency.
      (2)   Preferring, or maintaining the status of, any public employee with
respect to compensation, duties, placement, location, promotion, or other
material aspects of employment.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of soliciting improper
compensation, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (e)   A public servant who is convicted of a violation of this section is
disqualified from holding any public office, employment, or position of trust
in this state for a period of seven years from the date of conviction.
   (f)   Divisions (a), (b), and (c) of this section do not prohibit any person
from making voluntary contributions to a political party, campaign committee,
legislative campaign fund, political action committee or political contributing
entity or prohibit a political party, campaign committee, legislative campaign
fund, political action committee or political contributing entity from
accepting voluntary contributions.
(ORC 2921.43)
§ 606.19 DERELICTION OF DUTY.
   (a)   No law enforcement officer shall negligently do any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to serve a lawful warrant without delay.
      (2)   Fail to prevent or halt the commission of an offense or to
apprehend an offender, when it is in the law enforcement officer’s power to do
so alone or with available assistance.
   (b)   No law enforcement, ministerial, or judicial officer shall negligently
fail to perform a lawful duty in a criminal case or proceeding.
   (c)   No officer, having charge of a detention facility, shall negligently
do any of the following:
      (1)   Allow the detention facility to become littered or unsanitary.
      (2)   Fail to provide persons confined in the detention facility with
adequate food, clothing, bedding, shelter, and medical attention.
      (3)   Fail to control an unruly prisoner, or to prevent intimidation of
or physical harm to a prisoner by another.
      (4)   Allow a prisoner to escape.
      (5)   Fail to observe any lawful and reasonable regulation for the
management of the detention facility.
   (d)   No public official shall recklessly create a deficiency, incur a
liability, or expend a greater sum than is appropriated by the Council for the
use in any one year of the department, agency, or institution with which the
public official is connected.
   (e)   No public servant shall recklessly fail to perform a duty expressly
imposed by law with respect to the public servant’s office, or recklessly do
any act expressly forbidden by law with respect to the public servant’s office.
   (f)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of dereliction of duty, a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (g)   Except as otherwise provided by law, a public servant who is a county
treasurer; county auditor; township fiscal officer; city auditor; city
treasurer; village fiscal officer; village clerk-treasurer; village clerk; in
the case of a municipal corporation having a charter that designates an officer
who, by virtue of the charter, has duties and functions similar to those of the
city or village officers referred to in this section, the officer so designated
by the charter; school district treasurer; fiscal officer of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314; treasurer of a science, technology,
engineering, and mathematics school established under R.C. Chapter 3326; or
fiscal officer of a college-preparatory boarding school established under R.C.
Chapter 3328 and is convicted of or pleads guilty to dereliction of duty is
disqualified from holding any public office, employment, or position of trust
in this state for four years following the date of conviction or of entry of
the plea, and is not entitled to hold any public office until any repayment or
restitution required by the court is satisfied.
   (h)   As used in this section, “public servant” includes the following:
      (1)   An officer or employee of a contractor as defined in R.C. § 9.08;
      (2)   A fiscal officer employed by the operator of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314 or by the operator of a college-preparatory
boarding school established under R.C. Chapter 3328.
(R.C. § 2921.44)
§ 606.20 INTERFERING WITH CIVIL RIGHTS.
   (a)   No public servant, under color of the public servant’s office,
employment, or authority, shall knowingly deprive, or conspire or attempt to
deprive any person of a constitutional or statutory right.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interfering with civil
rights, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2921.45)
Statutory reference:
   Restraining or confining pregnant children or pregnant women, see R.C. §
2152.75(B) and R.C. § 2901.10
§ 606.21 ATTEMPT.
   (a)   No person, purposely or knowingly, and when purpose or knowledge is
sufficient culpability for the commission of an offense, shall engage in
conduct that, if successful, would constitute or result in the offense.
   (b)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that, in retrospect,
commission of the offense that was the object of the attempt was either
factually or legally impossible under the attendant circumstances, if that
offense could have been committed had the attendant circumstances been as the
actor believed them to be.
   (c)   No person who is convicted of committing a specific offense, of
complicity in the commission of an offense, or of conspiracy to commit an
offense, shall be convicted of an attempt to commit the same offense in
violation of this section.
   (d)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that the
actor abandoned his or her effort to commit the offense or otherwise prevented
its commission, under circumstances manifesting a complete and voluntary
renunciation of his or her criminal purpose.
   (e)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of an attempt to commit an
offense. An attempt to commit aggravated murder, murder, or an offense for
which the maximum penalty is imprisonment for life is a felony of the first
degree, to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. An attempt to commit a
drug abuse offense for which the penalty is determined by the amount or number
of unit doses of the controlled substance involved in the drug abuse offense is
an offense of the same degree as the drug abuse offense attempted would be if
that drug abuse offense had been committed and had involved an amount or number
of unit doses of the controlled substance that is within the next lower range
of controlled substance amounts than was involved in the attempt. An attempt to
commit any other offense is an offense of the next lesser degree than the
offense attempted. In the case of an attempt to commit an offense other than a
violation of Ohio R.C. Chapter 3734 that is not specifically classified, an
attempt is a misdemeanor of the first degree if the offense attempted is a
felony, and a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if the offense attempted is a
misdemeanor. In the case of an attempt to commit a violation of any provision
of Ohio R.C. Chapter 3734, other than Ohio R.C. 3734.18, that relates to
hazardous wastes, an attempt is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law. An attempt to commit a minor misdemeanor, or to engage in
conspiracy, is not an offense under this section.
   (f)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Drug abuse offense” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2925.01.
      (2)   “Motor vehicle” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 4501.01.
(ORC 2923.02)
§ 606.22 COMPLICITY.
   (a)   No person, acting with the kind of culpability required for the
commission of an offense, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Solicit or procure another to commit the offense;
      (2)   Aid or abet another in committing the offense;
      (3)   Conspire with another to commit the offense in violation of Ohio
R.C. 2923.01;
      (4)   Cause an innocent or irresponsible person to commit the offense.
   (b)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that no person with
whom the accused was in complicity has been convicted as a principal offender.
   (c)   No person shall be convicted of complicity under this section unless
an offense is actually committed, but a person may be convicted of complicity
in an attempt to commit an offense in violation of Ohio R.C. 2923.02 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (d)   If an alleged accomplice of the defendant testifies against the
defendant in a case in which the defendant is charged with complicity in the
commission of or an attempt to commit an offense, an attempt to commit an
offense, or an offense, the court shall charge the jury in accordance with Ohio
R.C. 2923.03(D).
   (e)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that,
prior to the commission of or attempt to commit the offense, the actor
terminated his or her complicity, under circumstances manifesting a complete
and voluntary renunciation of his or her criminal purpose.
   (f)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of complicity in the
commission of an offense, and shall be prosecuted and punished as if he or she
were a principal offender. A charge of complicity may be stated in terms of
this section, or in terms of the principal offense.
(ORC 2923.03)
§ 606.23 DETENTION OF SHOPLIFTERS, AND THOSE COMMITTING MOTION PICTURE PIRACY;
PROTECTION OF INSTITUTIONAL PROPERTY.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply.
      (1)   “Archival institution.” Any public or private building, structure,
or shelter in which are stored historical documents, devices, records,
manuscripts, or items of public interest, which historical materials are stored
to preserve the materials or the information in the materials, to disseminate
the information contained in the materials, or to make the materials available
for public inspection or for inspection by certain persons who have a
particular interest in, use for, or knowledge concerning the materials.
      (2)   “Audiovisual recording function “ and “facility.” Have the same
meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2913.07.
      (3)   “Museum.” Any public or private nonprofit institution that is
permanently organized for primarily educational or aesthetic purposes, owns or
borrows objects or items of public interest, and cares for and exhibits to the
public the objects or items.
      (4)   “Pretrial diversion program.” Means a rehabilitative, educational
program designed to reduce recidivism and promote personal responsibility that
is at least four hours in length and that has been approved by any court in
this state.
   (b)   A merchant, or an employee or agent of a merchant, who has probable
cause to believe that things offered for sale by a mercantile establishment
have been unlawfully taken by a person, may, for the purposes set forth in
division (d) below, detain the person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable
length of time within the mercantile establishment or its immediate vicinity.
   (c)   Any officer, employee, or agent of a library, museum, or archival
institution may, for the purposes set forth in division (d) below or for the
purpose of conducting a reasonable investigation of a belief that the person
has acted in a manner described in divisions (c)(1) and (2) below, detain a
person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable length of time within, or in the
immediate vicinity of, the library, museum, or archival institution, if the
officer, employee, or agent has probable cause to believe that the person has:
      (1)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly moved, defaced, damaged,
destroyed, or otherwise improperly tampered with property owned by or in the
custody of the library, museum, or archival institution; or
      (2)   With purpose to deprive the library, museum, or archival
institution of property owned by it or in its custody, knowingly obtained or
exerted control over the property without the consent of the owner or person
authorized to give consent, beyond the scope of the express or implied consent
of the owner or person authorized to give consent, by deception, or by threat.
   (d)   An officer, agent, or employee of a library, museum, or archival
institution pursuant to division (c) above or a merchant or an employee or
agent of a merchant pursuant to division (b) above may detain another person
for any of the following purposes:
      (1)   To recover the property that is the subject of the unlawful taking,
criminal mischief, or theft;
      (2)   To cause an arrest to be made by a peace officer;
      (3)   To obtain a warrant of arrest;
      (4)   To offer the person, if the person is suspected of the unlawful
taking, criminal mischief, or theft and notwithstanding any other provision of
this Code or the Ohio Revised Code, an opportunity to complete a pretrial
diversion program and to inform the person of the other legal remedies
available to the library, museum, archival institution, or merchant.
   (e)   The owner or lessee of a facility in which a motion picture is being
shown, or the owner’s or lessee’s employee or agent, who has probable cause to
believe that a person is or has been operating an audiovisual recording
function of a device in violation of Ohio R.C. 2917.07 may, for the purpose of
causing an arrest to be made by a peace officer or of obtaining an arrest
warrant, detain the person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable length of
time within the facility or its immediate vicinity.
   (f)   The officer, agent, or employee of the library, museum, or archival
institution, the merchant or an employee or agent of a merchant, or the owner,
lessee, employee, or agent of the facility acting under divisions (b), (c) or
(e) above shall not search the person detained, search or seize any property
belonging to the person detained without the person’s consent, or use undue
restraint upon the person detained.
   (g)   Any peace officer may arrest without a warrant any person that the
officer has probable cause to believe has committed any act described in
division (c)(1) or (2) above, that the officer has probable cause to believe
has committed an unlawful taking in a mercantile establishment, or that the
officer has reasonable cause to believe has committed an act prohibited by Ohio
R.C. 2913.07. An arrest under this division shall be made within a reasonable
time after the commission of the act or unlawful taking.
(ORC 2935.041)
§ 606.24 DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED OR FORFEITED PROPERTY HELD BY POLICE
DEPARTMENT.
   (a)   Safekeeping of property in custody.
      (1)   A.   Any property that has been lost, abandoned, stolen, seized
pursuant to a search warrant, or otherwise lawfully seized or forfeited and
that is in the custody of the Police Department shall be kept safely by the
Police Department, pending the time it no longer is needed as evidence or for
another lawful purpose, and shall be disposed of pursuant to this section or
Ohio R.C. 2981.12 and 2981.13.
         B.   This section does not apply to the custody and disposal of any of
the following:
            1.   Vehicles subject to forfeiture under Ohio R.C. Title 45,
except as provided in division (b)(1)F. of this section;
            2.   Abandoned junk motor vehicles or other property of negligible
value;
            3.   Property held by a department of rehabilitation and correction
institution that is unclaimed, that does not have an identified owner, that the
owner agrees to dispose of, or that is identified by the department as having
little value;
            4.   Animals taken, and devices used in unlawfully taking animals,
under Ohio R.C. 1531.20;
            5.   Controlled substances sold by a peace officer in the
performance of the officer’s official duties under Ohio R.C. 3719.141;
            6.   Property recovered by a township law enforcement agency under
Ohio R.C. 505.105 to 505.109;
            7.   Property held and disposed of under an ordinance of the
municipality or under Ohio R.C. 737.29 to 737.33, except that if the
municipality has received notice of a citizens’ reward program as provided in
division (b)(5) of this section and disposes of property under an ordinance
shall pay 25 percent of any moneys acquired from any sale or auction to the
citizens’ reward program.
      (2)   A.   The Police Department shall adopt and comply with a written
internal control policy that does all of the following:
            1.   Provides for keeping detailed records as to the amount of
property acquired by the Police Department and the date property was acquired;
            2.   Provides for keeping detailed records of the disposition of
the property, which shall include, but not be limited to, both of the
following:
               a.   The manner in which it was disposed, the date of
disposition, detailed financial records concerning any property sold, and the
name of any person who received the property. The record shall not identify or
enable identification of the individual officer who seized any item of
property.
               b.   An itemized list of the specific expenditures made with
amounts that are gained from the sale of the property and that are retained by
the agency, including the specific amount expended on each expenditure, except
that the policy shall not provide for or permit the identification of any
specific expenditure that is made in an ongoing investigation.
            3.   Complies with Ohio R.C. 2981.13 if the Police Department has a
law enforcement trust fund or similar fund created under that section.
         B.   The records kept under the internal control policy shall be open
to public inspection during the Police Department’s regular business hours. The
policy adopted under this section is a public record open for inspection under
Ohio R.C. 149.43.
      (3)   The Police Department, with custody of property to be disposed of
under this section or Ohio R.C. 2981.12 or 2981.13, shall make a reasonable
effort to locate persons entitled to possession of the property, to notify them
of when and where it may be claimed, and to return the property to them at the
earliest possible time. In the absence of evidence identifying persons entitled
to possession, it is sufficient notice to advertise in a newspaper of general
circulation in the county and to briefly describe the nature of the property in
custody and inviting persons to view and establish their right to it.
      (4)   As used in this section:
         A.   “Citizens’ reward program” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C.
9.92.
         B.   “Law enforcement agency” includes correctional institutions.
         C.   “Township law enforcement agency” means an organized police
department of a township, a township police district, a joint police district,
or the office of a township constable.
(ORC 2981.11)
   (b)   Disposition of unclaimed or forfeited property.
      (1)   Unclaimed or forfeited property in the custody of the Police
Department, other than property described in division (a)(1)B. of this section,
shall be disposed of by order of any court of record that has territorial
jurisdiction over the municipality, as follows:
         A.   Drugs shall be disposed of pursuant to Ohio R.C. 3719.11 or
placed in the custody of the Secretary of the Treasury of the United States for
disposal or use for medical or scientific purposes under applicable federal
law.
         B.   Firearms and dangerous ordnance suitable for police work may be
given to a law enforcement agency for that purpose. Firearms suitable for
sporting use or as museum pieces or collectors’ items may be sold at public
auction pursuant to division (b)(2) of this section. The Police Department may
sell other firearms and dangerous ordnance to a federally licensed firearms
dealer in a manner that the court considers proper. The Police Department shall
destroy any firearms or dangerous ordnance not given to a law enforcement
agency or sold or shall send them to the Bureau of Criminal Identification and
Investigation for destruction by the Bureau.
         C.   Obscene materials shall be destroyed.
         D.   Beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol seized from a person who
does not hold a permit issued under Ohio R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303 or
otherwise forfeited to the state for an offense under Ohio R.C. 4301.45 or Ohio
R.C. 4301.53 shall be sold by the Division of Liquor Control if the Division
determines that it is fit for sale or shall be placed in the custody of the
Investigations Unit in the Ohio Department of Public Safety and be used for
training relating to law enforcement activities. The Ohio Department of Public
Safety, with the assistance of the Division of Liquor Control, shall adopt
rules in accordance with Ohio R.C. Chapter 119 to provide for the distribution
to state or local law enforcement agencies upon their request. If any tax
imposed under Ohio R.C. Title 43 has not been paid in relation to the beer,
intoxicating liquor, or alcohol, any moneys acquired from the sale shall first
be used to pay the tax. All other money collected under this division (b)(1)D.
shall be paid into the state treasury. Any beer, intoxicating liquor, or
alcohol that the Division determines to be unfit for sale shall be destroyed.
         E.   Money received by an inmate of a correctional institution from an
unauthorized source or in an unauthorized manner shall be returned to the
sender, if known, or deposited in the inmates’ industrial and entertainment
fund of the institution if the sender is not known.
         F.   1.   Any mobile instrumentality forfeited under Ohio R.C. Chapter
2981 may be given to the law enforcement agency that initially seized the
mobile instrumentality for use in performing its duties, if the agency wants
the mobile instrumentality. The agency shall take the mobile instrumentality
subject to any security interest or lien on the mobile instrumentality.
            2.   Vehicles and vehicle parts forfeited under Ohio R.C. 4549.61
to 4549.63 may be given to a law enforcement agency for use in performing its
duties. Those parts may be incorporated into any other official vehicle. Parts
that do not bear vehicle identification numbers or derivatives of them may be
sold or disposed of as provided by rules of the Director of Public Safety.
Parts from which a vehicle identification number or derivative of it has been
removed, defaced, covered, altered, or destroyed and that are not suitable for
police work or incorporation into an official vehicle shall be destroyed and
sold as junk or scrap.
         G.   Computers, computer networks, computer systems, and computer
software suitable for police work may be given to a law enforcement agency for
that purpose or disposed of under division (b)(2) of this section.
         H.   Money seized in connection with a violation of Ohio R.C. 2905.32,
2907.21, or 2907.22 shall be deposited in the Victims of Human Trafficking Fund
created by Ohio R.C. 5101.87.
      (2)   Unclaimed or forfeited property that is not described in division
(b)(1) of this section or division (a)(1)B. of this section, with court
approval, may be used by the law enforcement agency in possession of it. If it
is not used by the agency, it may be sold without appraisal at a public auction
to the highest bidder for cash or disposed of in another manner that the court
considers proper.
      (3)   Except as provided in divisions (b)(1) and (b)(5) of this section
and after compliance with division (b)(4) of this section when applicable, any
moneys acquired from the sale of property disposed of pursuant to this section
shall be placed in the general revenue fund of the state, or the general fund
of the municipality.
      (4)   If the property was in the possession of the Police Department in
relation to a delinquent child proceeding in a juvenile court, 10% of any
moneys acquired from the sale of property disposed of under this section shall
be applied to one or more community addiction services providers, as defined in
R.C. § 5119.01. A juvenile court shall not specify a services provider, except
as provided in this division, unless the services provider is in the same
county as the court or in a contiguous county. If no services provider is
located in any of those counties, the juvenile court may specify a services
provider anywhere in Ohio. The remaining 90% of the proceeds or cash shall be
applied as provided in division (b)(3) of this section.
      (5)   A.   If the Board of County Commissioners recognizes a citizens’
reward program under Ohio R.C. 9.92, the Board shall notify the Police
Department of the recognition by filing a copy of its resolution conferring
that recognition with the Police Department. When the Board recognizes a
citizens’ reward program and the county includes a part, but not all, of the
territory of the municipality, the Board shall so notify the Police Department
of the recognition of the citizens’ reward program only if the county contains
the highest percentage of the municipality’s population.
         B.   Upon being so notified, the Police Department shall pay 25
percent of any forfeited proceeds or cash derived from each sale of property
disposed of pursuant to this section to the citizens’ reward program for use
exclusively to pay rewards. No part of the funds may be used to pay expenses
associated with the program. If a citizens’ reward program that operates in
more than one county or in another state in addition to this state receives
funds under this section, the funds shall be used to pay rewards only for tips
and information to law enforcement agencies concerning offenses committed in
the county from which the funds were received.
      (6)   Any property forfeited under Ohio R.C. Chapter 2981 not be used to
pay any fine imposed upon a person who is convicted of or pleads guilty to an
underlying criminal offense or a different offense arising out of the same
facts and circumstances.
      (7)   Any moneys acquired from the sale of personal effects, tools, or
other property seized because the personal effects, tools, or other property
were used in the commission of a violation of Ohio R.C. 2905.32, 2907.21, or
2907.22 or derived from the proceeds of the commission of a violation of Ohio
R.C. 2905.32, 2907.21, or 2907.22 and disposed of pursuant to this division (b)
shall be placed in the Victims of Human Trafficking Fund created by Ohio R.C.
5101.87.
(ORC 2981.12)
   (c)   Disposition of Contraband, Proceeds, or Instrumentalities. Except as
otherwise provided in Ohio R.C. 2981.13, property ordered forfeited as
contraband, proceeds, or an instrumentality pursuant to Ohio R.C. Chapter 2981
shall be disposed of, used, or sold pursuant to division (b) of this section or
Ohio R.C. 2981.12. If the property is to be sold under division (b) of this
section or Ohio R.C. 2981.12, the prosecutor shall cause notice of the proposed
sale to be given in accordance with law.
(ORC 2981.13(A))
Statutory reference:
   Forfeiture of property generally, see R.C. Chapter 2981
§ 606.25 IMPERSONATING AN OFFICER.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   “Federal law enforcement officer.” An employee of the United States
who serves in a position the duties of which are primarily the investigation,
apprehension, or detention of individuals suspected or convicted of offenses
under the criminal laws of the United States.
      (2)   “Impersonate.” To act the part of, assume the identity of, wear the
uniform or any part of the uniform of, or display the identification of a
particular person or of a member of a class of persons with purpose to make
another person believe that the actor is that particular person or is a member
of that class of persons.
      (3)   “Investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and
Investigation.” Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2903.11.
      (4)   “Peace officer.” A Sheriff, Deputy Sheriff, Marshal, Deputy
Marshal, member of the organized police department of a municipal corporation
or township constable, who is employed by a political subdivision of this
state; a member of a police force employed by a metropolitan housing authority
under R.C. § 3735.31(D); a member of a police force employed by a regional
transit authority under R.C. § 306.35(Y); a state university law enforcement
officer appointed under R.C. § 3345.04; a veterans’ home police officer
appointed under R.C. § 5907.02; a special police officer employed by a port
authority under R.C. § 4582.04 or § 4582.28; an officer, agent or employee of
the state or any of its agencies, instrumentalities or political subdivisions,
upon whom, by statute, a duty to conserve the peace or to enforce all or
certain laws is imposed and the authority to arrest violators is conferred,
within limits of that statutory duty and authority; or a State Highway Patrol
trooper whose primary duties are to preserve the peace, to protect life and
property and to enforce the laws, ordinances or rules of the state or any of
its political subdivisions.
      (5)   “Private police officer.” Any security guard, special police
officer, private detective, or other person who is privately employed in a
police capacity.
   (b)   No person shall impersonate a peace officer, private police officer,
investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation, or
federal law enforcement officer.
   (c)   No person, by impersonating a peace officer, private police officer,
investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation, or
federal law enforcement officer, shall arrest or detain any person, search any
person, or search the property of any person.
   (d)   No person, with purpose to commit or facilitate the commission of an
offense, shall impersonate a peace officer, a private police officer, federal
law enforcement officer, an officer, agent or employee of the municipality or
the state, or investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and
Investigation.
   (e)   No person shall commit a felony while impersonating a peace officer,
private police officer, federal law enforcement officer, an officer, agent or
employee of the municipality or of the state, or investigator of the Bureau of
Criminal Identification and Investigation.
   (f)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (b) of this
section that the impersonation of the peace officer, private police officer,
federal law enforcement officer, an officer, agent or employee of the
municipality or of the state, or investigator of the Bureau of Criminal
Identification and Investigation was for a lawful purpose.
   (g)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Whoever violates division (c) or (d) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the purpose of a
violation of division (d) of this section is to commit or facilitate the
commission of a felony, a violation of division (d) is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law. Whoever violates division (e) of this
section is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(ORC 2921.51)
§ 606.26 DISPLAY OF LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY EMBLEM.
   (a)   No person who is not entitled to do so shall knowingly display on a
motor vehicle the emblem of a law enforcement agency or an organization of law
enforcement officers.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of the unlawful display of the
emblem of a law enforcement agency or an organization of law enforcement
officers, a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 2913.441)
§ 606.27 REWARDS.
   Whoever provides information which leads to the arrest and subsequent
conviction of a person accused of vandalism or theft of Municipal property is
eligible to receive a reward of twenty-five dollars ($25.00). Such reward shall
be given at the sole discretion of the city to those individuals deemed to
qualify therefor.
(Ord. 79-66, passed 10-11-1979)
§ 606.28 FALSE REPORT OF CHILD ABUSE OR NEGLECT.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly make or cause another person to make a false
report under Ohio R.C. 2151.421(B) alleging that any person has committed an
act or omission that resulted in a child being an abused child as defined in
Ohio R.C. 2151.031 or a neglected child as defined in Ohio R.C. 2151.03.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making or causing a false
report of child abuse or child neglect, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(ORC 2921.14)
§ 606.29 USING SHAM LEGAL PROCESS.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply:
      (1)   “Lawfully issued.” Adopted, issued, or rendered in accordance with
the United States Constitution, the constitution of a state, and the applicable
statutes, rules, regulations and ordinances of the United States, a state, and
the political subdivisions of a state.
      (2)   “Political subdivisions.” Municipal corporations, townships,
counties, school districts, and all other bodies corporate and politic that are
organized under state law and are responsible for governmental activities only
in geographical areas smaller than that of a state.
      (3)   “Sham legal process.” An instrument that meets all of the following
conditions:
         A.   It is not lawfully issued.
         B.   It purports to do any of the following:
            1.   To be a summons, subpoena, judgment, or order of a court, a
law enforcement officer, or a legislative, executive or administrative body.
            2.   To assert jurisdiction over or determine the legal or
equitable status, rights, duties, powers, or privileges of any person or
property.
            3.   To require or authorize the search, seizure, indictment,
arrest, trial, or sentencing of any person or property.
         C.   It is designed to make another person believe that it is lawfully
issued.
      (4)   “State.” A state of the United States, including without limitation
the state legislature, the highest court of the state that has statewide
jurisdiction, the offices of all elected state officers, and all departments,
boards, offices, commissions, agencies, institutions, and other
instrumentalities of the state. “State” does not include the political
subdivisions of the state.
   (b)   No person shall, knowing the sham legal process to be a sham legal
process, do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly issue, display, deliver, distribute, or otherwise use
sham legal process.
      (2)   Knowingly use sham legal process to arrest, detain, search or seize
any person or the property of another person.
      (3)   Knowingly commit or facilitate the commission of an offense using
sham legal process.
      (4)   Knowingly commit a felony by using sham legal process.
   (c)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (b)(1) or (2)
of this section that the use of sham legal process was for a lawful purpose.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of using sham legal process. A
violation of division (b)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. A violation of division (b)(2) or (b)(3) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree, except that if the purpose of a violation of
division (b)(3) of this section is to commit or facilitate the commission of a
felony, a violation of division (b)(3) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation of division (b)(4) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(ORC 2921.52(A) - (D))
§ 606.30 FAILURE TO DISCLOSE PERSONAL INFORMATION.
   (a)   No person who is in a public place shall refuse to disclose the
person’s name, address, or date of birth, when requested by a law enforcement
officer who reasonably suspects either of the following:
      (1)   The person is committing, has committed, or is about to commit a
criminal offense.
      (2)   The person witnessed any of the following:
         A.   An offense of violence that would constitute a felony under the
laws of this state;
         B.   A felony offense that causes or results in, or creates a
substantial risk of, serious physical harm to another person or property;
         C.   Any attempt or conspiracy to commit, or complicity in committing,
any offenses identified in division (a)(2)A. or (a)(2)B. of this section;
         D.   Any conduct reasonably indicating that any offense identified in
division (a)(2)A. or (a)(2)B. of this section or any attempt, conspiracy, or
complicity described in division (a)(2)C. of this section has been, is being,
or is about to be committed.
   (b)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of failure to
disclose one’s personal information, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (c)   Nothing in division (a) of this section requires a person to answer
any questions beyond that person’s name, address, or date of birth. Nothing in
division (a) of this section authorizes a law enforcement officer to arrest a
person for not providing any information beyond the person’s name, address, or
date of birth or for refusing to describe the offense observed.
   (d)   It is not a violation of division (a) of this section to refuse to
answer a question that would reveal a person’s age or date of birth if age is
an element of the crime that the person is suspected of committing.
(ORC 2921.29)
   (e)   No person entering an airport, train station, port, or other similar
critical transportation infrastructure site shall refuse to show identification
when requested by a law enforcement officer when there is a threat to security
and the law enforcement officer is requiring identification of all persons
entering the site.
   (f)   A law enforcement officer may prevent any person who refuses to show
identification when asked under the circumstances described in division (e) of
this section from entering the critical transportation infrastructure site.
(ORC 2909.31)
§ 606.31 MISUSE OF 9-1-1 SYSTEM.
   (a)   As used in this section, 9-1-1 SYSTEM means a system through which
individuals can request emergency service using the access number 9-1-1.
(R.C. § 128.01(A))
   (b)   No person shall knowingly use the telephone number of a 9-1-1 system
established under Ohio R.C. Chapter 128 to report an emergency if the person
knows that no emergency exists.
   (c)   No person shall knowingly use a 9-1-1 system for a purpose other than
obtaining emergency service.
   (d)   No person shall disclose or use any information concerning telephone
numbers, addresses, or names obtained from the database that serves the public
safety answering point of a 9-1-1 system established under Ohio R.C. Chapter
128, except for any of the following purposes or under any of the following
circumstances:
      (1)   For the purpose of the 9-1-1 system;
      (2)   For the purpose of responding to an emergency call to an emergency
service provider;
      (3)   In the circumstance of the inadvertent disclosure of such
information due solely to technology of the wireless telephone network portion
of the 9-1-1 system not allowing access to the database to be restricted to 9-
1-1 specific answering lines at a public safety answering point;
      (4)   In the circumstance of access to a database being given by a
telephone company that is a wireless service provider to a public utility or
municipal utility in handling customer calls in times of public emergency or
service outages. The charge, terms, and conditions for the disclosure or use of
such information for the purpose of such access to a database shall be subject
to the jurisdiction of the Steering Commission;
      (5)   In the circumstance of access to a database given by a telephone
company that is a wireline service provider to a state and local government in
warning of a public emergency, as determined by the Steering Commission. The
charge, terms and conditions for the disclosure or use of that information for
the purpose of access to a database is subject to the jurisdiction of the
Steering Commission.
(R.C. § 128.96(F) - (H))
   (e)   (1)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (c) or (d) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
(ORC 128.99(A), (B))
§ 606.32 SELF DEFENSE: LIMITATIONS ON DUTY TO RETREAT PRIOR TO USING FORCE.
   (a)   As used in this section, “residence” has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2901.05.
   (b)   For purposes of any section of this code that sets forth a criminal
offense, a person has no duty to retreat before using force in self-defense,
defense of another, or defense of that person's residence if that person is in
a place in which the person lawfully has a right to be.
   (c)   A trier of fact shall not consider the possibility of retreat as a
factor in determining whether or not a person who used force in self-defense,
defense of another, or defense of that person's residence reasonably believed
that the force was necessary to prevent injury, loss, or risk to life or
safety.
(R.C. § 2901.09)
CHAPTER 612: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
612.01   Definitions
612.02   Sales to underage persons; prohibitions and misrepresentations
612.03   Sales to intoxicated persons
612.04   Consumption in motor vehicle
612.05   Permit required
612.06   Posting liquor age warning signs
612.07   Open container prohibited
612.08   Hours of sale or consumption
612.09   Conveying intoxicating liquor or cash onto grounds of detention
facilities or other specified governmental facilities
612.10   Sales of low-alcohol beverages to underage persons; prohibitions and
misrepresentations.
612.11   Alcohol vaporizing devices prohibited
Cross-reference:
   Definitions generally, see GEN. OFF.
606.01
   Disorderly conduct while voluntarily intoxicated, see GEN. OFF.
648.04(b)
   Driving or physical control while under the influence of alcohol or drugs,
see TRAF.
434.01
   Using weapons while intoxicated, see GEN. OFF.
672.03
Statutory reference:
   Liquor Control Law, see Ohio R.C. Ch. 4301
   Liquor permits, see Ohio R.C. Ch. 4303
   Local option, see Ohio R.C. 4303.29
   Suspension of beer and liquor sales by Ohio Director of Liquor Control
during emergency, see Ohio R.C. 4301.251
§ 612.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (a)   “Alcohol.” Ethyl alcohol, whether rectified or diluted with water or
not, whatever its origin may be, and includes synthetic ethyl alcohol. The term
does not include denatured alcohol and wood alcohol.
   (b)   “At retail.” For use or consumption by the purchaser and not for
resale.
   (c)   “Beer.”
      (1)   Includes all beverages brewed or fermented wholly or in part from
malt products and containing 0.5 percent or more of alcohol by volume.
      (2)   Beer, regardless of the percent of alcohol by volume, is not
intoxicating liquor for purposes of this code, the Ohio Revised Code, or any
rules adopted under it.
   (d)   “Cider.” All liquids that are fit to use for beverage purposes that
contain 0.5 percent of alcohol by volume, but not more than six percent of
alcohol by weight that are made through the normal alcoholic fermentation of
the juice of sound, ripe apples, including, without limitation, flavored,
sparkling, or carbonated cider and cider made from pure condensed apple must.
   (e)   “Club.” A corporation or association of individuals organized in good
faith for social, recreational, benevolent, charitable, fraternal, political,
patriotic, or athletic purposes, which is the owner, lessor, or occupant of a
permanent building or part of a permanent building operated solely for such
purposes, membership in which entails the prepayment of regular dues, and
includes the place so operated.
   (f)   “Community facility.” Means either of the following:
      (1)   Any convention, sports or entertainment facility or complex, or any
combination of these, that is used by or accessible to the general public and
that is owned or operated in whole or in part by the state, a state agency, or
a political subdivision of the state or that is leased from, or located on
property owned by or leased from, the state, a state agency, a political
subdivision of the state, or a convention facilities authority created pursuant
to Ohio R.C. 351.02;
      (2)   An area designated as a community entertainment district pursuant
to Ohio R.C. 4301.80.
   (g)   “Controlled access alcohol and beverage cabinet.” A closed container,
either refrigerated, in whole or in part, or nonrefrigerated, access to the
interior of which is restricted by means of a device that requires the use of a
key, magnetic card, or similar device and from which beer, intoxicating liquor,
other beverages, or food may be sold.
   (h)   “Hotel.” The same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 3731.01, subject to the
exceptions mentioned in Ohio R.C. 3731.03.
   (i)   “Intoxicating liquor” and “liquor.” All liquids and compounds, other
than beer, containing 0.5 percent or more of alcohol by volume which are fit to
use for beverage purposes, from whatever source and by whatever process
produced, by whatever name called, and whether they are medicated, proprietary,
or patented. “Intoxicating liquor” and “liquor” include cider and alcohol, and
all solids and confections which contain 0.5% or more of alcohol by volume.
   (j)   “Low-alcohol beverage.” Any brewed or fermented malt product or any
product made from the fermented juices of grapes, fruits, or other agricultural
products that contains either no alcohol or less than 0.5 percent of alcohol by
volume. The beverages described in this definition do not include a soft drink
such as root beer, birch beer, or ginger beer.
   (k)   “Manufacture.” All processes by which beer or intoxicating liquor is
produced, whether by distillation, rectifying, fortifying, blending,
fermentation, brewing, or in any other manner.
   (l)   “Manufacturer.” Any person engaged in the business of manufacturing
beer or intoxicating liquor.
   (m)   “Mixed beverages.” Include bottled and prepared cordials, cocktails,
highballs, and solids and confections that are obtained by mixing any type of
whiskey, neutral spirits, brandy, gin or other distilled spirits with, or over,
carbonated or plain water, pure juices from flowers and plants, and other
flavoring materials. The completed product shall contain not less than 0.5
percent of alcohol by volume and not more than 21 percent of alcohol by volume.
The phrase includes the contents of a pod.
   (n)   “Nightclub.” A place habitually operated for profit, where food is
served for consumption on the premises, and one or more forms of amusement are
provided or permitted for a consideration that may be in the form of a cover
charge or may be included in the price of the food and beverages, or both,
purchased by patrons.
   (o)   “Person.” Includes firms and corporations.
   (p)   “Pharmacy.” An establishment as defined in Ohio R.C. 4729.01, that is
under the management or control of a licensed pharmacist in accordance with
Ohio R.C. 4729.27.
   (q)   “Pod.” Means a sealed capsule made from plastic, glass, aluminum, or a
combination thereof to which all of the following apply:
      (1)   The capsule contains intoxicating liquor of more than 21% of
alcohol by volume.
      (2)   The capsule also contains a concentrated flavoring mixture.
      (3)   The contents of the capsule are not readily accessible or intended
for consumption unless certain manufacturer’s processing instructions are
followed.
      (4)   The instructions include releasing the contents of the capsule
through a machine specifically designed to process the contents.
      (5)   After being properly processed according to the manufacturer's
instructions, the final product produced from the capsule contains not less
than 0.5% of alcohol by volume and not more than 21% of alcohol by volume.
   (r)   “Restaurant.” A place located in a permanent building provided with
space and accommodations wherein, in consideration of the payment of money, hot
meals are habitually prepared, sold, and served at noon and evening, as the
principal business of the place. The term does not include pharmacies,
confectionery stores, lunch stands, nightclubs, and filling stations.
   (s)   “Sale” and “sell.” The exchange, barter, gift, offer for sale, sale,
distribution, and delivery of any kind, and the transfer of title or possession
of beer and intoxicating liquor either by constructive or actual delivery by
any means or devices whatever, including the sale of beer or intoxicating
liquor by means of a controlled access alcohol and beverage cabinet pursuant to
Ohio R.C. 4301.21. Such terms do not include the mere solicitation of orders
for beer or intoxicating liquor from the holders of permits issuedby the
Division of Liquor Control authorizing the sale of the beer or intoxicating
liquor, but no solicitor shall solicit any orders until the solicitor has been
registered with the Division pursuant to Ohio R.C. 4303.25.
   (t)   “Sales area or territory.” An exclusive geographic area or territory
that is assigned to a particular A or B permit holder and that either has one
or more political subdivisions as its boundaries or consists of an area of land
with readily identifiable geographic boundaries. “Sales area or territory” does
not include, however, any particular retail location in an exclusive geographic
area or territory that had been assigned to another A or B permit holder before
April 9, 2001.
   (u)   “Sealed container.” Any container having a capacity of not more than
128 fluid ounces, the opening of which is closed to prevent the entrance of
air.
   (v)   “Spirituous liquor.” All intoxicating liquors containing more than 21
percent of alcohol by volume. The phrase does not include the contents of a
pod.
   (w)   “Vehicle.” All means of transportation by land, by water, or by air,
and everything made use of in any way for such transportation.
   (x)   “Wholesale distributor” and “distributor.” A person engaged in the
business of selling to retail dealers for purposes of resale.
   (y)   “Wine.” All liquids fit to use for beverage purposes containing not
less than 0.5% of alcohol by volume and not more than 21% of alcohol by volume,
that is made from the fermented juices of grapes, fruits, or other agricultural
products. The term includes cider, except as used in R.C. §§ 4301.13, 4301.421,
4301.422, 4301.432, and 4301.44, and, for purposes of determining the rate of
the tax that applies, R.C. § 4301.43(B), the term does not include cider.
(R.C. §§ 4301.01, 4301.244)
§ 612.02 SALES TO UNDERAGE PERSONS; PROHIBITIONS AND MISREPRESENTATIONS.
   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in Ohio R.C. Chapter
4301, no person shall sell beer or intoxicating liquor to an underage person,
shall buy beer or intoxicating liquor for an underage person, or shall furnish
it to an underage person unless given by a physician in the regular line of the
physician’s practice or given for established religious purposes or unless the
underage person is supervised by a parent, spouse who is not an underage
person, or legal guardian. In proceedings before the Liquor Control Commission,
no permit holder, or no employee or agent of a permit holder, charged with a
violation of this division shall be charged, for the same offense, with a
violation of Ohio R.C. 4301.22(A)(1) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (b)   No person who is the owner or occupant of any public or private place
shall knowingly allow any underage person to remain in or on the place while
possessing or consuming beer or intoxicating liquor, unless the intoxicating
liquor or beer is given to the person possessing or consuming it by that
person’s parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian and
the parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian is present
at the time of the person’s possession or consumption of the beer or
intoxicating liquor. An owner of a public or private place is not liable for
acts or omissions in violation of this division that are committed by a lessee
of that place, unless the owner authorizes or acquiesces in the lessee’s acts
or omissions.
   (c)   No person shall engage or use accommodations at a hotel, inn, cabin,
campground, or restaurant when the person knows or has reason to know either of
the following:
      (1)   That beer or intoxicating liquor will be consumed by an underage
person on the premises of the accommodations that the person engages or uses,
unless the person engaging or using the accommodations is the spouse of the
underage person and who is not an underage person, or is the parent or legal
guardian of all of the underage persons, who consume beer or intoxicating
liquor on the premises and that person is on the premises at all times when
beer or intoxicating liquor is being consumed by an underage person.
      (2)   That a drug of abuse will be consumed on the premises of the
accommodations by any person, except a person who obtained the drug of abuse
pursuant to a prescription issued by a licensed health professionals authorized
to prescribe drugs and has the drug of abuse in the original container in which
it was dispensed to the person.
   (d)   (1)   No person is required to permit the engagement of accommodations
at any hotel, inn, cabin, or campground by an underage person or for an
underage person, if the person engaging the accommodations knows or has reason
to know that the underage person is intoxicated, or that the underage person
possesses any beer or intoxicating liquor and is not supervised by a parent,
spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian who is or will be
present at all times when the beer or intoxicating liquor is being consumed by
the underage person.
      (2)   No underage person shall knowingly engage or attempt to engage
accommodations at any hotel, inn, cabin, or campground by presenting
identification that falsely indicates that the underage person is 21 years of
age or older for the purpose of violating this section.
   (e)   (1)   No underage person shall knowingly order, pay for, share the
cost of, attempt to purchase, possess, or consume any beer or intoxicating
liquor in any public or private place. No underage person shall knowingly be
under the influence of any beer or intoxicating liquor in any public place. The
prohibitions set forth in this division against an underage person knowingly
possessing, consuming, or being under the influence of any beer or intoxicating
liquor shall not apply if the underage person is supervised by a parent, spouse
who is not an underage person, or legal guardian, or the beer or intoxicating
liquor is given by a physician in the regular line of the physician’s practice
or given for established religious purposes.
      (2)   A.   If a person is charged with violating division (e)(1) of this
section in a complaint filed under Ohio R.C. 2151.27, the court may order the
child into a diversion program specified by the court and hold the complaint in
abeyance pending successful completion of the diversion program. A child is
ineligible to enter into a diversion program under this division if the child
previously has been diverted pursuant to this division. If the child completes
the diversion program to the satisfaction of the court, the court shall dismiss
the complaint and order the child’s record in the case sealed under Ohio R.C.
2151.356 through 2151.358. If the child fails to satisfactorily complete the
diversion program, the court shall proceed with the complaint.
         B.   If a person is charged in a criminal complaint with violating
division (e)(1) of this section, Ohio R.C. 2935.36 shall apply to the offense,
except that a person is ineligible for diversion under that section if the
person previously has been diverted pursuant to divisions (e)(2)A. or (e)(2)B.
of this section. If the person completes the diversion program to the
satisfaction of the court, the court shall dismiss the complaint and order the
record in the case sealed under R.C. § 2953.33. If the person fails to
satisfactorily complete the diversion program, the court shall proceed with the
complaint.
   (f)   No parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian of
a minor shall knowingly permit the minor to violate this section or Ohio R.C.
4301.63, 4301.633, or 4301.634, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (g)   The operator of any hotel, inn, cabin, or campground shall make the
provisions of this section available in writing to any person engaging or using
accommodations at the hotel, inn, cabin, or campground.
   (h)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   “Drug of abuse” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 3719.011.
      (2)   “Hotel” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 3731.01.
      (3)   “Licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs” and
“prescription” have the same meanings as in Ohio R.C. 4729.01.
      (4)   “Minor” means a person under the age of 18 years.
      (5)   “Underage person” means a person under the age of 21 years.
(ORC 4301.69)
   (i)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in Ohio R.C. Chapter
4301, no person under the age of 21 years shall purchase beer or intoxicating
liquor.
(ORC 4301.63)
   (j)   (Editor’s note: Division (j) was repealed because substantially
equivalent state law, Ohio R.C. 4301.632, was repealed in 2002.)
   (k)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in Ohio R.C. Chapter
4301, no person shall knowingly furnish any false information as to the name,
age, or other identification of any person under 21 years of age, for the
purpose of obtaining, or with the intent to obtain, beer or intoxicating liquor
for a person under 21 years of age, by purchase, or as a gift.
(ORC 4301.633)
   (l)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in Ohio R.C. Chapter
4301, no person under the age of 21 years shall knowingly show or give false
information concerning his or her name, age, or other identification for the
purpose of purchasing or otherwise obtaining beer or intoxicating liquor in any
place in this municipality where beer or intoxicating liquor is sold under a
permit issued by the Division of Liquor Control, or sold by the Division of
Liquor Control.
(ORC 4301.634)
   (m)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor, shall be fined not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) nor
more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), and in addition to the fine, may be
imprisoned for a definite term of not more than six months.
(ORC 4301.99(I))
   (n)   (1)   Whoever violates divisions (b), (c), (d), or (f) of this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (e)(1) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If an offender who violates division (e)(1) of
this section was under the age of 18 years at the time of the offense and the
offense occurred while the offender was the operator of or a passenger in a
motor vehicle, the court, in addition to any other penalties it imposes upon
the offender, shall suspend the offender’s temporary instruction permit or
probationary driver’s license for a period of not less than six months and not
more than one year. If the offender is 15 years and six months of age or older
and has not been issued a temporary instruction permit or probationary driver’s
license, the offender shall not be eligible to be issued such a license or
permit for a period of six months. If the offender has not attained the age of
15 years and six months, the offender shall not be eligible to be issued a
temporary instruction permit until the offender attains the age of 16 years.
(R.C. § 4301.99(D))
   (o)   Whoever violates division (i) of this section shall be fined not less
than twenty- five dollars ($25.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00).
The court imposing a fine for a violation of this section may order that the
fine be paid by the performance of public work at a reasonable hour rate
established by the court. The court shall designate the time within which the
public work shall be completed.
(ORC 4301.99(E))
   (p)   (Editor’s note: Division (p) was repealed because the penalty for a
substantially equivalent state law, Ohio R.C. 4301.632, was repealed in 2002.)
   (q)   (1)   Whoever violates division (l) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If, in committing a first violation of
division (l), the offender presented to the permit holder or his or her
employee or agent a false, fictitious, or altered identification card, a false
or fictitious driver’s license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver’s
license issued by any state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not less than two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00) and not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), and
may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than six months.
      (2)   On a second violation in which, for the second time, the offender
presented to the permit holder or his or her employee or agent a false,
fictitious, or altered identification card, a false or fictitious driver’s
license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver’s license issued by any
state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree and shall be fined not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00)
nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), and may be sentenced to a term
of imprisonment of not more than six months. The court also may impose a class
seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit or nonresident operation privilege from the range specified in Ohio R.C.
4510.02(A)(7).
      (3)   On a third or subsequent violation in which, for the third or
subsequent time, the offender presented to the permit holder or his or her
employee or agent a false, fictitious, or altered identification card, a false
or fictitious driver’s license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver’s
license issued by any state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not less than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), and may be
sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than six months. Except as
provided in this division, the court also may impose a class six suspension of
the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in Ohio R.C. 4510.02(A)(6), and
the court may order that the suspension or denial remain in effect until the
offender attains the age of 21 years. The court, in lieu of suspending the
offender’s temporary instruction permit, probationary driver’s license, or
driver’s license, instead may order the offender to perform a determinate
number of hours of community service, with the court determining the actual
number of hours and the nature of the community service the offender shall
perform.
(ORC 4301.99(F))
§ 612.03 SALES TO INTOXICATED PERSONS.
   (a)   No permit holder and no agent or employee of a permit holder shall
sell or furnish beer or intoxicating liquor to an intoxicated person.
(ORC 4301.22(B))
   (b)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC 4301.99(D), (H))
§ 612.04 CONSUMPTION IN MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (a)   No person shall consume any beer or intoxicating liquor in a motor
vehicle. This section does not apply to persons described in Ohio R.C. 4301.62
(D) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(ORC 4301.64)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If an offender who violates this section was under the age of 18 years
at the time of the offense, the court, in addition to any other penalties it
imposes upon the offender, may suspend the offender’s temporary instruction
permit, probationary driver’s license or driver’s license for a period of not
less than six months and not more than one year. In lieu of suspending the
offender’s temporary instruction permit, probationary driver’s license, or
driver’s license, the court instead may require the offender to perform
community service for a number of hours determined by the court. If the
offender is 15 years and six months of age or older and has not been issued a
temporary instruction permit or probationary driver’s license, the offender
shall not be eligible to be issued such a license or permit for a period of six
months. If the offender has not attained the age of 15 years and six months,
the offender shall not be eligible to be issued a temporary instruction permit
until the offender attains the age of 16 years.
(ORC 4301.99(B))
§ 612.05 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (a)   (1)   No person personally or by the person’s clerk, agent, or
employee, shall manufacture, manufacture for sale, offer, keep, or possess for
sale, furnish or sell, or solicit the purchase or sale of any beer or
intoxicating liquor in this state, or transport, import, or cause to be
transported or imported any beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol in or into
this municipality for delivery, use or sale, unless the person has fully
complied with Ohio R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303 or is the holder of a permit
issued by the Division of Liquor Control and in force at the time.
      (2)   No manufacturer, supplier, wholesale distributor, broker, or
retailer of beer or intoxicating liquor, or other person shall employ, retain,
or otherwise utilize any person in this state to act as an employee, agent,
solicitor, or salesperson, or act in any other representative capacity to sell,
solicit, take orders, or receive offers to purchase or expressions of interest
to purchase beer or intoxicating liquor from any person, at any location other
than a liquor permit premises, except as specifically authorized by Ohio R.C.
Chapter 4301 or Ohio R.C. Chapter 4303 or rules adopted thereunder. No
function, event, or party shall take place at any location other than a liquor
permit premises where any person acts in any manner to sell, solicit, take
orders, or receive offers to purchase or expressions of intent to purchase beer
or intoxicating liquor to or from any person, except as specifically authorized
by Ohio R.C. Chapter 4301 or Ohio R.C. Chapter 4303 or rules adopted
thereunder.
(ORC 4303.25)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
§ 612.06 POSTING LIQUOR AGE WARNING SIGNS.
   (a)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in Ohio R.C. 4301.691, every place
in this municipality where beer, intoxicating liquor, or any low-alcohol
beverage is sold for beverage purposes shall display at all times, in a
prominent place on the premises thereof, a printed card, which shall be
furnished by the Division of Liquor Control and which shall read substantially
as follows:
   WARNING TO PERSONS UNDER AGE
   If you are under the age of 21
Under the statutes of the State of Ohio, if you order, pay for, share the cost
of, or attempt to purchase, or possess or consume beer or intoxicating liquor
in any public place, or furnish false information as to name, age, or other
identification, you are subject to a fine of up to $1,000, or imprisonment up
to 6 months, or both.
   If you are under the age of 18
Under the statutes of the State of Ohio, if you order, pay for, share the cost
of, or attempt to purchase, or posses or consume, any type of beer or wine that
contains either no alcohol or less than one-half of one per cent of alcohol by
volume in any public place, or furnish false information as to the name, age,
or other identification, you are subject to a fine of up to $250 or to
imprisonment up to 30 days, or both.
      (2)   No person shall be subject to any criminal prosecution or any
proceedings before the Department or the Liquor Control Commission for failing
to display this card. No permit issued by the Department shall be suspended,
revoked, or canceled because of the failure of the permit holder to display
this card.
   (b)   (1)   Every place in this municipality for which a D permit has been
issued under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4303 shall be issued a printed card by the
Division of Liquor Control that shall read substantially as follows:
   WARNING
   If you are carrying a firearm
Under the statutes of Ohio, if you possess a firearm in any room in which
liquor is being dispensed in premises for which a D permit has been issued
under Chapter 4303 of the Revised Code, you may be guilty of a felony and may
be subjected to a prison term of up to one year.
      (2)   No person shall be subject to any criminal prosecution or any
proceedings before the Division of Liquor Control or the Liquor Control
Commission for failing to display this card. No permit issued by the Department
shall be suspended, revoked, or canceled because of the failure of the permit
holder to display this card.
(ORC 4301.637)
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 4301.70, 4301.99(A))
§ 612.07 OPEN CONTAINER PROHIBITED.
   (a)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Chauffeured limousine” means a vehicle registered under Ohio R.C.
4503.24.
      (2)   “Street,” “highway,” and “motor vehicle” have the same meanings as
in Ohio R.C. 4511.01.
   (b)   No person shall have in the person’s possession an opened container of
beer or intoxicating liquor in any of the following circumstances:
      (1)   Except as provided in division (c)(1)E. of this section, in a state
liquor store;
      (2)   Except as provided in division (c) or (j) of this section, on the
premises of the holder of any permit issued by the Division of Liquor Control;
      (3)   In any other public place;
      (4)   Except as provided in division (d) or (e) of this section, while
operating or being a passenger in or on a motor vehicle on any street, highway,
or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking;
      (5)   Except as provided in division (d) or (e) of this section, while
being in or on a stationary motor vehicle on any street, highway, or other
public or private property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking.
   (c)   (1)   A person may have in the person’s possession an opened container
of any of the following:
         A.   Beer or intoxicating liquor that has been lawfully purchased for
consumption on the premises where bought from the holder of an A-1-A, A-2, A-
2f, A-3a, D-1, D-2, D-3, D-3a, D-4, D-4a, D-5, D-5a, D-5b, D-5c, D-5d, D-5e, D-
5f, D-5g, D-5h, D-5i, D-5j, D-5k, D-5l, D-5m, D-5n, D-5o, D-7, D-8, D-9, E, F,
F-2, F-5, F-7, F-8, or F-9 permit;
         B.   Beer, wine, or mixed beverages served for consumption on the
premises by the holder of an F-3 permit, wine served as a tasting sample by an
A-2, A-2f, S-1, or S-2 permit holder for consumption on the premises of a
farmers market for which an F-10 permit has been issued, or wine served for
consumption on the premises by the holder of an F-4 or F-6 permit;
         C.   Beer or intoxicating liquor consumed on the premises of a
convention facility as provided in Ohio R.C. 4303.201;
         D.   Beer or intoxicating liquor to be consumed during tastings and
samplings approved by rule of the Liquor Control Commission;
         E.   Spiritous liquor to be consumed for purposes of a tasting sample,
as defined in Ohio R.C. 4301.171;
         F.   Beer or intoxicating liquor to be consumed in an outdoor area
described in R.C. § 4303.188(B)(1).
      (2)   A person may have in the person’s possession on an F liquor permit
premises an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor that was not
purchased from the holder of the F permit if the premises for which the F
permit is issued is a music festival and the holder of the F permit grants
permission for that possession on the premises during the period for which the
F permit is issued. As used in this division (c)(2), “music festival” means a
series of outdoor live musical performances extending for a period of at least
three consecutive days and located on an area of land of at least 40 acres.
      (3)   A.   A person may have in the person’s possession on a D-2 liquor
permit premises an opened or unopened container of wine that was not purchased
from the holder of the D-2 permit if the premises for which the D-2 permit is
issued is an outdoor performing arts center, the person is attending an
orchestral performance, and the holder of the D-2 permit grants permission for
the possession and consumption of wine in certain predesignated areas of the
premises during the period for which the D-2 permit is issued.
         B.   As used in division (c)(3)A. of this section:
            1.   “Orchestral performance” means a concert comprised of a group
of not fewer than 40 musicians playing various musical instruments.
            2.   “Outdoor performing arts center” means an outdoor performing
arts center that is located on not less than 150 acres of land and that is open
for performances from the first day of April to the last day of October of each
year.
      (4)   A person may have in the person’s possession an opened or unopened
container of beer or intoxicating liquor at an outdoor location at which the
person is attending an orchestral performance as defined in division (c)(3)B.
of this section if the person with supervision and control over the performance
grants permission for the possession and consumption of beer or intoxicating
liquor in certain predesignated areas of that outdoor location.
      (5)   A person may have in the person’s possession on an F-9 liquor
permit premises an opened or unopened container of beer or intoxicating liquor
that was not purchased from the holder of the F-9 permit if the F-9 permit
holder grants permission for the possession and consumption of beer or
intoxicating liquor in certain predesignated areas of the premises during the
period for which the F-9 permit is issued.
      (6)   A.   A person may have in the person’s possession on the property
of an outdoor motorsports facility an opened or unopened container of beer or
intoxicating liquor that was not purchased from the owner of the facility if
both of the following apply:
            1.   The person is attending a racing event at the facility; and
            2.   The owner of the facility grants permission for the possession
and consumption of beer or intoxicating liquor on the property of the facility.
         B.   As used in division (c)(6)A. of this section:
            1.   “Outdoor motorsports facility.” An outdoor racetrack to which
all of the following apply:
               a.   It is 2.4 miles or more in length.
               b.   It is located on 200 acres or more of land.
               c.   The primary business of the owner of the facility is the
hosting and promoting of racing events.
               d.   The holder of a D-1, D-2, or D-3 permit is located on the
property of the facility.
            2.   “Racing event.” A motor vehicle racing event sanctioned by one
or more motor racing sanctioning organizations.
      (7)   A.   A person may have in the person’s possession an opened
container of beer or intoxicating liquor at an outdoor location within an
outdoor refreshment area created under R.C. § 4301.82 if the opened container
of beer or intoxicating liquor was purchased from an A-1, A-1-A, A-1c, A-2, A-
2f, D class, or F class permit holder to which both of the following apply:
            1.   The permit holder’s premises is located within the outdoor
refreshment area.
            2.   The permit held by the permit holder has an outdoor
refreshment area designation.
         B.   Division (c)(7) of this section does not authorize a person to do
either of the following:
            1.   Enter the premises of an establishment within an outdoor
refreshment area while possessing an opened container of beer or intoxicating
liquor acquired elsewhere;
            2.   Possess an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor
while being in or on a motor vehicle within an outdoor refreshment area, unless
the possession is otherwise authorized under division (d) or (e) of this
section.
         C.   As used in division (c)(7) of this section, “D class permit
holder” does not include a D-6 or D-8 permit holder.
      (8)   A.   A person may have in the person’s possession on the property
of a market, within a defined F-8 permit premises, an opened container of beer
or intoxicating liquor that was purchased from a D permit premises that is
located immediately adjacent to the market if both of the following apply:
            1.   The market grants permission for the possession and
consumption of beer and intoxicating liquor within the defined F-8 permit
premises;
            2.   The market is hosting an event pursuant to an F-8 permit and
the market has notified the division of liquor control about the event in
accordance with R.C. § 4303.208(A)(3).
         B.   As used in division (c)(8) of this section, “market” means a
market, for which an F-8 permit is held, that has been in operation since 1860.
   (d)   This section does not apply to a person who pays all or a portion of
the fee imposed for use of a chauffeured limousine pursuant to a prearranged
contract or the guest of the person, when all of the following apply:
      (1)   The person or guest is a passenger in the limousine.
      (2)   The person or guest is located in the limousine, but is not
occupying a seat in the front compartment of the limousine where the operator
of the limousine is located.
      (3)   The limousine is located on any street, highway, or other public or
private property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking.
   (e)   An opened bottle of wine that was purchased from the holder of a
permit that authorizes the sale of wine for consumption on the premises where
sold is not an opened container for the purposes of this section if both of the
following apply:
      (1)   The opened bottle of wine is securely resealed by the permit holder
or an employee of the permit holder before the bottle is removed from the
premises. The bottle shall be secured in such a manner that it is visibly
apparent if the bottle has been subsequently opened or tampered with.
      (2)   The opened bottle of wine that is resealed in accordance with
division (e)(1) of this section is stored in the trunk of a motor vehicle or,
if the motor vehicle does not have a trunk, behind the last upright seat or in
an area not normally occupied by the driver or passengers and not easily
accessible by the driver.
   (f)   (1)   Except if an ordinance or resolution is enacted or adopted under
division (f)(2) of this section, this section does not apply to a person who,
pursuant to a prearranged contract, is a passenger riding on a commercial
quadricycle when all of the following apply:
         A.   The person is not occupying a seat in the front of the commercial
quadricycle where the operator is steering or braking.
         B.   The commercial quadricycle is being operated on a street,
highway, or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking.
         C.   The person has in their possession on the commercial quadricycle
an opened container of beer or wine.
         D.   The person has in their possession on the commercial quadricycle
not more than either 36 ounces of beer or 18 ounces of wine.
      (2)   The Legislative Authority may enact an ordinance or adopt a
resolution, as applicable, that prohibits a passenger riding on a commercial
quadricycle from possessing an opened container of beer or wine.
      (3)   As used in this section, “commercial quadricycle” means a vehicle
that has fully-operative pedals for propulsion entirely by human power and that
meets all of the following requirements:
         A.   It has four wheels and is operated in a manner similar to a
bicycle.
         B.   It has at least five seats for passengers.
         C.   It is designed to be powered by the pedaling of the operator and
the passengers.
         D.   It is used for commercial purposes.
         E.   It is operated by the vehicle owner or an employee of the owner.
   (g)   (1)   This section does not apply to a person that has in the person’s
possession an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor on the premises
of a market if the beer or intoxicating liquor has been purchased from a D
liquor permit holder that is located in the market.
      (2)   As used in division (g) of this section, “market” means an
establishment that:
         A.   Leases space in the market to individual vendors, not less than
50% of which are retail food establishments or food service operations licensed
under R.C. Chapter 3717;
         B.   Has an indoor sales floor area of not less than 22,000 square
feet;
         C.   Hosts a farmer’s market on each Saturday from April through
December.
   (h)   (1)   As used in this section, “alcoholic beverage” has the same
meaning as in R.C. § 4303.185.
      (2)   An alcoholic beverage in a closed container being transported under
R.C. § 4303.185 to its final destination is not an opened container for the
purposes of this section if the closed container is securely sealed in such a
manner that it is visibly apparent if the closed container has been
subsequently opened or tampered with after sealing.
   (i)   This section does not apply to a person who has in the person’s
possession an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor in a public-use
airport, as described in R.C. § 4303.181(D)(2)(a)(iii), when both of the
following apply:
      (1)   Consumption of the opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor
occurs in the area of the airport terminal that is restricted to persons taking
flights to and from the airport; and
      (2)   The consumption is authorized under R.C. § 4303.181(D)(2)(a).
   (j)   This section does not apply to a person that has in the person’s
possession an opened container of homemade beer or wine that is served in
accordance with R.C. § 4301.201(E).
(R.C. § 4301.62)
   (k)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4301.99(A))
§ 612.08 HOURS OF SALE OR CONSUMPTION.
   (a)   This section shall apply to the retail sale of beer, wine, mixed
beverages, or spirituous liquor.
   (b)   No beer, wine, mixed beverages, or spirituous liquor shall be sold or
delivered by an A-1, A-1C, A-2, B-1, B-2, B-4, B-5, C-1, C-2, C-2X, D-1, D-2,
D-2X, D-3 when issued without a D-3A, D-3X, D-4, D-5H, D-5K, D-8, F, F-1, F-2,
F-3, F-4, F-5, F-6, F-7, F-8, F-9, G, or I permit holder:
      (1)   From Monday to Saturday between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:30
a.m.
      (2)   On Sunday between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and Sunday midnight,
unless statutorily authorized otherwise.
      (3)   Consumption of beer, wine, mixed beverages, or spirituous liquor is
also prohibited during the above hours upon the premises of the above permit
holders who are authorized by their permit to sell beer, wine, mixed beverages,
or spirituous liquor for on-premises consumption.
   (c)   No beer, wine, mixed beverages, or spirituous liquor shall be sold or
delivered by an A-1A, D-3 when issued with a D-3A, D-4A, D-5, D-5A, D-5B, D-5C,
D-5D, D-5E, D-5F, D- 5G, D-5I, D-5J, D-5L, D-5M, D-5N, D-5O, or D-7 permit
holder:
      (1)   From Monday to Saturday between the hours of 2:30 a.m. and 5:30
a.m.
      (2)   On Sunday between the hours of 2:30 a.m. and Sunday midnight,
unless statutorily authorized otherwise.
      (3)   Consumption of beer, wine, mixed beverages, or spirituous liquor is
also prohibited during the above hours upon the premises of the above permit
holders who are authorized by their permit to sell beer, wine, mixed beverages,
or spirituous liquor for on-premises consumption.
   (d)   Permit holders authorized to sell beer, wine, mixed beverages, or
spirituous liquor at retail who are not specifically identified in divisions
(b) or (c) above shall be subject to the provisions of division (b), unless
statutorily authorized otherwise.
   (e)   The hours on Sunday during which sales, delivery, or consumption of
alcoholic beverages may take place are established by statute, but in no event
shall they begin prior to 5:30 a.m.
(O.A.C. 4301:1-1-49)
   (f)   No association, corporation, local unit of an association or
corporation, or D permit holder who holds an F-2 permit shall sell beer or
intoxicating liquor beyond the hours of sale allowed by the permit. This
division imposes strict liability on the holder of such permit and on any
officer, agent or employee of such permit holder.
(ORC 4303.202(D)(2))
   (g)   No F-8 permit holder shall sell beer or intoxicating liquor beyond the
hours of sale allowed by the permit. This division imposes strict liability on
the holder of an F-8 permit and on any officer, agent or employee of that
permit holder.
(ORC 4303.208(C))
   (h)   Whoever violates divisions (f) or (g) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(ORC 4303.99(D))
§ 612.09 CONVEYING INTOXICATING LIQUOR OR CASH ONTO GROUNDS OF DETENTION
FACILITIES OR OTHER SPECIFIED GOVERNMENTAL FACILITIES.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly convey, or attempt to convey, onto the
grounds of a detention facility or of an institution, office building or other
place that is under the control of the Department of Mental Health and
Addiction Services, the Department of Developmental Disabilities, the
Department of Youth Services or the Department of Rehabilitation and
Correction, any of the following items:
      (1)   Any deadly weapon or dangerous ordnance, as defined in Ohio R.C.
2923.11, or any part of or ammunition for use in such deadly weapon or
dangerous ordnance.
      (2)   Any drug of abuse, as defined in Ohio R.C. 3719.011.
      (3)   Any intoxicating liquor, as defined in R.C. § 4301.01, except for
small amounts of wine for sacramental purposes when the person engaging in the
specified conduct is a cleric, as defined in R.C. § 2317.02.
   (b)   Division (a) of this section does not apply to any person who conveys
or attempts to convey an item onto the grounds of a detention facility or of an
institution, office building or other place under the control of the Department
of Mental Health and Addiction Services, the Department of Developmental
Disabilities, the Department of Youth Services or the Department of
Rehabilitation and Correction, with written authorization of the person in
charge of the detention facility or the institution and in accordance with the
written rules of the detention facility or the institution, office building or
other place.
   (c)   No person shall knowingly deliver, or attempt to deliver, to any
person who is confined in a detention facility, to a child confined in a youth
services facility, to a prisoner who is temporarily released from confinement
for a work assignment, or to any patient in an institution under the control of
the Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services or the Department of
Developmental Disabilities, any item listed in division (a).
   (d)   No person shall knowingly deliver or attempt to deliver cash to any
person who is confined in a detention facility, to a child confined in a youth
services facility, or to a prisoner who is temporarily released from
confinement for a work assignment.
   (e)   No person shall knowingly deliver, or attempt to deliver, to any
person who is confined in a detention facility, to a child confined in a youth
services facility, or to a prisoner who is temporarily released from
confinement for a work assignment a cellular telephone, two-way radio or other
electronic communications device.
   (f)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (a)(1)
of this section that the weapon or dangerous ordnance in question was being
transported in a motor vehicle for any lawful purpose, that it was not on the
actor’s person, and if the weapon or dangerous ordnance was a firearm, that it
was unloaded and was being carried in a closed package, box or case or in a
compartment that can be reached only by leaving the vehicle.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (c) of this
section that the actor was not otherwise prohibited by law from delivering the
item to the confined person, the child, the prisoner or the patient and that
either of the following applies:
         A.   The actor was permitted by the written rules of the detention
facility or the institution, office building or other place to deliver the item
to the confined person or the patient.
         B.   The actor was given written authorization by the person in charge
of the detention facility or the institution, office building or other place to
deliver the item to the confined person or the patient.
   (g)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a)(1) of this section or commits a
violation of division (c) of this section involving any item listed in division
(a)(1) of this section is guilty of illegal conveyance of weapons onto the
grounds of a specified governmental facility, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (a)(2) of this section or commits a
violation of division (c) of this section involving any drug of abuse is guilty
of illegal conveyance of drugs of abuse onto the grounds of a specified
governmental facility, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (a)(3) of this section or commits a
violation of division (c) of this section involving any intoxicating liquor is
guilty of illegal conveyance of intoxicating liquor onto the grounds of a
specified governmental facility, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (d) of this section is guilty of illegal
conveyance of cash onto the grounds of a detention facility, a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (d) of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, illegal conveyance of cash onto
the grounds of a detention facility is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (e) of this section is guilty of illegal
conveyance of a communications device onto the grounds of a specified
governmental facility, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (e)
of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
illegal conveyance of a communications device onto the grounds of a detention
facility is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(ORC 2921.36)
§ 612.10 SALES OF LOW-ALCOHOL BEVERAGES TO UNDERAGE PERSONS; PROHIBITIONS AND
MISREPRESENTATIONS.
   (a)   As used in this section, “underage person” means a person under 18
years of age.
   (b)   No underage person shall purchase any low-alcohol beverage.
   (c)   No underage person shall order, pay for, share the cost of, or attempt
to purchase any low-alcohol beverage.
   (d)   No person shall knowingly furnish any false information as to the
name, age, or other identification of any underage person for the purpose of
obtaining or with the intent to obtain any low-alcohol beverage for an underage
person, by purchase or as a gift.
   (e)   No underage person shall knowingly show or give false information
concerning his or her name, age, or other identification for the purpose of
purchasing or otherwise obtaining any low-alcohol beverage in any place in this
municipality.
   (f)   No person shall sell or furnish any low-alcohol beverage to, or buy
any low-alcohol beverage for, an underage person, unless given by a physician
in the regular line of his or her practice or given for established religious
purposes, or unless the underage person is accompanied by a parent, spouse who
is not an underage person, or legal guardian.
   (g)   (1)   No person who is the owner or occupant of any public or private
place shall knowingly allow any underage person to remain in or on the place
while possessing or consuming any low-alcohol beverage, unless the low-alcohol
beverage is given to the person possessing or consuming it by that person’s
parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian, and the
parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian is present when
the person possesses or consumes the low-alcohol beverage.
      (2)   An owner of a public or private place is not liable for acts or
omissions in violation of division (g)(1) that are committed by a lessee of
that place, unless the owner authorizes or acquiesces in the lessee’s acts or
omissions.
   (h)   No permit issued by the Division of Liquor Control shall be suspended,
revoked, or cancelled because of a violation of either division (f) or (g).
   (i)   No underage person shall knowingly possess or consume any low-alcohol
beverage in any public or private place, unless he or she is accompanied by a
parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian, or unless the
low-alcohol beverage is given by a physician in the regular line of his or her
practice or given for established religious purposes.
   (j)   No parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian of
an underage person shall knowingly permit the underage person to violate this
section.
(ORC 4301.631)
   (k)   No low-alcohol beverage shall be sold to any person under 18 years of
age.
(ORC 4301.22(A)(2))
   (l)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section shall be fined not less
than twenty-five dollars ($25.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00).
The court imposing a fine for a violation of division (b) of this section may
order that the fine be paid by the performance of public work at a reasonable
hour rate established by the court. The court shall designate the time within
which the public work shall be completed.
(ORC 4301.99(E))
   (m)   Whoever violates divisions (c) through (k) hereof is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(ORC 4301.99(B))
§ 612.11 ALCOHOL VAPORIZING DEVICES PROHIBITED.
   (a)   As used in this section, “alcohol vaporizing device” means a machine
or other device that mixes beer or intoxicating liquor with pure oxygen or any
other gas to produce a vaporized product for the purpose of consumption by
inhalation.
   (b)   No person shall sell or offer for sale an alcohol vaporizing device.
   (c)   No person shall purchase or use an alcohol vaporizing device.
(ORC 4301.65)
   (d)   (1)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of
misdemeanor of the third degree. For a second or subsequent violation occurring
within a period of five consecutive years after the first violation, a person
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(ORC 4301.99(J))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (c) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(ORC 4301.99(A))
CHAPTER 618: ANIMALS
Section
618.01   Dogs and other animals running at large; nuisance, dangerous and
vicious dogs; hearings
618.02   Abandoning animals
618.03   Killing or injuring animals
618.04   Poisoning animals
618.05   Cruelty to animals; cruelty to companion animals
618.06   Coloring rabbits and baby poultry; sale or display of poultry
618.07   Barking or howling dogs
618.08   Registration of dogs required
618.09   Hindering capture of unregistered dog
618.095   Dogs required to wear tags
618.10   Unlawful tags
618.11   Rabies quarantine
618.12   Hunting prohibited
618.13   Nuisance conditions prohibited
618.14   Impounding and disposition; records
618.15   Reporting escapes (Repealed)
618.16   Dangerous or exotic animals
618.17   Animal Control Officer
618.18   Providing animal control services to the Village of Coal Grove
618.19   Owner required to remove animal waste
618.20   Restrictions on dog ownership for certain convicted felons
618.21   Sexual conduct with an animal
618.22   Regulation of cats
Cross-reference:
   Definitions generally, see GEN. OFF.
606.01
   Driving animals upon roadway, see TRAF.
404.04,
412.05
   Offensive odors from places where animals are kept or fed, see GEN. OFF.
660.04
Statutory reference:
   Power to restrain and impound animals, see Ohio R.C. 715.23
   Possession of dangerous wild animals and restricted snakes, requirements and
licensing, see Ohio R.C. Chapter 935
§ 618.01 DOGS AND OTHER ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE; NUISANCE, DANGEROUS AND
VICIOUS DOGS; HEARINGS.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   “Dangerous dog.”
         A.   A dog that, without provocation, and subject to division B. of
this definition, has done any of the following:
            1.   Caused injury, other than killing or serious injury, to any
person;
            2.   Killed another dog;
            3.   Been the subject of a third or subsequent violation of Ohio
R.C. 955.22(C) or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
         B.   “Dangerous dog” does not include a police dog that has caused
injury, other than killing or serious injury, to any person or has killed
another dog while the police dog is being used to assist one or more law
enforcement officers in the performance of their official duties.
      (2)   “Menacing fashion.” A dog that would cause any person being chased
or approached to reasonably believe that the dog will cause physical injury to
that person.
      (3)   “Nuisance dog.”
         A.   Subject to division B. of this definition, “nuisance dog” means a
dog that without provocation and while off the premises of its owner, keeper,
or harborer has chased or approached a person in either a menacing fashion or
an apparent attitude of attack or has attempted to bite or otherwise endanger
any person.
         B.   “Nuisance dog” does not include a police dog that, while being
used to assist one or more law enforcement officers in the performance of
official duties, has chased or approached a person in either a menacing fashion
or an apparent attitude of attack or has attempted to bite or otherwise
endanger any person.
      (4)   “Police dog.” A dog that has been trained and may be used to assist
one or more law enforcement officers in the performance of their official
duties.
      (5)   “Serious injury.” Any of the following:
         A.   Any physical harm that carries a substantial risk of death;
         B.   Any physical harm that involves a permanent incapacity, whether
partial or total, or a temporary, substantial incapacity;
         C.   Any physical harm that involves a permanent disfigurement or a
temporary, serious disfigurement;
         D.   Any physical harm that involves acute pain of a duration that
results in substantial suffering or any degree of prolonged or intractable
pain.
      (6)   “Vicious dog.”
         A.   A dog that, without provocation and subject to division B. of
this definition, has killed or caused serious injury to any person.
         B.   “Vicious dog” does not include either of the following:
            1.   A police dog that has killed or caused serious injury to any
person while the police dog is being used to assist one or more law enforcement
officers in the performance of their official duties;
            2.   A dog that has killed or caused serious injury to any person
while a person was committing or attempting to commit a trespass or other
criminal offense on the property of the owner, keeper, or harborer of the dog.
      (7)   “Without provocation.” A dog acts “without provocation” when it was
not teased, tormented or abused by a person, or it was not coming to the aid or
the defense of a person who was not engaged in illegal or criminal activity and
who was not using the dog as a means of carrying out the activity.
(ORC 955.11(A))
   (b)   No person, who is the owner or keeper of horses, mules, cattle, bison,
sheep, goats, swine, llamas, alpacas, or poultry, shall permit them to run at
large in the public road, highway, street, lane, or alley, or upon unenclosed
land, or cause the animals to be herded, kept, or detained for the purpose of
grazing on premises other than those owned or lawfully occupied by the owner or
keeper of the animals.
(ORC 951.02)
   (c)   No owner, keeper or harborer of any female dog shall permit it to go
beyond the premises of the owner, keeper or harborer at any time the dog is in
heat unless the dog is properly in leash.
   (d)   Except when a dog is lawfully engaged in hunting and accompanied by
the owner, keeper, harborer, or handler of the dog, no owner, keeper or
harborer of any dog shall fail at any time to do either of the following:
      (1)   Keep the dog physically confined or restrained upon the premises of
the owner, keeper or harborer by a leash, tether, adequate fence, supervision
or secure enclosure to prevent escape;
      (2)   Keep the dog under the reasonable control of some person.
   (e)   Except when a dangerous dog is lawfully engaged in hunting or training
for the purpose of hunting and is accompanied by the owner, keeper, harborer,
or handler of the dog, no owner, keeper or harborer of a dangerous dog shall
fail to do either of the following:
      (1)   While the dog is on the premises of the owner, keeper or harborer,
securely confine it at all times in a locked pen that has a top.
      (2)   While the dog is off the premises of the owner, keeper or harborer,
keep that dog on a chain-link leash or tether that is not more than six feet in
length and additionally do at least one of the following: keep the dog in a
locked pen that has a top, locked fenced yard or other locked enclosure that
has a top; have the leash or tether controlled by a person who is of suitable
age and discretion or securely attach, tie or affix the leash or tether to the
ground or a stationary object or fixture so that the dog is adequately
restrained and station a person in close enough proximity to that dog so as to
prevent it from causing injury to any person; or muzzle that dog.
   (f)   No person who has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more
violations of division (d) of this section involving the same dog and no owner,
keeper, or harborer of a dangerous dog shall fail to do the following:
      (1)   Obtain liability insurance with an insurer authorized to write
liability insurance in this state providing coverage in each occurrence because
of damage or bodily injury to or death of a person caused by the dangerous dog
if so ordered by a court and provide proof of that liability insurance upon
request to any law enforcement officer, county dog warden, or public health
official charged with enforcing this section;
      (2)   Obtain a dangerous dog registration certificate from the County
Auditor pursuant to division (j) of this section, affix a tag that identifies
the dog as a dangerous dog to the dog’s collar, and ensure that the dog wears
the collar and tag at all times;
      (3)   Notify the local dog warden immediately if any of the following
occurs:
         A.   The dog is loose or unconfined.
         B.   The dog bites a person, unless the dog is on the property of the
owner of the dog, and the person who is bitten is unlawfully trespassing or
committing a criminal act within the boundaries of that property.
         C.   The dog attacks another animal while the dog is off the property
of the owner of the dog.
      (4)   If the dog is sold, given to another person, or dies, notify the
County Auditor within ten days of the sale, transfer, or death.
   (g)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Debark or surgically silence a dog that the person knows or has
reason to believe is a dangerous dog;
      (2)   Possess a dangerous dog if the person knows or has reason to
believe that the dog has been debarked or surgically silenced;
      (3)   Falsely attest on a waiver form provided by the veterinarian under
division (h) of this section that the person’s dog is not a dangerous dog or
otherwise provide false information on that written waiver form.
   (h)   Before a veterinarian debarks or surgically silences a dog, the
veterinarian may give the owner of the dog a written waiver form that attests
that the dog is not a dangerous dog. The written waiver form shall include all
of the following:
      (1)   The veterinarian’s license number and current business address;
      (2)   The number of the license of the dog if the dog is licensed;
      (3)   A reasonable description of the age, coloring and gender of the dog
as well as any notable markings on the dog;
      (4)   The signature of the owner of the dog attesting that the owner’s
dog is not a dangerous dog;
      (5)   A statement that Ohio R.C. 955.22(F) prohibits any person from
doing any of the following:
         A.   Debarking or surgically silencing a dog that the person knows or
has reason to believe is a dangerous dog;
         B.   Possessing a dangerous dog if the person knows or has reason to
believe that the dog has been debarked or surgically silenced;
         C.   Falsely attesting on a waiver form provided by the veterinarian
under Ohio R.C. 955.22(G) that the person’s dog is not a dangerous dog or
otherwise provide false information on that written waiver form.
   (i)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of a violation of division
(g) of this section that the veterinarian who is charged with the violation
obtained, prior to debarking or surgically silencing the dog, a written waiver
form that complies with division (h) of this section and that attests that the
dog is not a dangerous dog.
   (j)   (1)   The County Auditor shall issue a dangerous dog registration
certificate to a person who is the owner of a dog, who is 18 years of age or
older, and who provides the following to the County Auditor:
         A.   A fee of fifty dollars ($50.00);
         B.   The person’s address, phone number, and other appropriate means
for the local dog warden or County Auditor to contact the person;
         C.   With respect to the person and the dog for which the registration
is sought, all of the following:
            1.   Either satisfactory evidence of the dog’s current rabies
vaccination or a statement from a licensed veterinarian that a rabies
vaccination is medically contraindicated for the dog;
            2.   Either satisfactory evidence of the fact that the dog has been
neutered or spayed or a statement from a licensed veterinarian that neutering
or spaying of the dog is medically contraindicated;
            3.   Satisfactory evidence of the fact that the person has posted
and will continue to post clearly visible signs at the person’s residence
warning both minors and adults of the presence of a dangerous dog on the
property;
            4.   Satisfactory evidence of the fact that the dog has been
permanently identified by means of a microchip and the dog’s microchip number.
      (2)   Upon the issuance of a dangerous dog registration certificate to
the owner of a dog, the County Auditor shall provide the owner with a uniformly
designed tag that identifies the animal as a dangerous dog. The owner shall
renew the certificate annually for the same fee and in the same manner as the
initial certificate was obtained. If a certificate holder relocates to a new
county, the certificate holder shall follow the procedure in division (j)(3)B.
of this section and, upon the expiration of the certificate issued in the
original county, shall renew the certificate in the new county.
      (3)   A.   If the owner of a dangerous dog for whom a registration
certificate has previously been obtained relocates to a new address within the
same county, the owner shall provide notice of the new address to the County
Auditor within ten days of relocating to the new address.
         B.   If the owner of a dangerous dog for whom a registration
certificate has previously been obtained relocates to a new address within
another county, the owner shall do both of the following within ten days of
relocating to the new address:
            1.   Provide written notice of the new address and a copy of the
original dangerous dog registration certificate to the County Auditor of the
new county;
            2.   Provide written notice of the new address to the County
Auditor of the county where the owner previously resided.
      (4)   The owner of a dangerous dog shall present the dangerous dog
registration certificate upon being requested to do so by any law enforcement
officer, dog warden, or public health official charged with enforcing this
section.
(ORC 955.22)
   (k)   Hearing.
      (1)   The municipal court or county court that has territorial
jurisdiction over the residence of the owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog
shall conduct any hearing concerning the designation of the dog as a nuisance
dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog.
      (2)   If a person who is authorized to enforce this chapter has
reasonable cause to believe that a dog in the person’s jurisdiction is a
nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog, the person shall notify the owner,
keeper, or harborer of that dog, by certified mail or in person, of both of the
following:
         A.   That the person has designated the dog a nuisance dog, dangerous
dog, or vicious dog, as applicable;
         B.   That the owner, keeper, or harborer of the dog may request a
hearing regarding the designation in accordance with this division (k). The
notice shall include instructions for filing a request for a hearing in the
county in which the dog’s owner, keeper, or harborer resides.
      (3)   If the owner, keeper, or harborer of the dog disagrees with the
designation of the dog as a nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog, as
applicable, the owner, keeper, or harborer, not later than ten days after
receiving notification of the designation, may request a hearing regarding the
determination. The request for a hearing shall be in writing and shall be filed
with the municipal court or county court that has territorial jurisdiction over
the residence of the dog’s owner, keeper, or harborer. At the hearing, the
person who designated the dog as a nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog
has the burden of proving, by clear and convincing evidence, that the dog is a
nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog. The owner, keeper, or harborer of
the dog or the person who designated the dog as a nuisance dog, dangerous dog,
or vicious dog may appeal the court’s final determination as in any other case
filed in that court.
      (4)   A court, upon motion of an owner, keeper, or harborer or an
attorney representing the owner, keeper, or harborer, may order that the dog
designated as a nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog be held in the
possession of the owner, keeper, or harborer until the court makes a final
determination under this section or during the pendency of an appeal, as
applicable. Until the court makes a final determination and during the pendency
of any appeal, the dog shall be confined or restrained in accordance with the
provisions of division (e) that apply to dangerous dogs regardless of whether
the dog has been designated as a vicious dog or a nuisance dog rather than a
dangerous dog. The owner, keeper, or harborer of the dog shall not be required
to comply with any other requirements established in this Code or the Ohio
Revised Code that concern a nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog, as
applicable, until the court makes a final determination and during the pendency
of any appeal.
      (5)   If a dog is finally determined under this division (k), or on
appeal as described in this division (k), to be a vicious dog, Ohio R.C. 955.11
(D) and divisions (e) to (j) of this section apply with respect to the dog and
the owner, keeper, or harborer of the dog as if the dog were a dangerous dog,
and § 618.20 applies with respect to the dog as if it were a dangerous dog, and
the court shall issue an order that specifies that those provisions apply with
respect to the dog and the owner, keeper, or harborer in that manner. As part
of the order, the court shall require the owner, keeper, or harborer to obtain
the liability insurance required under division (f)(1) in an amount described
in division (l)(5)B. of this section.
      (6)   As used in this division (k), “nuisance dog”, “dangerous dog”, and
“vicious dog” have the same meanings as in Ohio R.C. 955.11.
(ORC 955.222)
   (l)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever recklessly violates division (b) of this section is guilty
of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(ORC 951.99)
      (2)   A.   Whoever violates division (c) of this section or commits a
violation of division (d) of this section that involves a dog that is not a
nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog shall be fined not less than
twenty-five dollars ($25.00) or more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) on a
first offense, and on each subsequent offense shall be fined not less than
seventy-five dollars ($75.00) or more than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00)
and may be imprisoned for not more than 30 days.
         B.   In addition to the penalties prescribed in division (l)(2)A. of
this section, if the offender is guilty of a violation of division (c) of this
section or a violation of division (d) of this section that involves a dog that
is not a nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog, the court may order the
offender to personally supervise the dog that the offender owns, keeps, or
harbors, to cause that dog to complete dog obedience training, or to do both.
(ORC 955.99(E))
      (3)   A.   Whoever commits a violation of division (d) of this section
that involves a nuisance dog is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on the first
offense and of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on each subsequent offense
involving the same dog. Upon a person being convicted of or pleading guilty to
a third violation of division (d) of this section involving the same dog, the
court shall require the offender to register the involved dog as a dangerous
dog.
         B.   In addition to the penalties prescribed in division (l)(2)A. of
this section, if a violation of division (d) of this section involves a
nuisance dog, the court may order the offender to personally supervise the
nuisance dog that the offender owns, keeps, or harbors, to cause that dog to
complete dog obedience training, or to do both.
(ORC 955.99(F))
      (4)   Whoever commits a violation of division (d) of this section that
involves a dangerous dog, or a violation of division (e) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and of a
misdemeanor of the third degree on each subsequent offense. Additionally, the
court may order the offender to personally supervise the dangerous dog that the
offender owns, keeps, or harbors, to cause that dog to complete dog obedience
training, or to do both, and the court may order the offender to obtain
liability insurance pursuant to division (f) of this section. The court, in the
alternative, may order the dangerous dog to be humanely destroyed by a licensed
veterinarian, the county dog warden, or the county humane society at the
owner’s expense. With respect to a violation of division (d) of this section
that involves a dangerous dog, until the court makes a final determination and
during the pendency of any appeal of a violation of that division and at the
discretion of the dog warden, the dog shall be confined or restrained in
accordance with division (e) of this section or at the county dog pound at the
owner’s expense.
(ORC 955.99(G))
      (5)   A.   Whoever commits a violation of division (d) of this section
that involves a vicious dog is guilty of one of the following:
            1.   A felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law if the
dog kills or seriously injures a person. Additionally, the court shall order
that the vicious dog be humanely destroyed by a licensed veterinarian, the
county dog warden, or the county humane society at the owner’s expense.
            2.   A misdemeanor of the first degree if the dog causes serious
injury to a person. Additionally, the court may order the vicious dog to be
humanely destroyed by a licensed veterinarian, the county dog warden, or the
county humane society at the owner’s expense.
         B.   If the court does not order the vicious dog to be destroyed under
division (l)(5)A.2. of this section, the court shall issue an order that
specifies that Ohio R.C. 955.11(D) and divisions (e) to (j) of this section
apply with respect to the dog and the owner, keeper, or harborer of the dog as
if the dog were a dangerous dog and that § 618.20 applies with respect to the
dog as if it were a dangerous dog. As part of the order, the court shall order
the offender to obtain the liability insurance required under division (f)(1)
of this section in an amount, exclusive of interest and costs, that equals or
exceeds one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000). Until the court makes a final
determination and during the pendency of any appeal of a violation of division
(d) of this section and at the discretion of the dog warden, the dog shall be
confined or restrained in accordance with the provisions described in division
(e) of this section or at the county dog pound at the owner’s expense.
(ORC 955.99(H))
      (6)   Whoever violates division (f)(2) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(ORC 955.99(J))
      (7)   Whoever violates division (g)(1), (g)(2), or (g)(3) of this section
is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
Additionally, the court shall order that the dog involved in the violation be
humanely destroyed by a licensed veterinarian, the county dog warden, or the
county humane society. Until the court makes a final determination and during
the pendency of any appeal of a violation of division (g)(1), (g)(2), or (g)(3)
of this section and at the discretion of the dog warden, the dog shall be
confined or restrained in accordance with the provisions of division (e) of
this section or at the county dog pound at the owner’s expense.(ORC 955.99(L))
      (8)   Whoever violates division (f)(1), (f)(3), or (f)(4) of this section
is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 955.99(M))
      (9)   Whoever violates division (j)(4) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 955.99(N))
      (10)   A.   If a dog is confined at the county dog pound pursuant to
division (l)(4), (l)(5), or (l)(7) of this section, the county dog warden shall
give written notice of the confinement to the owner of the dog. If the county
dog warden is unable to give the notice to the owner of the dog, the county dog
warden shall post the notice on the door of the residence of the owner of the
dog or in another conspicuous place on the premises at which the dog was
seized. The notice shall include a statement that a security in the amount of
one hundred dollars ($100.00) is due to the county dog warden within ten days
to secure payment of all reasonable expenses, including medical care and
boarding of the dog for 60 days, expected to be incurred by the county dog
pound in caring for the dog pending the determination. The county dog warden
may draw from the security any actual costs incurred in caring for the dog.
         B.   If the person ordered to post security under division (l)(10)A.
of this section does not do so within ten days of the confinement of the
animal, the dog is forfeited, and the county dog warden may determine the
disposition of the dog unless the court issues an order that specifies
otherwise.
         C.   Not more than ten days after the court makes a final
determination under division (l)(4), (l)(5), or (l)(7) of this section, the
county dog warden shall provide the owner of the dog with the actual cost of
the confinement of the dog. If the county dog warden finds that the security
provided under division (l)(10)A. of this section is less than the actual cost
of confinement of the dog, the owner shall remit the difference between the
security provided and the actual cost to the county dog warden within 30 days
after the court’s determination. If the county dog warden finds that the
security provided under division (l)(10)A. of this section is greater than that
actual cost, the county dog warden shall remit the difference between the
security provided and the actual cost to the owner within 30 days after the
court’s determination.
(ORC 955.99(P))
      (11)   As used in this division (l), “nuisance dog”, “dangerous dog”, and
“vicious dog” have the same meanings as in Ohio R.C. 955.11.
(ORC 955.99(Q))
§ 618.02 ABANDONING ANIMALS.
   (a)   No owner or keeper of a dog, cat, or other domestic animal shall
abandon the animal.
(ORC 959.01)
   (b)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the second degree on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the
first degree on each subsequent offense.
(ORC 959.99(E)(3))
§ 618.03 KILLING OR INJURING ANIMALS.
   (a)   No person shall maliciously, or willfully and without the consent of
the owner, kill or injure a dog, cat, or any other domestic animal that is the
property of another. This section does not apply to a licensed veterinarian
acting in an official capacity.
(ORC 959.02)
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (a) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
If the value of the animal killed or the injury done amounts to three hundred
dollars ($300.00) or more, whoever violates division (a) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(ORC 959.99(B))
§ 618.04 POISONING ANIMALS.
   (a)   No person shall maliciously, or willfully and without the consent of
the owner, administer poison, except a licensed veterinarian acting in such
capacity, to a dog, cat, or any other domestic animal that is the property of
another; and no person shall, willfully and without the consent of the owner,
place any poisoned food where it may be easily found and eaten by any such
animal, either upon his or her own lands or the lands of another.
(ORC 959.03)
   (b)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(ORC 959.99(C))
§ 618.05 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS; CRUELTY TO COMPANION ANIMALS.
   (a)   No person shall:
      (1)   Torture an animal, deprive one of necessary sustenance,
unnecessarily or cruelly beat, needlessly mutilate or kill, or impound or
confine an animal without supplying it during the confinement with a sufficient
quantity of good wholesome food and water;
      (2)   Impound or confine an animal without affording it, during the
confinement, access to shelter from wind, rain, snow, or excessive direct
sunlight, if it can reasonably be expected that the animal would otherwise
become sick or in some other way suffer. This division does not apply to
animals impounded or confined prior to slaughter. For the purpose of this
section, “shelter” means an artificial enclosure, windbreak, sunshade, or
natural windbreak or sunshade that is developed from the earth’s contour, tree
development, or vegetation;
      (3)   Carry or convey an animal in a cruel or inhuman manner;
      (4)   Keep animals other than cattle, poultry or fowl, swine, sheep, or
goats in an enclosure without wholesome exercise and change of air, nor feed
cows on food that produces impure or unwholesome milk;
      (5)   Detain livestock in railroad cars or compartments longer than 28
hours after they are so placed without supplying them with necessary food,
water, and attention, nor permit the stock to be so crowded as to overlie,
crush, wound, or kill each other.
   (b)   Upon the written request of the owner or person in custody of any
particular shipment of livestock, which written request shall be separate and
apart from any printed bill of lading or other railroad form, the length of
time in which the livestock may be detained in any cars or compartment without
food, water, and attention may be extended to 36 hours without penalty
therefor. Division (a) of this section does not prevent the dehorning of
cattle.
   (c)   All fines collected for violations of division (a) of this section
shall be paid to the society or association for the prevention of cruelty to
animals, if there is one in the municipality; otherwise, all fines shall be
paid to the general fund.
(ORC 959.13)
   (d)   Cruelty to companion animals.
      (1)   As used in this section:
         A.   “Animal rescue for dogs.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
956.01.
         B.   “Boarding kennel” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 956.01.
         C.   “Captive white- tailed deer” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C.
1531.01.
         D.   “Companion animal” means any animal that is kept inside a
residential dwelling and any dog or cat regardless of where it is kept,
including a pet store as defined in R.C. § 956.01. “Companion animal” does not
include livestock or any wild animal.
         E.   “Cruelty,” “torment,” and “torture” have the same meanings as in
Ohio R.C. 1717.01.
         F.   “Dog kennel” means an animal rescue for dogs, a boarding kennel,
or a training kennel.
         G.   “Federal Animal Welfare Act” means the “Laboratory Animal Act of
1966,” Pub. L. No. 89-544, 80 Stat. 350 (1966), 7 U.S.C. 2131 et seq., as
amended by the “Animal Welfare Act of 1970,” Pub. L. No. 91-579, 84 Stat. 1560
(1970), the “Animal Welfare Act Amendments of 1976,” Pub. L. No. 94-279, 90
Stat. 417 (1976), and the “Food Security Act of 1985,” Pub. L. No. 99-198, 99
Stat. 1354 (1985), and as it may be subsequently amended.
         H.   “Livestock” means horses, mules, and other equidae; cattle,
sheep, goats, and other bovidae; swine and other suidae; poultry; alpacas;
llamas; captive white-tailed deer; and any other animal that is raised or
maintained domestically for food or fiber.
         I.   “Practice of veterinary medicine” has the same meaning as in Ohio
R.C. 4741.01.
         J.   “Residential dwelling” means a structure or shelter or the
portion of a structure or shelter that is used by one or more humans for the
purpose of a habitation.
         K.   “Serious physical harm” means any of the following:
            1.   Physical harm that carries an unnecessary or unjustifiable
substantial risk of death;
            2.   Physical harm that involves either partial or total permanent
incapacity;
            3.   Physical harm that involves acute pain of a duration that
results in substantial suffering or that involves any degree of prolonged or
intractable pain.
         L.   “Torment.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1717.01.
         M.   “Torture.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1717.01.
         N.   “Training kennel.” Means an establishment operating for profit
that keeps, houses, and maintains dogs for the purpose of training the dogs in
return for a fee or other consideration.
         O.   “Wild animal.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1531.01.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly torture, torment, needlessly mutilate or
maim, cruelly beat, poison, needlessly kill, or commit an act of cruelty
against a companion animal.
      (3)   No person shall knowingly cause serious physical harm to a
companion animal.
      (4)   No person who confines or who is the custodian or caretaker of a
companion animal shall negligently do any of the following:
         A.   Torture, torment, or commit an act of cruelty against the
companion animal;
         B.   Deprive the companion animal of necessary sustenance or confine
the companion animal without supplying it during the confinement with
sufficient quantities of good, wholesome food and water if it can reasonably be
expected that the companion animal would become sick or suffer in any other way
as a result of or due to the deprivation or confinement;
         C.   Impound or confine the companion animal without affording it,
during the impoundment or confinement, with access to shelter from heat, cold,
wind, rain, snow, or excessive direct sunlight if it can reasonably be expected
that the companion animal would become sick or suffer in any other way as a
result of or due to the lack of adequate shelter.
      (5)   No person who confines or who is the custodian or caretaker of a
companion animal shall recklessly deprive the companion animal of necessary
sustenance or confine the companion animal without supplying it during the
confinement with sufficient quantities of good, wholesome food and water.
      (6)   No owner, manager, or employee of a dog kennel who confines or is
the custodian or caretaker of a companion animal shall knowingly do any of the
following:
         A.   Torture, torment, needlessly mutilate or maim, cruelly beat,
poison, needlessly kill, or commit an act of cruelty against the companion
animal;
         B.   Deprive the companion animal of necessary sustenance or confine
the companion animal without supplying it during the confinement with
sufficient quantities of good, wholesome food and water if it is reasonably
expected that the companion animal would die or experience unnecessary or
unjustifiable pain or suffering as a result of the deprivation or confinement;
         C.   Impound or confine the companion animal without affording it,
during the impoundment or confinement, with access to shelter from heat, cold,
wind, rain, snow, or excessive direct sunlight if it is reasonably expected
that the companion animal would die or experience unnecessary or unjustifiable
pain or suffering as a result of or due to the lack of adequate shelter.
      (7)   No owner, manager, or employee of a dog kennel who confines or is
the custodian or caretaker of a companion animal shall negligently do any of
the following:
         A.   Torture, torment, or commit an act of cruelty against the
companion animal;
         B.   Deprive the companion animal of necessary sustenance or confine
the companion animal without supplying it during the confinement with
sufficient quantities of good, wholesome food and water if it can reasonably be
expected that the companion animal would become sick or suffer in any other way
as a result of or due to the deprivation or confinement;
         C.   Impound or confine the companion animal without affording it,
during the impoundment or confinement, with access to shelter from heat, cold,
wind, rain, snow, or excessive direct sunlight if it can reasonably be expected
that the companion animal would become sick or suffer in any other way as a
result of or due to the lack of adequate shelter.
      (8)   Divisions (d)(2), (d)(3), (d)(4), (d)(5), (d)(6), and (d)(7) of
this section do not apply to any of the following:
         A.   A companion animal used in scientific research conducted by an
institution in accordance with the federal animal welfare act and related
regulations;
         B.   The lawful practice of veterinary medicine by a person who has
been issued a license, temporary permit, or registration certificate to do so
under R.C. Chapter 4741;
         C.   Dogs being used or intended for use for hunting or field trial
purposes, provided that the dogs are being treated in accordance with usual and
commonly accepted practices for the care of hunting dogs;
         D.   The use of common training devices, if the companion animal is
being treated in accordance with usual and commonly accepted practices for the
training of animals;
         E.   The administering of medicine to a companion animal that was
properly prescribed by a person who has been issued a license, temporary
permit, or registration certificate under R.C. Chapter 4741.
      (9)   Notwithstanding any section of the Ohio Revised Code that otherwise
provides for the distribution of fine moneys, the Clerk of Court shall forward
all fines the Clerk collects that are so imposed for any violation of this
division (d) to the Treasurer of the municipality, whose county humane society
or law enforcement agency is to be paid the fine money as determined under this
division. The Treasurer shall pay the fine moneys to the county humane society
or the county, township, municipal corporation, or state law enforcement agency
in this state that primarily was responsible for or involved in the
investigation and prosecution of the violation. If a county humane society
receives any fine moneys under this division, the county humane society shall
use the fine moneys either to provide the training that is required for humane
society agents under R.C. § 1717.061 or to provide additional training for
humane society agents.
(R.C. § 959.131)
   (e)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the second degree. In addition, the court may order the offender
to forfeit the animal or livestock and may provide for its disposition
including, but not limited to, the sale of the animal or livestock. If an
animal or livestock is forfeited and sold pursuant to this division, the
proceeds from the sale first shall be applied to pay the expenses incurred with
regard to the care of the animal from the time it was taken from the custody of
the former owner. The balance of the proceeds from the sale, if any, shall be
paid to the former owner of the animal.
(R.C. § 959.99(D))
   (f)   (1)   Whoever violates division (d)(2) or (d)(3) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree on a first offense and a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (d)(3) of this section is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (d)(4) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the second degree on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the
first degree on each subsequent offense.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (d)(6) of this section is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (d)(7) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (6)   A.   A court may order a person who is convicted of or pleads
guilty to a violation of division (d) of this section to forfeit to an
impounding agency, as defined in Ohio R.C. 959.132, any or all of the companion
animals in that person’s ownership or care. The court also may prohibit or
place limitations on the
person’s ability to own or care for any companion animals for a specified or
indefinite period of time.
         B.   A court may order a person who is convicted of or pleads guilty
to a violation of division (a) of this section or division (d) of this section
to reimburse an impounding agency for the reasonably necessary costs incurred
by the agency for the care of a companion animal that the agency impounded as a
result of the investigation or prosecution of the violation, provided that the
costs were not otherwise paid under R.C. § 959.132.
      (7)   If a court has reason to believe that a person who is convicted of
or pleads guilty to a violation of division (d) of this section has a mental or
emotional disorder that contributed to the violation, the court may impose as a
community control sanction or as a condition of probation a requirement that
the offender undergo psychological evaluation or counseling. The court shall
order the offender to pay the costs of the evaluation or counseling.
(ORC 959.99(E))
Statutory reference:
   Impoundment of companion animals; notice and hearing, see Ohio R.C. 959.132
§ 618.06 COLORING RABBITS AND BABY POULTRY; SALE OR DISPLAY OF POULTRY.
   (a)   No person shall dye or otherwise color any rabbit or baby poultry,
including, but not limited to, chicks and ducklings. No person shall sell,
offer for sale, expose for sale, raffle or give away any rabbit or baby poultry
which has been dyed or otherwise colored. No poultry younger than four weeks of
age may be sold, given away or otherwise distributed to any person in lots of
less than three. Stores, shops, vendors and others offering young poultry for
sale or other distribution shall provide and operate brooders or other heating
devices that may be necessary to maintain poultry in good health, and shall
keep adequate food and water available to the poultry at all times.
(ORC 925.62)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree on a first offense; each subsequent offense is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
(ORC 925.99(B))
§ 618.07 BARKING OR HOWLING DOGS.
   (a)   No person shall own, harbor or keep in custody a dog which disturbs
the peace by barking, yelping, howling or making other loud noises to the
annoyance and/or discomfort of any person. Continuous barking, yelping, howling
and/or making other loud noises for 15 consecutive minutes by such dog, whether
confined inside a residence or building or to the outside area, shall be deemed
to have disturbed the peace and to have caused the annoyance and discomfort of
persons; provided, that at the time of the complaint, no person or persons were
trespassing or threatening to trespass upon the private property of the owner,
and provided that the dog was not being teased or provoked in any manner.
   (b)   Any person who shall allow any dog habitually to remain, be lodged or
fed within any dwelling, building, yard or enclosure owned or occupied by such
person shall be considered as harboring or keeping such dog.
   (c)   Upon an initial complaint, an enforcement officer shall warn the
person in writing of the violation. Upon a second such complaint within 30
days, the enforcement officer shall charge the person with a violation of this
section.
   (d)   Division (a) of this section does not apply to owners, operators or
employees of licensed veterinary hospitals, licensed kennels, or licensed
animal boarding establishments, nor does this section apply to blind, deaf or
hearing impaired, or mobility impaired persons when the dog serves as an
assistance dog.
   (e)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
§ 618.08 REGISTRATION OF DOGS REQUIRED.
   (a)   No owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog more than three months of age,
nor owner of a dog kennel, shall fail to file an application for registration
required by Ohio R.C. 955.01, nor shall he or she fail to pay the legal fee
therefor.
(ORC 955.21)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than twenty-five
dollars ($25.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) on a first
offense, and on each subsequent offense shall be fined not less than seventy-
five dollars ($75.00) nor more than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) and may
be imprisoned for not more than 30 days.
(ORC 955.99(E))
§ 618.09 HINDERING CAPTURE OF UNREGISTERED DOG.
   (a)   No person shall obstruct or interfere with anyone lawfully engaged in
capturing an unlicensed dog or making an examination of a dog wearing a tag.
(ORC 955.24)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 955.99(B))
§ 618.095 DOGS REQUIRED TO WEAR TAGS.
   (a)   No owner of a dog, except a dog constantly confined to a dog kennel
registered under Ohio R.C. Chapter 955 or one licensed under Ohio R.C. Chapter
956, shall fail to require the dog to wear, at all times, a valid tag issued in
connection with a certificate of registration. A dog found not wearing at any
time a valid tag shall be prima-facie evidence of lack of registration and
shall subject any dog found not wearing such a tag to impounding, sale, or
destruction.
(ORC 955.10)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 955.99(B))
§ 618.10 UNLAWFUL TAGS.
   (a)   No person shall own, keep, or harbor a dog wearing a fictitious,
altered, or invalid registration tag or a registration tag not issued by the
county auditor in connection with the registration of that animal.
(ORC 955.25)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 955.99(B))
§ 618.11 RABIES QUARANTINE.
   (a)   No person having knowledge of the existence of rabies in an animal, or
knowledge that an animal has exhibited symptoms or behavior suggestive of
rabies, or knowledge that an animal has bitten any person, shall fail to
immediately report such information to the Mayor or the Chief of Police.
   (b)   Whenever it is established by the Mayor or Chief of Police that any
animal has bitten any person or exhibits symptoms or behavior suggestive of
rabies, the person who owns, harbors or otherwise cares for such animal shall
confine it in close quarantine and isolation or shall place such animal in the
establishment of a veterinarian until, in either case, it is determined by the
County Board of Health that the animal is not afflicted with rabies. The
isolation and quarantine period hereby required shall be not less than ten days
from the date the person was bitten. If the animal has, or develops, any
symptoms suspicious of rabies during the ten-day period, the County Board of
Health shall be notified immediately. All expenses incurred for the keeping of
such animal, or the necessary tests to determine whether rabies exists, shall
be borne exclusively by the person who owns, harbors or otherwise cares for
such animal.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
§ 618.12 HUNTING PROHIBITED.
   (a)   The hunting of animals or fowl within the municipality is prohibited.
No person shall hunt, kill or attempt to kill any animal or fowl by the use of
firearms or any other means. However, nothing in this section shall be deemed
to prohibit the killing of rats and other undesirable rodents authorized to be
killed by the Chief of Police using means for such killing which are also
authorized by the Chief.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
§ 618.13 NUISANCE CONDITIONS PROHIBITED.
   (a)   No person shall keep or harbor any animal or fowl in the municipality
so as to create noxious or offensive odors or unsanitary conditions which are a
menace to the health, comfort or safety of the public.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
§ 618.14 IMPOUNDING AND DISPOSITION; RECORDS.
   (a)   A police officer or animal warden may impound every dog or other
animal found in violation of Section
618.01. If the impounded dog is not wearing a valid registration tag, the dog
shall forthwith be turned over to an officer charged by law with the custody
and disposal of such dogs. If the dog is wearing a valid registration tag or
the identity of the owner or harborer is otherwise established, notice shall
immediately be given to such owner or harborer that the dog has been impounded.
Notice may be by telephone or by ordinary mail to the last known address of
such owner or harborer. The dog shall not be released except upon the payment
of reasonable expenses for its taking and keeping. Any dog not redeemed within
three days of the time it is seized or impounded may be sold or otherwise
disposed of as provided by Ohio R.C. 955.16.
   (b)   A record of all dogs impounded, the disposition of the same, the
owner’s name and address, if known, and a statement of any costs or receipts
involving such dog shall be kept.
§ 618.15 REPORTING ESCAPES. (REPEALED)
   (Editor's note: Section 618.15 was repealed as part of the 2014 revision of
these Codified Ordinances because a violation of substantially equivalent state
law (Ohio R.C. 2927.21) was repealed by the General Assembly.)
§ 618.16 DANGEROUS OR EXOTIC ANIMALS.
   (a)   No person shall keep any lion, tiger or other such wild animal on any
premises in the city.
   (b)   Except as provided in division (a) hereof, no person shall keep any
snake, reptile or other exotic or dangerous animal on any premises in the city,
unless such animal is at all times kept in a structure, cage or other secure
place separating such animal from the public generally, customary invitees to
the premises and children who may be on the premises.
(Ord. 76-36, passed 6-22-1976)
   (c)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree and shall be subject to the penalty provided in
§
698.02.
§ 618.17 ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   (a)   Position established. The position of Animal Control Officer is hereby
established. The Animal Control Officer shall be appointed by the Mayor and
shall hold his or her position at the pleasure of the Mayor. He or she may be
removed at any time by the Mayor.
   (b)   Enforcement of chapter. This chapter shall be enforced by the Animal
Control Officer.
   (c)   Right of entry; investigations. For the purpose of discharging the
duties imposed by this chapter and to enforce its provisions, the Animal
Control Officer or any police officer is authorized to enter upon any premises
upon which an animal is kept or harbored and demand the exhibition by the owner
of such animal or the license for such animal. It is further provided that the
Animal Control Officer may enter the premises where any animal is kept in a
repeatedly cruel or inhumane manner and demand to examine such animal and to
take possession of such animal, when, in his or her opinion, it requires humane
treatment.
   (d)   Interference with Animal Control Officer. No person shall interfere
with, hinder or molest the Animal Control Officer in the performance of his or
her duty, or seek to release any animal in the custody of the Animal Control
Officer, except as herein provided.
   (e)   Penalty. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the third degree and shall be subject to the penalty provided in §
698.02.
(Ord. 21-39, passed 6-24-2021)
§ 618.18 PROVIDING ANIMAL CONTROL SERVICES TO THE VILLAGE OF COAL GROVE.
   (a)   The Mayor is hereby authorized to provide animal control services to
the Village of Coal Grove.
   (b)   The Village of Coal Grove shall pay for these services at a rate of
twelve dollars ($12.00) per hour, with a minimum of two hours for each
individual callout of the animal control officer.
   (c)   The City of Ironton animal control officer shall respond to Ironton
incidents primarily and Coal Grove incidents secondarily.
(Res. 02-28, passed 5-9-2002)
§ 618.19 OWNER REQUIRED TO REMOVE ANIMAL WASTE.
   (a)   Any person owning, keeping, possessing, walking, controlling or
harboring any dog or cat shall promptly remove and dispose of all feces left by
the dog or cat on any public property and/or private property, including;
public walks, streets or right-of- ways, recreation areas or private property,
other than his or her own, or lawfully occupied by such person.
   (b)   Any person violating any provision of division (a) of this section
shall be fined not less than twenty-five dollars ($25.00) nor more than one
hundred dollars ($100.00).
(Ord. 08-108, passed 12-22-2008)
§ 618.20 RESTRICTIONS ON DOG OWNERSHIP FOR CERTAIN CONVICTED FELONS.
   (a)   No person who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a felony offense of
violence committed on or after May 22, 2012 or a felony violation of any
provision of Ohio R.C. Chapter 959, Ohio R.C. Chapter 2923 or Ohio R.C. Chapter
2925 committed on or after May 22, 2012 shall knowingly own, possess, have
custody of, or reside in a residence with either of the following for a period
of three years commencing either upon the date of release of the person from
any period of incarceration imposed for the offense or violation or, if the
person is not incarcerated for the offense or violation, upon the date of the
person’s final release from the other sanctions imposed for the offense or
violation:
      (1)   An unspayed or unneutered dog older than 12 weeks of age;
      (2)   Any dog that has been determined to be a dangerous dog under Ohio
R.C. Chapter 955 or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (b)   A person described in division (a) of this section shall microchip for
permanent identification any dog owned, possessed by, or in the custody of the
person.
   (c)   (1)   Division (a) of this section does not apply to any person who is
confined in a correctional institution of the Department of Rehabilitation and
Correction.
      (2)   Division (a) of this section does not apply to any person with
respect to any dog that the person owned, possessed, had custody of, or resided
in a residence with prior to May 22, 2012.
(ORC 955.54)
   (d)   Whoever violates division (a) or (b) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(ORC 955.99(O))
§ 618.21 SEXUAL CONDUCT WITH AN ANIMAL.
   (a)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Animal”. Means a nonhuman mammal, bird, reptile, or amphibian,
either dead or alive.
      (2)   “Offense.” Means a violation of this section or an attempt, in
violation of R.C. § 2923.02, to violate this section.
      (3)   “Officer.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 959.132.
      (4)   “Sexual conduct.” Means either of the following committed for the
purpose of sexual gratification:
         A.   Any act done between a person and animal that involves contact of
the penis of one and the vulva of the other, the penis of one and the penis of
the other, the penis of one and the anus of the other, the mouth of one and the
penis of the other, the mouth of one and the anus of the other, the vulva of
one and the vulva of the other, the mouth of one and the vulva of the other,
any other contact between a reproductive organ of one and a reproductive organ
of the other, or any other insertion of a reproductive organ of one into an
orifice of the other;
         B.   Without a bona fide veterinary or animal husbandry purpose to do
so, the insertion, however slight, of any part of a person's body or any
instrument, apparatus, or other object into the vaginal, anal, or reproductive
opening of an animal.
   (b)   No person shall knowingly engage in sexual conduct with an animal or
knowingly possess, sell, or purchase an animal with the intent that it be
subjected to sexual conduct.
   (c)   No person shall knowingly organize, promote, aid, or abet in the
conduct of an act involving any sexual conduct with an animal.
(R.C. § 959.21)
   (d)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
second degree. In addition, the court may order the offender to forfeit the
animal or livestock and may provide for its disposition including but not
limited to the sale of the animal or livestock. If an animal or livestock is
forfeited and sold pursuant to this division, the proceeds from the sale first
shall be applied to pay the expenses incurred with regard to the care of the
animal from the time it
was taken from the custody of the former owner. The balance of the proceeds
from the sale, if any, shall be paid to the former owner of the animal.
(R.C. § 959.99(D))
      (2)   If a court has reason to believe that a person who is convicted of
or pleads guilty to a violation of this section suffers from a mental or
emotional disorder that contributed to the violation, the court may impose as a
community control sanction or as a condition of probation a requirement that
the offender undergo psychological evaluation or counseling. The court shall
order the offender to pay the costs of the evaluation or counseling.
(R.C. § 959.99(E)(7))
§ 618.22 REGULATION OF CATS.
   (a)   Title. This section shall be known and may be cited as “the Ordinance
Regulating Cats” or “Cat Population Control Ordinance.”
   (b)   Findings and purpose.
      (1)   The City Council finds that there is an overpopulation of stray and
unwanted cats in the city. It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the
health, safety and general welfare of the residents of the city by reducing the
number of stray/abandoned cats.
      (2)   This chapter shall serve to reduce the excessive numbers of
unwanted animals and thereby contribute to the welfare of cats and elimination
of unnecessary euthanization of “surplus” cats by restricting the breeding
practices of pet owners and breeders. It is also found that other communities
with such ordinances have experienced significant decreases in the number of
cat surrenders.
   (c)   Mandatory spaying/neutering.
      (1)   No person shall own, harbor or keep a cat over the age of six
months which has not been spayed or neutered, unless such person holds an
unaltered animal permit for the animal (see division (d) below). Any such
person who violates this provision may be cited and fined by the Animal Control
Officer for such violation.
      (2)   Any person intentionally providing care or sustenance for a cat
shall be deemed to be the owner and shall comply with this section.
      (3)   Any owner of an unaltered cat who has been cited or fined by the
Animal Control Officer for failing to obtain a permit shall have his or her
citation or fine dismissed if proof of altering in the form of an official
neuter or spay certificate is presented within 30 days of the issuance of the
citation or the owner obtains the necessary permit within 30 days of the
issuance of the citation and the animal has not reproduced.
      (4)   Individuals who are aware of cat abandonment are encouraged to
notify the Animal Control Officer of said event:
         A.   To ensure that the animal is not simply lost;
         B.   To identify potential problem areas; and
         C.   To receive assistance with spay/neuter and/or placement of the
animal(s).
      (5)   Those complying will not be subject to penalty for having an
unaltered animal on the premises if they are willing to surrender it to the
Animal Control Officer.
   (d)   Unaltered animal certification; administration. The Animal Control
Department/Lawrence County Animal Shelter shall administer a permit program to
allow for unaltered animals over the age of six months when the following
conditions have been met:
      (1)   The annual permit fee of twelve dollars ($12.00) is paid at the
time of application and upon each annual renewal.
      (2)   The animal is current on rabies/core vaccinations.
      (3)   The owner otherwise complies with any applicable local/state law
concerning the care and housing of animals and has not been in violation of
animal related ordinance/laws in the past 24 months.
      (4)   The owner furnishes the Animal Control Officer with a signed
statement agreeing to the following conditions:
         A.   Offspring of the unaltered animal will not be sold or adopted
until they are at least eight weeks of age.
         B.   Records will be kept documenting how many offspring were produced
and who adopted or purchased them (name, address, phone number).
         C.   Offspring must be immunized against common diseases.
         D.   The seller/adopter must disclose the permit number in any
advertisement.
   (e)   Sterilization of impounded animals. On a first impoundment of a cat,
the Animal Control Officer requires that, as a condition for return to its
owner or keeper:
      (1)   The animal must be altered; and
      (2)   The cost incurred must be paid by the owner or keeper, or that the
owner or keeper obtain unaltered animal certification per this chapter.
   (f)   Exemptions from this section. Persons owning animals in the care of
the following organizations or meeting the following conditions are exempt from
the provisions of this section:
      (1)   Animal shelters and rescue organizations that have implemented an
ongoing spay/neuter program.
      (2)   Medical. A licensed veterinarian has determined that an animal is
medically unsuited to undergo the surgical procedure and has signed a statement
to that effect specifying the medical grounds for the exemption.
         A.   Temporary medical. The veterinarian may specify a temporary
medical condition including the prognosis of when the surgery may be performed,
which shall become the expiration date of the temporary exemption.
         B.   Transitory status. An animal that is temporarily in the city with
its owner.
   (g)   Neuter assistance and education fund . All fees and penalties
collected under the provisions of this section shall be deposited into Fund 01
General Fund. The purpose of the Fund shall be to spay/neuter non-compliant
owner’s cats until reimbursement is received at time of release from Lawrence
County Animal Shelter custody.
   (h)   Sale in public places. A person shall not display any cat in a public
place for the purpose of selling or giving the animal away. The term “public
place” shall include but not be limited to streets, highways, areas exterior to
shops or businesses, carnivals, sidewalks and flea markets. This section does
not apply to a registered rescue group or animal welfare society.
   (i)   Cats roaming at large. No owner or keeper of any cat or kitten shall
allow such cat or kitten to roam at large if the cat or kitten is not altered.
Any such owner or keeper who violates this section will be subject to a
citation by the Animal Control Officer and a $50 fine. Any cat or kitten that
is determined to be “unowned” or unclaimed shall be subject to division (f) of
this section.
   (j)   Appeals procedure. Any person fined pursuant to this section may
appeal such fine pursuant to the provisions of law.
   (k)   Savings clause. Should any court of competent jurisdiction declare any
section or clause or provision of this section to be unconstitutional or ultra
vires, such decision shall affect only such section, clause or provision so
declared unconstitutional and shall not affect any other section, clause or
provision of this section.
   (l)   Penalties.
      (1)   The penalty for violation of this section shall be fifty dollars
($50.00) per unaltered cat, payable to the Municipal Fund 01 General Fund. If
the violation is not corrected within 30 days and the fine is not paid, the
continuing violation becomes a second offense, the fine for which shall be an
additional one hundred dollars ($100.00). A fine of one hundred dollars
($100.00) will be assessed for each additional 30-day violation.
      (2)   The Animal Control Officer may, at his/her discretion, waive the
citation and/or penalty if the animal(s) is surrendered to the Animal Control
Department for placement, or for other good cause to be determined by the
Animal Control Officer.
      (3)   The penalty shall not be waived by the Department upon the transfer
or abandonment of the cat by the non-compliant owner.
(Ord. 21-44, passed 7-8-2021)
CHAPTER 624: DRUGS
Section
624.01   Definitions
624.02   Trafficking in controlled substances; gift of marihuana
624.025   Cultivation of marihuana
624.03   Drug possession offenses
624.04   Possession of drug abuse instruments
624.05   Permitting drug abuse
624.06   Deception to obtain a dangerous drug (Repealed)
624.07   Abusing harmful intoxicants
624.073   Improperly dispensing or distributing nitrous oxide
624.074   Possessing nitrous oxide in motor vehicles
624.08   Illegal dispensing of drug samples
624.09   Possession, sale and disposal of hypodermics
624.10   Evidence
624.11   Double jeopardy
624.12   Controlled substance schedules
624.13   Controlled substance or prescription labels
624.14   Use or possession of paraphernalia
624.15   Counterfeit controlled substances
624.16   Pseudoephedrine sales
624.17   Sale of pure caffeine product
624.18   Sale of dextromethorphan
624.19   Adult use cannabis control; limitations on conduct by individuals
Cross-reference:
   Alcoholic beverages, see GEN. OFF.
Ch. 612
   Disorderly conduct while voluntarily intoxicated, see GEN. OFF.
648.04(b)
   Driving or physical control while under the influence, see TRAF.
434.01,
442.05,
442.08
   Intoxicated pedestrians, see TRAF.
416.10
   Placing harmful substance or objects in food or confection, see GEN. OFF.
636.16
   Using weapons while intoxicated, see GEN. OFF.
672.03
Statutory reference:
   See section histories for similar state law
   Treatment of drug dependent persons in lieu of conviction, see Ohio R.C.
2951.041
§ 624.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words,
terms and phrases and their derivatives used in this chapter which are not
defined in this section shall have the meanings given to them in the Ohio
Revised Code.
   (a)   “Administer.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   (b)   “Adulterate.” To cause a drug to be adulterated as described in R.C. §
3715.63.
   (c)   “Alcohol and drug addiction services.” Has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 5119.01.
   (d)   “Bulk amount.” Of a controlled substance, means any of the following:
      (1)   For any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance included in
Schedule I, Schedule II, or Schedule III, with the exception of any controlled
substance analog, marihuana, cocaine, L.S.D., heroin, any fentanyl- related
compound, and hashish and except as provided in division (2), (5), or (6) of
this definition, whichever of the following is applicable:
         A.   An amount equal to or exceeding ten grams or 25 unit doses of a
compound, mixture, preparation or substance that is or contains any amount of a
Schedule I opiate or opium derivative;
         B.   An amount equal to or exceeding ten grams of a compound, mixture,
preparation or substance that is or contains any amount of raw or gum opium;
         C.   An amount equal to or exceeding 30 grams or ten unit doses of a
compound, mixture, preparation or substance that is or contains any amount of a
Schedule I hallucinogen other than tetrahydrocannabinol or lysergic acid amide,
or a Schedule I stimulant or depressant;
         D.   An amount equal to or exceeding 20 grams or five times the
maximum daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard
pharmaceutical reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation or
substance that is or contains any amount of a Schedule II opiate or opium
derivative;
         E.   An amount equal to or exceeding five grams or ten unit doses of a
compound, mixture, preparation or substance that is or contains any amount of
phencyclidine;
         F.   An amount equal to or exceeding 120 grams or 30 times the maximum
daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard pharmaceutical
reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule II stimulant that is in a final dosage form
manufactured by a person authorized by the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act
(21 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq., as amended) and the federal drug abuse control laws,
as defined in this section, that is or contains any amount of a Schedule II
depressant substance or a Schedule II hallucinogenic substance;
         G.   An amount equal to or exceeding three grams of a compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of a Schedule
II stimulant, or any of its salts or isomers, that is not in a final dosage
form manufactured by a person authorized by the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic
Act (21 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq., as amended) and the federal drug abuse control
laws;
      (2)   An amount equal to or exceeding 120 grams or 30 times the maximum
daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard pharmaceutical
reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III or IV substance other than an anabolic
steroid or a Schedule III opiate or opium derivative;
      (3)   An amount equal to or exceeding 20 grams or five times the maximum
daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard pharmaceutical
reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III opiate or opium derivative;
      (4)   An amount equal to or exceeding 250 milliliters or 250 grams of a
compound, mixture, preparation or substance that is or contains any amount of a
Schedule V substance;
      (5)   An amount equal to or exceeding 200 solid dosage units, 16 grams,
or 16 milliliters of a compound, mixture, preparation or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III anabolic steroid;
      (6)   For any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is a
combination of a fentanyl-related compound and any other compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V,
if the defendant is charged with a violation of R.C. § 2925.11 and the
sentencing provisions set forth in R.C. § 2925.11(C)(10)(b) and (C)(11) will
not apply regarding the defendant and the violation, the bulk amount of the
controlled substance for purposes of the violation is the amount specified in
division (1), (2), (3), (4), or (5) of this definition for the other Schedule
III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V controlled substance that is combined with the
fentanyl-related compound.
   (e)   “Certified grievance committee.” A duly constituted and organized
committee of the Ohio State Bar Association or of one or more local bar
associations of the state that complies with the criteria set forth in Rule V,
Section 6 of the Rules for the Government of the Bar of Ohio.
   (f)   “Cocaine.” Any of the following:
      (1)   A cocaine salt, isomer or derivative, a salt of a cocaine isomer or
derivative, or the base form of cocaine.
      (2)   Coca leaves or a salt, compound, derivative or preparation of coca
leaves, including ecgonine, a salt, isomer or derivative of ecgonine, or a salt
of an isomer or derivative of ecgonine.
      (3)   A salt, compound, derivative or preparation of a substance
identified in division (1) or (2) of this definition that is chemically
equivalent to or identical with any of those substances, except that the
substances shall not include decocainized coca leaves or extraction of coca
leaves if the extractions do not contain cocaine or ecgonine.
   (g)   “Committed in the vicinity of a juvenile.” An offense is “committed in
the vicinity of a juvenile” if the offender commits the offense within 100 feet
of a juvenile or within the view of a juvenile, regardless of whether the
offender knows the age of the juvenile, whether the offender knows the offense
is being committed within 100 feet of or within view of the juvenile, or
whether the juvenile actually views the commission of the offense.
   (h)   “Committed in the vicinity of a school.” An offense is “committed in
the vicinity of a school” if the offender commits the offense on school
premises, in a school building, or within 1,000 feet of the boundaries of any
school premises, regardless of whether the offender knows the offense is being
committed on school premises, in a school building, or within 1,000 feet of the
boundaries of any school premises.
   (i)   “Committed in the vicinity of a substance addiction services provider
or a recovering addict.” An offense is “committed in the vicinity of a
substance addiction services provider or a recovering addict” if either of the
following apply:
      (1)   The offender commits the offense on the premises of a substance
addiction services provider’s facility, including a facility licensed prior to
June 29, 2019, under R.C. § 5119.391 to provide methadone treatment or an
opioid treatment program licensed on or after that date under R.C. § 5119.37,
or within 500 feet of the premises of a substance addiction services provider’s
facility and the offender knows or should know that the offense is being
committed within the vicinity of the substance addiction services provider’s
facility.
      (2)   The offender sells, offers to sell, delivers, or distributes the
controlled substance or controlled substance analog to a person who is
receiving treatment at the time of the commission of the offense, or received
treatment within 30 days prior to the commission of the offense, from a
substance addiction services provider and the offender knows that the person is
receiving or received that treatment.
   (j)   “Controlled substance.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   (k)   “Controlled substance analog.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
3719.01.
   (l)   “Counterfeit controlled substance.” Any of the following:
      (1)   Any drug that bears, or whose container or label bears, a
trademark, trade name or other identifying mark used without authorization of
the owner of rights to the trademark, trade name or identifying mark.
      (2)   Any unmarked or unlabeled substance that is represented to be a
controlled substance manufactured, processed, packed or distributed by a person
other than the person that manufactured, processed, packed or distributed it.
      (3)   Any substance that is represented to be a controlled substance but
is not a controlled substance or is a different controlled substance.
      (4)   Any substance other than a controlled substance that a reasonable
person would believe to be a controlled substance because of its similarity in
shape, size and color, or its markings, labeling, packaging, distribution or
the price for which it is sold or offered for sale.
   (m)   “Cultivate.” Includes planting, watering, fertilizing or tilling.
   (n)   “Dangerous drug.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   (o)   “Deception.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   (p)   “Disciplinary counsel.” The disciplinary counsel appointed by the
Board of Commissioners on Grievances and Discipline of the Ohio Supreme Court
under the Rules for the Government of the Bar of Ohio.
   (q)   “Dispense.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   (r)   “Distribute.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   (s)   “Drug.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   (t)   “Drug abuse offense.” Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2913.02(A) that constitutes theft of drugs,
or any violation of R.C. § 2925.02, 2925.03, 2925.04, 2925.041, 2925.05,
2925.06, 2925.11, 2925.12, 2925.13, 2925.22, 2925.23, 2925.24, 2925.31,
2925.32, 2925.36 or 2925.37.
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former law of any municipality, state
or of the United States, that is substantially equivalent to any section listed
in division (1) of this definition.
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former law of any municipality,
state or of the United States, of which planting, cultivating, harvesting,
processing, making, manufacturing, producing, shipping, transporting,
delivering, acquiring, possessing, storing, distributing, dispensing, selling,
inducing another to use, administering to another, using or otherwise dealing
with a controlled substance is an element.
      (4)   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing or attempting to commit, any offense under division (1), (2) or (3)
of this definition.
   (u)   “Drug of abuse.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.011.
   (v)   “Felony drug abuse offense.” Any drug abuse offense that would
constitute a felony under the laws of this state, any other state or the United
States.
   (w)   “Fentanyl-related compound.” Any of the following:
      (1)   Fentanyl;
      (2)   Alpha-methylfentanyl (N- [1-(alpha-methyl-beta-phenyl)ethyl-4-
piperidyl] propionanilide; 1-(1-methyl-2-phenylethyl)-4-(N- propanilido)
piperidine);
      (3)   Alpha-methylthiofentanyl (N-[1-methyl-2-(2-thienyl)ethyl-4-
piperidinyl]- N-phenylpropanamide);
      (4)   Beta-hydroxyfentanyl (N- [1-(2-hydroxy-2-phenethyl-4-piperidinyl]-
N- phenylpropanamide);
      (5)   Beta- hydroxy-3-methylfentanyl (other name: N-[1-(2- hydroxy-2-
phenethyl)-3-methyl-4-piperidinyl]- phenylpropanamide);
      (6)   3-methylfentanyl (N- [3-methyl-1- (2-phenylethyl)-4-piperidyl]-
phenylpropanamide);
      (7)   3-methylthiofentanyl (N- [3-methyl-1-[2-(thienyl)ethyl]-4-
piperidinyl]- phenylpropanamide);
      (8)   Para-fluorofentanyl (N- (4-fluorophenyl) -N-[1-(2-phenethyl)- 4-
piperidinyl]propanamide;
      (9)   Thiofentanyl (N-phenyl-N- [1-(2- thienyl)ethyl-4-piperidinyl]-
propanamide;
      (10)   Alfentanil;
      (11)   Carfentanil;
      (12)   Remifentanil;
      (13)   Sufentanil;
      (14)   Acetyl-alpha- methylfentanyl (N- [1-(1-methyl-2-phenethyl)-4-
piperidinyl]-N- phenylacetamide); and
      (15)   Any compound that meets all of the following fentanyl
pharmacophore requirements to bind at the mu receptor, as identified by a
report from an established forensic laboratory, including acetylfentanyl,
furanylfentanyl, valerylfentanyl, butyrylfentanyl, isobutyrylfentanyl, 4-
methoxybutyrylfentanyl, para-fluorobutyrylfentanyl, acrylfentanyl, and ortho-
fluorofentanyl:
         A.   A chemical scaffold consisting of both of the following:
            1.   A five, six, or seven member ring structure containing a
nitrogen, whether or not further substituted;
            2.   An attached nitrogen to the ring, whether or not that nitrogen
is enclosed in a ring
structure, including an attached aromatic ring or other lipophilic group to
that nitrogen.
         B.   A polar functional group attached to the chemical scaffold,
including but not limited to a hydroxyl, ketone, amide, or ester;
         C.   An alkyl or aryl substitution off the ring nitrogen of the
chemical scaffold; and
         D.   The compound has not been approved for medical use by the United
States food and drug administration.
   (x)   “Harmful intoxicant.” Does not include beer or intoxicating liquor,
but means any of the following:
      (1)   Any compound, mixture, preparation or substance the gas, fumes or
vapor of which when inhaled can induce intoxication, excitement, giddiness,
irrational behavior, depression, stupefaction, paralysis, unconsciousness,
asphyxiation or other harmful physiological effects, and includes but is not
limited to any of the following:
         A.   Any volatile organic solvent, plastic cement, model cement,
fingernail polish remover, lacquer thinner, cleaning fluid, gasoline or other
preparation containing a volatile organic solvent.
         B.   Any aerosol propellant.
         C.   Any fluorocarbon refrigerant.
         D.   Any anesthetic gas.
      (2)   Gamma Butyrolactone;
      (3)   1,4 Butanediol.
   (y)   “Hashish.”
      (1)   A resin or a preparation of a resin to which both of the following
apply:
         A.   It is contained in or derived from any part of the plant of the
genus cannabis, whether in solid form or in a liquid concentrate, liquid
extract, or liquid distillate form.
         B.   It has a delta-9 tetra-hydrocannabinol concentration of more than
0.3%.
      (2)   The term does not include a hemp byproduct in the possession of a
licensed hemp processor under R.C. Chapter 928, provided that the hemp
byproduct is being produced, stored, and disposed of in accordance with rules
adopted under R.C. § 928.03.
   (z)   “Hypodermic.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   (aa)   “Juvenile.” A person under 18 years of age.
   (bb)   “Licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs.” Has the
same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   (cc)   “L.S.D.” Lysergic acid diethylamide.
   (dd)   “Major drug offender.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   (ee)   “Mandatory prison term.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   (ff)   “Manufacture.” To plant, cultivate, harvest, process, make, prepare
or otherwise engage in any part of the production of a drug, by propagation,
extraction, chemical synthesis or compounding, or any combination of the same,
and includes packaging, repackaging, labeling and other activities incident to
production.
   (gg)   “Manufacturer.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   (hh)   “Marihuana.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01, except that
it does not include hashish.
   (ii)   “Methamphetamine.” Methamphetamine, any salt, isomer or salt of an
isomer of methamphetamine, or any compound, mixture, preparation or substance
containing methamphetamine or any salt, isomer or salt of an isomer of
methamphetamine.
   (jj)   “Minor drug possession offense.” Either of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2925.11, as it existed prior to July 1, 1996,
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   A violation of R.C. § 2925.11, as it exists on and after July 1,
1996, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that is a misdemeanor
or a felony of the fifth degree.
   (kk)   “Official written order.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   (ll)   “Person.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   (mm)   “Person with a drug dependency.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
3719.011.
   (nn)   “Pharmacist.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   (oo)   “Pharmacy.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   (pp)   “Possess” or “possession.” Having control over a thing or substance
but may not be inferred solely from mere access to the thing or substance
through ownership or occupation of the premises upon which the thing or
substance is found.
   (qq)   “Premises of a substance addiction services provider's facility.”
Means the parcel of real property on which any substance addiction service
provider’s facility is situated.
   (rr)   “Prescription.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   (ss)   “Presumption for a prison term” or “presumption that a prison term
shall be imposed.” A presumption as described in R.C. § 2929.13(D) that a
prison term is a necessary sanction for a felony in order to comply with the
purposes and principles of sentencing under R.C. § 2929.11.
   (tt)   “Professional license.” Any license, permit, certificate,
registration, qualification, admission, temporary license, temporary permit,
temporary certificate or temporary registration that is described in R.C. §
2925.01(W)(1) to (W)(37) and that qualifies a person as a professionally
licensed person.
   (uu)   “Professionally licensed person.” Any of the following:
      (1)   A person who has received a certificate or temporary certificate as
a certified public accountant or who has registered as a public accountant
under R.C. Chapter 4701 and who holds an Ohio permit issued under that chapter;
      (2)   A person who holds a certificate of qualification to practice
architecture issued or renewed and registered under R.C. Chapter 4703;
      (3)   A person who is registered as a landscape architect under R.C.
Chapter 4703 or who holds a permit as a landscape architect issued under that
chapter;
      (4)   A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4707;
      (5)   A person who has been issued a certificate of registration as a
registered barber under R.C. Chapter 4709;
      (6)   A person licensed and regulated to engage in the business of a debt
pooling company by a legislative authority, under authority of R.C. Chapter
4710;
      (7)   A person who has been issued a cosmetologist’s license, hair
designer’s license, manicurist’s license, esthetician’s license, natural hair
stylist’s license, advanced cosmetologist’s license, advanced hair designer’s
license, advanced manicurist’s license, advanced esthetician’s license,
advanced natural hair stylist’s license, cosmetology instructor’s license, hair
design instructor’s license, manicurist instructor’s license, esthetics
instructor’s license, natural hair style instructor’s license, independent
contractor’s license, or tanning facility permit under R.C. Chapter 4713;
      (8)   A person who has been issued a license to practice dentistry, a
general anesthesia permit, a conscious sedation permit, a limited resident’s
license, a limited teaching license, a dental hygienist’s license or a dental
hygienist’s teacher’s certificate under R.C. Chapter 4715;
      (9)   A person who has been issued an embalmer’s license, a funeral
director’s license, a funeral home license or a crematory license, or who has
been registered for an embalmer’s or funeral director’s apprenticeship under
R.C. Chapter 4717;
      (10)   A person who has been licensed as a registered nurse or practical
nurse, or who has been issued a certificate for the practice of nurse-midwifery
under R.C. Chapter 4723;
      (11)   A person who has been licensed to practice optometry or to engage
in optical dispensing under R.C. Chapter 4725;
      (12)   A person licensed to act as a pawnbroker under R.C. Chapter 4727;
      (13)   A person licensed to act as a precious metals dealer under R.C.
Chapter 4728;
      (14)   A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 as a pharmacist or
pharmacy intern or registered under that chapter as a registered pharmacy
technician, certified pharmacy technician, or pharmacy technician trainee;
      (15)   A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 as a manufacturer of
dangerous drugs, outsourcing facility, third-party logistics provider,
repackager of dangerous drugs, wholesale distributor of dangerous drugs, or
terminal distributor of dangerous drugs;
      (16)   A person who is authorized to practice as a physician assistant
under R.C. Chapter 4730;
      (17)   A person who has been issued a license to practice medicine and
surgery, osteopathic medicine and surgery, or podiatric medicine and surgery
under R.C. Chapter 4731 or has been issued a certificate to practice a limited
branch of medicine under that chapter;
      (18)   A person licensed as a psychologist, independent school
psychologist, or school psychologist under R.C. Chapter 4732;
      (19)   A person registered to practice the profession of engineering or
surveying under R.C. Chapter 4733;
      (20)   A person who has been issued a license to practice chiropractic
under R.C. Chapter 4734;
      (21)   A person licensed to act as a real estate broker or real estate
salesperson under R.C. Chapter 4735;
      (22)   A person registered as a registered environmental health
specialist under R.C. Chapter 3776;
      (23)   A person licensed to operate or maintain a junkyard under R.C.
Chapter 4737;
      (24)   A person who has been issued a motor vehicle salvage dealer’s
license under R.C. Chapter 4738;
      (25)   A person who has been licensed to act as a steam engineer under
R.C. Chapter 4739;
      (26)   A person who has been issued a license or temporary permit to
practice veterinary medicine or any of its branches, or who is registered as a
graduate animal technician under R.C. Chapter 4741;
      (27)   A person who has been issued a hearing aid dealer’s or fitter’s
license or trainee permit under R.C. Chapter 4747;
      (28)   A person who has been issued a class A, class B or class C license
or who has been registered as an investigator or security guard employee under
R.C. Chapter 4749;
      (29)   A person licensed to practice as a nursing home administrator
under R.C. Chapter 4751;
      (30)   A person licensed to practice as a speech-language pathologist or
audiologist under R.C. Chapter 4753;
      (31)   A person issued a license as an occupational therapist or physical
therapist under R.C. Chapter 4755;
      (32)   A person who is licensed as a licensed professional clinical
counselor, licensed professional counselor, social worker, independent social
worker, independent marriage and family therapist, or marriage and family
therapist, or registered as a social work assistant under R.C. Chapter 4757;
      (33)   A person issued a license to practice dietetics under R.C. Chapter
4759;
      (34)   A person who has been issued a license or limited permit to
practice respiratory therapy under R.C. Chapter 4761;
      (35)   A person who has been issued a real estate appraiser certificate
under R.C. Chapter 4763;
      (36)   A person who has been issued a home inspector license under R.C.
Chapter 4764;
      (37)   A person who has been admitted to the bar by order of the Ohio
Supreme Court in compliance with its prescribed and published rules.
   (vv)   “Public premises.” Any hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall
or other place of public accommodation, business, amusement or resort.
   (ww)   “Sale.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   (xx)   “Sample drug.” A drug or pharmaceutical preparation that would be
hazardous to health or safety if used without the supervision of a licensed
health professional authorized to prescribe drugs, or a drug of abuse, and
that, at one time, had been placed in a container plainly marked as a sample by
a manufacturer.
   (yy)   “Schedule I”, “Schedule II”, “Schedule III”, “Schedule IV” or
“Schedule V.” Have the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   (zz)   “School.” Any school operated by a board of education, any community
school established under R.C. Chapter 3314, or any nonpublic school for which
the Director of Education and Workforce prescribes minimum standards under R.C.
§ 3301.07, whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities or
training provided by the school is being conducted at the time a criminal
offense is committed.
   (aaa)   “School building.” Any building in which any of the instruction,
extracurricular activities or training provided by a school is conducted,
whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities or training provided
by the school is being conducted in the school building at the time a criminal
offense is committed.
   (bbb)   “School premises.” Either of the following:
      (1)   The parcel of real property on which any school is situated,
whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or training
provided by the school is being conducted on the premises at the time a
criminal offense is committed.
      (2)   Any other parcel of real property that is owned or leased by a
board of education of a school, the governing authority of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314, or the governing body of a nonpublic
school for which the Director of Education and Workforce prescribes minimum
standards under R.C. § 3301.07 and on which some of the instruction,
extracurricular activities or training of the school is conducted, whether or
not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or training provided by the
school is being conducted on the parcel of real property at the time a criminal
offense is committed.
   (ccc)   “Standard Pharmaceutical Reference Manual.” The current edition,
with cumulative changes if any, of references that are approved by the State
Board of Pharmacy.
   (ddd)   “Substance addiction services provider.” Means an agency,
association, corporation or other legal entity, individual, or program that
provides one or more of the following at a facility:
      (1)   Either alcohol addiction services, or drug addiction services, or
both such services that are certified by the Ohio Director of Mental Health and
Addiction Services under R.C. § 5119.36;
      (2)   Recovery supports that are related to either alcohol addiction
services, or drug addiction services, or both such services and paid for with
federal, state, or local funds administered by the Ohio Department of Mental
Health and Addiction Services or a board of alcohol, drug addiction, and mental
health services.
   (eee)   “Unit dose.” An amount or unit or a compound, mixture or preparation
containing a controlled substance that is separately identifiable and in a form
that indicates that it is the amount or unit by which the controlled substance
is separately administered to or taken by an individual.
   (fff)   “Wholesaler.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
(R.C. § 2925.01)
§ 624.02 TRAFFICKING IN CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES; GIFT OF MARIHUANA.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Sell or offer to sell a controlled substance or a controlled
substance analog;
      (2)   Prepare for shipment, ship, transport, deliver, prepare for
distribution, or distribute a controlled substance or a controlled substance
analog, when the offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
controlled substance or a controlled substance analog is intended for sale or
resale by the offender or another person.
   (b)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   Manufacturers, licensed health professionals authorized to
prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies, and other persons whose
conduct is in accordance with Ohio R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730,
4731, and 4741.
      (2)   If the offense involves an anabolic steroid, any person who is
conducting or participating in a research project involving the use of an
anabolic steroid if the project has been approved by the United States Food and
Drug Administration.
      (3)   Any person who sells, offers for sale, prescribes, dispenses, or
administers for livestock or other nonhuman species an anabolic steroid that is
expressly intended for administration through implants to livestock or other
nonhuman species and approved for that purpose under the “Federal Food, Drug
and Cosmetic Act” (21 U.S.C. 301 et seq., as amended), and is sold, offered for
sale, prescribed, dispensed, or administered for that purpose in accordance
with that Act.
   (c)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of the
following:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (c)(2) and (c)(3) of this
section, trafficking in controlled substances is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the offense
involves a gift of 20 grams or less of marihuana, trafficking in marihuana is a
minor misdemeanor upon a first offense and a misdemeanor of the third degree
upon a subsequent offense. If the offense involves a gift of 20 grams or less
of marihuana and if the offense was committed in the vicinity of a school or in
the vicinity of a juvenile, trafficking in marihuana is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
      (3)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance that is a combination of a fentanyl- related compound
and marihuana, one of the following applies:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (c)(3)B. of this
section, the offender is guilty of trafficking in marihuana and shall be
punished under division (c)(2) of this section. The offender is not guilty of
trafficking in a fentanyl-related compound and shall not be charged with,
convicted of, or punished under R.C. § 2925.03(C)(9) for trafficking in a
fentanyl-related compound.
         B.   If the offender knows or has reason to know that the compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is the drug involved contains a
fentanyl-related compound, the offender is guilty of trafficking in a fentanyl-
related compound and shall be punished under R.C. § 2925.03(C)(9).
   (d)   As used in this section, “drug” includes any substance that is
represented to be a drug.
(R.C. § 2925.03(A) - (C), (I))
Statutory reference:
   Felony drug trafficking offenses, see Ohio R.C. 2925.03(C)
§ 624.025 CULTIVATION OF MARIHUANA.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly cultivate marihuana.
   (b)   This section does not apply to any person listed in Ohio R.C. 2925.03
(B)(1), (2) or (3), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, to the
extent and under the circumstances described in that division.
   (c)   Whoever commits a violation of division (a) of this section is guilty
of illegal cultivation of marihuana.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in the following divisions, illegal
cultivation of marihuana is a minor misdemeanor or, if the offense was
committed in the vicinity of a school or in the vicinity of a juvenile, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   If the amount of marihuana involved equals or exceeds 100 grams but
is less than 200 grams, illegal cultivation of marihuana is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree or, if the offense was committed in the vicinity of a school
or in the vicinity of a juvenile, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (3)   If the amount of marihuana involved equals or exceeds 200 grams,
illegal cultivation of marihuana is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (d)   Arrest or conviction for a minor misdemeanor violation of this section
does not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the person so
arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries about the person’s criminal
record, including any inquiries contained in any application for employment,
license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection with the person’s
appearance as a witness.
(R.C. § 2925.04(A), (B), (C)(5), (G))
§ 624.03 DRUG POSSESSION OFFENSE.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly obtain, possess or use a controlled
substance or a controlled substance analog.
   (b)   (1)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
         A.   Manufacturers, licensed health professionals authorized to
prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies, and other persons whose
conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731
and 4741.
         B.   If the offense involves an anabolic steroid, any person who is
conducting or participating in a research project involving the use of an
anabolic steroid if the project has been approved by the United States Food and
Drug Administration.
         C.   Any person who sells, offers for sale, prescribes, dispenses or
administers for livestock or other nonhuman species an anabolic steroid that is
expressly intended for administration through implants to livestock or other
nonhuman species and approved for that purpose under the Federal Food, Drug and
Cosmetic Act, and is sold, offered for sale, prescribed, dispensed or
administered for that purpose in accordance with that Act.
         D.   Any person who obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs if the prescription was issued for a legitimate medical purpose and not
altered, forged, or obtained through deception or commission of a theft
offense. As used in this division (b)(1)D., “deception” and “theft offense”
have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      (2)   A.   As used in division (b)(2) of this section:
            1.    “Community addiction services provider.” Has the same meaning
as in R.C. § 5119.01.
            2.    “Community control sanction.” Has the same meanings as in
R.C. § 2929.01
            3.   “Health care facility.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2919.16.
            4.   “Minor drug possession offense.” A violation of this section
or R.C. § 2925.11 that is a misdemeanor or a felony of the fifth degree.
            5.   “Peace officer.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
            6.   “Post- release control sanction.” Has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2967.28.
            7.   “Public agency.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2930.01.
            8.   “Qualified individual.” A person who is acting in good faith
who seeks or obtains medical assistance for another person who is experiencing
a drug overdose, a person who experiences a drug overdose and who seeks medical
assistance for that overdose, or a person who is the subject of another person
seeking or obtaining medical assistance for that overdose as described in
division (b)(2)B. of this section.
            9.   “Seek or obtain medical assistance.” Includes, but is not
limited to making a 9-1-1 call, contacting in person or by telephone call an
on-duty peace officer, or transporting or presenting a person to a health care
facility.
         B.   Subject to division (b)(2)E. of this section, a qualified
individual shall not be arrested, charged, prosecuted, convicted, or penalized
pursuant to this chapter for a minor drug possession offense or a violation of
R.C. § 2925.12, R.C. § 2925.14(C)(1), or R.C. § 2925.141 if all of the
following apply:
            1.   The evidence of the obtaining, possession, or use of the
controlled substance or controlled substance analog, drug abuse instruments, or
drug paraphernalia that would be the basis of the offense was obtained as a
result of the qualified individual seeking the medical assistance or
experiencing an overdose and needing medical assistance.
            2.   Subject to division (b)(2)F. of this section, within 30 days
after seeking or obtaining the medical assistance, the qualified individual
seeks and obtains a screening and receives a referral for treatment from a
community addiction services provider or a properly credentialed addiction
treatment professional.
            3.   Subject to division (b)(2)F. of this section, the qualified
individual who obtains a screening and receives a referral for treatment under
division (b)(2)B.2. of this section, upon the request of any prosecuting
attorney, submits documentation to the prosecuting attorney that verifies that
the qualified individual satisfied the requirements of that division. The
documentation shall be limited to the date and time of the screening obtained
and referral received.
         C.   If a person who is serving a community control sanction or is
under a sanction on post-release control acts pursuant to division (b)(2)B. of
this section, then R.C. § 2929.141(B), R.C. § 2929.15(B)(2), R.C. § 2929.25(D)
(3), or R.C. § 2967.28(F)(3) applies to the person with respect to any
violation of the sanction or post-release control sanction based on a minor
drug possession offense, as defined in R.C. § 2925.11, or a violation of R.C. §
2925.12, R.C. § 2925.14(C)(1), or R.C. § 2925.141.
         D.   Nothing in division (b)(2)B. of this section shall be construed
to do any of the following:
            1.   Limit the admissibility of any evidence in connection with the
investigation or prosecution of a crime with regards to a defendant who does
not qualify for the protections of division (b)(2)B. of this section or with
regards to any crime other than a minor drug possession offense or a violation
of R.C. § 2925.12, R.C. § 2925.14(C)(1), or R.C. § 2925.141 committed by a
person who qualifies for protection pursuant to division (b)(2)B. of this
section;
            2.   Limit any seizure of evidence or contraband otherwise
permitted by law;
            3.   Limit or abridge the authority of a peace officer to detain or
take into custody a person in the course of an investigation or to effectuate
an arrest for any offense except as provided in that division;
            4.   Limit, modify, or remove any immunity from liability available
pursuant to law in effect prior to September 13, 2016 to any public agency or
to an employee of any public agency.
         E.   Division (b)(2)B. of this section does not apply to any person
who twice previously has been granted an immunity under division (b)(2)B. of
this section. No person shall be granted an immunity under division (b)(2)B. of
this section more than two times.
         F.   Nothing in this section shall compel any qualified individual to
disclose protected health information in a way that conflicts with the
requirements of the “Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of
1996”, 104 Pub. L. No. 191, 110 Stat. 2021, 42 U.S.C. §§ 1320d et seq., as
amended, and regulations promulgated by the United States Department of Health
and Human Services to implement the act or the requirements of 42 C.F.R. Part
2.
   (c)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of one of the
following:
      (1)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule I or Schedule II, with the
exception of marihuana or hashish, whoever violates division (a) of this
section is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V,
whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of possession of drugs.
The penalty for the offense shall be determined as follows:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (c)(2)B. of this
section, possession of drugs is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the
offender previously has been convicted of a drug abuse offense, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         B.   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds the bulk
amount, possession of drugs is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   If the drug involved in the violation is marihuana or a compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance containing marihuana other than hashish,
whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of possession of
marihuana. The penalty for the offense shall be determined as follows:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (c)(3)B. or (c)(3)C. of
this section, possession of marihuana is a minor misdemeanor.
         B.   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds 100 grams
but is less than 200 grams, possession of marihuana is a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
         C.   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds 200 grams,
possession of marihuana is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (4)   If the drug involved in the violation is hashish or a compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance containing hashish, whoever violates
division (a) of this section is guilty of possession of hashish. The penalty
for the offense shall be determined as follows:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (c)(4)B. or (c)(4)C. of
this section, possession of hashish is a minor misdemeanor.
         B.   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds five grams
but is less than ten grams of hashish in a solid form or equals or exceeds one
gram but is less than two grams of hashish in a liquid concentrate, liquid
extract, or liquid distillate form, possession of hashish is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
         C.   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds ten grams of
hashish in a solid form or equals or exceeds two grams of hashish in a liquid
concentrate, liquid extract, or liquid distillate form, possession of hashish
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance that is a combination of a fentanyl- related compound
and marihuana, one of the following applies:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (c)(5)B. of this
section, the offender is guilty of possession of marihuana and shall be
punished as provided in division (c)(3) of this section. Except as otherwise
provided in division (c)(5)B. of this section, the offender is not guilty of
possession of a fentanyl-related compound under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) and shall
not be charged with, convicted of, or punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) for
possession of a fentanyl- related compound.
         B.   If the offender knows or has reason to know that the compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is the drug involved contains a
fentanyl-related compound, the offender is guilty of possession of a fentanyl-
related compound and shall be punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11).
      (6)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance that is a combination of a fentanyl- related compound
and any Schedule III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V controlled substance that is
not a fentanyl-related compound, one of the following applies:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (c)(6)B. of this
section, the offender is guilty of possession of drugs and shall be punished as
provided in division (c)(2) of this section. Except as otherwise provided in
division (c)(6)B. of this section, the offender is not guilty of possession of
a fentanyl-related compound under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) and shall not be
charged with, convicted of, or punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) for
possession of a fentanyl- related compound.
         B.   If the offender knows or has reason to know that the compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is the drug involved contains a
fentanyl-related compound, the offender is guilty of possession of a fentanyl-
related compound and shall be punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11).
   (d)   Arrest or conviction for a minor misdemeanor violation of this section
does not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the person so
arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries about the person’s criminal
record, including any inquiries contained in any application for employment,
license or other right or privilege, or made in connection with the person’s
appearance as a witness.
   (e)   (1)   In addition to any prison term or jail term authorized or
required by division (c) of this section and R.C. §§ 2929.13, 2929.14, 2929.22,
2929.24 and 2929.25, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and
in addition to any other sanction that is imposed for the offense under this
section or R.C. §§ 2929.11 through 2929.18, or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, or
any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court that sentences an
offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of division (a) of
this section may suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or permit for not more than five years. However, if the offender pleaded guilty
to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another state or the United States
arising out of the same set of circumstances as the violation, the court shall
suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit for
not more than five years.
      (2)   If the offender is a professionally licensed person, in addition to
any other sanction imposed for a violation of this section, the court
immediately shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
   (f)   (1)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
      (2)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (f) of this section, the
sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.11)
§ 624.04 POSSESSION OF DRUG ABUSE INSTRUMENTS.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly make, obtain, possess, or use any
instrument, article, or thing the customary and primary purpose of which is for
the administration or use of a dangerous drug, other than marihuana, when the
instrument involved is a hypodermic or syringe, whether or not of crude or
extemporized manufacture or assembly, and the instrument, article, or thing
involved has been used by the offender to unlawfully administer or use a
dangerous drug, other than marihuana, or to prepare a dangerous drug, other
than marihuana, for unlawful administration or use.
   (b)   (1)   This section does not apply to manufacturers, licensed health
professionals authorized to prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies,
and other persons whose conduct was in accordance with Ohio R.C. Chapters 3719,
4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, and 4741.
      (2)   Division (B)(2) of R.C. § 2925.11 applies with respect to a
violation of this section when a person seeks or obtains medical assistance for
another person who is experiencing a drug overdose, a person experiences a drug
overdose and seeks medical assistance for that overdose, or a person is the
subject of another person seeking or obtaining medical assistance for that
overdose.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possessing drug abuse
instruments, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a drug abuse offense, violation of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (d)   (1)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this section, the court may suspend for not more than five years
the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit. However, if
the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another
state or the United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the
violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If the offender is a
professionally licensed person, in addition to any other sanction imposed for a
violation of this section, the court immediately shall comply with R.C. §
2925.38.
      (2)   A.   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
         B.   Upon the filing of a motion under division (d)(2) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.12)
§ 624.05 PERMITTING DRUG ABUSE.
   (a)   No person who is the owner, operator, or person in charge of a
locomotive, watercraft, aircraft, or other vehicle, as defined in Ohio R.C.
4501.01, shall knowingly permit the vehicle to be used for the commission of a
felony drug abuse offense.
   (b)   No person, who is the owner, lessee, or occupant, or who has custody,
control, or supervision of premises, or real estate, including vacant land,
shall knowingly permit his or her premises, or real estate, including vacant
land, to be used for the commission of a felony drug abuse offense by another
person.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of permitting drug abuse.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (c)(2) of this section, permitting
drug abuse is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Permitting drug abuse is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if the felony drug abuse offense in question is a
violation of R.C. § 2925.02, 2925.03, or 2925.04, or if the felony drug abuse
offense in question is a violation of R.C. § 2925.041 and the offender had
actual knowledge, at the time the offender permitted the vehicle, premises, or
real estate to be used as described in division (a) or (b) of this section,
that the person who assembled or possessed the chemicals in question in
violation of R.C. § 2925.041 had assembled or possessed them with the intent to
manufacture a controlled substance in Schedule I or Schedule II in violation of
R.C. § 2925.04.
   (d)   Any premises or real estate that is permitted to be used in violation
of division (b) of this section constitutes a nuisance subject to abatement
pursuant to R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2925.13(A) - (C), (F))
§ 624.06 DECEPTION TO OBTAIN A DANGEROUS DRUG. (REPEALED)
   (Editor's note: Section 624.06 was repealed as part of the 2010 revision of
these Codified Ordinances because a violation of substantially equivalent State
law (Ohio R.C. 2925.22) was made a felony by the General Assembly.)
§ 624.07 ABUSING HARMFUL INTOXICANTS.
   (a)   Except for lawful research, clinical, medical, dental, or veterinary
purposes, no person, with purpose to induce intoxication or similar
physiological effects, shall obtain, possess, or use a harmful intoxicant.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of abusing harmful
intoxicants, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a drug abuse offense, abusing harmful intoxicants is a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (c)   (1)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this section, the court may suspend for not more than five years
the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit. However, if
the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another
state or the United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the
violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If the offender is a
professionally licensed person, in addition to any other sanction imposed for a
violation of this section, the court immediately shall comply with R.C. §
2925.38.
      (2)   A.   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to the September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
         B.   Upon the filing of a motion under division (c)(2) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.31)
§ 624.073 IMPROPERLY DISPENSING OR DISTRIBUTING NITROUS OXIDE.
   (a)   No person who dispenses or distributes nitrous oxide in cartridges
shall fail to comply with either of the following:
      (1)   The record-keeping requirements established under division (c) of
this section.
      (2)   The labeling and transaction identification requirements
established under division (d) of this section.
   (b)   Whoever violates division (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section is guilty
of improperly dispensing or distributing nitrous oxide, a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (c)   Beginning July 1, 2001, a person who dispenses or distributes nitrous
oxide shall record each transaction involving the dispensing or distribution of
the nitrous oxide on a separate card. The person shall require the purchaser to
sign the card and provide a complete residence address. The person dispensing
or distributing the nitrous oxide shall sign and date the card. The person
shall retain the card recording a transaction for one year from the date of the
transaction. The person shall maintain the cards at the person’s business
address and make them available during normal business hours for inspection and
copying by officers or employees of the State Board of Pharmacy or of other law
enforcement agencies that are authorized to investigate violations of this
Code, Ohio R.C. Chapters 2925, 3719, or 4729, or federal drug abuse control
laws. The cards used to record each transaction shall inform the purchaser of
the following:
      (1)   That nitrous oxide cartridges are to be used only for purposes of
preparing food;
      (2)   That inhalation of nitrous oxide can have dangerous health effects;
and
      (3)   That it is a violation of state law to distribute or dispense
cartridges of nitrous oxide to any person under age 21, punishable as a felony
of the fifth degree.
   (d)   (1)   Each cartridge of nitrous oxide dispensed or distributed in this
municipality shall bear the following printed warning: “Nitrous oxide
cartridges are to be used only for purposes of preparing food. Nitrous oxide
cartridges may not be sold to persons under age 21. Do not inhale contents.
Misuse can be dangerous to your health.”
      (2)   Each time a person dispenses or distributes one or more cartridges
of nitrous oxide, the person shall mark the packaging containing the cartridges
with a label or other device that identifies the person who dispensed or
distributed the nitrous oxide and the person’s business address.
(ORC 2925.32(B)(4), (D)(2), (F), (G))
Statutory reference:
   Trafficking in harmful intoxicants, felony offenses, see Ohio R.C. 2925.32
§ 624.074 POSSESSING NITROUS OXIDE IN MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (a)   As used in this section, “motor vehicle,” “street,” and “highway” have
the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 4511.01.
   (b)   Unless authorized by these Codified Ordinances or by state law, no
person shall possess an open cartridge of nitrous oxide in either of the
following circumstances:
      (1)   While operating or being a passenger in or on a motor vehicle on a
street, highway, or other public or private property open to the public for
purposes of vehicular traffic or parking.
      (2)   While being in or on a stationary motor vehicle on a street,
highway, or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular traffic or parking.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possessing nitrous oxide in
a motor vehicle, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (d)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for
possessing nitrous oxide in a motor vehicle, the court may suspend for not more
than five years the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit.
(R.C. § 2925.33)
§ 624.08 ILLEGAL DISPENSING OF DRUG SAMPLES.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly furnish a sample drug to another person.
   (b)   Division (a) of this section does not apply to manufacturers,
wholesalers, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies, licensed health professionals
authorized to prescribe drugs, and other persons whose conduct is in accordance
with Ohio R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715, 4723, 4725, 4729, 4730, 4731, and 4741.
   (c)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal dispensing of
drug samples.
      (2)   If the drug involved in the offense is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule I or Schedule II, with the
exception of marihuana, illegal dispensing of drug samples is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the drug involved in the offense is a dangerous drug or a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance included in Schedule III, Schedule
IV or Schedule V, or is marihuana, the penalty for the offense shall be
determined as follows:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in the following division, illegal
dispensing of drug samples is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
         B.   If the offense was committed in the vicinity of a school or in
the vicinity of a juvenile, illegal dispensing of drug samples is a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2925.36(A) - (C))
Statutory reference:
   Felony offenses, see Ohio R.C. 2925.36(C)(2)
§ 624.09 POSSESSION, SALE AND DISPOSAL OF HYPODERMICS.
   (a)   Possession of a hypodermic is authorized for the following:
      (1)   A manufacturer or distributor of, or dealer in hypodermics, or
medication packaged in hypodermics, and any authorized agent of employee of
that manufacturer, distributor or dealer, in the regular course of business;
      (2)   A terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, in the regular course of
business;
      (3)   A person authorized to administer injections, in the regular course
of the person’s profession or employment;
      (4)   A person, when the hypodermic in his possession was lawfully
obtained and is kept and used for the purpose of self-administration of insulin
or other drug prescribed for the treatment of disease by a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs;
      (5)   A person whose use of a hypodermic is for legal research, clinical,
educational or medicinal purposes;
      (6)   A farmer, for the lawful administration of a drug to an animal;
      (7)   A person whose use of a hypodermic is for lawful professional,
mechanical, trade or craft purposes.
   (b)   No manufacturer or distributor of, or dealer in, hypodermics or
medication packaged in hypodermics, or their authorized agents or employees,
and no terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, shall display any hypodermic
for sale. No person authorized to possess a hypodermic pursuant to division (a)
of this section shall negligently fail to take reasonable precautions to
prevent any hypodermic in the person’s possession from theft or acquisition by
any unauthorized person.
(ORC 3719.172(A), (B))
   (c)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of a violation of division (b) of this section, Ohio R.C. 3719.05, 3719.06,
3719.13, 3719.172(B), or 3719.31, or a drug abuse offense, a violation of
division (b) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(ORC 3719.99(E))
Statutory reference:
   Felony offenses, see Ohio R.C. 3719.172(C), (D)
§ 624.10 EVIDENCE.
   (a)   (1)   In any criminal prosecution for a violation of this chapter or
Ohio R.C. Chapters 2925 or 3719, a laboratory report from the Bureau of
Criminal Identification and Investigation or a laboratory operated by another
law enforcement agency, or a laboratory established by or under the authority
of an institution of higher education that has its main campus in this state
and that is accredited by the Association of American Universities or the North
Central Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools, primarily for the
purpose of providing scientific service to law enforcement agencies, and signed
by the person performing the analysis, stating that the substance that is the
basis of the alleged offense has been weighed and analyzed and stating the
findings as to the content, weight, and identity of the substance and that it
contains any amount of a controlled substance and the number and description of
unit dosages, is prima facie evidence of the content, identity, and weight or
the existence and number of unit dosages of the substance. In any criminal
prosecution for a violation of Ohio R.C. 2925.041 or a violation of this
chapter, Ohio R.C. Chapter 2925 or Ohio R.C. Chapter 3719 that is based on the
possession of chemicals sufficient to produce a compound, mixture, preparation,
or substance included in Schedule I, II, III, IV, or V, a laboratory report
from the Bureau or from any laboratory that is operated or established as
described in this division that is signed by the person performing the
analysis, stating that the substances that are the basis of the alleged offense
have been weighed and analyzed and stating the findings as to the content,
weight, and identity of each of the substances, is prima facie evidence of the
content, identity, and weight of the substances.
      (2)   Attached to that report shall be a copy of a notarized statement by
the signer of the report giving the name of the signer and stating that the
signer is an employee of the laboratory issuing the report and that performing
the analysis is a part of the signer’s regular duties, and giving an outline of
the signer’s education, training, and experience for performing an analysis of
materials included under this section. The signer shall attest that
scientifically accepted tests were performed with due caution, and that the
evidence was handled in accordance with established and accepted procedures
while in the custody of the laboratory.
   (b)   The prosecuting attorney shall serve a copy of the report on the
attorney of record for the accused, or on the accused if the accused has no
attorney, prior to any proceeding in which the report is to be used against the
accused other than at a preliminary hearing or grand jury proceeding where the
report may be used without having been previously served upon the accused.
   (c)   The report shall not be prima facie evidence of the contents,
identity, and weight or the existence and number of unit dosages of the
substance if the accused or the accused’s attorney demands the testimony of the
person signing the report, by serving the demand upon the prosecuting attorney,
within seven days from the accused or the accused’s attorney’s receipt of the
report. The time may be extended by a trial judge in the interests of justice.
   (d)   Any report issued for use under this section shall contain notice of
the right of the accused to demand, and the manner in which the accused shall
demand, the testimony of the person signing the report.
   (e)   Any person who is accused of a violation of this chapter or Ohio R.C.
Chapters 2925 or 3719 is entitled, upon written request made to the prosecuting
attorney, to have a portion of the substance that is, or of each of the
substances that are, the basis of the alleged violation preserved for the
benefit of independent analysis performed by a laboratory analyst employed by
the accused person, or, if the accused is indigent, by a qualified laboratory
analyst appointed by the court. Such portion shall be a representative sample
of the entire substance that is, or of each of the substances that are, the
basis of the alleged violation and shall be of sufficient size, in the opinion
of the court, to permit the accused’s analyst to make a thorough scientific
analysis concerning the identity of the substance or substances. The
prosecuting attorney shall provide the accused’s analyst with the sample
portion at least 14 days prior to trial, unless the trial is to be held in a
court not of record or unless the accused person is charged with a minor
misdemeanor, in which case the prosecuting attorney shall provide the accused’s
analyst with the sample portion at least three days prior to trial. If the
prosecuting attorney determines that such a sample portion cannot be preserved
and given to the accused’s analyst, the prosecuting attorney shall so inform
the accused person, or the accused’s attorney. In such a circumstance, the
accused person is entitled, upon written request made to the prosecuting
attorney, to have the accused’s privately employed or court appointed analyst
present at an analysis of the substance that is, or the substances that are,
the basis of the alleged violation, and, upon further written request, to
receive copies of all recorded scientific data that result from the analysis
and that can be used by an analyst in arriving at conclusions, findings, or
opinions concerning the identity of the substance or substances subject to the
analysis.
   (f)   In addition to the rights provided under division (e) of this section,
any person who is accused of a violation of this chapter or Ohio R.C. Chapters
2925 or 3719 that involves a bulk amount of a controlled substance, or any
multiple thereof, or who is accused of a violation of Ohio R.C. 2925.11 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, other than a minor misdemeanor
violation, that involves marihuana, is entitled, upon written request made to
the prosecuting attorney, to have a laboratory analyst of the accused’s choice,
or, if the accused is indigent, a qualified laboratory analyst appointed by the
court, present at a measurement or weighing of the substance that is the basis
of the alleged violation. Also, the accused person is entitled, upon further
written request, to receive copies of all recorded scientific data that result
from the measurement or weighing and that can be used by an analyst in arriving
at conclusions, findings, or opinions concerning the weight, volume, or number
of unit doses of the substance subject to the measurement or weighing.
(ORC 2925.51)
   (g)   In addition to the financial sanctions authorized or required under
Ohio R.C. 2929.18 and 2929.28 and to any costs otherwise authorized or required
under any provision of law, the court imposing sentence upon an offender who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a drug abuse offense may order the offender to
pay to the state, municipal, or county law enforcement agencies that handled
the investigation and prosecution all of the costs that the state, municipal
corporation, or county reasonably incurred in having tests performed under this
section or Ohio R.C. 2925.51 or in any other manner on any substance that was
the basis of, or involved in, the offense to determine whether the substance
contained any amount of a controlled substance if the results of the tests
indicate that the substance tested contained any controlled substance. No court
shall order an offender under this section to pay the costs of tests performed
on a substance if the results of the tests do not indicate that the substance
tested contained any controlled substance. The court shall hold a hearing to
determine the amount of costs to be imposed under this section. The court may
hold the hearing as part of the sentencing hearing for the offender.
(ORC 2925.511)
§ 624.11 DOUBLE JEOPARDY.
   No person shall be prosecuted for a violation of this chapter if the person
has been acquitted or convicted under the federal drug abuse control laws of
the same act or omission which, it is alleged, constitutes a violation of this
chapter.
(ORC 2925.50, 3719.19)
§ 624.12 CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE SCHEDULES.
   Controlled Substance Schedules I, II, III, IV, and V, as established in Ohio
R.C. 3719.41 and amended by Ohio R.C. 3719.43 and 3719.44, are hereby adopted
by reference, and shall be treated as if set forth in full herein.
§ 624.13 CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE OR PRESCRIPTION LABELS.
   (a)   Whenever a manufacturer sells a controlled substance, and whenever a
wholesaler, repackager, or outsourcing facility sells a controlled substance in
a package the wholesaler, repackager, or outsourcing facility has prepared, the
manufacturer or the wholesaler, repackager, or outsourcing facility, as the
case may be, shall securely affix to each package in which the controlled
substance is contained a label showing in legible English the name and address
of the vendor and the quantity, kind, and form of controlled substance
contained therein. No person, except a pharmacist for the purpose of dispensing
a controlled substance upon a prescription shall alter, deface, or remove any
label so affixed. As used in this division, “repackager” and “outsourcing
facility” have the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   (b)   No person shall alter, deface or remove any label affixed pursuant to
Ohio R.C. 3719.08 as long as any of the original contents remain.
(ORC 3719.08(A), (E))
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this
section, or Ohio R.C. 3719.07 or 3719.08, or a drug abuse offense, a violation
of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If
the violation involves the sale, offer to sell, or possession of a Schedule I
or II controlled substance, with the exception of marihuana, and if the
offender, as a result of the violation, is a major drug offender, then Ohio
R.C. 3719.99(D) applies.
(ORC 3719.99(C))
§ 624.14 USE OR POSSESSION OF PARAPHERNALIA.
   (a)   As used in this section, “drug paraphernalia” means any equipment,
product, or material of any kind that is used by the offender, intended by the
offender for use, or designed for use, in propagating, cultivating, growing,
harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing,
preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing,
concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing into the
human body, a controlled substance in violation of this chapter. “Drug
paraphernalia” includes, but is not limited to, any of the following equipment,
products, or materials that are used by the offender, intended by the offender
for use, or designed by the offender for use, in any of the following manners:
      (1)   A kit for propagating, cultivating, growing, or harvesting any
species of a plant that is a controlled substance or from which a controlled
substance can be derived.
      (2)   A kit for manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing,
processing, or preparing a controlled substance.
      (3)   Any object, instrument, or device for manufacturing, compounding,
converting, producing, processing, or preparing methamphetamine.
      (4)   An isomerization device for increasing the potency of any species
of a plant that is a controlled substance.
      (5)   Testing equipment for identifying, or analyzing the strength,
effectiveness, or purity of, a controlled substance, except for those exempted
in division (d)(4) of this section;
      (6)   A scale or balance for weighing or measuring a controlled
substance.
      (7)   A diluent or adulterant, such as quinine hydrochloride, mannitol,
mannite, dextrose, or lactose, for cutting a controlled substance.
      (8)   A separation gin or sifter for removing twigs and seeds from, or
otherwise cleaning or refining, marihuana.
      (9)   A blender, bowl, container, spoon, or mixing device for compounding
a controlled substance.
      (10)   A capsule, balloon, envelope, or container for packaging small
quantities of a controlled substance.
      (11)   A container or device for storing or concealing a controlled
substance.
      (12)   A hypodermic syringe, needle, or instrument for parenterally
injecting a controlled substance into the human body.
      (13)   An object, instrument, or device for ingesting, inhaling, or
otherwise introducing into the human body, marihuana, cocaine, hashish, or
hashish oil, such as a metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or
ceramic pipe, with or without a screen, permanent screen, hashish head, or
punctured metal bowl; water pipe; carburetion tube or device; smoking or
carburetion mask; roach clip or similar object used to hold burning material,
such as a marihuana cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be
held in the hand; miniature cocaine spoon, or cocaine vial; chamber pipe;
carburetor pipe; electric pipe; air driver pipe; chillum; bong; or ice pipe or
chiller.
   (b)   In determining if any equipment, product, or material is drug
paraphernalia, a court or law enforcement officer shall consider, in addition
to other relevant factors, the following:
      (1)   Any statement by the owner or by anyone in control of the
equipment, product, or material, concerning its use.
      (2)   The proximity in time or space of the equipment, product, or
material, or of the act relating to the equipment, product, or material, to a
violation of any provision of this chapter or Ohio R.C. Chapter 2925.
      (3)   The proximity of the equipment, product, or material to any
controlled substance.
      (4)   The existence of any residue of a controlled substance on the
equipment, product, or material.
      (5)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of the owner, or of
anyone in control, of the equipment, product, or material, to deliver it to any
person whom he or she knows intends to use the equipment, product, or material
to facilitate a violation of any provision of this chapter or Ohio R.C. Chapter
2925. A finding that the owner or anyone in control of the equipment, product,
or material is not guilty of a violation of any other provision of this chapter
or Ohio R.C. Chapter 2925 does not prevent a finding that the equipment,
product, or material was intended or designed by the offender for use as drug
paraphernalia.
      (6)   Any oral or written instruction provided with the equipment,
product, or material concerning its use.
      (7)   Any descriptive material accompanying the equipment, product, or
material and explaining or depicting its use.
      (8)   National or local advertising concerning the use of the equipment,
product, or material.
      (9)   The manner and circumstances in which the equipment, product, or
material is displayed for sale.
      (10)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of the sales of the
equipment, product, or material to the total sales of the business enterprise.
      (11)   The existence and scope of legitimate uses of the equipment,
product, or material in the community.
      (12)   Expert testimony concerning the use of the equipment, product, or
material.
   (c)   (1)   Subject to divisions (d)(2), (d)(3), and (d)(4) of this section,
no person shall knowingly use, or possess with purpose to use, drug
paraphernalia.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly sell, or possess or manufacture with
purpose to sell, drug paraphernalia, if he or she knows or reasonably should
know that the equipment, product, or material will be used as drug
paraphernalia.
      (3)   No person shall place an advertisement in any newspaper, magazine,
handbill, or other publication that is published and printed and circulates
primarily within this state, if he or she knows that the purpose of the
advertisement is to promote the illegal sale in this municipality or in this
state of the equipment, product, or material that the offender intended or
designed for use as drug paraphernalia.
   (d)   (1)   This section does not apply to manufacturers, licensed health
professionals authorized to prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies,
and other persons whose conduct is in accordance with Ohio R.C. Chapters 3719,
4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, and 4741. This section shall not be construed to
prohibit the possession or use of a hypodermic as authorized by Ohio R.C.
3719.172.
      (2)   Division (c)(1) of this section does not apply to a person’s use,
or possession with purpose to use, any drug paraphernalia that is equipment, a
product, or material of any kind that is used by the person, intended by the
person for use, or designed for use in storing, containing, concealing,
injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing into the human body
marihuana.
      (3)   Division (B)(2) of R.C. § 2925.11 applies with respect to a
violation of division (c)(1) of this section when a person seeks or obtains
medical assistance for another person who is experiencing a drug overdose, a
person experiences a drug overdose and seeks medical assistance for that
overdose, or a person is the subject of another person seeking or obtaining
medical assistance for that overdose.
      (4)   Division (c)(1) of this section does not apply to a person’s use,
or possession with purpose to use, any drug testing strips to determine the
presence of fentanyl or a fentanyl-related compound.
   (e)   Notwithstanding Ohio R.C. 2981, any drug paraphernalia that was used,
possessed, sold, or manufactured in violation of this section shall be seized,
after a conviction for that violation, shall be forfeited, and upon forfeiture
shall be disposed of pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2981.12(B).
   (f)   (1)   Whoever violates division (c)(1) of this section is guilty of
illegal use or possession of drug paraphernalia, a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (f)(3) of this section, whoever
violates division (c)(2) of this section is guilty of dealing in drug
paraphernalia, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (c)(2) of this section by selling drug
paraphernalia to a juvenile is guilty of selling drug paraphernalia to
juveniles, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (c)(3) of this section is guilty of
illegal advertising of drug paraphernalia, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (g)   (1)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this section, the court may suspend for not more than five years
the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit. However, if
the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another
state or the United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the
violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If the offender is a
professionally licensed person, in addition to any other sanction imposed for a
violation of this section, the court immediately shall comply with R.C. §
2925.38.
      (2)   A.   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
   (h)   Illegal use or possession of marihuana drug paraphernalia.
      (1)   As used in this division (h), “drug paraphernalia” has the same
meaning as in division (a) of this section.
      (2)   In determining if any equipment, product, or material is drug
paraphernalia, a court or law enforcement officer shall consider, in addition
to other relevant factors, all factors identified in division (b) of this
section.
      (3)   No person shall knowingly use, or possess with purpose to use, any
drug paraphernalia that is equipment, a product, or material of any kind that
is used by the person, intended by the person for use, or designed for use in
storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise
introducing into the human body marihuana.
      (4)   This division (h) does not apply to any person identified in
division (d)(1) of this section, and it shall not be construed to prohibit the
possession or use of a hypodermic as authorized by Ohio R.C. 3719.172.
      (5)   A.   Division (e) of this section applies with respect to any drug
paraphernalia that was used or possessed in violation of division (h) of this
section.
         B.   Division (B)(2) of R.C. § 2925.11 applies with respect to a
violation of this division (h) when a person seeks or obtains medical
assistance for another person who is experiencing a drug overdose, a person
experiences a drug overdose and seeks medical assistance for that overdose, or
a person is the subject of another person seeking or obtaining medical
assistance for that overdose.
      (6)   A.   Whoever violates division (h)(3) of this section is guilty of
illegal use or possession of marihuana drug paraphernalia, a minor misdemeanor.
         B.   Arrest or conviction for a violation of division (h)(3) of this
section does not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the
person so arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries about the person’s
criminal record, including any inquiries contained in any application for
employment, license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection with
the person’s appearance as a witness.
      (7)   A.   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for
a violation of division (h) of this section, the court shall do the following,
if applicable:
            1.   If the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a
violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially similar municipal ordinance or
the law of another state or the United States arising out of the same set of
circumstances as the violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or permit for not more than five years.
            2.   If the offender is a professionally licensed person, the court
immediately shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
         B.   1.   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under division (h)
of this section prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the
sentencing court requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an
offender who pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another
state or the United States that arose out of the same set of circumstances as
the violation for which the offender’s license or permit was suspended under
division (h) of this section shall not file such a motion.
            2.   Upon the filing of a motion under division (h)(7)B. of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.141)
§ 624.15 COUNTERFEIT CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly possess any counterfeit controlled
substance.
   (b)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section shall be guilty of
possession of counterfeit controlled substances, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(ORC 2925.37(A), (G))
Statutory reference:
   Trafficking, other felony counterfeit controlled substance offenses, see
Ohio R.C. 2925.37(H) - (M)
§ 624.16 PSEUDOEPHEDRINE SALES.
   (a)   Unlawful purchases.
      (1)   As used in divisions (a), (b), (c) and (d) of this section:
         A.   “Consumer product.” Any food or drink that is consumed or used by
humans and any drug, including a drug that may be provided legally only
pursuant to a prescription, that is intended to be consumed or used by humans.
         B.   “Ephedrine.” Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of ephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or salts
of optical isomers.
         C.   “Ephedrine product.” A consumer product that contains ephedrine.
         D.   “Pseudoephedrine.” Any material, compound, mixture, or
preparation that contains any quantity of pseudoephedrine, any of its salts,
optical isomers, or salts of optical isomers.
         E.   “Pseudoephedrine product.” A consumer product that contains
pseudoephedrine.
         F.   “Retailer.” A place of business that offers consumer products for
sale to the general public.
         G.   “Single-ingredient preparation.” A compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance that contains a single active ingredient.
         H.   “Terminal distributor of dangerous drugs.” Has the same meaning
as in Ohio R.C. 4729.01.
      (2)   A.   1.   No individual shall knowingly purchase, receive, or
otherwise acquire an amount of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
that is greater than either of the following unless the pseudoephedrine product
or ephedrine product is dispensed by a pharmacist pursuant to a valid
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs and the conduct of the pharmacist and the licensed health professional
authorized to prescribe drugs is in accordance with Ohio R.C. Chapter 3719,
4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741:
               a.   Three and six tenths grams within a period of a single day;
               b.   Nine grams within a period of 30 consecutive days.
            2.   The limits specified in divisions (a)(2)A.1.a. and (a)
(2)A.1.b. of this section apply to the total amount of base pseudoephedrine or
base ephedrine in the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product,
respectively. The limits do not apply to the product’s overall weight.
         B.   It is not a violation of division (b)(1) of this section for an
individual to receive or accept more than an amount of pseudoephedrine product
or ephedrine product specified in division (a)(2)A.1.a. or (a)(2)A.1.b. of this
section if the individual is an employee of a retailer or terminal distributor
of dangerous drugs, and the employee receives or accepts from the retailer or
terminal distributor of dangerous drugs the pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product in a sealed container in connection with manufacturing,
warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading of the
product.
      (3)   A.   No individual under 18 years of age shall knowingly purchase,
receive, or otherwise acquire a pseudoephedrine product, or ephedrine product
unless the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product is dispensed by a
pharmacist pursuant to a valid prescription issued by a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs and the conduct of the pharmacist
and the licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs is in
accordance with Ohio R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741.
         B.   Division (a)(3)A. of this section does not apply to an individual
under 18 years of age who purchases, receives, or otherwise acquires a
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product from any of the following:
            1.   A licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs
or pharmacist who dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides the pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to that individual and whose conduct is in
accordance with Ohio R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741;
            2.   A parent or guardian of that individual who provides the
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the individual;
            3.   A person, as authorized by that individual’s parent or
guardian, who dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides the pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to the individual;
            4.   A retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs who
provides the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to that individual if
the individual is an employee of the retailer or terminal distributor of
dangerous drugs and the individual receives or accepts from the retailer or
terminal distributor of dangerous drugs the pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product in a sealed container in connection with manufacturing,
warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading of the
product.
      (4)   No individual under 18 years of age shall knowingly show or give
false information concerning the individual’s name, age, or other
identification for the purpose of purchasing, receiving, or otherwise acquiring
a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product.
      (5)   No individual shall knowingly fail to comply with the requirements
of Ohio R.C. 3715.051(B).
      (6)   Whoever violates division (a)(2)A. of this section is guilty of
unlawful purchase of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (a)(3)A. of this section is guilty of
underage purchase of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
delinquent act that would be a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if it could be
committed by an adult.
      (8)   Whoever violates division (a)(4) of this section is guilty of using
false information to purchase a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
delinquent act that would be a misdemeanor of the first degree if it could be
committed by an adult.
      (9)   Whoever violates division (a)(5) of this section is guilty of
improper purchase of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(ORC 2925.55)
   (b)   Unlawful retail sales.
      (1)   A.   1.   Except as provided in division (b)(1)B. of this section,
no retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs or an employee of a
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall knowingly sell, offer
to sell, hold for sale, deliver, or otherwise provide to any individual an
amount of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product that is greater than
either of the following:
               a.   Three and six tenths grams within a period of a single day;
               b.   Nine grams within a period of 30 consecutive days.
            2.   The maximum amounts specified in divisions (b)(1)A.1.a. and
(b)(1)A.1.b. of this section apply to the total amount of base pseudoephedrine
or base ephedrine in the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product,
respectively. The maximum amounts do not apply to the product’s overall weight.
         B.   1.   Division (b)(1)A. of this section does not apply to any
quantity of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product dispensed by a
pharmacist pursuant to a valid prescription issued by a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs if the conduct of the pharmacist and
the licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs is in accordance
with Ohio R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741.
            2.   It is not a violation of division (b)(1)A. of this section for
a retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, or employee of either to
provide to an individual more than an amount of pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product specified in division (b)(1)A.1.a. or (b)(1)A.1.b. of this
section under either of the following circumstances:
               a.   The individual is an employee of the retailer or terminal
distributor of dangerous drugs, and the employee receives or accepts from the
retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, or employee the
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product in a sealed container in
connection with manufacturing, warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging,
loading, or unloading of the product;
               b.   A stop-sale alert is generated after the submission of
information to the national precursor log exchange under the conditions
described in Ohio R.C. 3715.052(A)(2).
      (2)   A.   Except as provided in division (b)(2)B. of this section, no
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs or an employee of a
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall sell, offer to sell,
hold for sale, deliver, or otherwise provide a pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product to an individual who is under 18 years of age.
         B.   Division (b)(2)A. of this section does not apply to any of the
following:
            1.   A licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs
or pharmacist who dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides a pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to an individual under 18 years of age and whose
conduct is in accordance with Ohio R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730,
4731, or 4741;
            2.   A parent or guardian of an individual under 18 years of age
who provides a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the individual;
            3.   A person who, as authorized by the individual’s parent or
guardian, dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides a pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product to an individual under 18 years of age;
            4.   The provision by a retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous
drugs, or employee of either of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
in a sealed container to an employee of the retailer or terminal distributor of
dangerous drugs who is under 18 years of age in connection with manufacturing,
warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading of the
product.
      (3)   No retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall fail
to comply with the requirements of Ohio R.C. 3715.051(A) or Ohio R.C. 3715.052
(A)(2).
      (4)   No retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall fail
to comply with the requirements of Ohio R.C. 3715.052(A)(1).
      (5)   Whoever violates division (b)(1)A. of this section is guilty of
unlawfully selling a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (b)(2)A. of this section is guilty of
unlawfully selling a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to a minor, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (b)(3) of this section is guilty of
improper sale of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a misdemeanor
of the second degree.
      (8)   Whoever violates division (b)(4) of this section is guilty of
failing to submit information to the national precursor log exchange, a
misdemeanor for which the offender shall be fined not more than one thousand
dollars ($1,000) per violation.
(ORC 2925.56)
   (c)   Transaction scans.
      (1)   For the purpose of this division and division (d) of this section,
the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
         A.   “Card holder.” Any person who presents a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card to a seller, or an agent or employee
of a seller, to purchase or receive any pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product from the seller, agent or employee.
         B.   Identification card” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C.
2927.021.
         C.   “Seller.” A retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs.
         D.   “Transaction scan.” The process by which a seller or an agent or
employee of a seller checks by means of a transaction scan device the validity
of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification card that is
presented as a condition for purchasing or receiving any pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product.
         E.   “Transaction scan device.” Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C.
2927.021.
      (2)   A.   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may perform a
transaction scan by means of a transaction scan device to check the validity of
a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a
card holder as a condition for selling, giving away or otherwise distributing
to the card holder a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product.
         B.   If the information deciphered by the transaction scan performed
under division (c)(2)A. of this section fails to match the information printed
on the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented
by the card holder, or if the transaction scan indicates that the information
so printed is false or fraudulent, neither the seller nor any agent or employee
of the seller shall sell, give away or otherwise distribute any pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to the card holder.
         C.   Division (c)(2)A. of this section does not preclude a seller or
an agent or employee of a seller as a condition for selling, giving away or
otherwise distributing a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the
person presenting the document from using a transaction scan device to check
the validity of a document other than a driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or an identification card if the document includes a bar code or magnetic strip
that may be scanned by the device.
      (3)   Rules adopted by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles under Ohio R.C.
4301.61(C) apply to the use of transaction scan devices for purposes of this
division (c) and division (d) of this section.
      (4)   A.   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall
electronically or mechanically record or maintain any information derived from
a transaction scan, except the following:
            1.   The name, address, and date of birth of the person listed on
the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by
a card holder;
            2.   The expiration date, identification number, and issuing agency
of the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented
by a card holder.
         B.   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use the
information that is derived from a transaction scan or that is permitted to be
recorded and maintained under division (c)(4)A. of this section except for
purposes of division (d) of this section, Ohio R.C. 2925.58, or Ohio R.C.
3715.052(A)(1).
         C.   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use a
transaction scan device for a purpose other than the purpose specified in
division (c)(2)A. of this section.
         D.   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall sell or
otherwise disseminate the information derived from a transaction scan to any
third party, including but not limited to selling or otherwise disseminating
that information for any marketing, advertising or promotional activities, but
a seller or agent or employee of a seller may release that information pursuant
to a court order or as specifically authorized by division (d) of this section
or any other section of the Ohio Revised Code.
      (5)   Nothing in this division (c) or division (d) of this section
relieves a seller or an agent or employee of a seller of any responsibility to
comply with any other applicable state or federal laws or rules governing the
sale, giving away or other distribution of pseudoephedrine products or
ephedrine products.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (c)(2)B. or (c)(4) of this section is
guilty of engaging in an illegal pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
transaction scan, and the court may impose upon the offender a civil penalty of
up to one thousand dollars ($1,000) for each violation. The Clerk of the Court
shall pay each collected civil penalty to the County Treasurer for deposit into
the County Treasury.
(ORC 2925.57)
   (d)   Affirmative defenses.
      (1)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may not be found
guilty of a charge of a violation of division (b) of this section in which the
age of the purchaser or other recipient of a pseudoephedrine product is an
element of the alleged violation if the seller, agent or employee raises and
proves as an affirmative defense that all of the following occurred:
         A.   A card holder attempting to purchase or receive a pseudoephedrine
product presented a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an
identification card.
         B.   A transaction scan of the driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or identification card that the card holder presented indicated that the
license or card was valid.
         C.   The pseudoephedrine product was sold, given away or otherwise
distributed to the card holder in reasonable reliance upon the identification
presented and the completed transaction scan.
      (2)   In determining whether a seller or an agent or employee of a seller
has proven the affirmative defense provided by division (d)(1) of this section,
the trier of fact in the action for the alleged violation of division (b) of
this section shall consider any written policy that the seller has adopted and
implemented and that is intended to prevent violations of division (b) of this
section. For purposes of division (d)(1)C. of this section, the trier of fact
shall consider that reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and
the completed transaction scan may require a seller or an agent or employee of
a seller to exercise reasonable diligence to determine, and that the use of a
transaction scan device does not excuse a seller or an agent or employee of a
seller from exercising reasonable diligence to determine, the following:
         A.   Whether a person to whom the seller or agent or employee of a
seller sells, gives away or otherwise distributes a pseudoephedrine product is
18 years of age or older;
         B.   Whether the description and picture appearing on the driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a card holder
is that of the card holder.
      (3)   In any criminal action in which the affirmative defense provided by
division (d)(1) of this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a
Deputy Registrar who issued an identification card under Ohio R.C. 4507.50
through 4507.52 shall be permitted to submit certified copies of the records of
that issuance in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of or contractors with
the Bureau of Motor Vehicles in the action.
(ORC 2925.58)
   (e)   Retailer’s duties.
      (1)   As used in divisions (e) and (f) of this section:
         A.   “Consumer product.” Any food or drink that is consumed or used by
humans and any drug, including a drug that may be provided legally only
pursuant to a prescription, that is intended to be consumed or used by humans.
         B.   “Drug.” Has the same meanings as in Ohio R.C. 4729.01.
         C.   “Ephedrine.” Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of ephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or salts
of optical isomers.
         D.   “Ephedrine product.” A consumer product that contains ephedrine.
         E.   “Law enforcement official.” An officer or employee of any agency
or authority of the United States, a state, a territory, a political
subdivision of a state or territory, or an Indian tribe,
who is empowered by the law to investigate or conduct an official inquiry into
a potential violation of law or prosecute or otherwise conduct a criminal,
civil, or administrative proceeding arising from an alleged violation of law.
         F.   “Licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs.” Has
the same meanings as in Ohio R.C. 4729.01.
         G.   “National Precursor Log Exchange” or “Exchange.” The electronic
system for tracking sales of pseudoephedrine products and ephedrine products on
a national basis that is administered by the National Association of Drug
Diversion Investigators or a successor organization.
         H.   “Pharmacist.” A person licensed under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4729 to
engage in the practice of pharmacy.
         I.   “Pharmacy.” Has the same meanings as in Ohio R.C. 4729.01.
         J.   “Prescriber.” Has the same meanings as in Ohio R.C. 4729.01.
         K.   “Prescription.” Has the same meanings as in Ohio R.C. 4729.01.
         L.   “Proof of age.” A driver’s license, a commercial driver’s
license, a military identification card, a passport, or an identification card
issued under Ohio R.C. 4507.50 to 4507.52 that shows a person is 18 years of
age or older.
         M.   “Pseudoephedrine.” Any material, compound, mixture, or
preparation that contains any quantity of pseudoephedrine, any of its salts,
optical isomers, or salts of optical isomers.
         N.   “Pseudoephedrine product.” A consumer product that contains
pseudoephedrine.
         O.   “Retailer.” A place of business that offers consumer products for
sale to the general public.
         P.   “Single-ingredient preparation.” A compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance that contains a single active ingredient.
         Q.   “Stop-sale alert.” A notification sent from the national
precursor log exchange to a retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs
indicating that the completion of a sale of a pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product would result in a violation of Ohio R.C. 2925.56(A)(1) or
Federal law.
         R.   “Terminal distributor of dangerous drugs.” Has the same meanings
as in Ohio R.C. 4729.01.
         S.   “Wholesaler.” Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 3719.01.
      (2)   A retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs that sells,
offers to sell, holds for sale, delivers, or otherwise provides a
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the public shall do all of the
following:
         A.   Segregate pseudoephedrine products or ephedrine products from
other merchandise so that no member of the public may procure or purchase such
products without the direct assistance of a pharmacist or other authorized
employee of the retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs;
         B.   With regard to each time a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product is sold or otherwise provided without a valid prescription:
            1.   Determine, by examination of a valid proof of age, that the
purchaser or recipient is at least 18 years of age;
            2.   a.   Using any information available, including information
from the national precursor log exchange if the information is accessible, make
a reasonable attempt to ensure that no individual purchases or receives an
amount of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product that is greater than
either of the following:
                  i.   Three and six tenths grams within a period of a single
day;
                  ii.   Nine grams within a period of 30 consecutive days.
               b.   The maximum amounts specified in divisions (e)(2)B.2.a.i.
and (e)(2)B.2.a.ii. of this section apply to the total amount of base
pseudoephedrine or base ephedrine in the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product, respectively. The maximum amounts do not apply to the product’s
overall weight.
         C.   Maintain a log book of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product purchases, in accordance with Ohio R.C. 3715.051;
         D.   If required to comply with section Ohio R.C. 3715.052, submit the
information specified in divisions (A)(1)(a) to (A)(1)(d) of that section to
the national precursor log exchange.
      (3)   Prescriptions, orders, and records maintained pursuant to this
section and stocks of pseudoephedrine products and ephedrine products shall be
open for inspection to Federal, state, county, and municipal officers, and
employees of the State Board of Pharmacy whose duty it is to enforce the laws
of this state or of the United States relating to controlled substances. Such
prescriptions, orders, records, and stocks shall be open for inspection by the
State Medical Board and its employees for purposes of enforcing Ohio R.C.
Chapter 4731.
(ORC 3715.05)
   (f)   Theft or loss; reporting requirements.
      (1)   Each retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, pharmacy,
prescriber or wholesaler that sells, offers to sell, holds for sale, delivers
or otherwise provides any pseudoephedrine product and that discovers the theft
or loss of any pseudoephedrine product in an amount of more than nine grams per
incident of theft or loss shall notify all of the following upon discovery of
the theft or loss:
         A.   The State Board of Pharmacy, by telephone immediately upon
discovery of the theft or loss;
         B.   Law enforcement authorities. If the incident is a theft and the
theft constitutes a felony, the retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous
drugs, pharmacy, prescriber or wholesaler shall report the theft to the law
enforcement authorities in accordance with Ohio R.C. 2921.22.
      (2)   Within 30 days after making a report by telephone to the State
Board of Pharmacy pursuant to division (f)(1)A. of this section, a retailer,
terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, pharmacy, prescriber or wholesaler
shall send a written report to the State Board of Pharmacy.
      (3)   The reports required under this section shall identify the product
that was stolen or lost, the amount of the product stolen or lost, and the date
and time of discovery of the theft or loss.
(ORC 3715.06)
§ 624.17 SALE OF PURE CAFFEINE PRODUCT.
   (a)   As used in this section, “pure caffeine product” means:
      (1)   Subject to division (a)(2) of this section, a product that consists
solely or primarily of caffeine and is manufactured into a crystalline, liquid,
or powdered form.
      (2)   The phrase does not include any of the following that contains
caffeine and is formulated, manufactured, and labeled in accordance with the
laws and regulations enforced by the United States Food and Drug
Administration:
         A.   Coffee, tea, any soft drink, any energy drink, or any other
caffeine-containing beverage;
         B.   Any energy product.
   (b)   Except as provided in division (c) of this section, no person shall
knowingly sell or offer for sale a pure caffeine product.
   (c)   Division (b) of this section does not prohibit a person from selling
or offering for sale any product manufactured in a unit-dose form such as a
pill, tablet, or caplet, but only if each unit dose of the product contains not
more than 250 milligrams of caffeine.
   (d)   Nothing in this section prohibits either of the following:
      (1)   Possession of a product described in division (c) of this section;
      (2)   Possession of a pure caffeine product by any of the following:
         A.   A food processing establishment, as defined in R.C. § 3715.021;
         B.   A manufacturer of a drug that is available without a
prescription;
         C.   A laboratory that holds a current, valid category III terminal
distributor of dangerous drugs license issued by the state board of pharmacy
under R.C. § 4729.54;
         D.   A laboratory of any agency or department of this state that
performs testing, analysis, and other laboratory services on behalf of the
state;
         E.   A postal or delivery service that transports or delivers a pure
caffeine product to an entity specified in divisions (d)(2)A. to (d)(2)D. of
this section.
   (e)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of illegal
sale of pure caffeine, a minor misdemeanor on a first offense and a misdemeanor
of the third degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 2925.34)
§ 624.18 SALE OF DEXTROMETHORPHAN.
   (a)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Dextromethorphan." Means the dextrorotatory isomer of 3-methoxy-N-
methylmorphinan, including its salts, but not including its racemic or
levorotatory forms.
      (2)   “Evidence of majority and identity.” Means a document issued by the
federal government or a state, county, or municipal government, or a
subdivision or agency of any of the foregoing, including a driver's or
commercial driver's license, an identification card issued under R.C. §§
4507.50 to 4507.52, a military identification card, or any other form of
identification that bears the name, date of birth, description, and picture of
the person identified.
      (3)   “Retailer.” Means a place of business that offers consumer products
for sale to the general public, including a terminal distributor of dangerous
drugs that is licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 and operated as a pharmacy.
   (b)   No retailer or employee of a retailer shall knowingly supply, deliver,
give, or otherwise provide a drug, material, compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance containing any quantity of dextromethorphan through the sale of any
product to a person under 18 years of age, unless the person has been issued a
prescription for the product being purchased.
   (c)   For purposes of division (b) of this section, the person making the
sale of a product containing dextromethorphan shall require and obtain evidence
of majority and identity from the purchaser, unless from the purchaser's
outward appearance the person making the sale would reasonably presume the
purchaser to be 25 years of age or older. Proof that the person making the sale
demanded, was shown, and acted in reasonable reliance on the purchaser's
evidence of majority and identity is a defense to any charge of a violation of
division (b) of this section.
   (d)   A retailer or employee of a retailer is not liable for damages in a
civil action for injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly
arises from an act or omission associated with a failure to prevent the sale of
a product containing dextromethorphan to a person under 18 years of age, unless
the act or omission constitutes willful or wanton misconduct.
   (e)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of illegally
selling dextromethorphan, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2925.62)
§ 624.19 ADULT USE CANNABIS CONTROL; LIMITATIONS ON CONDUCT BY INDIVIDUALS.
   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3780 and notwithstanding
any conflicting provision of this code or the Ohio Revised Code, an adult use
consumer, may do the following:
      (1)   Use adult use cannabis;
      (2)   Possess, transfer without remuneration to another adult consumer,
or transport adult use cannabis, subject to division (b) of this section; and
      (3)   Purchase adult use cannabis from an adult use dispensary per day in
amounts that do not exceed the possession limits set forth in division (b)(1)
of this section.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3796:
      (1)   The amount of cannabis that may be possessed by an adult use
consumer shall not exceed:
         A.   Two and one-half ounces of adult use cannabis in any form except
adult use extract; and
         B.   Fifteen grams of adult use cannabis in the form of adult use
extract.
      (2)   The amount of cannabis that may be transferred by an adult use
consumer without remuneration and not advertised or promoted to the public
shall not exceed:
         A.   Two and one-half ounces of adult use cannabis in any form except
adult use extract; and
         B.   Fifteen grams of adult use cannabis in the form of adult use
extract.
      (3)   The amount of cannabis that may be transported by an adult use
consumer shall not exceed:
         A.   Two and one-half ounces of adult use cannabis in any form except
adult use extract; and
         B.   Fifteen grams of adult use cannabis in the form of adult use
extract.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3780, an adult use
consumer shall not be subject to arrest, criminal prosecution, or civil penalty
for engaging in any of the activities authorized under R.C. Chapter 3780,
including:
      (1)   Obtaining, using, possessing, or transporting adult use cannabis;
      (2)   Performing conduct authorized under R.C. § 3780.29;
      (3)   Acquiring, possessing, using, purchasing, manufacturing, selling,
or transporting paraphernalia; and
      (4)   Assisting another adult use consumer, or allowing property to be
used, in any of the acts authorized by R.C. Chapter 3780.
   (d)   (1)   An individual is prohibited from operating a vehicle, motor
vehicle, streetcar, trackless trolley, bike, watercraft, or aircraft while
using adult use cannabis or while under the influence of adult use cannabis and
is subject to R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance
for any violation of this division.
      (2)   An individual is prohibited from smoking, vaporizing, or using any
other combustible adult use cannabis product while in a vehicle, motor vehicle,
streetcar, trackless trolley, bike, watercraft, or aircraft and is subject to
R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance for any
violation of this division.
   (e)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3780, no individual under
21 years of age shall knowingly show or give false information concerning the
individual’s name, age, or other identification for the purpose of purchasing
adult use cannabis from an adult use dispensary licensed under R.C. Chapter
3780.
   (f)   Nothing in R.C. Chapter 3780 is intended to permit the transfer or
sale of adult use cannabis, with or without remuneration, to an individual
under 21 years of age, or to allow an individual under 21 years of age to
purchase, possess, use, process, transport, or cultivate cannabis except where
authorized by R.C. Chapter 3796.
   (g)   It is unlawful for any parent or guardian to knowingly permit their
residence, any other private property under their control, or any vehicle,
conveyance, or watercraft under their control to be used by an invitee of the
parent’s child or the guardian’s ward, if the invitee is under 21 years of age,
in a manner that constitutes a violation of R.C. Chapter 3780.
      (1)   A parent or guardian is deemed to have knowingly permitted their
residence, any other private property under their control, or any vehicle,
conveyance, or watercraft under their control to be used in violation of R.C.
Chapter 3780 if they knowingly authorize or permit consumption of cannabis by
underage invitees.
      (2)   Where the residence or other property has an owner and a tenant or
lessee, the trier of fact may infer that the residence or other property is
occupied only by the tenant or lessee.
(R.C. § 3780.36)
   (h)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3796, R.C. § 2925.11
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance shall apply when an adult use
consumer possesses an amount of cannabis greater than the limits set forth in
division (b)(1) of this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3780, an adult use
consumer who uses adult use cannabis in public areas, or who violates division
(d)(2) of this section as a passenger, is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (3)   A.   An individual under 21 years of age who knowingly shows or
gives false information concerning the individual’s name, age, or other
identification for the purpose of purchasing or otherwise obtaining adult use
cannabis from an adult use dispensary licensed under R.C. Chapter 3780 is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If, in committing a first
violation, the offender presented to an adult use dispensary licensed under
R.C. Chapter 3780 a false, fictitious, or altered identification card, a false
or fictitious driver’s license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver’s
license issued by any state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not less than $250 and not
more than $1,000, and may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more
than six months.
         B.   On a second violation in which, for the second time, the offender
presented to an adult use dispensary licensed under R.C. Chapter 3780 a false,
fictitious, or altered identification card, a false or fictitious driver’s
license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver’s license issued by any
state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree and shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $1,000, and
may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than six months. The
court also may impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege from
the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7). The court, in lieu of suspending
the offender’s temporary instruction permit, probationary driver’s license, or
driver’s license, instead may order the offender to perform a determinate
number of hours of community service, with the court determining the actual
number of hours and the nature of the community service the offender shall
perform.
         C.   On a third or subsequent violation in which, for the third or
subsequent time, the offender presented to an adult use dispensary licensed
under R.C. Chapter 3780 a false, fictitious, or altered identification card, a
false or fictitious driver’s license purportedly issued by any state, or a
driver’s license issued by any state that has been altered, the offender is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not less than
$500 nor more than $1,000, and may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of
not more than six months. Except as provided in this division, the court also
may impose a class six suspension of the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(6), and the court may order that the suspension
or denial remain in effect until the offender attains the age of 21 years. The
court, in lieu of suspending the offender’s temporary instruction permit,
probationary driver’s license, or driver’s license, instead may order the
offender to perform a determinate number of hours of community service, with
the court determining the actual number of hours and the nature of the
community service the offender shall perform.
      (4)   An individual who is under 21 years of age and who solicits another
individual to purchase adult use cannabis from an adult use dispensary licensed
under R.C. Chapter 3780 is guilty of:
         A.   For a first violation, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; and
         B.   For a second or subsequent violation, a misdemeanor of the second
degree.
      (5)   An employee or agent of an adult use dispensary licensed under R.C.
Chapter 3780 who knowingly sells cannabis to an individual under 21 years of
age is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (6)   Any individual who violates R.C. § 3780.10(A), or R.C. § 3780.29
(F), is guilty of the illegal trafficking in drugs under R.C. § 2925.03 and the
illegal manufacture of drugs under R.C. § 2925.04.
      (7)   Any individual who violates division (b)(2) or (b)(3) of this
section guilty of the illegal trafficking in drugs under R.C. § 2925.03.
      (8)   Any individual who violates R.C. § 3780.20(B) is guilty of illegal
dispensing of drug samples under R.C. § 2925.36 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
      (9)   A.   An individual who violates division (g) of this section is
guilty of:
            1.   For a first violation, a misdemeanor of the third degree; and
            2.   For a second or subsequent violation, a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
         B.   If a violation of division (g) of this section directly or
indirectly results in great bodily harm or death to any individual, the
individual violating division (g) is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 3780.99)
CHAPTER 626: FAIR EMPLOYMENT
Section
626.01   Definitions
626.02   Unlawful employment practices
Cross reference:
   Ethnic intimidation, see GEN. OFF.
636.21
   Fair housing, see GEN. OFF.
Ch. 628
   Interfering with civil rights, see GEN. OFF.
606.20
Statutory reference:
   Ohio Civil Rights Commission, see Ohio R.C. Ch. 4112
§ 626.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter:
   (a)   “Person” means one or more individuals, partnerships, associations,
organizations, corporations, legal representatives, trustees, trustees in
bankruptcy, receivers and other organized groups of persons. “Person” also
includes the state and all political subdivisions, authorities, agencies,
boards and commissions thereof.
   (b)   “Employer” means the state, or any political or civil subdivision
thereof, any person employing four or more persons within the state and any
person acting in the interest of an employer, directly or indirectly.
   (c)   “Employee” does not include any individual employed in the domestic
service of any person.
   (d)   “Labor organization” means any organization which exists for the
purpose, in whole or in part, of collective bargaining or of dealing with
employers concerning grievances, terms or conditions of employment, or for
other mutual aid or protection in relation to employment.
   (e)   “Employment agency” means any person regularly undertaking with or
without compensation to procure opportunities to work or to procure, recruit,
refer or place employees.
   (f)   “Discriminate” means segregate or separate.
   (g)   “Unlawful discriminatory practice” means any act prohibited by §
626.02.
§ 626.02 UNLAWFUL EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES.
   (a)   It shall be an unlawful discriminatory practice:
      (1)   For any employer, because of the race, color, religion, sex,
national origin, other classes of people protected from discrimination by
applicable federal law or ancestry of any person, to refuse to hire or
otherwise to discriminate against him or her with respect to hire, tenure,
terms, conditions or privileges of employment, or any matter directly or
indirectly related to employment;
      (2)   For an employment agency, because of race, color, religion, sex,
national origin, other classes of people protected from discrimination by
applicable federal law or ancestry to:
         A.   Refuse or fail to accept, register, classify properly, refer for
employment or otherwise discriminate against any person;
         B.   Comply with a request from an employer for referral of applicants
for employment if the request indicates directly or indirectly that the
employer fails to comply with this section;
      (3)   For any labor organization to:
         A.   Limit or classify its membership on the basis of race, color,
religion, sex, national origin, other classes of people protected from
discrimination by applicable federal law or ancestry;
         B.   Discriminate against any person, limit his or her employment
opportunities or otherwise adversely affect his or her status as an employee,
or his or wages, hours or employment conditions, because of his or her race,
color, religion, sex, national origin, other classes of people protected from
discrimination by applicable federal law or ancestry;
      (4)   For any employer, labor organization or joint labor-management
committee controlling apprentice training programs to discriminate against any
person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, national origin, other
classes of people protected from discrimination by applicable federal law or
ancestry in admission to or employment in any program established to provide
apprentice training;
      (5)   Except where based on a bona fide occupational qualification
certified in advance by a government agency responsible for enforcing similar
legislation at the state or federal level, for any employer, employment agency
or labor organization, prior to employment or admission to membership, to:
         A.   Elicit or attempt to elicit any information concerning the race,
color, religion, sex, national origin, other classes of people protected from
discrimination by applicable federal law or ancestry of an applicant for
employment or membership;
         B.   Make or keep a record of the race, color, religion, sex, national
origin, other classes of people protected from discrimination by applicable
federal law or ancestry of any applicant for employment or membership;
         C.   Use any form of application for employment, or personnel or
membership blank seeking to elicit information regarding race, color, religion,
sex, national origin, other classes of people protected from discrimination by
applicable federal law or ancestry. However, an employer holding a contract
containing a nondiscrimination clause with the government of the United States
or any department or agency thereof may require an employee or applicant for
employment to furnish documentary proof of United States citizenship, may
retain such proof in his or her personnel records and may use photographic or
fingerprint identification for security purposes.
         D.   Print or publish or cause to be printed or published any notice
or advertisement relating to employment or membership indicating any
preference, limitation, specification or discrimination based upon race, color,
religion, sex, national origin, other classes of people protected from
discrimination by applicable federal law or ancestry;
         E.   Announce or follow a policy of denying or limiting, through a
quota system or otherwise, employment or membership opportunities of any group
because of the race, color, religion, sex, national origin, other classes of
people protected from discrimination by applicable federal law or ancestry of
such group;
         F.   Utilize in the recruitment or hiring of persons any employment
agency, placement service, training school or center, labor organization or
other employee-referring source known to discriminate against persons because
of their race, color, religion, sex, national origin, other classes of people
protected from discrimination by applicable federal law or ancestry;
      (6)   For any person seeking employment to publish or cause to be
published an advertisement which specifies or in any manner indicates his or
her race, color, religion, sex, national origin, other classes of people
protected from discrimination by applicable federal law or ancestry, or
expresses a limitation or preference as to the race, color, religion, sex,
national origin, other classes of people protected from discrimination by
applicable federal law or ancestry of any prospective employer; or
      (7)   For any person to aid, abet, incite, compel or coerce the doing of
any act declared by this section to be an unlawful discriminatory practice, or
to obstruct or prevent any person from complying with this section, or to
attempt directly or indirectly to commit any act declared by this section to be
an unlawful discriminatory practice.
   (b)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor and shall be subject to the penalty provided in §
698.02.
CHAPTER 628: FAIR HOUSING
Section
628.01   Designation of policy
628.02   Definitions
628.03   Unlawful housing practices
628.04   Posting of notices
628.05   Fair Housing Fair Housing Officer
628.06   Procedures and enforcement
628.07   Scope of chapter
628.08   Other remedies
Cross Reference:
   Ethnic intimidation, see GEN. OFF.
636.21
   Fair employment, see GEN. OFF.
Ch. 626
   Interfering with civil rights, see GEN. OFF.
606.20
Statutory reference:
   Ohio Civil Rights Commission, see Ohio R.C. Ch. 4112
§ 628.01 DESIGNATION OF POLICY.
   It is hereby designated to be continuing policy of the city to do all things
necessary and proper to secure for all its citizens their right to equal
housing opportunities regardless of race, color, religion, sex, national
origin, disability, age, familial status, ancestry, military or LGBT (lesbian,
gay, bisexual and transgender) individuals.
(Ord. 10-40, passed 7-22-2010; Ord. 15-30, passed 8-27-2015)
§ 628.02 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have these meanings:
   “Discrimination,” “discriminating” or “discriminate.” To render any
difference in treatment to any person in the sale, lease, rental or financing
of a dwelling or housing unit because of a person's race, color, sex, religious
belief, national origin, disability, family status, ancestry, military status
or LGBT individuals.
   “Fair Housing Officer.” The person responsible for coordinating compliance
with all federal, state and local regulations related to Fair Housing and Equal
Opportunity.
   “Housing.” Includes any building, facility or structure or portion thereof
which is used or occupied or is intended, arranged or designed to be used or
occupied as the home, residence or sleeping place of one or more persons,
groups or families and any vacant land offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location thereon of such building, facility or structure.
   “Lending institution.” Any bank, insurance company, savings and loan
association or any other person or organization regularly engaged in the
business of lending money or guaranteeing loans.
   “Person.” One or more individuals, corporations, partnerships, associations,
labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies, joint stock
companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees in
bankruptcy, receivers and fiduciaries.
   “Real estate agent.” Includes any real estate broker, real estate salesman
or an agent thereof, or any other person, partnership, association or
corporation who for consideration sells, purchases, exchanges, rents,
negotiates, offers, or attempts to negotiate the sale, purchase, exchange or
rental of real property or holds himself out as engaged in the business of
selling, purchasing, exchanging, renting or otherwise transferring any interest
in real property.
(Ord. 10-40, passed 7-22-2010; Ord. 15-30, passed 8-27-2015)
§ 628.03 UNLAWFUL HOUSING PRACTICES.
   It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a violation of this chapter:
   (a)   For any person or real estate agent:
      (1)   To discriminate against any person in the selling, leasing,
subleasing, renting, assigning or otherwise transferring of any interest in a
housing unit.
      (2)   To discriminate against any person by refusing to negotiate, making
false representations on the availability of the housing unit, or withdrawing
from the market a housing unit, which is for sale, lease, sublease or rental.
      (3)   To include in the terms, conditions, or privileges of any sale,
lease, sublease, rental, assignment or other transfer of any housing, any
clause, condition, or restriction discriminating against any person in the use
or occupancy of such housing.
      (4)   To discriminate in the furnishing of any facilities, repairs,
improvements or services or in the terms, conditions, privileges or tenure of
occupancy of any person.
   (b)   For any lending institution to discriminate in lending money,
guaranteeing loans, accepting a deed of trust or mortgage or otherwise making
available funds for the purchase, acquisition, construction, alteration,
rehabilitation, repair or maintenance of any housing or discriminate in the
fixing of the rates, terms, conditions or provisions of any such financial
assistance.
   (c)   For any person or real estate agent, with respect to any prohibited
act specified in this chapter, to publish or circulate or cause to be published
or circulated, any notice, statement, listing or advertisement, or to announce
a policy or to make any record in connection with the prospective sale, lease,
sublease, rental or financing of any housing which indicates reliance,
determination or decision based on race, color, religion, sex, age, national
origin, disability, familial status, ancestry, military status or LGBT
individuals.
   (d)   For any person or real estate agent to assist in, compel or coerce the
doing of any act declared to be an unlawful housing practice under this
chapter, or to obstruct or prevent enforcement or compliance with provisions of
this chapter, or to attempt directly or indirectly to commit any act declared
by this chapter to be an unlawful housing practice.
   (e)   For any person or real estate agent:
      (1)   To induce or attempt to induce the sale, transfer of interest, or
listing for sale of any housing by making representations regarding the
existing or potential proximity of real property owned, used, or occupied by
any person or any particular race, color, religion, sex, age, national origin,
disability, familial status, ancestry, military status or LGBT individuals by
direct or indirect methods.
      (2)   To make any representation to a prospective purchaser or lessee
that any housing in a particular block, neighborhood or area may undergo, is
undergoing or has undergone a change with respect to racial, color, religion,
nationality or ethnic composition of such block, neighborhood or area.
      (3)   To induce or attempt to induce the sale or listing for sale of any
housing by representing that the presence or anticipated presence of person of
any particular race, color, religious belief or national origin in the area
will or may result in:
         A.   The lowering of property values.
         B.   A change in racial, color, religious, nationality or ethnic
composition of the block, neighborhood or area in which the property is
located.
         C.   An increase in criminal or antisocial behavior in the area.
         D.   A decline in quality of the schools serving the area.
   (f)   For any person or real estate agent to cause or coerce or attempt to
cause or coerce retaliation against any person because such person has lawfully
opposed any act or failure to act that is a violation of this chapter or has,
in good faith, filed a complaint, testified, participated or assisted in any
way in any proceeding under this chapter.
   (g)   To deny any person access to or membership or participation in any
multiple-listing service, real estate brokers' organization or other service,
organization or facility relating to the business of selling or renting housing
or discriminate against a person the terms or conditions of such access,
membership or participation.
   (h)   To do any other thing or engage in conduct which would otherwise make
unavailable equal housing opportunities.
(Ord. 10-40, passed 7-22-2010; Ord. 15-30, passed 8-27-2015)
§ 628.04 POSTING OF NOTICES.
   (a)   Every real estate agent shall post in a conspicuous location in that
portion of his place of business normally used by him for negotiating the terms
of a sale or lease of housing, any such person who operates a multi-unit
residential building containing more than two units shall post at all times
when prospective tenants are being interviewed, in a conspicuous location in
that portion of his housing business normally used by him for negotiating the
rental of a housing unit, therein, a notice prepared by the Fair Housing
Officer, which contains the following language, printed in black on a light
colored background, in not less than fourteen-point type: It is a violation of
the Fair Housing Law of the City of Ironton, State of Ohio for any real estate
agent, or for any person owning or managing a multi-unit apartment dwelling to:
      (1)   Deny housing to any person because of race, color, sex, religious
beliefs, national origin, disabilities, familial status, ancestry, military
status and LGBT (lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender).
      (2)   Discriminate against any person because of that person's race,
color, sex, religious beliefs, national origin, disabilities, familial status,
ancestry, and military status and LGBT individuals, with respect to the terms,
conditions or privileges of housing accommodations or in the furnishing of
facilities or service in connection therewith.
   IF YOU BELIEVE YOU HAVE BEEN DISCRIMINATED AGAINST, CONTACT THE CITY OF
IRONTON FAIR HOUSING FAIR HOUSING OFFICER, THE OHIO CIVIL RIGHTS COMMISSION OR
THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT.
(Ord. 10-40, passed 7-22-2010; Ord. 15-30, passed 8-27-2015)
§ 628.05 FAIR HOUSING FAIR HOUSING OFFICER.
   (a)   There is hereby created a Fair Housing Fair Housing Officer who shall
be an employee of the Ironton-Lawrence County CAO, which has an agreement for
delegation of activities with the city for all community development block
grant activities.
   (b)   The FH Officer is charged with the following duties to implement the
stated policy of this chapter:
      (1)   To investigate all complaints of unlawful housing practices which
are filed with it.
      (2)   To hold educational and other programs, designed to promote the
purposes stated in this chapter.
      (3)   To adopt rules and procedures for the conduct of its business.
      (4)   To do such other acts that are necessary and property in order to
perform those duties with which it is charged under the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. 10-40, passed 7-22-2010; Ord. 15-30, passed 8-27-2015)
§ 628.06 PROCEDURE AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (a)   Any person subjected to an unlawful housing practice may file within
350 days of the alleged violation with the Fair Housing Officer a complaint in
writing, sworn to or affirmed, which shall state the name and address of the
person alleged to have committed the violation complained of and the
particulars thereof, and such other information as may be required by the FH
Officer. The Officer may also corroborate or initiate complaints based on
testing carried out by its staff or volunteers authorized by the Officer.
   (b)   Upon the filing of a complaint the FH Officer shall make such
investigation as he deems appropriate to ascertain facts and issues. If the FH
Officer determines that there are reasonable grounds to believe a violation has
occurred, he shall attempt to conciliate the matter by methods of initial
conference and persuasion with all interested parties and such representatives
as the parties may choose to assist them. Conciliation conference shall be
informal and nothing said or done during such initial conference shall be made
public by the FH Officer unless the parties agree thereto in writing.
   (c)   The terms of the conciliation agreed to by the parties shall be
reduced to writing and incorporated into a consent agreement to be signed by
all parties, which agreement is for conciliation purposes only and does not
constitute an admission by any part that the law has been violated. Consent
agreements shall be signed on by the FH Officer.
   (d)   The FH Officer is authorized to seek the cooperation and aid of the
Ohio Real Estate Board or Ohio Civil Rights Commission in any investigation
under this chapter.
   (e)   If the FH Officer determines that the complaint lacks reasonable
grounds upon which to base a violation of this chapter, he shall dismiss such
complaint or order such further investigation as may be necessary.
   (f)   If the FH Officer, with respect to the matter which involves a
violation of this chapter, fails to conciliate a complaint after the parties
have in good faith attempted such conciliation, fails to effect an informal
conciliation agreement or a formal consent agreement or determines that a
complaint is not susceptible of conciliation, shall forward all complaint
information and documentation to the Ohio Civil Rights Commission or the Real
Estate Board for formal actions.
(Ord. 10-40, passed 7-22-2010; Ord. 15-30, passed 8-27-2015)
§ 628.07 SCOPE OF ORDINANCE.
   The provision of this chapter shall apply to all housing located within the
territorial limits of the City of Ironton, State of Ohio.
(Ord. 10-40, passed 7-22-2010; Ord. 15-30, passed 8-27-2015)
§ 628.08 OTHER REMEDIES.
   Nothing contained in this chapter shall prevent any person from exercising
any right or seeking any remedy to which he otherwise shall be entitled or from
filing any complaint with any other agency or court of law or equity.
(Ord. 10-40, passed 7-22-2010; Ord. 15-30, passed 8-27-2015)
CHAPTER 630: GAMBLING
Section
630.01   Definitions
630.02   Gambling in general
630.03   Operating a gambling house
630.04   Public gaming
630.05   Cheating
630.06   Responsibility of charitable organization conducting bingo game
630.07   Maintenance of records by charitable organizations
630.08   Qualifications of bingo game operator
630.09   Exemption for bingo games conducted for amusement
630.10   Prohibitions where instant bingo game is conducted
630.11   Raffle drawings
630.12   Instant bingo other than at bingo sessions
630.13   Restrictions on owner or lessor of location at instant bingo
630.14   Skill-based amusement machines; prohibited conduct
630.15   Electronic instant bingo; prohibited conduct
Cross reference:
   Definitions generally, see GEN. OFF.
606.01
   Disposition of property held by Police Department, see GEN. OFF.
606.24
Statutory reference:
   See section histories for similar state law
   Power to destroy devices, see Ohio R.C. 715.51
   Power to prohibit gambling, see Ohio R.C. 715.49, 715.55
§ 630.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (a)   “Bet.” The hazarding of anything of value upon the result of an event,
undertaking, or contingency, but does not include a bona fide business risk.
   (b)   “Bingo.” Either of the following:
      (1)   A game with all of the following characteristics:
         A.   The participants use bingo cards or sheets, including paper
formats and electronic representation or image formats, that are divided into
25 spaces arranged in 5 horizontal and 5 vertical rows of spaces, with each
space, except the central space, being designated by a combination of a letter
and a number and with the central space being designated as a free space;
         B.   The participants cover the spaces on the bingo cards or sheets
that correspond to combinations of letters and numbers that are announced by a
bingo game operator;
         C.   A bingo game operator announces combinations of letters and
numbers that appear on objects that a bingo game operator selects by chance,
either manually or mechanically, from a receptacle that contains 75 objects at
the beginning of each game, each object marked by a different combination of a
letter and a number that corresponds to one of the 75 possible combinations of
a letter and a number that can appear on the bingo cards or sheets;
         D.   The winner of the bingo game includes any participant who
properly announces during the interval between the announcements of letters and
numbers, as described in division (1)C. of this definition, that a
predetermined and pre-announced pattern of spaces has been covered on a bingo
card or sheet being used by the participant.
      (2)   Instant bingo, electronic instant bingo, and raffles.
   (c)   “Bingo game operator.” Any person, except security personnel, who
performs work or labor at the site of bingo including but not limited to
collecting money from participants, handing out bingo cards or sheets or
objects to cover spaces on bingo cards or sheets, selecting from a receptacle
the objects that contain the combination of letters and numbers that appear on
bingo cards or sheets, calling out the combinations of letters and numbers,
distributing prizes, selling or redeeming instant bingo tickets or cards,
selling or redeeming electronic instant bingo tickets, credits, or vouchers,
accessing an electronic instant bingo system other than as a participant,
supervising the operation of a punch board, selling raffle tickets, selecting
raffle tickets from a receptacle and announcing the winning numbers in a
raffle, and preparing, selling, and serving food or beverages. “Bingo game
operator” does not include a person who is installing, maintaining, updating,
or repairing an electronic instant bingo system.
   (d)   “Bingo session.” A period that includes both of the following:
      (1)   Not to exceed five continuous hours for the conduct of one or more
games described in division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in this section,
instant bingo and electronic instant bingo;
      (2)   A period for the conduct of instant bingo and electronic instant
bingo for not more than two hours before and not more than two hours after the
period described in division (1) of this definition.
   (e)   “Bingo supplies.” Bingo cards or sheets; instant bingo tickets or
cards; electronic bingo aids; raffle tickets; punch boards; seal cards; instant
bingo ticket dispensers; electronic instant bingo systems; and devices for
selecting or displaying the combination of bingo letters and numbers or raffle
tickets. Items that are “bingo supplies” are not gambling devices if sold or
otherwise provided, and used, in accordance with this chapter or R.C. Chapter
2915. For purposes of this chapter, “bingo supplies” are not to be considered
equipment used to conduct a bingo game.
   (f)   “Bookmaking.” The business of receiving or paying off bets.
   (g)   “Chamber of commerce.” Any organization of individuals, professionals
and businesses that has the purpose to advance the commercial, financial,
industrial and civic interests of the community and that is, and has received
from the Internal Revenue Service a determination letter that currently is in
effect stating that the organization is, exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(6).
   (h)   “Charitable bingo game.” Any bingo game described in divisions (1) or
(2) of the definition of “bingo” in this section that is conducted by a
charitable organization that has obtained a license pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08
and the proceeds of which are used for a charitable purpose.
   (i)   “Charitable instant bingo organization.” An organization that is
exempt from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501
(c)(3) and is a charitable organization as defined in this section. A
“charitable instant bingo organization” does not include a charitable
organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a) and
described in IRC 501(c)(3) and that is created by a veteran’s organization, a
fraternal organization, or a sporting organization in regards to bingo
conducted or assisted by a veteran’s organization, a fraternal organization or
a sporting organization pursuant to R.C. § 2915.13, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (j)   “Charitable organization.”
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, “charitable
organization” means either of the following:
         A.   An organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under
IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3);
         B.   A volunteer rescue service organization, volunteer firefighter’s
organization, veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC §§ 501(c)
(4), 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10) or 501(c)(19).
      (2)   To qualify as a charitable organization, an organization shall have
been in continuous existence as such in this state for a period of two years
immediately preceding either the making of an application for a bingo license
under R.C. § 2915.08 or the conducting of any game of chance as provided in
R.C. § 2915.02(D), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (k)   “Charitable purpose.” The net profit of bingo, other than instant
bingo or electronic instant bingo, is used by, or is given, donated or
otherwise transferred to, any of the following:
      (1)   Any organization that is described in IRC 509(a)(1), (a)(2) or (a)
(3) and is either a governmental unit or an organization that is tax exempt
under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3);
      (2)   A veteran’s organization that is a post, chapter or organization of
veterans, or an auxiliary unit or society of, or a trust or foundation for, any
such post, chapter or organization organized in the United States or any of its
possessions, at least 75% of the members of which are veterans and
substantially all of the other members of which are individuals who are
spouses, widows or widowers of veterans, or those individuals, provided that no
part of the net earnings of the post, chapter or organization inures to the
benefit of any private shareholder or individual, and further provided that the
net profit is used by the post, chapter or organization for the charitable
purposes set forth in R.C. § 5739.02(B)(12), is used for awarding scholarships
to or for attendance at an institution mentioned in that division of the
Revised Code, is donated to a governmental agency, or is used for nonprofit
youth activities, the purchase of United States or Ohio flags that are donated
to schools, youth groups or other bona fide nonprofit organizations, promotion
of patriotism or disaster relief;
      (3)   A fraternal organization that has been in continuous existence in
this state for 15 years and that uses the net profit exclusively for religious,
charitable, scientific, literary or educational purposes, or for the prevention
of cruelty to children or animals, if contributions for that use would qualify
as a deductible charitable contribution under IRC 170;
      (4)   A volunteer firefighter’s organization that uses the net profit for
the purposes set forth in the definition of “volunteer firefighter’s
organization” in this section.
   (l)   “Community action agency.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 122.66.
   (m)   “Conduct.” To back, promote, organize, manage, carry on, sponsor or
prepare for the operation of bingo or a game of chance, a scheme of chance, or
a sweepstakes.
   (n)   “Deal.” A single game of instant bingo tickets, or a single game of
electronic instant bingo tickets, all with the same serial number.
   (o)   “Distributor.” Any person who purchases or obtains bingo supplies and
who does either of the following:
      (1)   Sells, offers for sale or otherwise provides or offers to provide
the bingo supplies to another person for use in this state;
      (2)   Modifies, converts, adds to or removes parts from the bingo
supplies to further their promotion or sale for use in this state.
   (p)   “Electronic bingo aid.”
      (1)   “Electronic bingo aid” means an electronic device used by a
participant to monitor bingo cards or sheets purchased at the time and place of
a bingo session and that does all of the following:
         A.   It provides a means for a participant to input numbers and
letters announced by a bingo caller.
         B.   It compares the numbers and letters entered by the participant to
the bingo faces previously stored in the memory of the device.
         C.   It identifies a winning bingo pattern.
      (2)   “Electronic bingo aid” does not include any device into which a
coin, currency, token or an equivalent is inserted to activate play.
   (q)   “Electronic instant bingo.”
      (1)   A form of bingo that consists of an electronic or digital
representation of instant bingo in which a participant wins a prize if the
participant’s electronic instant bingo ticket contains a combination of numbers
or symbols that was designated in advance as a winning combination, and to
which all of the following apply:
         A.   Each deal has a predetermined, finite number of winning and
losing tickets and a predetermined prize amount and deal structure, provided
that there may be multiple winning combinations in each deal and multiple
winning tickets.
         B.   Each electronic instant bingo ticket within a deal has a unique
serial number that is not regenerated.
         C.   Each electronic instant bingo ticket within a deal is sold for
the same price.
         D.   After a participant purchases an electronic instant bingo ticket,
the combination of numbers or symbols on the ticket is revealed to the
participant.
         E.   The reveal of numbers or symbols on the ticket may incorporate an
entertainment or bonus theme, provided that the reveal does not include
spinning reels that resemble a slot machine.
         F.   The reveal theme, if any, does not require additional
consideration or award any prize other than any predetermined prize associated
with the electronic instant bingo ticket.
      (2)   “Electronic instant bingo” shall not include any of the following:
         A.   Any game, entertainment, or bonus theme that replicates or
simulates any of the following:
            1.   The gambling games of keno, blackjack, roulette, poker, craps,
other casino-style table games;
            2.   Horse racing;
            3.   Gambling games offered in this state on slot machines or video
lottery terminals. As used in this division, “video lottery terminal” has the
same meaning as in R.C. § 3770.21.
         B.   Any device operated by dropping one or more coins or tokens into
a slot and pulling a handle or pushing a button or touchpoint on a touchscreen
to activate one to three or more rotating reels marked into horizontal segments
by varying symbols, where the predetermined prize amount depends on how and how
many of the symbols line up when the rotating reels come to a rest;
         C.   Any device that includes a coin or token slot, tray, or hopper
and the ability to dispense coins, cash, tokens, or anything of value other
than a credit ticket voucher.
   (r)   “Electronic instant bingo system.” Means both of the following:
      (1)   A mechanical, electronic, digital, or video device and associated
software to which all of the following apply:
         A.   It is used by not more than one player at a time to play
electronic instant bingo on a single screen that is physically connected to the
device;
         B.   It is located on the premises of the principal place of business
of a veteran’s or fraternal organization that holds a type II or type III bingo
license to conduct electronic instant bingo at that location issued under R.C.
§ 2915.08.
      (2)   Any associated equipment or software used to manage, monitor, or
document any aspect of electronic instant bingo.
   (s)   “Expenses.” The reasonable amount of gross profit actually expended
for all of the following:
      (1)   The purchase or lease of bingo supplies;
      (2)   The annual license fee required under R.C. § 2915.08;
      (3)   Bank fees and service charges for a bingo session or game account
described in R.C. § 2915.10;
      (4)   Audits and accounting services;
      (5)   Safes;
      (6)   Cash registers;
      (7)   Hiring security personnel;
      (8)   Advertising bingo;
      (9)   Renting premises in which to conduct a bingo session;
      (10)   Tables and chairs;
      (11)   Expenses for maintaining and operating a charitable organization’s
facilities, including but not limited to a post home, club house, lounge,
tavern or canteen and any grounds attached to the post home, club house,
lounge, tavern or canteen;
      (12)   Payment of real property taxes and assessments that are levied on
a premises on which bingo is conducted;
      (13)   Any other product or service directly related to the conduct of
bingo that is authorized in rules adopted by the Attorney General under R.C. §
2915.08(F)(1).
   (t)   “Fraternal organization.” Any society, order, state headquarters or
association within this state, except a college or high school fraternity, that
is not organized for profit, that is a branch, lodge or chapter of a national
or state organization, that exists exclusively for the common business or
sodality of its members.
   (u)   “Gambling device.” Any of the following:
      (1)   A book, totalizer or other equipment used for recording bets;
      (2)   A ticket, token or other device representing a chance, share or
interest in a scheme of chance or evidencing a bet;
      (3)   A deck of cards, dice, gaming table, roulette wheel, slot machine
or other apparatus designed for use in connection with a game of chance;
      (4)   Any equipment, device, apparatus or paraphernalia specially
designed for gambling purposes;
      (5)   Bingo supplies sold or otherwise provided, or used, in violation of
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (v)   “Gambling offense.” Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. Chapter 2915;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States substantially equivalent to any
provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915 or a violation of R.C. § 2915.06
as it existed prior to July 1, 1996;
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former municipal ordinance or law
of this or any other state or of the United States, of which gambling is an
element;
      (4)   A conspiracy or attempt to commit, or complicity in committing, any
offense under division (1), (2) or (3) of this definition.
   (w)   “Game flare.” The board or placard, or electronic representation of a
board or placard, that accompanies each deal of instant bingo or electronic
instant bingo tickets and that includes the following information for the game:
      (1)   The name of the game;
      (2)   The manufacturer’s name or distinctive logo;
      (3)   The form number;
      (4)   The ticket count;
      (5)   The prize structure, including the number of winning tickets by
denomination and the respective winning symbol or number combinations for the
winning tickets;
      (6)   The cost per play;
      (7)   The serial number of the game.
   (x)   “Game of chance.” Poker, craps, roulette or other game in which a
player gives anything of value in the hope of gain, the outcome of which is
determined largely by chance, but does not include bingo.
   (y)   “Game of chance conducted for profit.” Any game of chance designed to
produce income for the person who conducts or operates the game of chance, but
does not include bingo.
   (z)   “Gross annual revenues.” The annual gross receipts derived from the
conduct of bingo described in division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in this
section plus the annual net profit derived from the conduct of bingo described
in division (2) of the definition of “bingo” in this section.
   (aa)   “Gross profit.” Gross receipts minus the amount actually expended for
the payment of prize awards.
   (bb)   “Gross receipts.” All money or assets, including admission fees, that
a person receives from bingo without the deduction of any amounts for prizes
paid out or for the expenses of conducting bingo. “Gross receipts” does not
include any money directly taken in from the sale of food or beverages by a
charitable organization conducting bingo, or by a bona fide auxiliary unit or
society of a charitable organization conducting bingo, provided all of the
following apply:
      (1)   The auxiliary unit or society has been in existence as a bona fide
auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization for at least two years
prior to conducting bingo.
      (2)   The person who purchases the food or beverage receives nothing of
value except the food or beverage and items customarily received with the
purchase of that food or beverage.
      (3)   The food and beverages are sold at customary and reasonable prices.
   (cc)   “Historic railroad.” All or a portion of the tracks and right-of-way
of a railroad that was owned and operated by a for- profit common carrier in
this state at any time prior to January 1, 1950.
   (dd)   “Instant bingo.” A form of bingo that shall use folded or banded
tickets or paper cards with perforated break-open tabs, a face of which is
covered or otherwise hidden from view to conceal a number, letter, or symbol,
or set of numbers, letters, or symbols, some of which have been designated in
advance as prize winners, and may also include games in which some winners are
determined by the random selection of one or more bingo numbers by the use of a
seal card or bingo blower. “Instant bingo” also includes a punch board game. In
all “instant bingo” the prize amount and structure shall be predetermined. The
term does not include electronic instant bingo or any device that is activated
by the insertion of a coin, currency, token, or an equivalent, and that
contains as one of its components a video display monitor that is capable of
displaying numbers, letters, symbols, or characters in winning or losing
combinations.
   (ee)   “Instant bingo ticket dispenser.” A mechanical device that dispenses
an instant bingo ticket or card as the sole item of value dispensed and that
has the following characteristics:
      (1)   It is activated upon the insertion of United States currency.
      (2)   It performs no gaming functions.
      (3)   It does not contain a video display monitor or generate noise.
      (4)   It is not capable of displaying any numbers, letters, symbols or
characters in winning or losing combinations.
      (5)   It does not simulate or display rolling or spinning reels.
      (6)   It is incapable of determining whether a dispensed bingo ticket or
card is a winning or non-winning ticket or card and requires a winning ticket
or card to be paid by a bingo game operator.
      (7)   It may provide accounting and security features to aid in
accounting for the instant bingo tickets or cards it dispenses.
      (8)   It is not part of an electronic network and is not interactive.
   (ff)   “IRC” or “Internal Revenue Code.” The Internal Revenue Code of 1986,
100 Stat. 2085, 26 U.S.C. §§ 1 et seq., as now or hereafter amended.
   (gg)   “Manufacturer.” Any person who assembles completed bingo supplies
from raw materials, other items or subparts or who modifies, converts, adds to
or removes parts from bingo supplies to further their promotion or sale.
   (hh)   “Merchandise prize.” Any item of value, but shall not include any of
the following:
      (1)   Cash, gift cards or any equivalent thereof;
      (2)   Plays on games of chance, state lottery tickets, or bingo;
      (3)   Firearms, tobacco or alcoholic beverages; or
      (4)   A redeemable voucher that is redeemable for any of the items listed
in division (1), (2) or (3) of this definition.
   (ii)   “Net profit.” Gross profit minus expenses.
   (jj)   “Net profit from the proceeds of the sale of instant bingo or
electronic instant bingo.” Gross profit minus the ordinary, necessary, and
reasonable expense expended for the purchase of bingo supplies for the purpose
of conducting instant bingo or electronic instant bingo, and, in the case of
instant bingo or electronic instant bingo conducted by a veteran’s, fraternal,
or sporting organization, minus the payment by that organization of real
property taxes and assessments levied on a premises on which instant bingo or
electronic instant bingo is conducted.
   (kk)   “Participant.” Any person who plays bingo.
   (ll)   “Person.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1.59 and includes any
firm or any other legal entity, however organized.
   (mm)   “Pool not conducted for profit.” A scheme in which a participant
gives a valuable consideration for a chance to win a prize and the total amount
of consideration wagered is distributed to a participant or participants.
   (nn)   “Punch board.” A form of instant bingo that uses a board containing a
number of holes or receptacles of uniform size in which are placed,
mechanically and randomly, serially numbered slips of paper that may be punched
or drawn from the hole or receptacle. A player may punch or draw the numbered
slips of paper from the holes or receptacles and obtain the prize established
for the game if the number drawn corresponds to a winning number or, if the
punch board includes the use of a seal card, a potential winning number.
   (oo)   “Raffle.” A form of bingo in which the one or more prizes are won by
one or more persons who have purchased a raffle ticket. The one or more winners
of the raffle are determined by drawing a ticket stub or other detachable
section from a receptacle containing ticket stubs or detachable sections
corresponding to all tickets sold for the raffle. The term does not include the
drawing of a ticket stub or other detachable section of a ticket purchased to
attend a professional sporting event if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The ticket stub or other detachable section is used to select the
winner of a free prize given away at the professional sporting event; and
      (2)   The cost of the ticket is the same as the cost of a ticket to the
professional sporting event on days when no free prize is given away.
   (pp)   “Redeemable voucher.” Any ticket, token, coupon, receipt or other
noncash representation of value.
   (qq)   “Religious organization.” Any church, body of communicants, or group
that is not organized or operated for profit and that gathers in common
membership for regular worship and religious observances.
   (rr)   “Revoke.” To void permanently all rights and privileges of the holder
of a license issued under R.C. § 2915.08, 2915.081 or 2915.082 or a charitable
gaming license issued by another jurisdiction.
   (ss)   “Scheme of chance.”
      (1)   A slot machine unless authorized under R.C. Chapter 3772, lottery
unless authorized under R.C. Chapter 3770, numbers game, pool conducted for
profit, or other scheme in which a participant gives a valuable consideration
for a chance to win a prize, but does not include bingo, a skill-based
amusement machine, or a pool not conducted for profit. “Scheme of chance”
includes the use of an electronic device to reveal the results of a game entry
if valuable consideration is paid, directly or indirectly, for a chance to win
a prize. Valuable consideration is deemed to be paid for a chance to win a
prize in the following instances:
         A.   Less than 50% of the goods or services sold by a scheme of chance
operator in exchange for game entries are used or redeemed by participants at
any one location;
         B.   Less than 50% of participants who purchase goods or services at
any one location do not accept, use, or redeem the goods or services sold or
purportedly sold;
         C.   More than 50% of prizes at any one location are revealed to
participants through an electronic device simulating a game of chance or a
“casino game” as defined in R.C. § 3772.01;
         D.   The good or service sold by a scheme of chance operator in
exchange for a game entry cannot be used or redeemed in the manner advertised;
         E.   A participant pays more than fair market value for goods or
services offered by a scheme of chance operator in order to receive one or more
game entries;
         F.   A participant may use the electronic device to purchase
additional game entries;
         G.   A participant may purchase additional game entries by using
points or credits won as prizes while using the electronic device;
         H.   A scheme of chance operator pays out in prize money more than 20%
of the gross revenue received at one location; or
         I.   A participant makes a purchase or exchange in order to obtain any
good or service that may be used to facilitate play on the electronic device.
      (2)   As used in this division, “electronic device” means a mechanical,
video, digital, or electronic machine or device that is capable of displaying
information on a screen or other mechanism and that is owned, leased, or
otherwise possessed by any person conducting a scheme of chance, or by that
person’s partners, affiliates, subsidiaries, or contractors. “Electronic
device” does not include an electronic instant bingo system.
   (tt)   “Seal card.” A form of instant bingo that uses instant bingo tickets
in conjunction with a board or placard that contains one or more seals that,
when removed or opened, reveal predesignated winning numbers, letters or
symbols.
   (uu)   “Security personnel.” Any person who either is a Sheriff, Deputy
Sheriff, Marshal, Deputy Marshal, township constable, or member of an organized
police department of a municipal corporation or has successfully completed a
peace officer’s training course pursuant to R.C. §§ 109.71 to 109.79 and who is
hired to provide security for the premises on which bingo is conducted.
   (vv)   “Skill-based amusement machine.”
      (1)   A.   A mechanical, video, digital or electronic device that rewards
the player or players, if at all, only with merchandise prizes or with
redeemable vouchers redeemable only for merchandise prizes, provided that with
respect to rewards for playing the game all of the following apply:
            1.   The wholesale value of a merchandise prize awarded as a result
of the single play of a machine does not exceed $10;
            2.    Redeemable vouchers awarded for any single play of a machine
are not redeemable for a merchandise prize with a wholesale value of more than
$10;
            3.    Redeemable vouchers are not redeemable for a merchandise
prize that has a wholesale value of more than $10 times the fewest number of
single plays necessary to accrue the redeemable vouchers required to obtain
that prize; and
            4.   Any redeemable vouchers or merchandise prizes are distributed
at the site of the skill-based amusement machine at the time of play.
         B.   A card for the purchase of gasoline is a redeemable voucher for
purposes of division (1) of this definition even if the skill-based amusement
machine for the play of which the card is awarded is located at a place where
gasoline may not be legally distributed to the public or the card is not
redeemable at the location of, or at the time of playing, the skill- based
amusement machine.
      (2)   A device shall not be considered a skill-based amusement machine
and shall be considered a slot machine if it pays cash or one or more of the
following apply:
         A.   The ability of a player to succeed at the game is impacted by the
number or ratio of prior wins to prior losses of players playing the game;
         B.   Any reward of redeemable vouchers is not based solely on the
player achieving the object of the game or the player’s score;
         C.   The outcome of the game, or the value of the redeemable voucher
or merchandise prize awarded for winning the game, can be controlled by a
source other than any player playing the game;
         D.   The success of any player is or may be determined by a chance
event that cannot be altered by player actions;
         E.   The ability of any player to succeed at the game is determined by
game features not visible or known to the player;
         F.   The ability of the player to succeed at the game is impacted by
the exercise of a skill that no reasonable player could exercise.
      (3)   All of the following apply to any machine that is operated as
described in division (1) of this definition:
         A.   As used in this definition of “skill-based amusement machine”,
“game” and “play” mean one event from the initial activation of the machine
until the results of play are determined without payment of additional
consideration. An individual utilizing a machine that involves a single game,
play, contest, competition or tournament may be awarded redeemable vouchers or
merchandise prizes based on the results of play.
         B.   Advance play for a single game, play, contest, competition or
tournament participation may be purchased. The cost of the contest, competition
or tournament participation may be greater than a single non- contest,
competition or tournament play.
         C.   To the extent that the machine is used in a contest, competition
or tournament, that contest, competition or tournament has a defined starting
and ending date and is open to participants in competition for scoring and
ranking results toward the
awarding of redeemable vouchers or merchandise prizes that are stated prior to
the start of the contest, competition, or tournament.
      (4)   For purposes of division (1) of this definition, the mere presence
of a device, such as a pin-setting, ball-releasing or scoring mechanism, that
does not contribute to or affect the outcome of the play of the game does not
make the device a skill-based amusement machine.
   (ww)   “Slot machine.”
      (1)   Either of the following:
         A.   Any mechanical, electronic, video or digital device that is
capable of accepting anything of value, directly or indirectly, from or on
behalf of a player who gives the thing of value in the hope of gain;
         B.   Any mechanical, electronic, video or digital device that is
capable of accepting anything of value, directly or indirectly, from or on
behalf of a player to conduct bingo or a scheme or game of chance.
      (2)   “Slot machine” does not include a skill-based amusement machine, an
instant bingo ticket dispenser, or an electronic instant bingo system.
   (xx)   “Sporting organization.” A hunting, fishing or trapping organization,
other than a college or high school fraternity or sorority, that is not
organized for profit, that is affiliated with a state or national sporting
organization, including but not limited to the League of Ohio Sportsmen, and
that has been in continuous existence in this state for a period of three
years.
   (yy)   “Suspend.” To interrupt temporarily all rights and privileges of the
holder of a license issued under R.C. § 2915.08, 2915.081 or 2915.082 or a
charitable gaming license issued by another jurisdiction.
   (zz)   “Sweepstakes.” Any game, contest, advertising scheme or plan, or
other promotion where consideration is not required for a person to enter to
win or become eligible to receive any prize, the determination of which is
based upon chance. “Sweepstakes” does not include bingo as authorized under
R.C. Chapter 2915, pari-mutuel wagering as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3769,
lotteries conducted by the State Lottery Commission as authorized by R.C.
Chapter 3770, and casino gaming as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3772.
   (aaa)   “Sweepstakes terminal device.”
      (1)   A mechanical, video, digital, or electronic machine or device that
is owned, leased, or otherwise possessed by any person conducting a
sweepstakes, or by that person’s partners, affiliates, subsidiaries, or
contractors, that is intended to be used by a sweepstakes participant, and that
is capable of displaying information on a screen or other mechanism. A device
is a sweepstakes terminal device if any of the following apply:
         A.   The device uses a simulated game terminal as a representation of
the prizes associated with the results of the sweepstakes entries.
         B.   The device utilizes software such that the simulated game
influences or determines the winning of or value of the prize.
         C.   The device selects prizes from a predetermined finite pool of
entries.
         D.   The device utilizes a mechanism that reveals the content of a
predetermined sweepstakes entry.
         E.   The device predetermines the prize results and stores those
results for delivery at the time the sweepstakes entry results are revealed.
         F.   The device utilizes software to create a game result.
         G.   The device reveals the prize incrementally, even though the
device does not influence the awarding of the prize or the value of any prize
awarded.
         H.   The device determines and associates the prize with an entry or
entries at the time the sweepstakes is entered.
      (2)   As used in this definition and in §
630.02:
         A.   “Enter.” The act by which a person becomes eligible to receive
any prize offered in a sweepstakes.
         B.   “Entry.” One event from the initial activation of the sweepstakes
terminal device until all the sweepstakes prize results from that activation
are revealed.
         C.   “Prize.” Any gift, award, gratuity, good, service, credit,
reward, or any other thing of value that may be transferred to a person,
whether possession of the prize is actually transferred, or placed on an
account or other record as evidence of the intent to transfer the prize.
         D.   “Sweepstakes terminal device facility.” Any location in this
state where a sweepstakes terminal device is provided to a sweepstakes
participant, except as provided in § 630.02(g) and R.C. § 2915.02(G).
   (bbb)   “Veteran’s organization.” Any individual post or state headquarters
of a national veteran’s association or an auxiliary unit of any individual post
of a national veteran’s association, which post, state headquarters or
auxiliary unit is incorporated as a nonprofit corporation and either has
received a letter from the state headquarters of the national veteran’s
association indicating that the individual post or auxiliary unit is in good
standing with the national veteran’s association or has received a letter from
the national veteran’s association indicating that the state headquarters is in
good standing with the national veteran’s association. As used in this
division, “national veteran’s association” means any veteran’s association that
has been in continuous existence as such for a period of at least five years
and either is incorporated by an act of the United States Congress or has a
national dues- paying membership of at least 5,000 persons.
   (ccc)   “Volunteer firefighter’s organization.” Any organization of
volunteer firefighters, as defined in R.C. § 146.01, that is organized and
operated exclusively to provide financial support for a volunteer fire
department or a volunteer fire company and that is recognized or ratified by a
county, municipal corporation or township.
   (ddd)   “Volunteer rescue service organization.” Any organization of
volunteers organized to function as an emergency medical service organization,
as defined in R.C. § 4765.01.
   (eee)   “Youth athletic organization.” Any organization, not organized for
profit, that is organized and operated exclusively to provide financial support
to, or to operate, athletic activities for persons who are 21 years of age or
younger by means of sponsoring, organizing, operating or contributing to the
support of an athletic team, club, league or association.
   (fff)   “Youth athletic park organization.” Any organization, not organized
for profit, that satisfies both of the following:
      (1)   It owns, operates and maintains playing fields that satisfy both of
the following:
         A.   The playing fields are used for athletic activities by one or
more organizations, not organized for profit, each of which is organized and
operated exclusively to provide financial support to, or to operate, athletic
activities for persons who are 18 years of age or younger by means of
sponsoring, organizing, operating or contributing to the support of an athletic
team, club, league, or association.
         B.   The playing fields are not used for any profit-making activity at
any time during the year.
      (2)   It uses the proceeds of bingo it conducts exclusively for the
operation, maintenance, and improvement of its playing fields of the type
described in division (1) of this definition.
(R.C. § 2915.01)
§ 630.02 GAMBLING IN GENERAL.
   (a)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Engage in bookmaking, or knowingly engage in conduct that
facilitates bookmaking.
      (2)   Establish, promote, or operate or knowingly engage in conduct that
facilitates any game of chance conducted for profit or any scheme of chance.
      (3)   Knowingly procure, transmit, exchange, or engage in conduct that
facilitates the procurement, transmission, or exchange of information for use
in establishing odds or determining winners in connection with bookmaking or
with any game of chance conducted for profit or any scheme of chance.
      (4)   Engage in betting or in playing any scheme or game of chance as a
substantial source of income or livelihood.
      (5)   Conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a sweepstakes with the
use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes terminal device facility
and either:
         A.   Give to another person any item described in Ohio R.C. 2915.01
(VV)(1), (VV)(2), (VV)(3), or (VV)(4) as a prize for playing or participating
in a sweepstakes; or
         B.   Give to another person any merchandise prize, or a redeemable
voucher for a merchandise prize, the wholesale value of which is in excess of
ten dollars ($10.00) and which is awarded as a single entry for playing or
participating in a sweepstakes. Redeemable vouchers shall not be redeemable for
a merchandise prize that has a wholesale value of more than ten dollars
($10.00).
      (6)   Conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a sweepstakes with the
use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes terminal device facility
without first obtaining a current annual “certificate of registration” from the
Attorney General as required by Ohio R.C. 2915.02(F).
      (7)   With purpose to violate division (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4),
(a)(5), or (a)(6) of this section, acquire, possess, control or operate any
gambling device.
   (b)   For purposes of division (a)(1) of this section, a person facilitates
bookmaking if the person in any way knowingly aids an illegal bookmaking
operation, including, without limitation, placing a bet with a person engaged
in or facilitating illegal bookmaking. For purposes of division (a)(2) of this
section, a person facilitates a game of chance conducted for profit or a scheme
of chance if the person in any way knowingly aids in the conduct or operation
of any such game or scheme, including, without limitation, playing any such
game or scheme.
   (c)   This section does not prohibit conduct in connection with gambling
expressly permitted by law.
   (d)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   Games of chance, if all of the following apply:
         A.   The games of chance are not craps for money or roulette for
money.
         B.   The games of chance are conducted by a charitable organization
that is and has received from the Internal Revenue Service a determination
letter that is currently in effect, stating that the organization is exempt
from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3).
         C.   The games of chance are conducted at festivals of the charitable
organization that are conducted not more than a total of five days a calendar
year, and are conducted on premises owned by the charitable organization for a
period of no less than one year immediately preceding the conducting of the
games of chance, on premises leased from a governmental unit, or on premises
that are leased from a veteran’s or fraternal organization and that have been
owned by the lessor veteran’s or fraternal organization for a period of no less
than one year immediately preceding the conducting of the games of chance. A
charitable organization shall not lease premises from a veteran’s or fraternal
organization to conduct a festival described in this division, if the veteran’s
or fraternal organization already has leased the premises 12 times during the
preceding year to charitable organizations for that purpose. If a charitable
organization leases premises from a veteran’s or fraternal organization to
conduct a festival described in this division, the charitable organization
shall not pay a rental rate for the premises per day of the festival that
exceeds the rental rate per bingo session that a charitable organization may
pay under Ohio R.C. 2915.09(B)(1) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance when it leases premises from another charitable organization to
conduct bingo games.
         D.   All of the money or assets received from the games of chance
after deduction only of prizes paid out during the conduct of the games of
chance are used by, given, donated or otherwise transferred to any organization
that is described in IRC 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a
governmental unit or an organization that is tax exempt under IRC 501(a) and
described in IRC 501(c)(3).
         E.   The games of chance are not conducted during or within ten hours
of a bingo game conducted for amusement purposes only pursuant to Ohio R.C.
2915.12 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance. No person shall
receive any commission, wage, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity, or other
form of compensation, directly or indirectly, for operating or assisting in the
operation of any game of chance.
      (2)   Any tag fishing tournament, as defined in Ohio R.C. 1531.01,
operated under a permit issued under Ohio R.C. 1533.92.
      (3)   Bingo conducted by a charitable organization that holds a license
issued under Ohio R.C. 2915.08.
   (e)   Division (d) of this section shall not be construed to authorize the
sale, lease, or other temporary or permanent transfer of the right to conduct
games of chance, as granted by that division, by any charitable organization
that is granted that right.
   (f)   Any person desiring to conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a
sweepstakes with the use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes
terminal device facility shall first register with the Office of the Attorney
General and obtain an annual certificate of registration by providing a filing
fee of two hundred dollars ($200.00) and all information as required by rule
adopted under Ohio R.C. 2915.02(H). Not later than the tenth day of each month,
each sweepstakes terminal device operator shall file a sweepstakes terminal
device monthly report with the Attorney General and provide a filing fee of
fifty dollars ($50.00) and all information required by rule adopted under Ohio
R.C. 2915.02(H). All information provided to the Attorney General under this
division shall be available to law enforcement upon request.
   (g)   (1)   A person may apply to the Attorney General, on a form prescribed
by the Attorney General, for a certificate of compliance that the person is not
operating a sweepstakes terminal device facility. The form shall require the
person to include the address of the business location where sweepstakes
terminal devices will be used and to make the following certifications:
         A.   That the person will not use more than two sweepstakes terminal
devices at the business location;
         B.   That the retail value of sweepstakes prizes to be awarded at the
business location using sweepstakes terminal devices during a reporting period
will be less than 3% of the gross revenue received at the business location
during the reporting period;
         C.   That no other form of gaming except lottery ticket sales as
authorized under Ohio R.C. Chapter 3770 will be conducted at the business
location or in an adjoining area of the business location;
         D.   That any sweepstakes terminal device at the business location
will not allow any deposit of any money, coin, or token, or the use of any
credit card, debit card, prepaid card, or any other method of similar payment
to be used, directly or indirectly, to participate in a sweepstakes;
         E.   That notification of any prize will not take place on the same
day as a participant’s sweepstakes entry; and
         F.   That the person consents to provide any other information to the
Attorney General as required by rule adopted under Ohio R.C. 2915.02(H).
      (2)   The filing fee for a certificate of compliance is two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00). The Attorney General may charge up to an additional two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for reasonable expenses resulting from any
investigation related to an application for a certificate of compliance.
      (3)   A certificate of compliance is effective for one year. The
certificate holder may reapply for a certificate of compliance. A person issued
a certificate of compliance shall file semiannual reports with the Attorney
General stating the number of sweepstakes terminal devices at the business
location and that the retail value of prizes awarded at the business location
using sweepstakes terminal devices is less than 3% of the gross revenue
received at the business location.
   (h)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of gambling, a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling
offense, gambling is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
Notwithstanding this division, failing to file a sweepstakes terminal device
monthly report as required by division (f) of this section or the semiannual
report required by division (g) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(ORC 2915.02(A) - (G), (K))
§ 630.03 OPERATING A GAMBLING HOUSE.
   (a)   No person, being the owner or lessee, or having custody, control, or
supervision of premises, shall:
      (1)   Use or occupy the premises for gambling in violation of Ohio R.C.
2915.02 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   Recklessly permit the premises to be used or occupied for gambling
in violation of Ohio R.C. 2915.02 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (b)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of operating a
gambling house, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously
has been convicted of a gambling offense, operating a gambling house is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (c)   Premises used or occupied in violation of this section constitute a
nuisance subject to abatement under Ohio R.C. Chapter 3767.
(ORC 2915.03)
§ 630.04 PUBLIC GAMING.
   (a)   No person, while at a hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall,
or other place of public accommodation, business, amusement, or resort shall
make a bet or play any game of chance or scheme of chance.
   (b)   No person, being the owner or lessee, or having custody, control, or
supervision of a hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall, or other place
of public accommodation, business, amusement, or resort shall recklessly permit
those premises to be used or occupied in violation of division (a) of this
section.
   (c)   Divisions (a) and (b) of this section do not prohibit conduct in
connection with gambling expressly permitted by law.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of public gaming. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, public gaming is a minor misdemeanor. If
the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling offense, public
gaming is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (e)   Premises used or occupied in violation of division (b) of this section
constitute a nuisance subject to abatement under R.C. Chapter 3767.
(ORC 2915.04)
§ 630.05 CHEATING.
   (a)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall engage in conduct designed to corrupt the outcome
of any of the following:
      (1)   The subject of a bet.
      (2)   A contest of knowledge, skill, or endurance that is not an athletic
or sporting event.
      (3)   A scheme or game of chance.
      (4)   Bingo.
   (b)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Offer, give, solicit, or accept anything of value to corrupt the
outcome of an athletic or sporting event.
      (2)   Engage in conduct designed to corrupt the outcome of an athletic or
sporting event.
   (c)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of
cheating. Except as otherwise provided in this division, cheating is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the potential gain from the cheating is one
thousand dollars ($1,000) or more or if the offender previously has been
convicted of any gambling offense or of any theft offense as defined in Ohio
R.C. 2913.01, cheating is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of
corrupting sports. Corrupting sports is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(ORC 2915.05)
§ 630.06 RESPONSIBILITY OF CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION CONDUCTING BINGO GAME.
   (a)   No charitable organization that conducts bingo shall fail to do any of
the following:
      (1)   Own all of the equipment used to conduct bingo or lease that
equipment from a charitable organization that is licensed to conduct bingo, or
from the landlord of a premises where bingo is conducted, for a rental rate
that is not more than is customary and reasonable for that equipment;
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (a)(3) of this section,
use all of the gross receipts from bingo for paying prizes, for reimbursement
of expenses for or for renting premises in which to conduct bingo, for
reimbursement of expenses for or for purchasing or leasing bingo supplies used
in conducting bingo, for reimbursement of expenses for or for hiring security
personnel, for reimbursement of expenses for or for advertising bingo, or for
reimbursement of other expenses or for other expenses listed in the definition
for “expenses” in Ohio R.C. 2915.01, provided that the amount of the receipts
so spent is not more than is customary and reasonable for a similar purchase,
lease, hiring, advertising, or expense. If the building in which bingo is
conducted is owned by the charitable organization conducting bingo and the
bingo conducted includes a form of bingo described in division (1) of the
definition of “bingo” in Ohio R.C. 2915.01, the charitable organization may
deduct from the total amount of the gross receipts from each session a sum
equal to the lesser of six hundred dollars ($600.00) or 45 percent of the gross
receipts from the bingo described in that division as consideration for the use
of the premises;
      (3)   Use, or give, donate, or otherwise transfer, all of the net profit
derived from bingo described in R.C. § 2915.01(O)(1) for a charitable purpose
listed in its license application and described in R.C. § 2915.01(V), or
distribute all of the net profit from the proceeds of the sale of instant bingo
or electronic instant bingo as stated in its license application and in
accordance with R.C. § 2915.101, as applicable.
   (b)   No charitable organization that conducts a bingo game described in
division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in Ohio R.C. 2915.01 shall fail to do
any of the following:
      (1)   Conduct the bingo game on premises that are owned by the charitable
organization, on premises that are owned by another charitable organization and
leased from that charitable organization for a rental rate not in excess of the
lesser of six hundred fifty dollars ($650.00) per bingo session or 45 percent
of the gross receipts of the bingo session, on premises that are leased from a
person other than a charitable organization for a rental rate that is not more
than is customary and reasonable for premises that are similar in location,
size, and quality but not in excess of four hundred fifty dollars ($450.00) per
bingo session, or on premises that are owned by a person other than a
charitable organization, that are leased from that person by another charitable
organization, and that are subleased from that other charitable organization by
the charitable organization for a rental rate not in excess of four hundred
fifty dollars ($450.00) per bingo session. No charitable organization is
required to pay property taxes or assessments on premises that the charitable
organization leases from another person to conduct bingo sessions. If the
charitable organization leases from a person other than a charitable
organization the premises on which it conducts bingo sessions, the lessor of
the premises shall provide only the premises to the organization and shall not
provide the organization with bingo game operators, security personnel,
concessions or concession operators, bingo supplies, or any other type of
service. A charitable organization shall not lease or sublease premises that it
owns or leases to more than three other charitable organizations per calendar
week for conducting bingo sessions on the premises. A person that is not a
charitable organization shall not lease premises that it owns, leases, or
otherwise is empowered to lease to more than three charitable organizations per
calendar week for conducting bingo sessions on the premises. In no case shall
more than nine bingo sessions be conducted on any premises in any calendar
week;
      (2)   Display its license conspicuously at the premises where the bingo
session is conducted;
      (3)   Conduct the bingo session in accordance with division (1) of the
definition of “bingo” in Ohio R.C. 2915.01.
   (c)   No charitable organization that conducts a bingo game described in
division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in Ohio R.C. 2915.01 shall not do any
of the following:
      (1)   Pay any compensation to a bingo game operator for operating a bingo
session that is conducted by the charitable organization or for preparing,
selling, or serving food or beverages at the site of the bingo session, permit
any auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization to pay
compensation to any bingo game operator who prepares, sells, or serves food or
beverages at a bingo session conducted by the charitable organization, or
permit any auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization to prepare,
sell, or serve food or beverages at a bingo session conducted by the charitable
organization, if the auxiliary unit or society pays any compensation to the
bingo game operators who prepare, sell, or serve the food or beverages;
      (2)   Pay consulting fees to any person for any services performed in
relation to the bingo session;
      (3)   Pay concession fees to any person who provides refreshments to the
participants in the bingo session;
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in division (c)(4) of this section,
conduct more than three bingo sessions in any seven-day period. A volunteer
firefighter’s organization or a volunteer rescue service organization that
conducts not more than five bingo sessions in a calendar year may conduct more
than three bingo sessions in a seven-day period after notifying the Attorney
General when it will conduct the sessions;
      (5)   Pay out more than six thousand dollars ($6,000) in prizes for bingo
games described in Ohio R.C. 2915.01(S)(1) during any bingo session that is
conducted by the charitable organization. “Prizes” does not include awards from
the conduct of instant bingo.
      (6)   Conduct a bingo session at any time during the eight-hour period
between 2:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m., at any time during, or within ten hours of, a
bingo game conducted for amusement only pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2915.12 or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, at any premises not specified on
its license, or on any day of the week or during any time period not specified
on its license. This division does not prohibit the sale of instant bingo
tickets beginning at 9:00 a.m. for a bingo session that begins at 10:00 a.m. If
circumstances make it impractical for the charitable organization to conduct a
bingo session at the premises, or on the day of the week or at the time
specified on its license or if a charitable organization wants to conduct bingo
sessions on a day of the week or at a time other than the day or time specified
on its license, the charitable organization may apply in writing to the
Attorney General for an amended license pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2915.08(J). A
charitable organization may apply twice in each calendar year for an amended
license to conduct bingo sessions on a day of the week or at a time other than
the day or time specified on its license. If the amended license is granted,
the organization may conduct bingo sessions at the premises, on the day of the
week, and at the time specified on its amended license;
      (7)   Permit any person whom the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, is under the age of 18 to work as a bingo game operator;
      (8)   Permit any person whom the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any
jurisdiction to be a bingo game operator;
      (9)   Permit the lessor of the premises on which the bingo session is
conducted, if the lessor is not a charitable organization, to provide the
charitable organization with bingo game operators, security personnel,
concessions, bingo supplies, or any other type of service;
      (10)   Purchase or lease bingo supplies from any person except a
distributor issued a license under Ohio R.C. 2915.081;
      (11)   A.   Use or permit the use of electronic bingo aids except under
the following circumstances:
            1.   For any single participant, not more than 90 bingo faces can
be played using an electronic bingo aid or aids.
            2.   The charitable organization shall provide a participant using
an electronic bingo aid with corresponding paper bingo cards or sheets.
            3.   The total price of bingo faces played with an electronic bingo
aid shall be equal to the total price of the same number of bingo faces played
with a paper bingo card or sheet sold at the same bingo session but without an
electronic bingo aid.
            4.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be part of an electronic
network other than a network that includes only bingo aids and devices that are
located on the premises at which the bingo is being conducted or be interactive
with any device not located on the premises at which the bingo is being
conducted.
            5.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be used to participate in bingo
that is conducted at a location other than the location at which the bingo
session is conducted and at which the electronic bingo aid is used.
            6.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be used to provide for the
input of numbers and letters announced by a bingo caller other than the bingo
caller who physically calls the numbers and letters at the location at which
the bingo session is conducted and at which the electronic bingo aid is used.
         B.   The Attorney General may adopt rules in accordance with Ohio R.C.
Chapter 119 that govern the use of electronic bingo aids. The rules may include
a requirement that an electronic bingo aid be capable of being audited by the
Attorney General to verify the number of bingo cards or sheets played during
each bingo session.
      (12)   Permit any person the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, to be under 18 years of age to play bingo described in division (1)
of the definition of “bingo” in Ohio R.C. 2915.01.
   (d)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (d)(3) of this section,
no charitable organization shall provide to a bingo game operator, and no bingo
game operator shall receive or accept, any commission, wage, salary, reward,
tip, donation, gratuity, or other form of compensation, directly or indirectly,
regardless of the source, for conducting bingo or providing other work or labor
at the site of bingo during a bingo session.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (d)(3) of this section, no
charitable organization shall provide to a bingo game operator any commission,
wage, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity, or other form of compensation,
directly or indirectly regardless of the source, for conducting instant bingo,
electronic instant bingo, or both other than at a bingo session at the site of
instant bingo, electronic instant bingo, or both other than at a bingo session.
      (3)   Nothing in this division (d) of this section prohibits an employee
of a fraternal organization, veteran’s organization, or sporting organization
from selling instant bingo tickets or cards to the organization’s members or
invited guests, as long as no portion of the employee’s compensation is paid
from any receipts of bingo.
   (e)   Notwithstanding division (b)(1) of this section, a charitable
organization that, prior to December 6, 1977, has entered into written
agreements for the lease of premises it owns to another charitable organization
or other charitable organizations for the conducting of bingo sessions so that
more than two bingo sessions are conducted per calendar week on the premises,
and a person that is not a charitable organization and that, prior to December
6, 1977, has entered into written agreements for the lease of premises it owns
to charitable organizations for the conducting of more than two bingo sessions
per calendar week on the premises, may continue to lease the premises to those
charitable organizations, provided that no more than four sessions are
conducted per calendar week, that the lessor organization or person has
notified the Attorney General in writing of the organizations that will conduct
the sessions and the days of the week and the times of the day on which the
sessions will be conducted, that the initial lease entered into with each
organization that will conduct the sessions was filed with the Attorney General
prior to December 6, 1977, and that each organization that will conduct the
sessions was issued a license to conduct bingo games by the Attorney General
prior to December 6, 1977.
   (f)   This section does not prohibit a bingo licensed charitable
organization or a game operator from giving any person an instant bingo ticket
as a prize.
   (g)   Whoever violates division (a)(2) of this section is guilty of
illegally conducting a bingo game, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law. Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (a)(1), (a)(3), (b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(3), (c)(1) to (c)(11), or (d) of
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a violation of division (a)(1), (a)(3), (b)(1), (b)(2), (b)
(3), (c)(1) to (c)(11), or (d) of this section, a violation of division (a)(1),
(a)(3), (b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(3), (c)(1) to (c)(11), or (d) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. Whoever violates division (c)(12) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of a violation of division (c)(12) of this
section, a violation of division (c)(12) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(ORC 2915.09)
§ 630.07 MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS BY CHARITABLE ORGANIZATIONS.
   (a)   No charitable organization that conducts bingo or a game of chance
pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2915.02(D), or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, shall fail to maintain the following records for at least three
years from the date on which the bingo or game of chance is conducted:
      (1)   An itemized list of the gross receipts of each bingo session, each
game of instant bingo by serial number, each electronic instant bingo game by
serial number, each raffle, each punch board game, and each game of chance, and
an itemized list of the gross profits of each game of instant bingo by serial
number and each electronic instant bingo game by serial number;
      (2)   An itemized list of all expenses, other than prizes, that are
incurred in conducting bingo, the name of each person to whom the expenses are
paid, and a receipt for all of the expenses;
      (3)   A list of all prizes awarded during each bingo session, each
raffle, each punch board game, and each game of chance conducted by the
charitable organization, the total prizes awarded from each game of instant
bingo by serial number and each electronic instant bingo game by serial number,
and the name, address, and social security number of all persons who are
winners of prizes of $600 or more in value;
      (4)   An itemized list of the recipients of the net profit of bingo or
game of chance, including the name and address of each recipient to whom the
money is distributed, and if the organization uses the net profit of bingo, or
the money or assets received from a game of chance, for any charitable or other
purpose set forth in Ohio R.C. 2915.01(V), Ohio R.C. 2915.02(D), or Ohio R.C.
2915.101, a list of each purpose and an itemized list of each expenditure for
each purpose;
      (5)   The number of persons who participate in any bingo session or game
of chance that is conducted by the charitable organization;
      (6)   A list of receipts from the sale of food and beverages by the
charitable organization or one of its auxiliary units or societies, if the
receipts were excluded from “gross receipts” under Ohio R.C. 2915.01(T);
      (7)   An itemized list of all expenses incurred at each bingo session,
each raffle, each punch board game or each game of instant bingo or electronic
instant bingo conducted by the charitable organization in the sale of food and
beverages by the charitable organization or by an auxiliary unit or society of
the charitable organization, the name of each person to whom the expenses are
paid, and a receipt for all of the expenses.
   (b)   A charitable organization shall keep the records that it is required
to maintain pursuant to division (a) of this section at its principal place of
business in this state or at its headquarters in this state and shall notify
the Attorney General of the location at which those records are kept.
   (c)   The gross profit from each bingo session or game described in division
(1) or (2) of the definition of “bingo” in Ohio R.C. 2915.01 shall be deposited
into a checking account devoted exclusively to the bingo session or game.
Payments for allowable expenses incurred in conducting the bingo session or
game and payments to recipients of some or all of the net profit of the bingo
session or game shall be made only by checks or electronic fund transfers drawn
on the bingo session or game account.
   (d)   Each charitable organization shall conduct and record an inventory of
all of its bingo supplies as of the first day of November of each year.
   (e)   The Attorney General may adopt rules in accordance with Ohio R.C.
Chapter 119 that establish standards of accounting, record keeping, and
reporting to ensure that gross receipts from bingo or games of chance are
properly accounted for.
   (f)   A distributor shall maintain, for a period of three years after the
date of its sale or other provision, a record of each instance of its selling
or otherwise providing to another person bingo supplies for use in this state.
The record shall include all of the following for each instance:
      (1)   The name of the manufacturer from which the distributor purchased
the bingo supplies and the date of the purchase;
      (2)   The name and address of the charitable organization or other
distributor to which the bingo supplies were sold or otherwise provided;
      (3)   A description that clearly identifies the bingo supplies;
      (4)   Invoices that include the nonrepeating serial numbers of all paper
bingo cards and sheets and all instant bingo deals sold or otherwise provided
to each charitable organization.
   (g)   A manufacturer shall maintain, for a period of three years after the
date of its sale or other provision, a record of each instance of its selling
or otherwise providing bingo supplies for use in this state. The record shall
include all of the following for each instance:
      (1)   The name and address of the distributor to whom the bingo supplies
were sold or otherwise provided;
      (2)   A description that clearly identifies the bingo supplies, including
serial numbers;
      (3)   Invoices that include the nonrepeating serial numbers of all paper
bingo cards and sheets and all instant bingo deals sold or otherwise provided
to each distributor.
   (h)   (1)   The Attorney General or any law enforcement agency may do all of
the following:
         A.   Investigate any charitable organization, distributor, or
manufacturer or any officer, agent, trustee, member, or employee of the
organization, distributor, or manufacturer;
         B.   Examine the accounts and records of the charitable organization,
distributor, or manufacturer or of any officer, agent, trustee, member, or
employee of the organization, distributor, or manufacturer;
         C.   Conduct inspections, audits and observations of bingo or games of
chance;
         D.   Conduct inspections of the premises where bingo or games of
chance are conducted or where bingo supplies are manufactured or distributed;
         E.   Take any other necessary and reasonable action to determine if a
violation of any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915 has occurred
and to determine whether R.C. § 2915.11, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, has been complied with.
      (2)   If any law enforcement agency has reasonable grounds to believe
that a charitable organization, distributor, or manufacturer or an officer,
agent, trustee, member, or employee of the organization, distributor, or
manufacturer has violated any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915,
the law enforcement agency may proceed by action in the proper court to enforce
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915, provided that the law enforcement agency
shall give written notice to the Attorney General when commencing an action as
described in this division.
   (i)   No person shall destroy, alter, conceal, withhold, or deny access to
any accounts or records of a charitable organization, distributor, or
manufacturer that have been requested for examination, or obstruct, impede, or
interfere with any inspection, audit, or observation of bingo or a game of
chance, of premises where bingo or a game of chance is conducted, or of
premises where bingo supplies are manufactured or distributed, or refuse to
comply with any reasonable request of, or obstruct, impede, or interfere with
any other reasonable action undertaken by, the Attorney General or a law
enforcement agency pursuant to division (h) of this section.
   (j)   Whoever violates division (a) or (i) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2915.10)
§ 630.08 QUALIFICATIONS OF BINGO GAME OPERATOR.
   (a)   No person shall be a bingo game operator unless the person is 18 years
of age or older.
   (b)   No person who has been convicted of a felony or a gambling offense in
any jurisdiction shall be a bingo game operator.
   (c)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. Whoever violates division (b) of this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(ORC 2915.11)
§ 630.09 EXEMPTION FOR BINGO GAMES CONDUCTED FOR AMUSEMENT.
   (a)   Sections
630.06 to
630.13 and
630.15 do not apply to bingo games that are conducted for the purpose of
amusement only. A bingo game is conducted for the purpose of amusement only if
it complies with all of the requirements specified in either division (a)(1) or
(a)(2) of this section.
      (1)   A.   The participants do not pay any money or any other thing of
value, including an admission fee or any fee, for bingo cards or sheets,
objects to cover the spaces, or other devices used in playing bingo, for the
privilege of participating in the bingo game, or to defray any costs of the
game, or pay tips or make donations during or immediately before or after the
bingo game.
         B.   All prizes awarded during the course of the game are non-
monetary, and in the form of merchandise, goods, or entitlement to goods or
services only, and the total value of all prizes awarded during the game is
less than one hundred dollars ($100.00).
         C.   No commission, wages, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity, or
other form of compensation, either directly or indirectly, and regardless of
the source, is paid to any bingo game operator for work or labor performed at
the site of the bingo game.
         D.   The bingo game is not conducted either during or within ten hours
of any of the following:
            1.   A bingo session during which a charitable bingo game is
conducted pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2915.07 through 2915.11 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
            2.   A scheme or game of chance, or bingo described in Ohio R.C.
2915.01(O)(2).
         E.   The number of players participating in the bingo game does not
exceed 50.
      (2)   A.   The participants do not pay money or any other thing of value
as an admission fee, and no participant is charged more than twenty-five cents
($0.25) to purchase a bingo card or sheet, objects to cover the spaces, or
other devices used in playing bingo.
         B.   The total amount of money paid by all of the participants for
bingo cards or sheets, objects to cover the spaces, or other devices used in
playing bingo does not exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00).
         C.   All of the money paid for bingo cards or sheets, objects to cover
spaces, or other devices used in playing bingo is used only to pay winners
monetary and nonmonetary prizes and to provide refreshments.
         D.   The total value of all prizes awarded during the game does not
exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00).
         E.   No commission, wages, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity, or
other form of compensation, either directly or indirectly, and regardless of
the source, is paid to any bingo game operator for work or labor performed at
the site of the bingo game.
         F.   The bingo game is not conducted during or within ten hours of
either of the following:
            1.   A bingo session during which a charitable bingo game is
conducted pursuant to R.C. §§ 2915.07 through 2915.15 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance;
            2.   A scheme of chance or a game of chance, or bingo described in
Ohio R.C. 2915.01(O)(2).
         G.   All of the participants reside at the premises where the bingo
game is conducted.
         H.   The bingo games are conducted on different days of the week and
not more than twice in a calendar week.
   (b)   The Attorney General or any local law enforcement agency may
investigate the conduct of a bingo game that purportedly is conducted for
purposes of amusement only if there is reason to believe that the purported
amusement bingo game does not comply with the requirements of either division
(a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section. A local law enforcement agency may proceed by
action in the proper court to enforce this section if the local law enforcement
agency gives written notice to the Attorney General when commencing the action.
R.C. § 2915.12)
§ 630.10 PROHIBITIONS WHERE INSTANT BINGO GAME IS CONDUCTED.
   (a)   No charitable organization that conducts instant bingo shall do any of
the following:
      (1)   Fail to comply with the requirements of Ohio R.C. 2915.09(A)(1),
(A)(2), and (A)(3), or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (2)   Conduct instant bingo unless either of the following applies:
         A.   That organization is, and has received from the Internal Revenue
Service a determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the
organization is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a), is
described in IRC 501(c)(3), is a charitable organization as defined in Ohio
R.C. 2915.01, is in good standing in the state pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2915.08,
and is in compliance with Ohio R.C. Chapter 1716;
         B.   That organization is, and has received from the Internal Revenue
Service a determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the
organization is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a), is
described in IRC 501(c)(7), (c)(8), (c)(10), or (c)(19) or is a veteran’s
organization described in IRC 501(c)(4), and conducts instant bingo under Ohio
R.C. 2915.13.
      (3)   Conduct instant bingo on any day, at any time, or at any premises
not specified on the organization’s license issued pursuant to Ohio R.C.
2915.08;
      (4)   Permit any person whom the organization knows or should have known
has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any jurisdiction to be a
bingo game operator in the conduct of instant bingo;
      (5)   Purchase or lease supplies used to conduct instant bingo or punch
board games from any person except a distributor licensed under Ohio R.C.
2915.081;
      (6)   Sell or provide any instant bingo ticket or card for a price
different from the price printed on it by the manufacturer on either the
instant bingo ticket or card or on the game flare;
      (7)   Sell an instant bingo ticket or card to a person under 18 years of
age;
      (8)   Fail to keep unsold instant bingo tickets or cards for less than
three years;
      (9)   Pay any compensation to a bingo game operator for conducting
instant bingo that is conducted by the organization or for preparing, selling,
or serving food or beverages at the site of the instant bingo game, permit any
auxiliary unit or society of the organization to pay compensation to any bingo
game operator who prepares, sells, or serves food or beverages at an instant
bingo game conducted by the organization, or permit any auxiliary unit or
society of the organization to prepare, sell, or serve food or beverages at an
instant bingo game conducted by the organization, if the auxiliary unit or
society pays any compensation to the bingo game operators who prepare, sell, or
serve the food or beverages;
      (10)   Pay fees to any person for any services performed in relation to
an instant bingo game, except as provided in Ohio R.C. 2915.093(D);
      (11)   Pay fees to any person who provides refreshments to the
participants in an instant bingo game;
      (12)   A.   Allow instant bingo tickets or cards to be sold to bingo game
operators at a premises at which the organization sells instant bingo tickets
or cards or to be sold to employees of a D permit holder who are working at a
premises at which instant bingo tickets or cards are sold;
         B.   Division (a)(12)A. of this section does not prohibit a licensed
charitable organization or a bingo game operator from giving any person an
instant bingo ticket as a prize in place of a cash prize won by a participant
in an instant bingo game. In no case shall an instant bingo ticket or card be
sold or provided for a price different from the price printed on it by the
manufacturer on either the instant bingo ticket or card or on the game flare.
      (13)   Fail to display its bingo license, and the serial numbers of the
deal of instant bingo tickets or cards to be sold, conspicuously at each
premises at which it sells instant bingo tickets or cards;
      (14)   Possess a deal of instant bingo tickets or cards that was not
purchased from a distributor licensed under Ohio R.C. 2915.081 as reflected on
an invoice issued by the distributor that contains all of the information
required by Ohio R.C. 2915.10(E);
      (15)   Fail, once it opens a deal of instant bingo tickets or cards, to
continue to sell the tickets or cards in that deal until the tickets or cards
with the top two highest tiers of prizes in that deal are sold;
      (16)   Possess bingo supplies that were not obtained in accordance with
Ohio R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (b)   A charitable organization may purchase, lease, or use instant bingo
ticket dispensers to sell instant bingo tickets or cards.
   (c)   Pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2915.091(C), the Attorney General may adopt
rules in accordance with Ohio R.C. Chapter 119 that govern the conduct of
instant bingo by charitable organizations.
   (d)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section or a rule adopted under
division (c) of this section is guilty of illegal instant bingo conduct. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, illegal instant bingo conduct is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of a violation of division (a) of this section or of such a rule adopted under
division (c) of this section, illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(ORC 2915.091)
§ 630.11 RAFFLE DRAWINGS.
   (a)   (1)   Subject to division (a)(2) of this section, a person or entity
may conduct a raffle to raise money for the person or entity and does not need
a license to conduct bingo in order to conduct a raffle drawing that is not for
profit if the person or entity is any of the following:
         A.   Exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and
described in IRC § 501(c)(3);
         B.   A school district, community school established under R.C.
Chapter 3314, STEM school established under R.C. Chapter 3326, college-
preparatory boarding school established under R.C. Chapter 3328, or chartered
nonpublic school;
         C.   Exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and
described in IRC § 501(c)(4), 501(c)(6), 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10), or
501(c)(19).
      (2)   If a person or entity that is described in division (a)(1)C. of
this section conducts a raffle, the person or entity shall distribute at least
50% of the net profit from the raffle to a charitable purpose described in R.C.
§ 2915.01(V) or to a department or agency of the federal government, the state,
or any political subdivision.
   (b)   Except as provided in division (a) of this section, no person shall
conduct a raffle drawing that is for profit or a raffle drawing that is not for
profit.
   (c)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of illegal
conduct of a raffle. Except as otherwise provided in this division, illegal
conduct of a raffle is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of a violation of division (b) of this section,
illegal conduct of a raffle is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2915.092)
§ 630.12 INSTANT BINGO OTHER THAN AT BINGO SESSIONS.
   (a)   As used in this section, “retail income from all commercial activity”
means the income that a person receives from the provision of goods, services,
or activities that are provided at the location where instant bingo other than
at a bingo session is conducted, including the sale of instant bingo tickets. A
religious organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC
501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3), at not more than one location at which
it conducts its charitable programs, may include donations from its members and
guests as retail income.
   (b)   (1)   If a charitable instant bingo organization conducts instant
bingo other than at a bingo session under a type III license issued under R.C.
§ 2915.08, the charitable instant bingo organization shall enter into a written
contract with the owner or lessor of the location at which the instant bingo is
conducted to allow the owner or lessor to assist in the conduct of instant
bingo other than at a bingo session, identify each location where the instant
bingo other than at a bingo session is being conducted, and identify the owner
or lessor of each location.
      (2)   A charitable instant bingo organization that conducts instant bingo
other than at a bingo session under a type III license issued under R.C. §
2915.08 is not required to enter into a written contract with the owner or
lessor of the location at which the instant bingo is conducted, provided that
the owner or lessor is not assisting in the conduct of the instant bingo other
than at a bingo session and provided that the conduct of the instant bingo
other than at a bingo session at that location is not more than five days per
calendar year and not more than ten hours per day.
   (c)   Except as provided in division (f) of this section, no charitable
instant bingo organization shall conduct instant bingo other than at a bingo
session at a location where the primary source of retail income from all
commercial activity at that location is the sale of instant bingo tickets.
   (d)   (1)   The owner or lessor of a location that enters into a contract
pursuant to division (b) of this section shall pay the full gross profit to the
charitable instant bingo organization, in return for the deal of instant bingo
tickets. The owner or lessor may retain the money that the owner or lessor
receives for selling the instant bingo tickets, provided, however, that after
the deal has been sold, the owner or lessor shall pay to the charitable instant
bingo organization the value of any unredeemed instant bingo prizes remaining
in the deal of instant bingo tickets.
      (2)   The charitable instant bingo organization shall pay 6% of the total
gross receipts of any deal of instant bingo tickets for the purpose of
reimbursing the owner or lessor for expenses described in this division.
      (3)   As used in this division, “expenses” means those items provided for
in Ohio R.C. 2915.01(GG)(4), (GG)(5), (GG)(6), (GG)(7), (GG)(8), (GG)(12), and
(GG)(13) and that percentage of the owner’s or lessor’s rent for the location
where instant bingo is conducted. Expenses, in the aggregate, shall not exceed
6% of the total gross receipts of any deal of instant bingo tickets.
      (4)   As used in this division, “full gross profit” means the amount by
which the total receipts of all instant bingo tickets, if the deal has been
sold in full, exceeds the amount that would be paid out if all prizes were
redeemed.
   (e)   A charitable instant bingo organization shall provide the Attorney
General with all of the following information:
      (1)   That the charitable instant bingo organization has terminated a
contract entered into pursuant to division (b) of this section with an owner or
lessor of a location;
      (2)   That the charitable instant bingo organization has entered into a
written contract pursuant to division (b) of this section with a new owner or
lessor of a location;
      (3)   That the charitable instant bingo organization is aware of conduct
by the owner or lessor of a location at which instant bingo is conducted that
is in violation of Ohio R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (f)   Division (c) of this section does not apply to a volunteer
firefighter’s organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under
IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3), that conducts instant bingo other
than at a bingo session on the premises where the organization conducts
firefighter training, that has conducted instant bingo continuously for at
least five years prior to July 1, 2003, and that, during each of those five
years, had gross receipts of at least one million five hundred thousand dollars
($1,500,000.00).
(R.C. § 2915.093)
   (g)   (1)   Subject to the requirements of R.C. §§ 2915.14 and 2915.15
concerning electronic instant bingo, a veteran's organization, a fraternal
organization, or a sporting organization authorized to conduct a bingo session
pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2915 may conduct instant bingo, electronic instant
bingo, or both other than at a bingo session under a type III license issued
under R.C. § 2915.08 if all of the following apply:
         A.   The veteran's organization, fraternal organization or sporting
organization limits the sale of instant bingo or electronic instant bingo to 12
hours during any day, provided that the sale does not begin earlier than 10:00
a.m. and ends not later than 2:00 a.m.
         B.   The veteran's organization, fraternal organization or sporting
organization limits the sale of instant bingo or electronic instant bingo to
its own premises and to its own members and invited guests.
         C.   The veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization is raising money for an organization that is described in IRC 509
(a)(1), (a)(2) or (a)(3) and is either a governmental unit or an organization
that maintains its principal place of business in this state, that is exempt
from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3),
and that is in good standing in this state and executes a written contract with
that organization as required in division (g)(2) of this section.
      (2)   If a veteran's organization, fraternal organization or sporting
organization authorized to conduct instant bingo or electronic instant bingo
pursuant to division (g)(1) of this section is raising money for another
organization that is described in IRC 509(a)(1), (a)(2) or (a)(3) and is either
a governmental unit or an organization that maintains its principal place of
business in this state, that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC
501(a) and described in IRC 501(c), and that is in good standing in this state,
the veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or sporting organization
shall execute a written contract with the organization that is described in IRC
509(a)(1), (a)(2) or (a)(3) and is either a governmental unit or an
organization that maintains its principal place of business in this state, that
is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC
501(c), and that is in good standing in this state in order to conduct instant
bingo or electronic instant bingo. That contract shall include a statement of
the percentage of the net proceeds that the veteran's, fraternal or sporting
organization will be distributing to the charitable organization that is
described in IRC 509(a)(1), (a)(2) or (a)(3) and is either a governmental unit
or an organization that maintains its principal place of business in this
state, that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a) and
described in IRC 501(c), and that is in good standing in this state.
      (3)   A.   If a veteran's organization, fraternal organization or
sporting organization authorized to conduct instant bingo or electronic instant
bingo pursuant to division (g)(1) of this section has been issued a liquor
permit under R.C. Chapter 4303, that permit may be subject to suspension,
revocation or cancellation if the veteran's organization, fraternal
organization or sporting organization violates a provision of this chapter or
R.C. Chapter 2915.
         B.   No veteran's organization, fraternal organization or sporting
organization that enters into a written contract pursuant to division (g)(2) of
this section shall violate any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915,
or permit, aid or abet any other person in violating any provision of this
chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
      (4)   A veteran's organization, fraternal organization or sporting
organization shall give all required proceeds earned from the conduct of
instant bingo or electronic instant bingo to the organization with which the
veteran's organization, fraternal organization or sporting organization has
entered into a written contract.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (g) of this section is guilty of illegal
instant bingo or electronic instant bingo conduct. Except as otherwise provided
in this division, illegal instant bingo or electronic instant bingo conduct is
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been
convicted of a violation of division (g) of this section, illegal instant bingo
or electronic instant bingo conduct is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.13)
§ 630.13 RESTRICTIONS ON OWNER OR LESSOR OF LOCATION AT INSTANT BINGO.
   (a)   No owner or lessor of a location shall assist a charitable instant
bingo organization in the conduct of instant bingo other than at a bingo
session at that location unless the owner or lessor has entered into a written
contract, as described in Ohio R.C. 2915.093, with the charitable instant bingo
organization to assist in the conduct of instant bingo other than at a bingo
session.
   (b)   The location of the lessor or owner shall be designated as a location
where the charitable instant bingo organization conducts instant bingo other
than at a bingo session.
   (c)   No owner or lessor of a location that enters into a written contract
as prescribed in division (a) of this section shall violate any provision of
this chapter or Ohio R.C. Chapter 2915, or permit, aid, or abet any other
person in violating any provision of this chapter or Ohio R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (d)   No owner or lessor of a location that enters into a written contract
as prescribed in division (a) of this section shall violate the terms of the
contract.
   (e)   (1)   Whoever violates division (c) or (d) of this section is guilty
of illegal instant bingo conduct. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, illegal instant bingo conduct is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of division (c) or
(d) of this section, illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If an owner or lessor of a location knowingly, intentionally, or
recklessly violates division (c) or (d) of this section, any license that the
owner or lessor holds for the retail sale of any goods on the owner’s or
lessor’s premises that is issued by the state or a political subdivision is
subject to suspension, revocation, or payment of a monetary penalty at the
request of the Attorney General.
(ORC 2915.094)
§ 630.14 SKILL-BASED AMUSEMENT MACHINES; PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (a)   No person shall give to another person any item described in division
(ii)(1), (2), (3), or (4) of §
630.01 in exchange for a noncash prize, toy, or novelty received as a reward
for playing or operating a skill-based amusement machine or for a free or
reduced-price game won on a skill-based amusement machine.
   (b)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of skill-based
amusement machine prohibited conduct. A violation of division (a) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree for each redemption of a prize
that is involved in the violation. If the offender previously has been
convicted of a violation of division (a) of this section, a violation of that
division is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(ORC 2915.06)
   (c)   Any regulation of skill-based amusement machines shall be governed by
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915 and not by R.C. Chapter 1345.
(R.C. § 2915.061)
§ 630.15 ELECTRONIC INSTANT BINGO; PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (a)   No charitable organization shall conduct electronic instant bingo
unless all of the following are true:
      (1)   The organization is a veteran's organization described in R.C. §
2915.01(J), or is a fraternal organization described in R.C. § 2915.01(L), and
the organization qualified as a veteran's organization or fraternal
organization, as applicable, on or before June 30, 2021.
      (2)   The organization is a veteran's organization described in IRC 501
(c)(4) or is, and has received from the Internal Revenue Service a
determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the organization
is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a), and is described in
IRC 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10), or 501(c)(19).
      (3)   The organization has not conducted a raffle in violation of R.C. §
2915.092(B) using an electronic raffle machine, as described in Ohio Veterans
and Fraternal Charitable Coalition v. DeWine, Case No. 13-CV-13610 (C.P.
Franklin Co. February 23, 2018), at any time on or after January 1, 2022.
   (b)   No charitable organization that conducts electronic instant bingo
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Possess an electronic instant bingo system that was not obtained in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 2915 or with any rule adopted under R.C. Chapter
2915;
      (2)   Conduct electronic instant bingo on any day, at any time, or on any
premises not specified on the organization's type II or type III license issued
under R.C. § 2915.08;
      (3)   Hold more than one valid license to conduct electronic instant
bingo at any one time;
      (4)   Conduct electronic instant bingo on more than one premises or on
any premises other than the charitable organization's principal place of
business;
      (5)   Operate more than ten electronic bingo systems at the premises on
which the charitable organization conducts electronic instant bingo under its
license;
      (6)   Fail to display both of the following conspicuously at the premises
on which the charitable organization conducts electronic instant bingo:
         A.   The charitable organization's bingo license;
         B.   The serial number of each deal of electronic instant bingo
tickets being sold.
      (7)   Permit any person the charitable organization knows, or should have
known, to be under 18 years of age to play electronic instant bingo;
      (8)   Sell or provide to any person an electronic instant bingo ticket
for a price different from the price displayed on the game flare for that deal,
except that the charitable organization may give a participant who wins an
electronic instant bingo game an electronic instant bingo ticket as a prize in
place of a cash prize;
      (9)   Fail, once an electronic instant bingo deal is begun, to continue
to sell tickets in that deal until all prizes have been awarded;
      (10)   Permit any person whom the organization knows, or should have
known, has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any jurisdiction
to be a bingo game operator in the conduct of electronic instant bingo;
      (11)   Permit a bingo game operator to play electronic instant bingo;
      (12)   A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (b)(12)B. of this
section, pay compensation to a bingo game operator for conducting electronic
instant bingo.
         B.   Division (b)(12)A. of this section does not prohibit an employee
of a veteran's organization or fraternal organization from redeeming electronic
instant bingo tickets or vouchers for the organization's members or invited
guests, so long as no portion of the employee's compensation is paid from any
bingo receipts.
      (13)   Pay consulting fees to any person in relation to electronic
instant bingo.
   (c)   No person shall sell, offer to sell, or otherwise provide or offer to
provide an electronic instant bingo system to any person for use in this
municipality unless the electronic instant bingo system has been approved under
R.C. § 2915.15.
   (d)   Whoever knowingly violates division (a), (b), or (c) of this section
or a rule adopted under R.C. § 2915.14(D) is guilty of illegal electronic
instant bingo conduct. Illegal electronic instant bingo conduct is a
misdemeanor of the first degree, except that if the offender previously has
been convicted of a violation of division (a) or (b) of this section, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or state law, or of a rule adopted
under R.C. § 2915.14(D), illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.14)
CHAPTER 636: OFFENSES RELATING TO PERSONS
Section
636.001   Definitions
636.01   Negligent homicide
636.02   Assault
636.03   Negligent assault
636.04   Aggravated menacing
636.05   Menacing
636.055   Menacing by stalking
636.06   Unlawful restraint
636.07   Child stealing (Repealed)
636.08   Criminal child enticement (Repealed)
636.09   Coercion
636.10   Nonsupport of dependents
636.11   Endangering children
636.12   Interference with custody
636.13   Contributing to the unruliness or delinquency of a child
636.14   Party lines to be yielded in emergencies (Repealed)
636.15   Threatening or harassing telecommunications
636.16   Placing harmful substance or objects in food or confection
636.17   Domestic violence
636.18   Safety of crowds attending live entertainment performances
636.19   Hazing
636.20   Illegal distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products; transaction scans
636.21   Ethnic intimidation
636.22   Failing to provide for a person with a functional impairment
636.23   Intimidation in connection with housing
636.24   Failure to perform viability testing
636.25   Unlawful collection of bodily substances
Cross reference:
   Definitions generally, see GEN. OFF.
606.01
   Disorderly conduct, see GEN. OFF.
648.04
   Drug offenses, see GEN. OFF.
Ch. 624
   Personal accountability for organizational conduct, see GEN. OFF.
606.09
   “Physical harm to persons” defined, see GEN. OFF.
606.01(n)
   Sales of alcoholic beverages to minors; prohibitions and misrepresentations,
see GEN. OFF.
612.02
   “Serious physical harm to persons” defined, see GEN. OFF.
606.01(y)
   Sex related offenses, see GEN. OFF.
Ch. 666
   Vehicular homicide, see TRAF.
434.08
Statutory references:
   See section histories for similar state law
   Juvenile Court, see Ohio R.C. Ch. 2151
   Parents’ liability for destructive acts of their children, see Ohio R.C.
3109.09
   Shelters for victims of domestic violence, see Ohio R.C. 3113.33 et seq.
§ 636.001 DEFINITIONS.
   (a)   As used in this chapter and any other provision of these Codified
Ordinances:
      (1)   “Another’s unborn” or “other person’s unborn.” A member of the
species Homo sapiens who is or was carried in the womb of another during a
period that begins with fertilization and that continues unless and until live
birth occurs.
      (2)   “Unlawful termination of another’s pregnancy.” Causing the death of
an unborn member of the species Homo sapiens who is or was carried in the womb
of another, as a result of injuries inflicted during the period that begins
with fertilization and that continues unless and until live birth occurs.
   (b)   Notwithstanding division (a) of this section, in no case shall the
definitions of the terms “another’s unborn,” “other person’s unborn” and
“unlawful termination of another’s pregnancy” that are set forth in division
(a) of this section be applied or construed in any of the following manners:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (b)(1) of this section, in
a manner so that the offense prohibits or is construed as prohibiting any
pregnant woman or her physician from performing an abortion with the consent of
the pregnant woman, with the consent of the pregnant woman implied by law in a
medical emergency, or with the approval of one otherwise authorized by law to
consent to medical treatment on behalf of the pregnant woman. An abortion that
violates the conditions described in the immediately preceding sentence may be
punished as any violation of Ohio R.C. 2903.01, 2903.02, 2903.03, 2903.04,
2903.05, 2903.06, 2903.08, 2903.11, 2903.12, 2903.13, 2903.14, 2903.21 or
2903.22, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, as applicable. An
abortion that does not violate the conditions described in the second
immediately preceding sentence but that does violate Ohio R.C. 2919.12, 2919.13
(B), 2919.15, 2919.151, 2919.17 or 2919.18, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, may be punished as a violation of such section, as
applicable.
      (2)   In a manner so that the offense is applied or is construed as
applying to a woman based on an act or omission of the woman that occurs while
she is or was pregnant and that results in any of the following:
         A.   Her delivery of a stillborn baby.
         B.   Her causing, in any other manner, the death in utero of a viable,
unborn human that she is carrying.
         C.   Her causing the death of her child who is born alive but who dies
from one or more injuries that are sustained while the child is a viable,
unborn human.
         D.   Her causing her child who is born alive to sustain one or more
injuries while the child is a viable, unborn human.
         E.   Her causing, threatening to cause, or attempting to cause, in any
other manner, an injury, illness, or other psychological illness or condition,
regardless of its duration or gravity, to a viable, unborn human that she is
carrying.
(ORC 2903.09)
§ 636.01 NEGLIGENT HOMICIDE.
   (a)   No person shall negligently cause the death of another or the unlawful
termination of another’s pregnancy by means of a deadly weapon or dangerous
ordnance, as defined in Ohio R.C. 2923.11.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of negligent homicide, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(ORC 2903.05)
Statutory reference:
   Reckless homicide, felony offense, see Ohio R.C. 2903.041
§ 636.02 ASSAULT.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly cause or attempt to cause physical harm to
another or to another’s unborn.
   (b)   No person shall recklessly cause serious physical harm to another or
to another’s unborn.
   (c)   Whoever violates division (a) or (b) of this section is guilty of
assault. Except as provided in Ohio R.C. 2903.13(C), assault is a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
   (d)   If an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to assault when it
is a misdemeanor also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a specification as
described in R.C. § 2941.1423 (victim of the offense was a woman whom the
defendant knew was pregnant at the time of the offense) that was included in
the indictment, count in the indictment or information charging the offense,
the court shall sentence the offender to a mandatory jail term as provided in
R.C. § 2929.24(F).
      (5)   A prosecution for a violation of division (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this
section does not preclude a prosecution of a violation of any other section of
the Ohio Revised Code. One or more acts, a series of acts, or a course of
behavior that can be prosecuted under division (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section
or any other section of the Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under division
(a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section, the other section of the Ohio Revised Code,
or both sections. However, if an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
violation of division (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section and also is convicted of
or pleads guilty to a violation of R.C. § 2903.22, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, based on the same conduct involving the same
victim that was the basis of the violation of division (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this
section, the offenses are allied offenses of similar import under R.C. §
2941.25.
(R.C. § 2903.13)
Statutory reference:
   Aggravated and felonious assault, see Ohio R.C. 2903.11 and 2903.12
   Aggravated vehicular assault, felony, see Ohio R.C. 2903.08
   Felony assault offenses, see Ohio R.C. 2903.13(C)
   Permitting child abuse, felony offense, see Ohio R.C. 2903.15
   Persons who may seek relief under anti-stalking protection order; ex parte
orders, see Ohio R.C.2903.214
   Protection order as pretrial condition of release, see Ohio R.C. 2903.213
   Strangulation, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.18
§ 636.03 NEGLIGENT ASSAULT.
   (a)   No person shall negligently, by means of a deadly weapon or dangerous
ordnance as defined in Ohio R.C. 2923.11, cause physical harm to another or to
another’s unborn.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of negligent assault, a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(ORC 2903.14)
§ 636.04 AGGRAVATED MENACING.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly cause another to believe that the offender
will cause serious physical harm to the person or property of the other person,
such other person’s unborn, or a member of such other person’s immediate
family. In addition to any other basis for the other person’s belief that the
offender will cause serious physical harm to the person or property of the
other person, the other person’s unborn, or a member of the other person’s
immediate family, the other person’s belief may be based on words or conduct of
the offender that are directed at or identify a corporation, association, or
other organization that employs the other person or to which the other person
belongs.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of aggravated menacing. Except
as otherwise provided in this division (b), aggravated menacing is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the victim of the offense is an officer or
employee of a public children services agency or a private child placing agency
and the offense relates to the officer’s or employee’s performance or
anticipated performance of official responsibilities or duties, aggravated
menacing is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law or, if the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to an offense of
violence, the victim of that prior offense was an officer or employee of a
public children services agency or private child placing agency, and that prior
offense related to the officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated
performance of official responsibilities or duties, a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
   (c)   As used in this section, “organization” includes an entity that is a
governmental employer.
(ORC 2903.21)
§ 636.05 MENACING.
   (a)   (1)   No person shall knowingly cause another to believe that the
offender will cause physical harm to the person or property of the other
person, the other person’s unborn, or a member of the other person’s immediate
family. In addition to any other basis for the other person’s belief that the
offender will cause physical harm to the person or property of the other
person, the other person’s unborn, or a member of the other person’s immediate
family, the other person’s belief may be based on words or conduct of the
offender that are directed at or identify a corporation, association, or other
organization that employs the other person or to which the other person
belongs.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly place or attempt to place another in
reasonable fear of physical harm or death by displaying a deadly weapon,
regardless of whether the deadly weapon displayed is operable or inoperable, if
either of the following applies:
         A.   The other person is an emergency service responder, the person
knows or reasonably should know that the other person is an emergency service
responder, and it is the person’s specific purpose to engage in the specified
conduct against an emergency service responder.
         B.   The other person is a family or household member or co-worker of
an emergency service responder, the person knows or reasonably should know that
the other person is a family or household member or co- worker of an emergency
service responder, and it is the person’s specific purpose to engage in the
specified conduct against a family or household member or co-worker of an
emergency service responder.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of menacing. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, menacing is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If the victim of the offense is an officer or employee of a public
children services agency or a private child placing agency and the offense
relates to the officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated performance
of official responsibilities or duties or if the victim of the offense is an
emergency service responder in the performance of the responder’s official
duties, menacing is one of the following:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (b)(2) of this section, a
misdemeanor of the first degree;
      (2)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to an offense of violence, the victim of that prior offense was an officer or
employee of a public children services agency or private child placing agency
or an emergency service responder, and that prior offense related to the
officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated performance of official
responsibilities or duties or to the responder’s performance of the responder’s
official duties, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (c)   A prosecution for a violation of this section does not preclude a
prosecution of a violation of any other section of the Ohio Revised Code. One
or more acts, a series of acts, or a course of behavior that can be prosecuted
under this section or any other section of the Ohio Revised Code may be
prosecuted under this section, the other section of the Ohio Revised Code, or
both sections. However, if an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
violation of this section and also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
violation of R.C. § 2903.13, or any substantially similar municipal ordinance,
based on the same conduct involving the same victim that was the basis of the
violation of this section, the offenses are allied offenses of similar import
under R.C. § 2941.25.
   (d)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Co-worker.” Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 2903.13.
      (2)   “Emergency service responder.” Has the same meanings as in R.C. §
2903.13.
      (3)   “Family” or “household member.” Have the same meanings as in R.C. §
2903.13.
      (4)   “Organization.” Includes an entity that is a governmental employer.
(R.C. § 2903.22)
§ 636.055 MENACING BY STALKING.
   (a)   Prohibited conduct.
      (1)   A.   No person by engaging in a pattern of conduct shall knowingly
cause another person to believe that the offender will cause physical harm to
the other person or a family or household member of the other person or cause
mental distress to the other person or a family or household member of the
other person. In addition to any other basis for the other person’s belief that
the offender will cause physical harm to the other person or the other person’s
family or household member or mental distress to the other person or the other
person’s family or household member, the other person’s belief or mental
distress may be based on words or conduct of the offender that are directed at
or identify a corporation, association, or other organization that employs the
other person or to which the other person belongs.
         B.   No person, through the use of any form of written communication
or any electronic method of remotely transferring information, including but
not limited to any computer, computer network, computer program, computer
system, or telecommunication device, shall post a message or use any
intentionally written or verbal graphic gesture with purpose to do either of
the following:
            1.   Violate division (a)(1)A. of this section;
            2.   Urge or incite another to commit a violation of division (a)
(1)A. of this section.
         C.   No person, with a sexual motivation, shall violate division (a)
(1)A. or (a)(1)B. of this section.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (a)(1) of this section is guilty of
menacing by stalking.
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (a)(2)B. of this
section, menacing by stalking is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         B.   Menacing by stalking is a felony, to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law, if any of the following applies:
            1.   The offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of Ohio R.C. 2903.211 or a violation of Ohio R.C.
2911.211, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to either of these
offenses.
            2.   In committing the offense under division (a)(1)A., (a)(1)B. or
(a)(1)C. or (a)(1)B. of this section, the offender made a threat of physical
harm to or against the victim, or as a result of an offense committed under
division (a)(1)B. or (a)(1)C. of this section, a third person induced by the
offender’s posted message made a threat of physical harm to or against the
victim.
            3.   In committing the offense under division (a)(1)A., (a)(1)B. or
(a)(1)C. or (a)(1)B. of this section, the offender trespassed on the land or
premises where the victim lives, is employed, or attends school, or as a result
of an offense committed under division (a)(1)B. or (a)(1)C. of this section, a
third person induced by the offender’s posted message trespassed on the land or
premises where the victim lives, is employed, or attends school.
            4.   The victim of the offense is a minor.
            5.   The offender has a history of violence towards the victim or
any other person or a history of other violent acts towards the victim or any
other person.
            6.   While committing the offense under division (a)(1)A. of this
section or a violation of division (a)(1)C. of this section based on conduct in
violation of division (a)(1)A. of this section, the offender had a deadly
weapon on or about the offender’s person or under the offender’s control.
Division (a)(2)B.6. of this section does not apply in determining the penalty
for a violation of division (a)(1)B. of this section or a violation of division
(a)(1)C. of this section based on conduct in violation of division (a)(1)B. of
this section.
            7.   At the time of the commission of the offense, the offender was
the subject of a protection order issued under Ohio R.C. 2903.213 or Ohio R.C.
2903.214, regardless of whether or not the person to be protected under the
order is the victim of the offense or another person.
            8.   In committing the offense under division (a)(1)A., (a)(1)B. or
(a)(1)C. or (a)(1)B. of this section, the offender caused serious physical harm
to the premises at which the victim resides, to the real property on which that
premises is located, or to any personal property located on that premises, or
as a result of an offense committed under division (a)(1)B. of this section or
an offense committed under division (a)(1)C. of this section based on a
violation of division (a)(1)B. of this section, a third person induced by the
offender’s posted message caused serious physical harm to that premises, that
real property, or any personal property on that premises.
            9.   Prior to committing the offense, the offender had been
determined to represent a substantial risk of physical harm to others as
manifested by evidence of then-recent homicidal or other violent behavior,
evidence of then-recent threats that placed another in reasonable fear of
violent behavior and serious harm, or other evidence of then-present
dangerousness.
            10.   The victim of the offense is an officer or employee of a
public children services agency or a private child placing agency and the
offense relates to the officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated
performance of official responsibilities or duties.
            11.   The offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to an offense of violence, the victim of that prior offense was an
officer or employee of a public children services agency or private child
placing agency, and that prior offense related to the officer’s or employee’s
performance or anticipated performance of official responsibilities or duties.
      (3)   Ohio R.C. 2919.271 applies in relation to a defendant charged with
a violation of this section.
      (4)   As used in division (a) of this section:
         A.   “Computer,” “computer network,” “computer program,” “computer
system,” and “telecommunications device” have the same meanings as in Ohio R.C.
2913.01.
         B.   “Emergency facility person” is the singular of “emergency
facility personnel” as defined in Ohio R.C. 2909.04.
         C.   “Emergency medical services person” is the singular of “emergency
medical services personnel” as defined in Ohio R.C. 2133.21.
         D.   “Family or household member.” Means any of the following:
            1.   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
person against whom the act prohibited in division (a)(1) of this section is
committed:
               a.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse, or a former spouse
of the person;
               b.   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the person, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the person;
               c.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse,
or former spouse of the person, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
person.
            2.   The natural parent of any child of whom the person against
whom the act prohibited in division (a)(1) of this section is committed is the
other natural parent or is the putative other natural parent.
         E.   “Mental distress” means any of the following:
            1.   Any mental illness or condition that involves some temporary
substantial incapacity;
            2.   Any mental illness or condition that would normally require
psychiatric treatment, psychological treatment, or other mental health
services, whether or not any person requested or received psychiatric
treatment, psychological treatment, or other mental health services.
         F.   “Organization” includes an entity that is a governmental
employer.
         G.   “Pattern of conduct” means two or more actions or incidents
closely related in time, whether or not there has been a prior conviction based
on any of those actions or incidents, or two or more actions or incidents
closely related in time, whether or not there has been a prior conviction based
on any of those actions or incidents, directed at one or more persons employed
by or belonging to the same corporation, association, or other organization.
Actions or incidents that prevent, obstruct, or delay the performance by a
public official, firefighter, rescuer, emergency medical services person, or
emergency facility person of any authorized act within the public official’s,
firefighter’s, rescuer’s, emergency medical services person’s, or emergency
facility person’s official capacity, or the posting of messages, use of
intentionally written or verbal graphic gestures, or receipt of information or
data through the use of any form of written communication or an electronic
method of remotely transferring information, including but not limited to a
computer, computer network, computer program, computer system, or
telecommunications device, may constitute a “pattern of conduct.”
         H.   “Person living as a spouse.” Means a person who is living or has
lived with the person against whom the act prohibited in division (a)(1) of
this section is committed in a common law marital relationship, who otherwise
is cohabiting with that person, or who otherwise has cohabited with the person
within five years prior to the date of the alleged commission of the act in
question.
         I.   “Post a message” means transferring, sending, posting,
publishing, disseminating, or otherwise communicating, or attempting to
transfer, send, post, publish, disseminate, or otherwise communicate, any
message or information, whether truthful or untruthful, about an individual,
and whether done under one’s own name, under the name of another, or while
impersonating another.
         J.   “Public official” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2921.01.
         K.   “Sexual motivation” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2971.01.
         L.   “Third person” means, in relation to conduct as described in
division (a)(1)B. of this section, an individual who is neither the offender
nor the victim of the conduct.
      (5)   The prosecution does not need to prove in a prosecution under
division (a) of this section that a person requested or received psychiatric
treatment, psychological treatment, or other mental health services in order to
show that the person was caused mental distress as described in division (a)
(4)D.2. of this section.
      (6)   A.   Division (a) of this section does not apply to a person solely
because the person provided access or connection to or from an electronic
method of remotely transferring information not under that person’s control,
including having provided capabilities that are incidental to providing access
or connection to or from the electronic method of remotely transferring the
information, and that do not include the creation of the content of the
material that is the subject of the access or connection. In addition, any
person providing access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person’s control shall not be
liable for any action voluntarily taken in good faith to block the receipt or
transmission through its service of any information that it believes is or will
be sent in violation of division (a) of this section.
         B.   Division (a)(6)A. of this section does not create an affirmative
duty for any person providing access or connection to or from an electronic
method of remotely transferring information not under that person’s control to
block the receipt or transmission through its service of any information that
it believes is or will be sent in violation of division (a) of this section
except as otherwise provided by law.
         C.   Division (a)(6)A. of this section does not apply to a person who
conspires with a person actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of division (a) of this section or who
knowingly advertises the availability of material of that nature.
(ORC 2903.211)
   (b)   Protection order. Consult Ohio R.C. 2903.213 for current provisions
regarding protection orders, consent agreements, anti-stalking protection
orders and orders issued by a court of another state.
   (c)   Violating a protection order, consent agreement, anti-stalking
protection order or order issued by a court of another state.
      (1)   No person shall recklessly violate the terms of any of the
following:
         A.   A protection order issued or consent agreement approved pursuant
to Ohio R.C. 2919.26 or Ohio R.C. 3113.31;
         B.   A protection order issued pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2151.34, 2903.213
or 2903.214;
         C.   A protection order issued by a court of another state.
      (2)   A.   Whoever violates division (c) of this section is guilty of
violating a protection order.
         B.   Except as otherwise provided in division (c)(2)C. or D. of this
section, violating a protection order is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         C.   Violating a protection order is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if the offender previously has been convicted of, pleaded
guilty to, or been adjudicated a delinquent child for any of the following:
            1.   A violation of a protection order issued or consent agreement
approved pursuant to R.C. § 2151.34, 2903.213, 2903.214, 2919.26, or 3113.31,
or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance;
            2.   Two or more violations of R.C. § 2903.21, 2903.211, 2903.22,
or 2911.211, or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
or any combination of those offenses, that involved the same person who is the
subject of the protection order or consent agreement;
            3.   One or more violations of this section, or any substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance.
         D.   If the offender violates a protection order or consent agreement
while committing a felony offense, violating a protection order is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         E.   If the protection order violated by the offender was an order
issued pursuant to R.C. § 2151.34 or 2903.214 that required electronic
monitoring of the offender pursuant to that section, the court may require in
addition to any other sentence imposed upon the offender that the offender be
electronically monitored for a period not exceeding five years by a law
enforcement agency designated by the court. If the court requires under this
division that the offender be electronically monitored, unless the court
determines that the offender is indigent, the court shall order that the
offender pay the costs of the installation of the electronic monitoring device
and the cost of monitoring the electronic monitoring device.
      (3)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (c)(1)C. of
this section that the protection order issued by a court of another state does
not comply with the requirements specified in 18 U.S.C. 2265(b) for a
protection order that must be accorded full faith a credit by a court of this
state or that it is not entitled to full faith and credit under 18 U.S.C. 2265
(c).
      (4)   In a prosecution for a violation of this section, it is not
necessary for the prosecution to prove that the protection order or consent
agreement was served on the defendant if the prosecution proves that the
defendant was shown the protection order or consent agreement or a copy of
either or a judge, magistrate, or law enforcement officer informed the
defendant that a protection order or consent agreement had been issued, and
proves that the defendant recklessly violated the terms of the order or
agreement.
      (5)   As used in this section, “protection order issued by a court of
another state” means an injunction or another order issued by a criminal court
of another state for the purpose of preventing violent or threatening acts or
harassment against, contact or communication with, or physical proximity to
another person including a temporary order, and means an injunction or order of
that nature issued by a civil court of another state, including a temporary
order and a final order issued in an independent action or as a pendente lite
order in a proceeding for other relief, if the court issued it in response to a
complaint, petition or motion filed by or on behalf of a person seeking
protection. The term does not include an order for support or for custody of a
child issued pursuant to the divorce and child custody laws of another state,
except to the extent that the order for support or for custody of a child is
entitled to full faith and credit under the laws of the United States.
(ORC 2919.27)
§ 636.06 UNLAWFUL RESTRAINT.
   (a)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall knowingly restrain
another of his or her liberty.
   (b)   No person, without privilege to do so and with a sexual motivation,
shall knowingly restrain another of the other person’s liberty.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful restraint, a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (d)   As used in this section, “sexual motivation” has the same meaning as
in Ohio R.C. 2971.01.
(ORC 2905.03)
§ 636.07 CHILD STEALING. (REPEALED)
   ( Editor’s note: Section 636.08 was repealed as part of the 1998 updating
and revision of these Codified Ordinances because substantially equivalent
state law (Ohio R.C. 2905.04) was repealed by the Ohio General Assembly.)
§ 636.08 CRIMINAL CHILD ENTICEMENT. (REPEALED)
   (Editor’s note: This section was formerly based on R.C. § 2905.05, Criminal
Child Enticement. The Ohio Supreme Court held that R.C. § 2905.05(A) was
unconstitutionally overbroad in violation of the First Amendment. See State v.
Romage, 138 Ohio St. 3d. 390 (2014).)
§ 636.09 COERCION.
   (a)   No person, with purpose to coerce another into taking or refraining
from action concerning which he or she has a legal freedom of choice, shall do
any of the following:
      (1)   Threaten to commit any offense.
      (2)   Utter or threaten any slander against any person.
      (3)   Expose or threaten to expose any matter tending to subject any
person to hatred, contempt, or ridicule, or to damage his or her personal or
business repute, or to impair his or her credit.
      (4)   Institute or threaten criminal proceedings against any person.
      (5)   Take or withhold, or threaten to take or withhold official action,
or cause or threaten to cause official action to be taken or withheld.
   (b)   Divisions (a)(4) and (5) of this section shall not be construed to
prohibit a prosecutor or court from doing any of the following in good faith
and in the interests of justice:
      (1)   Offering or agreeing to grant, or granting immunity from
prosecution pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2945.44.
      (2)   In return for a plea of guilty to one or more offenses charged or
to one or more other or lesser offenses, or in return for the testimony of the
accused in a case to which he or she is not a party, offering or agreeing to
dismiss, or dismissing one or more charges pending against an accused, or
offering or agreeing to impose, or imposing a certain sentence or modification
of sentence.
      (3)   Imposing probation on certain conditions, including without
limitation requiring the offender to make restitution or redress to the victim
of his or her offense.
   (c)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (a)(3), (4),
or (5) of this section that the actor’s conduct was a reasonable response to
the circumstances which occasioned it, and that his or her purpose was limited
to:
      (1)   Compelling another to refrain from misconduct or to desist from
further misconduct.
      (2)   Preventing or redressing a wrong or injustice.
      (3)   Preventing another from taking action for which the actor
reasonably believed the other person to be disqualified.
      (4)   Compelling another to take action which the actor reasonably
believed the other person to be under a duty to take.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of coercion, a misdemeanor of
the second degree.
   (e)   As used in this section, “threat” includes a direct threat and a
threat by innuendo.
(ORC 2905.12)
§ 636.10 NONSUPPORT OF DEPENDENTS.
   (a)   No person shall abandon, or fail to provide adequate support to:
      (1)   The person’s spouse, as required by law;
      (2)   The person’s child who is under age 18, or the persons’s child with
a mental or physical disability who is under age 21;
      (3)   The person’s aged or infirm parent or adoptive parent, who from
lack of ability and means is unable to provide adequately for the parent’s own
support.
   (b)   (1)   No person shall abandon, or fail to provide support as
established by a court order to, another person whom, by court order or decree,
the person:
         A.   Is legally obligated to support; or
         B.   Was legally obligated to support, and an amount for support:
            1.   Was due and owing prior to the date the person’s duty to pay
current support terminated; and
            2.   Remains unpaid.
      (2)   The period of limitation under R.C. § 2901.13 applicable to
division (b)(1)B. of this section shall begin to run on the date the person’s
duty to pay current support terminates.
   (c)   No person shall aid, abet, induce, cause, encourage, or contribute to
a child or a ward of the juvenile court becoming a dependent child, as defined
in Ohio R.C. 2151.04, or a neglected child, as defined in Ohio R.C. 2151.03.
   (d)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of failure to provide
adequate support under division (a) of this section or a charge of failure to
provide support established by a court order under division (b) of this section
that the accused was unable to provide adequate support or the established
support, but did provide the support that was within his or her ability and
means.
   (e)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (a)(3) of this
section that the parent abandoned the accused or failed to support the accused
as required by law, while the accused was under age 18, or had a mental or
physical disability and was under age 21.
   (f)   It is not a defense to a charge under division (b) of this section
that the person whom a court has ordered the accused to support is being
adequately supported by someone other than the accused.
   (g)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (a) or (b) of this section is guilty of nonsupport of dependents, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (a)(2) or (b) of this section
or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or if the
offender has failed to provide support under division (a)(2) or (b) of this
section for a total accumulated period of 26 weeks out of 104 consecutive
weeks, whether or not the 26 weeks were consecutive, then a violation of
division (a)(2) or (b) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to a felony violation of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of division (a)(2) or
(b) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the offender is guilty of nonsupport of dependents by reason of
failing to provide support to his or her child as required by a child support
order issued on or after April 15, 1985, pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2151.23,
2151.231, 2151.232, 2151.33, 3105.21, 3109.05, 3111.13, 3113.04, 3113.31,
3115.401, or former R.C. § 3115.31, the court, in addition to any other
sentence imposed, shall assess all court costs arising out of the charge
against the person and require the person to pay any reasonable attorney’s fees
of any adverse party other than the state, as determined by the court, that
arose in relation to the charge.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (c) of this section is guilty of
contributing to the nonsupport of dependents, a misdemeanor of the first
degree. Each day of a violation of division (c) of this section is a separate
offense.
(ORC 2919.21)
§ 636.11 ENDANGERING CHILDREN.
   (a)   No person, who is the parent, guardian, custodian, person having
custody or control, or person in loco parentis of a child under 18 years of age
or a child with a mental or physical disability under 21 years of age, shall
create a substantial risk to the health or safety of the child by violating a
duty of care, protection, or support. It is not a violation of a duty of care,
protection, or support under this division when the parent, guardian,
custodian, or person having custody or control of a child treats the physical
or mental illness or disability of the child by spiritual means through prayer
alone, in accordance with the tenets of a recognized religious body.
   (b)   No person shall do any of the following to a child under 18 years of
age or a child with a mental or physical disability under 21 years of age:
      (1)   Abuse the child.
      (2)   Torture or cruelly abuse the child.
      (3)   Administer corporal punishment or other physical disciplinary
measure, or physically restrain the child in a cruel manner or for a prolonged
period, which punishment, discipline or restraint is excessive under the
circumstances and creates a substantial risk of serious physical harm to the
child.
      (4)   Repeatedly administer unwarranted disciplinary measures to a child
when there is a substantial risk that such conduct, if continued, will
seriously impair or retard the child’s mental health or development.
      (5)   Entice, coerce, permit, encourage, compel, hire, employ, use, or
allow the child to act, model, or in any other way participate in, or be
photographed for, the production, presentation, dissemination, or advertisement
of any material or performance that the offender knows or reasonably should
know is obscene, is sexually oriented matter, or is nudity-oriented matter;
      (6)   Allow the child to be on the same parcel of real property and
within 100 feet of, or, in the case of more than one housing unit on the same
parcel of real property, in the same housing unit and within 100 feet of, any
act in violation of Ohio R.C. 2925.04 or 2925.041 when the person knows that
the act is occurring, whether or not any person is prosecuted for or convicted
of the violation of Ohio R.C. 2925.04 or 2925.041 that is the basis of the
violation of this division.
   (c)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle, as defined by Ohio R.C.
4511.01, within the municipality and in violation of Ohio R.C. 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, when one or more children under
18 years of age are in the vehicle. Notwithstanding any other provision of law,
a person may be convicted at the same trial or proceeding of a violation of
this division and a violation of Ohio R.C. 4511.19(A), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, that constitutes the basis of the charge of the
violation of this division. For purposes of Ohio R.C. 4511.191 to 4511.197 and
all related provisions of law, a person arrested for a violation of this
division shall be considered to be under arrest for operating a vehicle while
under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, a combination of them or for
operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a controlled
substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, breath, or urine.
      (2)   As used in division (c)(1) of this section:
         A.   “Controlled substance” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C.
3719.01.
         B.   “Vehicle” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 4511.01.
   (d)   (1)   Division (b)(5) of this section does not apply to any material
or performance that is produced, presented, or disseminated for a bona fide
medical, scientific, educational, religious, governmental, judicial, or other
proper purpose, by or to a physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist,
teacher, person pursing bona fide studies for research, librarian, member of
the clergy, prosecutor, judge, or other person having a proper interest in the
material or performance.
      (2)   Mistake of age is not a defense to a charge under division (b)(5)
of this section.
      (3)   In a prosecution under division (b)(5) of this section, the trier
of fact may infer that an actor, model, or participant in the material or
performance involved is a juvenile if the material or performance, through its
title, text, visual representation, or otherwise, represents or depicts the
actor, model, or participant as a juvenile.
      (4)   As used in this division and division (b)(5) of this section:
         A.   “Material,” “performance,” “obscene,” and “sexual activity” have
the same meanings as in Ohio R.C. 2907.01.
         B.   “Nudity-oriented matter” means any material or performance that
shows a minor in a state of nudity and that, taken as a whole by the average
person applying contemporary community standards, appeals to the prurient
interest.
         C.   “Sexually oriented matter” means any material or performance that
shows a minor participating or engaging in sexual activity, masturbation, or
bestiality.
   (e)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of endangering children.
      (1)   If the offender violates division (a) or (b)(1) of this section,
endangering children is one of the following:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (e)(1)B., C., or D., a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         B.   If the offender previously has been convicted of an offense under
this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or
of any offense involving neglect, abandonment, or contributing to the
delinquency of or physical abuse of a child, except as otherwise provided in
division (e)(1)C. or D. of this section, endangering children is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         C.   If the violation is a violation of division (a) of this section
and results in serious physical harm to the child involved, endangering
children is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         D.   If the violation is a violation of division (b)(1) of this
section and results in serious physical harm to the child involved, endangering
children is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the offender violates division (b)(2), (3), (4), (5) or (6) of
this section, endangering children is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the offender violates division (c) of this section, the offender
shall be punished as follows:
         A.   Except as provided in (e)(3)B. or C., endangering children in
violation of division (c) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         B.   If the violation results in serious physical harm to the child or
if the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this section or
a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or of any offense
involving neglect, abandonment, or contributing to the delinquency of or
physical abuse of a child, except as otherwise provided in division (e)(3)C. of
this section, endangering children in violation of division (c) of this section
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         C.   If the violation results in serious physical harm to the child
and if the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this
section, Ohio R.C. 2903.06, 2903.08, 2919.22(C) or former Ohio R.C. 2903.07 as
it existed prior to March 23, 2000, or Ohio R.C. 2903.04, in a case in which
the offender was subject to the sanctions described in division (D) of that
section, endangering children in violation of division (c) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         D.   In addition to any term of imprisonment, fine, or other sentence,
penalty or sanction it imposes upon the offender pursuant to divisions (e)
(3)A., B. or C. of this section or pursuant to any other provision of law and
in addition to any suspension of the offender’s driver’s license or commercial
driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege under Ohio R.C.
Chapter 4506, 4509, 4510, or 4511, or any other provision of law, the court
also may impose upon the offender a class seven suspension of the offender’s
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating
privilege from the range specified in Ohio R.C. 4510.02(A)(7).
         E.   In addition to any term of imprisonment, fine, or other sentence,
penalty or sanction imposed upon the offender pursuant to division (e)(3)A.,
B., C. or D. of this section or pursuant to any other provision of law for the
violation of division (c) of this section, if as a part of the same trial or
proceeding the offender also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a separate
charge charging the violation of Ohio R.C. 4511.19(A), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, that was the basis of the charge of the
violation of division (c) of this section, the offender also shall be sentenced
in accordance with Ohio R.C. 4511.19, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, for that violation of Ohio R.C. 4511.19(A), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (f)   (1)   If a person violates division (c) of this section and if, at the
time of the violation, there were two or more children under 18 years of age in
the motor vehicle involved in the violation, the offender may be convicted of a
violation of division (c) of this section for each of the children, but the
court may sentence the offender for only one of the violations.
      (2)   A.   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (c) of this section but the person is not also convicted of and does
not also plead guilty to a separate charge of violating Ohio R.C. 4511.19(A),
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that was the basis of the
charge of the violation of division (c) of this section, both the following
apply:
            1.   For purposes of the provisions of Ohio R.C. 4511.19, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that set forth the penalties and
sanctions for a violation of Ohio R.C. 4511.19(A), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the conviction of or plea of guilty to the
violation of division (c) of this section shall not constitute a violation of
Ohio R.C. 4511.19(A), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
            2.   For purposes of the provisions of law that refers to a
conviction of or plea of guilty to a violation of Ohio R.C. 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and that is not described in
division (f)(2)A.1. of this section, the conviction of or plea of guilty to the
violation of division (c) of this section shall constitute a conviction or plea
of guilty to a violation of Ohio R.C. 4511.19(A), or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
         B.   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (c) of this section and the person also is convicted of or pleads
guilty to a separate charge of violating Ohio R.C. 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that was the basis of the charge
of the violation of division (c) of this section, the conviction of or plea of
guilty to the violation of division (c) of this section shall not constitute,
for the purposes of any provision of law that refers to a conviction of or a
plea of guilty to a violation of Ohio R.C. 4511.19(A) or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, a conviction of or a plea of guilty to a
violation of Ohio R.C. 4511.19(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
(ORC 2919.22(A) - (E), (H))
Statutory reference:
   Community service, requirements, see Ohio R.C. 2919.22(F)
   License suspension, requirements, see Ohio R.C. 2919.22(G)
   Permitting child abuse, felony offense, see Ohio R.C. 2903.15
§ 636.12 INTERFERENCE WITH CUSTODY.
   (a)   No person, knowing that he or she is without privilege to do so or
being reckless in that regard, shall entice, take, keep, or harbor a person
identified in division (a)(1), (2) or (3) of this section from the parent,
guardian, or custodian of the person identified in division (a)(1), (2) or (3)
of this section:
      (1)   A child under the age of 18, or a child with a mental or physical
disability under the age of 21;
      (2)   A person committed by law to an institution for delinquent, unruly,
neglected, abused, or dependent children;
      (3)   A person committed by law to an institution for persons with mental
illnesses or an institution for persons with intellectual disabilities.
   (b)   No person shall aid, abet, induce, cause, or encourage a child or a
ward of the juvenile court who has been committed to the custody of any person,
department, or public or private institution to leave the custody of that
person, department, or institution without legal consent.
   (c)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of enticing or taking under
division (a)(1) of this section that the actor reasonably believed that his or
her conduct was necessary to preserve the child’s health or safety. It is an
affirmative defense to a charge of keeping or harboring under division (a) of
this section that the actor in good faith gave notice to law enforcement or
judicial authorities within a reasonable time after the child or committed
person came under his or her shelter, protection, or influence.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interference with custody.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this subdivision, a violation of
division (a)(1) above is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the child who is
the subject of a violation of division (a)(1) is removed from the state or if
the offender previously has been convicted of an offense under this section or
a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of
division (a)(1) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law. If the child who is the subject of a violation of division (a)(1)
suffers physical harm as a result of the violation, a violation of division (a)
(1) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (a)(2) or (3) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (3)   A violation of division (b) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. Each day of a violation of division (b) is a separate offense.
(ORC 2919.23)
§ 636.13 CONTRIBUTING TO THE UNRULINESS OR DELINQUENCY OF A CHILD.
   (a)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Delinquent child.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2152.02.
      (2)   “Unruly child.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2151.022.
   (b)   No person, including a parent, guardian, or other custodian of a
child, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Aid, abet, induce, cause, encourage, or contribute to a child or a
ward of the juvenile court becoming an unruly child or a delinquent child;
      (2)   Act in a way tending to cause a child or a ward of the juvenile
court to become an unruly child or a delinquent child;
      (3)   Act in a way that contributes to an adjudication of the child as a
delinquent child based on the child’s violation of a court order adjudicating
the child an unruly child for being an habitual truant;
      (4)   If the person is the parent, guardian, or custodian of a child who
has the duties under R.C. Chapters 2152 and 2950 to register, register a new
residence address, and periodically verify a residence address, and, if
applicable, to send a notice of intent to reside, and if the child is not
emancipated, as defined in R.C. § 2919.121, fail to ensure that the child
complies with those duties under R.C. Chapters 2152 and 2950.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of contributing to the
unruliness or delinquency of a child, a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each
day of violation of this section is a separate offense.
(R.C. § 2919.24)
§ 636.14 PARTY LINES TO BE YIELDED IN EMERGENCIES. (REPEALED)
   (Editor’s note:  Section 636.15, based on Ohio R.C. 4931.30, is obsolete and
has been removed as part of the 2007 updating and revision of these Codified
Ordinances.)
§ 636.15 THREATENING OR HARASSING TELECOMMUNICATIONS.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly make or cause to be made a
telecommunication, or knowingly permit a telecommunication to be made from a
telecommunications device under the person’s control, to another, if the caller
does any of the following:
      (1)   Makes the telecommunication with purpose to harass, intimidate, or
abuse any person at the premises to which the telecommunication is made,
whether or not actual communication takes place between the caller and a
recipient;
      (2)   Describes, suggests, requests, or proposes that the caller, the
recipient of the telecommunication, or any other person engage in sexual
activity, and the recipient or another person at the premises to which the
telecommunication is made has requested, in a previous telecommunication or in
the immediate telecommunication, that the caller not make a telecommunication
to the recipient or to the premises to which the telecommunication is made;
      (3)   During the telecommunication, violates Ohio R.C. 2903.21 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (4)   Knowingly states to the recipient of the telecommunication that the
caller intends to cause damage to or destroy public or private property, and
the recipient, any member of the recipient’s family, or any other person who
resides at the premises to which the telecommunication is made owns, leases,
resides, or works in, will at the time of the destruction or damaging be near
or in, has the responsibility of protecting, or insures the property that will
be destroyed or damaged;
      (5)   Knowingly makes the telecommun-ication to the recipient of the
telecommunication, to another person at the premises to which the
telecommunication is made, or to those premises, and the recipient or another
person at those premises previously has told the caller not to make a
telecommunication to those premises or to any persons at those premises;
      (6)   Knowingly makes any comment, request, suggestion, or proposal to
the recipient of the telecommunication that is threatening, intimidating,
menacing, coercive, or obscene with the intent to abuse, threaten, or harass
the recipient;
      (7)   Without a lawful business purpose, knowingly interrupts the
telecommunication service of any person;
      (8)   Without a lawful business purpose, knowingly transmits to any
person, regardless of whether the telecommunication is heard in its entirety,
any file, document, or other communication that prevents that person from using
the person’s telephone service or electronic communication device;
      (9)   Knowingly makes any false statement concerning the death, injury,
illness, disfigurement, reputation, indecent conduct, or criminal conduct of
the recipient of the telecommunication or family or household member of the
recipient with purpose to abuse, threaten, intimidate, or harass the recipient;
      (10)   Knowingly incites another person through a telecommunication or
other means to harass or participate in the harassment of a person;
      (11)   Knowingly alarms the recipient by making a telecommunication
without a lawful purpose at an hour or hours known to be inconvenient to the
recipient and in an offensive or repetitive manner.
   (b)   (1)   No person shall make or cause to be made a telecommunication or
permit a telecommunication to be made from a telecommunications device under
the person’s control, with purpose to abuse, threaten, or harass another
person.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly post a text or audio statement or an
image on an internet web site or web page for the purpose of abusing,
threatening, or harassing another person.
   (c)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of telecommunications
harassment.
      (2)   A violation of division (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(5), (a)(6), (a)
(7), (a)(8), (a)(9), (a)(10), or (a)(11) or (b) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree on a first offense and a felony on each
subsequent offense, which shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (c)(3), a violation
of division (a)(4) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree on a
first offense and a felony on each subsequent offense, to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If a violation of division (a)(4) of this section
results in economic harm of one thousand dollars ($1,000) or more,
telecommunications harassment is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (d)   No cause of action may be asserted in any court of this municipality
against any provider of a telecommunications service, interactive computer
service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, or against any
officer, employee, or agent of a telecommunications service, interactive
computer service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, for any
injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly arises out of the
provider’s, officer’s, employee’s, or agent’s provision of information,
facilities, or assistance in accordance with the terms of a court order that is
issued in relation to the investigation or prosecution of an alleged violation
of this section. A provider of a telecommunications service, interactive
computer service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, or an
officer, employee, or agent of a telecommunications service, interactive
computer service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, is
immune from any civil or criminal liability for injury, death, or loss to
person or property that allegedly arises out of the provider’s, officer’s,
employees, or agent’s provision of information, facilities, or assistance in
accordance with the terms of a court order that is issued in relation to the
investigation or prosecution of an alleged violation of this section.
   (e)   (1)   This section does not apply to a person solely because the
person provided access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person’s control, including
having provided capabilities that are incidental to providing access or
connection to or from the electronic method of remotely transferring the
information, and that do not include the creation of the content of the
material that is the subject of the access or connection. In addition, any
person providing access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person’s control shall not be
liable for any action voluntarily taken in good faith to block the receipt or
transmission through its service of any information that the person believes
is, or will be sent, in violation of this section.
      (2)   Division (e)(1) of this section does not create an affirmative duty
for any person providing access or connection to or from an electronic method
of remotely transferring information not under that person’s control to block
the receipt or transmission through its service of any information that it
believes is, or will be sent, in violation of this section except as otherwise
provided by law.
      (3)   Division (e)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who
conspires with a person actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of this section or who knowingly
advertises the availability of material of that nature.
      (4)   A provider or user of an interactive computer service, as defined
in 47 U.S.C. § 230, shall neither be treated as the publisher or speaker of any
information provided by another information content provider, as defined in 47
U.S.C. § 230, nor held civilly or criminally liable for the creation or
development of information provided by another information content provider, as
defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230. Nothing in this division shall be construed to
protect a person from liability to the extent that the person developed or
created any content in violation of this section.
   (f)   Divisions (a)(5) to (a)(11) and (b)(2) of this section do not apply to
a person who, while employed or contracted by a newspaper, magazine, press
association, news agency, news wire service, cable channel or cable operator,
or radio or television station, is gathering, processing, transmitting,
compiling, editing, or disseminating information for the general public within
the scope of the person’s employment in that capacity or the person’s
contractual authority in that capacity.
   (g)   As used in divisions (a) through (d) of this section:
      (1)   "Cable operator" has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.21.
      (2)   “Caller” means the person described in division (a) of this section
who makes or causes to be made a telecommunication or who permits a
telecommunication to be made from a telecommunications device under that
person’s control.
      (3)   “Economic harm” means all direct, incidental and consequential
pecuniary harm suffered by a victim as a result of the criminal conduct. The
term includes but is not limited to all of the following:
         A.   All wages, salaries or other compensation lost as a result of the
criminal conduct;
         B.   The cost of all wages, salaries or other compensation paid to
employees for time those employees are prevented from working as a result of
the criminal conduct;
         C.   The overhead costs incurred from the time that a business is shut
down as a result of the criminal conduct;
         D.   The loss of value to tangible or intangible property that was
damaged as a result of the criminal conduct.
      (4)   “Family or household member” means any of the following:
         A.   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
recipient of the telecommunication against whom the act prohibited in division
(a)(9) of this section is committed:
            1.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse, or a former spouse of
the recipient;
            2.   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the recipient, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the recipient;
            3.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse, or
former spouse of the recipient, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
recipient.
         B.   The natural parent of any child of whom the recipient of the
telecommunication against whom the act prohibited in division (a)(9) of this
section is committed is the other natural parent or is the putative other
natural parent.
      (5)   “Person living as a spouse” means a person who is living or has
lived with the recipient of the telecommunication against whom the act
prohibited in division (a)(9) of this section is committed in a common law
marital relationship, who otherwise is cohabiting with the recipient, or who
otherwise has cohabited with the recipient within five years prior to the date
of the alleged commission of the act in question.
      (6)   “Sexual activity” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2907.01.
      (7)   “Telecommunication” and “telecommunications device” have the same
meanings as in Ohio R.C. 2913.01.
   (h)   Nothing in this section prohibits a person from making a
telecommunication to a debtor that is in compliance with the “Fair Debt
Collection Practices Act,” 15 U.S.C. 1692, as amended, or the “Telephone
Consumer Protection Act,” 47 U.S.C. 227, as amended.
(ORC 2917.21)
§ 636.16 PLACING HARMFUL SUBSTANCE OR OBJECTS IN FOOD OR CONFECTION.
   (a)   No person shall do either of the following, knowing or having
reasonable cause to believe that any person may suffer physical harm or be
seriously inconvenienced or annoyed thereby:
      (1)   Place a pin, razor blade, glass, laxative, drug of abuse, or other
harmful or hazardous object or substance in any food or confection.
      (2)   Furnish to any person any food or confection which has been
adulterated in violation of division (a)(1) of this section.
(ORC 3716.11)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(ORC 3716.99(C))
§ 636.17 DOMESTIC VIOLENCE.
   (a)   Prohibited conduct.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly cause or attempt to cause physical harm
to a family or household member.
      (2)   No person shall recklessly cause serious physical harm to a family
or household member.
      (3)   No person, by threat of force, shall knowingly cause a family or
household member to believe that the offender will cause imminent physical harm
to the family or household member.
      (4)   A.   Whoever violates this section is guilty of domestic violence,
and the court shall sentence the offender as provided in divisions (a)(4)B. to
(a)(4)E. of this section.
         B.   Except as otherwise provided in division (a)(4)C., (a)(4)D. or
(a)(4)E. of this section, a violation of division (a)(3) is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree and a violation of division (a)(1) or (a)(2) is a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
         C.   Except as otherwise provided in division (a)(4)D. of this
section, if the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted of
domestic violence, a violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or
law of this or any other state or the United States that is substantially
equivalent to domestic violence, a violation of R.C. § 2903.14, § 2909.06, §
2909.07, § 2911.12, § 2911.211 or § 2919.22 if the victim of the violation was
a family or household member at the time of the violation, a violation of an
existing or former municipal ordinance or law of this or any other state or the
United States that is substantially equivalent to any of those sections if the
victim of the violation was a family or household member at the time of the
commission of the violation, or any offense of violence if the victim of the
offense was a family or household member at the time of the commission of the
offense, a violation of division (a)(1) or (a)(2) is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law, and a violation of division (a)(3) is a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
         D.   If the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been
convicted of two or more offenses of domestic violence or two or more
violations or offenses of the type described in division (a)(4)C. of this
section involving a person who was a family or household member at the time of
the violations or offenses, a violation of division (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law, and a
violation of division (a)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
         E.   Except as otherwise provided in division (a)(4)C. or (a)(4)D. of
this section, if the offender knew that the victim of the violation was
pregnant at the time of the violation, a violation of division (a)(1) or (a)(2)
of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law, and a
violation of division (a)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
      (5)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no court or
unit of state or local government shall charge any fee, cost, deposit or money
in connection with the filing of charges against a person alleging that the
person violated this section or a municipal ordinance substantially equivalent
to this section or in connection with the prosecution of any charges so filed.
      (6)   As used in this section:
         A.   “Family or household member.” Any of the following:
            1.   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
offender:
               a.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse as defined below, or
a former spouse of the offender;
               b.   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the offender, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the offender;
               c.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse,
or former spouse of the offender, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
offender.
            2.   The natural parent of any child of whom the offender is the
other natural parent or is the putative other natural parent.
         B.   “Person living as a spouse.” A person who is living or has lived
with the offender in a common law marital relationship, who otherwise is
cohabiting with the offender, or who otherwise has cohabited with the offender
within five years prior to the date of the alleged commission of the act in
question.
(ORC 2919.25)
   (b)   Temporary protection order. Consult Ohio R.C. 2919.26 for current
provisions regarding protection orders.
   (c)   Violating a protection order, consent agreement, anti-stalking
protection order or order issued by a court of another state. See §
636.055(c) for current provisions.
§ 636.18 SAFETY OF CROWDS ATTENDING LIVE ENTERTAINMENT PERFORMANCES.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   “Concert.” A musical performance of which the primary component is
a presentation by persons singing or playing musical instruments, that is
intended by its sponsors mainly, but not necessarily exclusively, for the
listening enjoyment of the audience, and that is held in a facility. A
“concert” does not include any performance in which music is a part of the
presentation and the primary component of which is acting, dancing, a motion
picture, a demonstration of skills or talent other than singing or playing an
instrument, an athletic event, an exhibition or a speech.
      (2)   “Facility.” Any structure that has a roof or partial roof and that
has walls that wholly surround the area on all sides, including, but not
limited to, a stadium, hall, arena, armory, auditorium, ballroom, exhibition
hall, convention center or music hall.
      (3)   “Live entertainment performance.” Any live speech; any live musical
performance, including a concert; any live dramatic performance; any live
variety show; and any other live performance with respect to which the primary
intent of the audience can be construed to be viewing the performers. A “live
entertainment performance” does not include any form of entertainment with
respect to which the person purchasing a ticket routinely participates in
amusements as well as views performers.
      (4)   “Person.” Includes, in addition to an individual or entity
specified in Ohio R.C. 1.59(C), any governmental entity.
      (5)   “Restricted entertainment area.” Any wholly or partially enclosed
area, whether indoors or outdoors, that has limited access through established
entrances or established turnstiles or similar devices.
   (b)   (1)   No person shall sell, offer to sell, or offer in return for a
donation, any ticket that is not numbered and that does not correspond to a
specific seat for admission to either of the following:
         A.   A live entertainment performance that is not exempted under
division (d) of this section, that is held in a restricted entertainment area,
and for which more than 8,000 tickets are offered to the public;
         B.   A concert that is not exempted under division (d) of this section
and for which more than 3,000 tickets are offered to the public.
      (2)   No person shall advertise any live entertainment performance as
described in division (b)(1)A. of this section or any concert as described in
division (b)(1)B. of this section, unless the advertisement contains the words
“Reserved Seats Only.”
   (c)   Unless exempted by division (d)(1) of this section, no person who owns
or operates any restricted entertainment area shall fail to open, maintain and
properly staff at least the number of entrances designated under division (e)
of this section for a minimum of 90 minutes prior to the scheduled start of any
live entertainment performance that is held in the restricted entertainment
area and for which more than 3,000 tickets are sold, offered for sale or
offered in return for a donation.
   (d)   (1)   A live entertainment performance, other than a concert, is
exempted from the provisions of divisions (b) and (c) of this section if both
of the following apply:
         A.   The restricted entertainment area in which the performance is
held has at least eight entrances or, if both entrances and separate admission
turnstiles or similar devices are used, has at least eight turnstiles or
similar devices.
         B.   The eight entrances or, if applicable, the eight turnstiles or
similar devices, are opened, maintained and properly staffed at least one hour
prior to the scheduled start of the performance.
      (2)   A.   The officer responsible for public safety in the municipality
may, upon application of the sponsor of a concert covered by division (b) of
this section, exempt the concert from the provisions of that division if such
officer finds that the health, safety and welfare of the participants and
spectators would not be substantially affected by failure to comply with the
provisions of that division. In determining whether to grant an exemption, the
officer shall consider the following factors:
            1.   The size and design of the facility in which the concert is
scheduled;
            2.   The size, age and anticipated conduct of the crowd expected to
attend the concert;
            3.   The ability of the sponsor to manage and control the expected
crowd. If the sponsor of any concert desires to obtain an exemption under this
division, the sponsor shall apply to the appropriate official on a form
prescribed by that official. The official shall issue an order that grants or
denies the exemption within five days after receipt of the application. The
sponsor may appeal any order that denies an exemption to the Court of Common
Pleas of the county in which the facility is located.
         B.   If an official grants an exemption under division (d)(2)A. of
this section, the official shall designate an on-duty law enforcement officer
to be present at the concert. The designated officer has authority to issue
orders to all security personnel at the concert to protect the health, safety
and welfare of the participants and spectators.
      (3)   Notwithstanding division (d)(2) of this section, in the case of a
concert held in a facility located on the campus of an educational institution
covered by Ohio R.C. 3345.04, a state university law enforcement officer
appointed pursuant to Ohio R.C. 3345.04 and 3345.21 shall do both of the
following:
         A.   Exercise the authority to grant exemptions provided by division
(d)(2)A. of this section in lieu of an official designated in that division;
         B.   If the officer grants an exemption under division (d)(3)A. of
this section, designate an on-duty state university law enforcement officer to
be present at the concert. The designated officer has authority to issue orders
to all security personnel at the concert to protect the health, safety and
welfare of the participants and spectators.
   (e)   (1)   Unless a live entertainment performance is exempted by division
(d)(1) of this section, the officer responsible for public safety within the
municipality shall designate, for purposes of division (c) of this section, the
minimum number of entrances required to be opened, maintained and staffed at
each live entertainment performance so as to permit crowd control and reduce
congestion at the entrances. The designation shall be based on such factors as
the size and nature of the crowd expected to attend the live entertainment
performance, the length of time prior to the live entertainment performance
that crowds are expected to congregate at the entrances and the amount of
security provided at the restricted entertainment area.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (e)(1) of this section, a state university
law enforcement officer appointed pursuant to Ohio R.C. 3345.04 and 3345.21
shall designate the number of entrances required to be opened, maintained and
staffed in the case of a live entertainment performance that is held at a
restricted entertainment area located on the campus of an educational
institution covered by Ohio R.C. 3345.04.
   (f)   No person shall enter into any contract for a live entertainment
performance that does not permit or require compliance with this section.
   (g)   (1)   This section does not apply to a live entertainment performance
held in a restricted entertainment area if one admission ticket entitles the
holder to view or participate in three or more different games, rides,
activities or live entertainment performances occurring simultaneously at
different sites within the restricted entertainment area and if the initial
admittance entrance to the restricted entertainment area, for which the ticket
is required, is separate from the entrance to any specific live entertainment
performance and an additional ticket is not required for admission to the
particular live entertainment performance.
      (2)   This section does not apply to a symphony orchestra performance, a
ballet performance, horse races, dances or fairs.
   (h)   This section does not prohibit the Council from imposing additional
requirements, not in conflict with the section, for the promotion or holding of
live entertainment performances.
   (i)   Whoever violates division (b), (c) or (f) of this section is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If any individual suffers physical harm to
his or her person as a result of a violation of this section, the sentencing
court shall consider this factor in favor of imposing a term of imprisonment
upon the offender.
(ORC 2917.40)
§ 636.19 HAZING.
   (a)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Hazing.” Means doing any act or coercing another, including the
victim, to do any act of initiation into any student or other organization or
any act to continue or reinstate membership in or affiliation with any student
or other organization that causes or creates a substantial risk of causing
mental or physical harm to any person, including coercing another to consume
alcohol or a drug of abuse, as defined in R.C. § 3719.011.
      (2)   “Organization.” Includes a national or international organization
with which a fraternity or sorority is affiliated.
   (b)   (1)   No person shall recklessly participate in the hazing of another.
      (2)   No administrator, employee, faculty member, teacher, consultant,
alumnus, or volunteer of any organization, including any primary, secondary, or
post-secondary school or any other educational institution, public or private,
shall recklessly permit the hazing of any person associated with the
organization.
   (c)   (1)   No person shall recklessly participate in the hazing of another
when the hazing includes coerced consumption of alcohol or drugs of abuse
resulting in serious physical harm to the other person.
      (2)   No administrator, employee, faculty member, teacher, consultant,
alumnus, or volunteer of any organization, including any primary, secondary, or
post-secondary school or any other educational institution, public or private,
shall recklessly permit the hazing of any person associated with the
organization when the hazing includes coerced consumption of alcohol or drugs
of abuse resulting in serious physical harm to that person.
   (d)   Whoever violates divisions (b) or (c) of this section is guilty of
hazing. A violation of division (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the second degree. A violation of division (c)(1) or (c)(2) of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.31)
   (e)   Reckless failure to immediately report knowledge of hazing.
      (1)   No administrator, employee, faculty member, teacher, consultant,
alumnus, or volunteer of any organization, including any primary, secondary, or
post-secondary school or any other public or private educational institution,
who is acting in an official and professional capacity shall recklessly fail to
immediately report the knowledge of hazing to a law enforcement agency in the
county in which the victim of hazing resides or in which the hazing is
occurring or has occurred.
      (2)   A violation of division (e)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree, except that the violation is a misdemeanor of the first
degree if the hazing causes serious physical harm.
(R.C. § 2903.311(B), (C))
Statutory reference:
   Civil liability for hazing, see R.C. § 2307.44
§ 636.20 ILLEGAL DISTRIBUTION OF CIGARETTES, OTHER TOBACCO PRODUCTS, OR
ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCTS; TRANSACTION SCANS.
   (a)   Illegal distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products.
      (1)   As used in this section:
         A.   “Age verification.” A service provided by an independent third
party (other than a manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or
retailer of cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products,
or papers used to roll cigarettes) that compares information available from a
commercially available database, or aggregate of databases, that regularly are
used by government and businesses for the purpose of age and identity
verification to personal information provided during an internet sale or other
remote method of sale to establish that the purchaser is 21 years of age or
older.
         B.   “Alternative nicotine product.”
            1.   Subject to division 2. of this definition, an electronic
smoking device, vapor product, or any other product or device that consists of
or contains nicotine that can be ingested into the body by any means,
including, but not limited to, chewing, smoking, absorbing, dissolving, or
inhaling.
            2.   The phrase does not include any of the following:
               a.   Any cigarette or other tobacco product;
               b.   Any product that is a “drug” as that term is defined in 21
U.S.C. § 321(g)(1);
               c.   Any product that is a “device” as that term is defined in
21 U.S.C. § 321(h);
               d.   Any product that is a “combination product” as described in
21 U.S.C. § 353(g).
         C.   “Cigarette.” Includes clove cigarettes and hand-rolled
cigarettes.
         D.   “Distribute.” Means to furnish, give, or provide cigarettes,
other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll
cigarettes to the ultimate consumer of the cigarettes, other tobacco products,
alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes.
         E.   “Electronic smoking device.” Means any device that can be used to
deliver aerosolized or vaporized nicotine or any other substance to the person
inhaling from the device including an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar,
electronic hookah, vaping pen, or electronic pipe. The phrase includes any
component, part, or accessory of such a device, whether or not sold separately,
and includes any substance intended to be aerosolized or vaporized during the
use of the device. The phrase does not include any product that is a drug,
device, or combination product, as those terms are defined or described in 21
U.S.C. §§ 321 and 353(g).
         F.   “Proof of age.” Means a driver’s license, a commercial driver’s
license, a military identification card, a passport, or an identification card
issued under R.C. §§ 4507.50 to 4507.52 that shows that a person is 21 years of
age or older.
         G.   “Tobacco product.” Means any product that is made or derived from
tobacco or that contains any form of nicotine, if it is intended for human
consumption or is likely to be consumed, whether smoked, heated, chewed,
absorbed, dissolved, inhaled, or ingested by any other means, including, but
not limited to, a cigarette, an electronic smoking device, a cigar, pipe
tobacco, chewing tobacco, snuff, or snus. The phrase also means any component
or accessory used in the consumption of a tobacco product, such as filters,
rolling papers, pipes, blunt or hemp wraps, and liquids used in electronic
smoking devices, whether or not they contain nicotine.
The phrase does not include any product that is a drug, device, or combination
product, as those terms are defined or described in 21 U.S.C. §§ 321 and 353
(g).
         H.   “Vapor product.” Means a product, other than a cigarette or other
tobacco product as defined in R.C. Chapter 5743, that contains or is made or
derived from nicotine and that is intended and marketed for human consumption,
including by smoking, inhaling, snorting, or sniffing. The phrase includes any
component, part, or additive that is intended for use in an electronic smoking
device, a mechanical heating element, battery, or electronic circuit and is
used to deliver the product. The phrase does not include any product that is a
drug, device, or combination product, as those terms are defined or described
in 21 U.S.C. §§ 321 and 353(g). The phrase includes any product containing
nicotine, regardless of concentration.
         I.   “Vending machine.” Has the same meaning as “coin machine” in R.C.
§ 2913.01.
      (2)   No manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or retailer of
cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers
used to roll cigarettes, no agent, employee, or representative of a
manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or retailer of cigarettes,
other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll
cigarettes, and no other person shall do any of the following:
         A.   Give, sell, or otherwise distribute cigarettes, other tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes:
            1.   To any person under 21 years of age; or
            2.   Without first verifying proof of age.
         B.   Give away, sell, or distribute cigarettes, other tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes in
any place that does not have posted in a conspicuous place a legibly printed
sign in letters at least one-half inch high stating that giving, selling, or
otherwise distributing cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, or papers used to roll cigarettes to a person under 21 years of age
is prohibited by law;
         C.   Knowingly furnish any false information regarding the name, age,
or other identification of any person under 21 years of age with purpose to
obtain cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or
papers used to roll cigarettes for that person;
         D.   Manufacture, sell, or distribute in this state any pack or other
container of cigarettes containing fewer than 20 cigarettes or any package of
roll-your-own tobacco containing less than six-tenths of one ounce of tobacco;
         E.   Sell cigarettes or alternative nicotine products in a smaller
quantity than that placed in the pack or other container by the manufacturer;
         F.   Give, sell, or otherwise distribute alternative nicotine
products, papers used to roll cigarettes, or tobacco products other than
cigarettes over the internet or through another remote method without age
verification;
         G.   Allow an employee under 18 years of age to sell any tobacco
product;
         H.   Give away or otherwise distribute free samples of cigarettes,
other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or coupons redeemable
for cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alterative tobacco products.
      (3)   No person shall sell or offer to sell cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products by or from a vending machine, except
in the following locations:
         A.   An area within a factory, business, office, or other place not
open to the general public;
         B.   An area to which persons under 21 years of age are not generally
permitted access;
         C.   Any other place not identified in division (a)(3)A. or (a)(3)B.
of this section, upon all of the following conditions:
            1.   The vending machine is located within the immediate vicinity,
plain view, and control of the person who owns or operates the place, or an
employee of that person, so that all cigarettes, other tobacco product, and
alternative nicotine product purchases from the vending machine will be readily
observed by the person who owns or operates the place or an employee of that
person. For the purpose of this section, a vending machine located in any
unmonitored area, including an unmonitored coatroom, restroom, hallway, or
outer waiting area, shall not be considered located within the immediate
vicinity, plain view, and control of the person who owns or operates the place,
or an employee of that person.
            2.   The vending machine is inaccessible to the public when the
place is closed.
            3.   A clearly visible notice is posted in the area where the
vending machine is located that states the following in letters that are
legibly printed and at least one-half inch high: “It is illegal for any person
under the age of 21 to purchase tobacco or alternative nicotine products.”
      (4)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under division
(a)(2)A. of this section:
         A.   The person under 21 years of age was accompanied by a parent,
spouse who is 21 years of age or older, or legal guardian of the person under
21 years of age.
         B.   The person who gave, sold, or distributed cigarettes, other
tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll
cigarettes to a person under 21 years of age under division (a)(2)A. of this
section is a parent, spouse who is 21 years of age or older, or legal guardian
of the person under 21 years of age.
      (5)   A.   It is not a violation of division (a)(2)A. or (a)(2)B. of this
section for a person to give or otherwise distribute to a person under 21 years
of age cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or
papers used to roll cigarettes while the person under 21 years of age is
participating in a research protocol if all of the following apply:
            1.   The parent, guardian, or legal custodian of the person under
21 years of age has consented in writing to the person under 21 years of age
participating in the research protocol.
            2.   An institutional human subjects protection review board, or an
equivalent entity, has approved the research protocol.
            3.   The person under 21 years of age is participating in the
research protocol at the facility or location specified in the research
protocol.
         B.   It is not a violation of division (a)(2)A. or (a)(2)B. of this
section for an employer to permit an employee 18, 19, or 20 years of age to
sell a tobacco product.
      (6)   A.   No delivery service shall accept from, transport or deliver
to, or allow pick-up by, a person under 21 years of age with respect to any of
the following:
            1.   Alternative nicotine products;
            2.   Papers used to roll cigarettes;
            3.   Tobacco products other than cigarettes.
         B.   A delivery service shall require proof of age as a condition of
accepting, transporting, delivering, or allowing pickup of the items described
in divisions (a)(6)A.1. to 3. of this section.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (a)(2)A., (a)(2)B., (a)(2)D., (a)(2)E.,
(a)(2)F., (a)(2)G., (a)(2)H., (a)(3) or (a)(6) of this section is guilty of
illegal distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative
nicotine products. Except as otherwise provided in this division, illegal
distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to illegal distribution of cigarettes,
other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products is a misdemeanor of
the third degree.
      (8)   Whoever violates division (a)(2)C. of this section is guilty of
permitting a person under 21 years of age to use cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products. Except as otherwise provided in
this division, permitting a person under 21 years of age to use cigarettes,
other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation
of division (a)(2)C. of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, permitting a person under 21 years of age to use
cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products is a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (9)   Any cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, or papers used to roll cigarettes that are given, sold, or otherwise
distributed to a person under 21 years of age in violation of this section and
that are used, possessed, purchased, or received by a person under 21 years of
age in violation of R.C. § 2151.87 are subject to seizure and forfeiture as
contraband under R.C. Chapter 2981.
(R.C. § 2927.02)
   (b)   Transaction scan.
      (1)   For the purpose of this division and division (c) of this section,
the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
         A.   “Card holder.” Any person who presents a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card to a seller, or an agent or employee
of a seller, to purchase or receive cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products from a seller, agent or employee.
         B.   “Identification card.” An identification card issued under R.C.
§§ 4507.50 to 4507.52.
         C.   “Seller.” A seller of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products and includes any person whose gift of or other
distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products is subject to the prohibitions of division (a) of this section.
         D.   “Transaction scan.” The process by which a seller or an agent or
employee of a seller checks, by means of a transaction scan device, the
validity of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification card
that is presented as a condition for purchasing or receiving cigarettes, other
tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products.
         E.   “Transaction scan device.” Any commercial device or combination
of devices used at a point of sale that is capable of deciphering in an
electronically readable format the information encoded on the magnetic strip or
bar code of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification
card.
      (2)   A.   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may perform a
transaction scan by means of a transaction scan device to check the validity of
a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a
card holder as a condition for selling, giving away or otherwise distributing
to the card holder cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products.
         B.   If the information deciphered by the transaction scan performed
under division (b)(2)A. of this section fails to match the information printed
on the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented
by the card holder, or if the transaction scan indicates that the information
so printed is false or fraudulent, neither the seller nor any agent or employee
of the seller shall sell, give away or otherwise distribute any cigarettes,
other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products to the card holder.
         C.   Division (b)(2)A. of this section does not preclude a seller or
an agent or employee of a seller from using a transaction scan device to check
the validity of a document other than a driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or identification card, if the document includes a bar code or magnetic strip
that may be scanned by the device, as a condition for selling, giving away or
otherwise distributing cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative
nicotine products to the person presenting the document.
      (3)   Rules adopted by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles under R.C. §
4301.61(C) apply to the use of transaction scan devices for purposes of this
division (b) and division (c) of this section.
      (4)   A.   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall
electronically or mechanically record or maintain any information derived from
a transaction scan, except for the following:
            1.   The name and date of birth of the person listed on the
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the
card holder;
            2.   The expiration date and identification number of the driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the card
holder.
         B.   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use the
information that is derived from a transaction scan or that is permitted to be
recorded and maintained under division (b)(4)A. of this section, except for
purposes of division (c) of this section.
         C.   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use a
transaction scan device for a purpose other than the purpose specified in
division (c)(2)A. of this section.
         D.   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall sell or
otherwise disseminate the information derived from a transaction scan to any
third party, including but not limited to selling or otherwise disseminating
that information for any marketing, advertising or promotional activities, but
a seller or agent or employee of a seller may release that information pursuant
to a court order or as specifically authorized by division (c) of this section
or another section of these Codified Ordinances or the Ohio Revised Code.
      (5)   Nothing in this division (b) or division (c) of this section
relieves a seller or an agent or employee of a seller of any responsibility to
comply with any other applicable local, state or federal laws or rules
governing the sale, giving away or other distribution of cigarettes, other
tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (b)(2)B. or (b)(4) of this section is
guilty of engaging in an illegal tobacco product or alternative nicotine
product transaction scan, and the court may impose upon the offender a civil
penalty of up to one thousand dollars ($1,000) for each violation. The Clerk of
the Court shall pay each collected civil penalty to the County Treasurer for
deposit into the County Treasury.
(R.C. § 2927.021)
   (c)   Affirmative defenses.
      (1)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may not be found
guilty of a charge of a violation of division (a) of this section in which the
age of the purchaser or other recipient of cigarettes, other tobacco products,
or alternative nicotine products is an element of the alleged violation, if the
seller, agent or employee raises and proves as an affirmative defense that all
of the following occurred:
         A.   A card holder attempting to purchase or receive cigarettes, other
tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products presented a driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or an identification card.
         B.   A transaction scan of the driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or identification card that the card holder presented indicated that the
license or card was valid.
         C.   The cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products were sold, given away or otherwise distributed to the card holder in
reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and the completed
transaction scan.
      (2)   In determining whether a seller or an agent or employee of a seller
has proven the affirmative defense provided by division (c)(1) of this section,
the trier of fact in the action for the alleged violation of division (a) of
this section shall consider any written policy that the seller has adopted and
implemented and that is intended to prevent violations of division (a) of this
section. For purposes of division (c)(1)C. of this section, the trier of fact
shall consider that reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and
the completed transaction scan may require a seller or an agent or employee of
a seller to exercise reasonable diligence to determine, and that the use of a
transaction scan device does not excuse a seller or an agent or employee of a
seller from exercising reasonable diligence to determine, the following:
         A.   Whether a person to whom the seller or agent or employee of a
seller sells, gives away or otherwise distributes cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products is 21 years of age or older;
         B.   Whether the description and picture appearing on the driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a card holder
is that of the card holder.
      (3)   In any criminal action in which the affirmative defense provided by
division (c)(1) of this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a
Deputy Registrar who issued an identification card under R.C. §§ 4507.50 to
4507.52 shall be permitted to submit certified copies of the records of that
issuance in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of or contractors with the
Bureau of Motor Vehicles in the action.
(R.C. § 2927.022)
   (d)   Shipment of tobacco products.
      (1)   As used in this division (d):
         A.   “Authorized recipient of tobacco products.” Means:
            1.   In the case of cigarettes, a person who is:
               a.    Licensed as a cigarette wholesale dealer under R.C. §
5743.15;
               b.    Licensed as a retail dealer as long as the person
purchases cigarettes with the appropriate tax stamp affixed;
               c.   An export warehouse proprietor as defined in Internal
Revenue Code § 5702;
               d.   An operator of a customs bonded warehouse under 19 U.S.C. §
1311 or 19 U.S.C. § 1555;
               e.   An officer, employee, or agent of the federal government or
of this state acting in the person's official capacity;
               f.   A department, agency, instrumentality, or political
subdivision of the federal government or of this state;
               g.   A person having a consent for consumer shipment issued by
the Ohio Tax Commissioner under R.C. § 5743.71.
            2.   In the case of electronic smoking devices or vapor products, a
person who is:
               a.    Licensed as a distributor of tobacco or vapor products
under R.C. § 5743.61;
               b.   A retail dealer of vapor products, as defined in R.C. §
5741.01(C)(3), that is not licensed as a vapor distributor, as long as the tax
levied by R.C. § 5743.51, 5743.62, or 5743.63, as applicable, has been paid;
               c.   An operator of a customs bonded warehouse under 19 U.S.C. §
1311 or 19 U.S.C. § 1555;
               d.   An officer, employee, or agent of the federal government or
of this state acting in the person's official capacity;
               e.   A department, agency, instrumentality, or political
subdivision of the federal government or of this state.
         B.   “Motor carrier.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4923.01.
      (2)   The purpose of this section is to prevent the sale of cigarettes,
electronic smoking devices, and vapor products to minors and to ensure
compliance with the Master Settlement Agreement, as defined in R.C. § 1346.01.
      (3)   A.   No person shall cause to be shipped any cigarettes, electronic
smoking devices, and vapor products to any person in this municipality other
than an authorized recipient of tobacco products.
         B.   No motor carrier, or other person shall knowingly transport
cigarettes, electronic smoking devices, and vapor products to any person in
this municipality that the carrier or other person reasonably believes is not
an authorized recipient of tobacco products. If cigarettes, electronic smoking
devices, and vapor products are transported to a home or residence, it shall be
presumed that the motor carrier, or other person knew that the person to whom
the cigarettes, electronic smoking devices, and vapor products were delivered
was not an authorized recipient of tobacco products.
      (4)   No person engaged in the business of selling cigarettes, electronic
smoking devices, and vapor products who ships or causes to be shipped
cigarettes, electronic smoking devices, and vapor products to any person in
this municipality in any container or wrapping other than the original
container or wrapping shall fail to plainly and visibly mark the exterior of
the container or wrapping in which the cigarettes, electronic smoking devices,
and vapor products are shipped with the words “cigarettes”, “electronic smoking
devices”, or “vapor products”, as applicable.
      (5)   A court shall impose a fine of up to one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for each violation of division (d)(3)A., (d)(3)B. or (d)(4) of this
section.
(ORC 2927.023)
   (e)   Furnishing false information to obtain tobacco products.
      (1)   No person who is 18 years of age or older but younger than 21 years
of age shall knowingly furnish false information concerning that person’s name,
age, or other identification for the purpose of obtaining tobacco products.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (e)(1) of this section is guilty of
furnishing false information to obtain tobacco products. Except as otherwise
provided in this division, furnishing false information to obtain tobacco
products is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (e)(1) of this
section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
furnishing false information to obtain tobacco products is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
(R.C. § 2927.024)
§ 636.21 ETHNIC INTIMIDATION.
   (a)   No person shall violate Ohio R.C. 2903.21, 2903.22, 2909.06, or
2909.07, or Ohio R.C. 2917.21(A)(3), (4), or (5), or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these sections, by reason of the race,
color, religion, or national origin of another person or group of persons.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of ethnic intimidation. Ethnic
intimidation is an offense of the next higher degree than the offense the
commission of which is a necessary element of ethnic intimidation. In the case
of an offense that is a misdemeanor of the first degree, ethnic intimidation is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(ORC 2927.12)
§ 636.22 FAILING TO PROVIDE FOR A PERSON WITH A FUNCTIONAL IMPAIRMENT.
   (a)   No caretaker shall knowingly fail to provide a person with a
functional impairment under the caretaker’s care with any treatment, care,
goods, or service that is necessary to maintain the health or safety of the
person with a functional impairment when this failure results in physical harm
or serious physical harm to the person with a functional impairment.
   (b)   No caretaker shall recklessly fail to provide a person with a
functional impairment under the caretaker’s care with any treatment, care,
goods, or service that is necessary to maintain the health or safety of the
person with a functional impairment when this failure results in serious
physical harm to the person with a functional impairment.
   (c)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of
knowingly failing to provide for a person with a functional impairment, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the person with a functional impairment
under the offender’s care suffers serious physical harm as a result of the
violation of this section, a violation of division (a) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of
recklessly failing to provide for a person with a functional impairment, a
misdemeanor of the second degree. If the person with a functional impairment
under the offender’s care suffers serious physical harm as a result of the
violation of this section, a violation of division (b) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.16)
   (d)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Caretaker.” A person who assumes the duty to provide for the care
and protection of a person with a functional impairment on a voluntary basis,
by contract, through receipt of payment for care and protection, as a result of
a family relationship, or by order of a court of competent jurisdiction. The
term does not include a person who owns, operates, or administers, or who is an
agent or employee of, a care facility, as defined in R.C. § 2903.33.
      (2)   “Person with a functional impairment.” Any person who has a
physical or mental impairment that prevents the person from providing for the
person’s own care or protection or whose infirmities caused by aging prevent
the person from providing for the person’s own care or protection.
(R.C. § 2903.10)
§ 636.23 INTIMIDATION IN CONNECTION WITH HOUSING.
      (a)   No person, whether or not acting under color of law, shall by force
or threat of force willfully injure, intimidate, or interfere with, or attempt
to injure, intimidate, or interfere with any of the following:
      (1)   Any person because of race, color, religion, sex, familial status,
as defined in Ohio R.C. 4112.01, national origin, military status as defined in
that section, disability as defined in that section, or ancestry and because
that person is or has been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying,
contracting, or negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing, or
occupation of any housing accommodations, or applying for or participating in
any service, organization, or facility relating to the business of selling or
renting housing accommodations.
      (2)   Any person because that person is or has been doing, or in order to
intimidate that person or any other person or any class of persons from doing
either of the following:
         A.   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, familial status, as defined in Ohio R.C. 4112.01, national
origin, military status as defined in that section, disability as defined in
that section, or ancestry, in any of the activities, services, organizations,
or facilities described in division (a)(1) of this section;
         B.   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
      (3)   Any person because that person is or has been, or in order to
discourage that person or any other person from, lawfully aiding or encouraging
other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, familial status as defined in Ohio R.C. 4112.01, national
origin, military status as defined in that section, disability as defined in
that section, or ancestry, in any of the activities, services, organizations,
or facilities described in division (a)(1) of this section, or participating
lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of the opportunity
to so participate.
   (b)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(ORC 2927.03)
§ 636.24 FAILURE TO PERFORM VIABILITY TESTING.
   (a)   Except in a medical emergency that prevents compliance with this
division, no physician shall perform or induce or attempt to perform or induce
an abortion on a pregnant woman after the beginning of the twentieth week of
gestation unless, prior to the performance or inducement of the abortion or the
attempt to perform or induce the abortion, the physician determines, in the
physician’s good faith medical judgment, that the unborn child is not viable,
and the physician makes that determination after performing a medical
examination of the pregnant woman and after performing or causing to be
performed those tests for assessing gestational age, weight, lung maturity, or
other tests that the physician, in that physician’s good faith medical
judgment, believes are necessary to determine whether an unborn child is
viable.
   (b)   Except in a medical emergency that prevents compliance with this
division, no physician shall perform or induce or attempt to perform or induce
an abortion on a pregnant woman after the beginning of the twentieth week of
gestation without first entering the determination made in division (a) of this
section and the associated findings of the medical examination and tests in the
medical record of the pregnant woman.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to perform
viability testing, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (d)   The State Medical Board shall suspend a physician’s license to
practice medicine in this state for a period of not less than six months if the
physician violates this section.
(ORC 2919.18)
§ 636.25 UNLAWFUL COLLECTION OF BODILY SUBSTANCES.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly collect any blood, urine, tissue, or other
bodily substance of another person without privilege or consent to do so.
   (b)   (1)   Division (a) of this section does not apply to any of the
following:
         A.   The collection of any bodily substance of a person by a law
enforcement officer, or by another person pursuant to the direction or advice
of a law enforcement officer, for purposes of a chemical test or tests of the
substance under Ohio R.C. 1547.111(A)(1) or 4511.191(A)(2) to determine the
alcohol, drug, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance, or
combination content of the bodily substance;
         B.   The collection of any bodily substance of a person by a peace
officer, or by another person pursuant to the direction or advice of a peace
officer, for purposes of a test or tests of the substance as provided in Ohio
R.C. 4506.17(A) to determine the person’s alcohol concentration or the presence
of any controlled substance or metabolite of a controlled substance.
      (2)   Division (b)(1) of this section shall not be construed as implying
that the persons identified in divisions (b)(1)A. and B. of this section do not
have privilege to collect the bodily substance of another person as described
in those divisions or as limiting the definition of “privilege” set forth in
Ohio R.C. 2901.01.
   (c)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of unlawful
collection of a bodily substance. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, unlawful collection of a bodily substance is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (a) of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, unlawful collection of a bodily
substance is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(ORC 2927.15)
CHAPTER 642: OFFENSES RELATING TO PROPERTY
Section
642.01   Definitions
642.02   Theft
642.03   Degree of offense when certain property involved
642.04   Unauthorized use of a vehicle
642.05   Unauthorized use of property
642.06   Injuring vines, bushes, trees or crops
642.07   Desecration
642.08   Removal of improvements from real property
642.09   Arson
642.10   Criminal damaging or endangering; vehicular vandalism
642.11   Criminal mischief
642.12   Criminal trespass
642.125   Aggravated trespass
642.13   Tampering with coin machines
642.14   Passing bad checks
642.15   Misuse of credit cards
642.155   Recording credit card, telephone or Social Security numbers
642.16   Making or using slugs
642.17   Prima facie evidence of purpose to defraud
642.18   Tampering with records
642.19   Securing writings by deception
642.20   Personating an officer
642.21   Defrauding creditors
642.22   Receiving stolen property
642.23   Possession of municipal property
642.24   Determining property value in theft offense
642.25   Determining property value in arson
642.26   Tampering with and theft of utilities
642.27   Food stamps (Repealed)
642.28   Misconduct involving a public transportation system
642.29   Assaulting police dog or horse, or assistance dog
642.30   Evidence of theft of rented property
642.31   Forging or selling forged identification
642.32   Criminal simulation
642.33   Insurance fraud
642.34   Workers’ compensation fraud
642.35   Medicaid fraud
642.36   Diminishing or interfering with forfeitable property
642.37   Motion picture piracy
642.38   Railroad vandalism; criminal trespass; interference with operation of
train; grade crossing device vandalism
642.39   Nuisance abatement
Cross reference:
   Alteration, injury, removal of traffic control devices, see TRAF.
414.08
   Definitions generally, see GEN. OFF.
606.01
   Detention of shoplifters and those committing motion picture piracy;
protection of institutional property, see GEN. OFF.
606.23
   Disposition of property held by Police Department, see GEN. OFF.
606.24
   Endangering aircraft and airport operations, see GEN. OFF.
672.11
   “Physical harm to property” defined, see GEN. OFF.
606.01(n)
   “Property” defined, see GEN. OFF.
606.01(p)
   “Serious physical harm to property” defined, see GEN. OFF.
606.01(y)
Statutory reference:
   See section histories for similar state law
   Parents’ liability for destructive acts of their children, see Ohio R.C.
3109.09
   Value of written instrument or evidence of debt, see Ohio R.C. 1.07
§ 642.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter and
Chapter 672, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (a)   “Active duty service member.” Any member of the armed forces of the
United States performing active duty under Title 10 of the United States Code.
   (b)   “Anhydrous ammonia.” A compound formed by the combination of two
gaseous elements, nitrogen and hydrogen, in the manner described below.
Anhydrous ammonia is one part nitrogen to three parts hydrogen (NH 3 ).
Anhydrous ammonia by weight is fourteen parts nitrogen to three parts hydrogen,
which is approximately 82 percent nitrogen to 18 percent hydrogen.
   (c)   “Assistance dog” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 955.011.
   (d)   “Cable television service.” Any services provided by or through the
facilities of any cable television system or other similar closed circuit
coaxial cable communications system, or any microwave or similar transmission
service used in connection with any cable television system or other similar
closed circuit coaxial cable communications system.
   (e)   “Coin machine.” Any mechanical or electronic device designed to do
both of the following:
      (1)   Receive a coin or bill, or token made for that purpose;
      (2)   In return for the insertion or deposit of a coin, bill, or token,
automatically dispense property, provide a service, or grant a license.
   (f)   “Computer.” An electronic device that performs logical, arithmetic,
and memory functions by the manipulation of electronic or magnetic impulses.
“Computer” includes, but is not limited to, all input, output, processing,
storage, computer program, or communication facilities that are connected, or
related, in a computer system or network to an electronic device of that
nature.
   (g)   “Computer contaminant.” Means a computer program that is designed to
modify, damage, destroy, disable, deny or degrade access to, allow unauthorized
access to, functionally impair, record, or transmit information within a
computer, computer system, or computer network without the express or implied
consent of the owner or other person authorized to give consent and that is of
a type or kind described in divisions (1) through (4) of this definition or of
a type or kind similar to a type or kind described in divisions (1) through (4)
of this definition:
      (1)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “viruses” and
“worms” that are self-replicating or self- propagating and that are designed to
contaminate other computer programs, compromise computer security, consume
computer resources, modify, destroy, record, or transmit data, or disrupt the
normal operation of the computer, computer system, or computer network;
      (2)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “Trojans” or “Trojan
horses” that are not self-replicating or self-propagating and that are designed
to compromise computer security, consume computer resources, modify, destroy,
record, or transmit data, or disrupt the normal operation of the computer,
computer system, or computer network;
      (3)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “zombies” that are
designed to use a computer without the knowledge and consent of the owner, or
other person authorized to give consent, and that are designed to send large
quantities of data to a targeted computer network for the purpose of degrading
the targeted computer’s or network’s performance, or denying access through the
network to the targeted computer or network, resulting in what is commonly
known as “denial of service” or “distributed denial of service” attacks;
      (4)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “trap doors,” “back
doors,” or “root kits” that are designed to bypass standard authentication
software and that are designed to allow access or use of a computer without the
knowledge or consent of the owner, or other person authorized to give consent.
   (h)   “Computer hacking.”
      (1)   “Computer hacking” means any of the following:
         A.   Gaining access or attempting to gain access to all or part of a
computer, computer system, or a computer network without express or implied
authorization with the intent to defraud or with intent to commit a crime;
         B.   Misusing computer or network services including but not limited
to mail transfer programs, file transfer programs, proxy servers, and web
servers by performing functions not authorized by the owner of the computer,
computer system, or computer network or other person authorized to give
consent. As used in this division, “misuse of computer and network services”
includes but is not limited to the unauthorized use of any of the following:
            1.   Mail transfer programs to send mail to persons other than the
authorized users of that computer or computer network;
            2.   File transfer program services or proxy servers to access
other computers, computer systems, or computer networks;
            3.   Web servers to redirect users to other web pages or web
servers.
         C.   1.   Subject to division (1)C.2. of this definition, using a
group of computer programs commonly known as “port scanners” or “probes” to
intentionally access any computer, computer system, or computer network without
the permission of the owner of the computer, computer system, or computer
network or other person authorized to give consent. The group of computer
programs referred to in this division includes but is not limited to those
computer programs that use a computer network to access a computer, computer
system, or another computer network to determine any of the following: the
presence or types of computers or computer systems on a network; the computer
network’s facilities and capabilities; the availability of computer or network
services; the presence or versions of computer software including but not
limited to operating systems, computer services, or computer contaminants; the
presence of a known computer software deficiency that can be used to gain
unauthorized access to a computer, computer system, or computer network; or any
other information about a computer, computer system, or computer network not
necessary for the normal and lawful operation of the computer initiating the
access.
            2.   The group of computer programs referred to in division (1)C.1.
of this definition does not include standard computer software used for the
normal operation, administration, management, and test of a computer, computer
system, or computer network including but not limited to domain name services,
mail transfer services, and other operating system services, computer programs
commonly called “ping,” “tcpdump,” and “traceroute” and other network
monitoring and management computer software, and computer programs commonly
knows as “nslookup” and “whois” and other systems administration computer
software.
         D.   The intentional use of a computer, computer system, or a computer
network in a manner that exceeds any right or permission granted by the owner
of the computer, computer system, or computer network or other person
authorized to give consent.
      (2)   “Computer hacking” does not include the introduction of a computer
contaminant, as defined in this section, into a computer, computer system,
computer program, or computer network.
   (i)   “Computer network.” A set of related and remotely-connected computers
and communication facilities that includes more than one computer system that
has the capability to transmit among the connected computers and communication
facilities through the use of computer facilities.
   (j)   “Computer program.” An ordered set of data representing coded
instructions or statements that, when executed by a computer, causes the
computer to process data.
   (k)   “Computer services.” Includes, but is not limited to, the use of a
computer system, computer network, computer program, data that is prepared for
computer use, or data that is contained within a computer system or computer
network.
   (l)   “Computer software.” Computer programs, procedures, and other
documentation associated with the operation of a computer system.
   (m)   “Computer system.” A computer and related devices, whether connected
or unconnected, including, but not limited to, data input, output, and storage
devices, data communications links, and computer programs and data that make
the system capable of performing specified special purpose data processing
tasks.
   (n)   “Counterfeit telecommunications device.” A telecommunications device
that, alone or with another telecommunications device, has been altered,
constructed, manufactured, or programmed to acquire, intercept, receive, or
otherwise facilitate the use of a telecommunications service or information
service without the authority or consent of the provider of the
telecommunications service or information service. The phrase includes but is
not limited to a clone telephone, clone microchip, tumbler telephone, or
tumbler microchip; a wireless scanning device capable of acquiring,
intercepting, receiving, or otherwise facilitating the use of
telecommunications service or information service without immediate detection;
or a device, equipment, hardware, or software designed for, or capable of,
altering or changing the electronic serial number in a wireless telephone.
   (o)   “Create a substantial risk of serious physical harm to any person.”
Includes the creation of a substantial risk of serious physical harm to any
emergency personnel.
   (p)   “Credit card.” Includes, but is not limited to, a card, code, device,
or other means of access to a customer’
   (q)   “Dangerous drug.” Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 4729.01.
   (r)   “Data.” A representation of information, knowledge, facts, concepts,
or instructions that are being or have been prepared in a formalized manner and
that are intended for use in a computer, computer system, or computer network.
   (s)   “Deception.” To knowingly deceive another or cause another to be
deceived by any false or misleading representation, by withholding information,
by preventing another from acquiring information, or by any other conduct, act,
or omission that creates, confirms, or perpetuates a false impression in
another, including a false impression as to law, value, state of mind, or other
objective or subjective fact.
   (t)   “Defraud.” To knowingly obtain, by deception, some benefit for oneself
or another, or to knowingly cause, by deception, some detriment to another.
   (u)   “Deprive.” To do any of the following:
      (1)   To withhold property of another permanently, or for a period that
appropriates a substantial portion of its value or use, or with purpose to
restore it only upon payment of a reward or other consideration;
      (2)   To dispose of property so as to make it unlikely that the owner
will recover it;
      (3)   To accept, use, or appropriate money, property, or services, with
purpose not to give proper consideration in return for the money, property, or
services, and without reasonable justification or excuse for not giving proper
consideration.
   (v)   “Disabled adult.” A person who is 18 years of age or older and has
some impairment of body or mind that makes the person unable to work at any
substantially remunerative employment that the person otherwise would be able
to perform and that will, with reasonable probability, continue for a period of
at least 12 months without any present indication of recovery from the
impairment, or who is 18 years of age or older and has been certified as
permanently and totally disabled by an agency of this state or the United
States that has the function of so classifying persons.
   (w)   “Drug abuse offense.” Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2925.01.
   (x)   “Elderly person.” A person who is 65 years of age or older.
   (y)   “Electronic fund transfer.” Has the same meaning as in 92 Stat. 3728,
15 U.S.C. 1693a, as amended.
   (z)   “Emergency personnel.” Means any of the following persons:
      (1)   A peace officer, as defined in Ohio R.C. 2935.01;
      (2)   A member of a fire department or other firefighting agency of a
municipal corporation, township, township fire district, joint fire district,
other political subdivision, or combination of political subdivisions;
      (3)   A member of a private fire company, as defined in Ohio R.C. 9.60,
or a volunteer firefighter;
      (4)    A member of a joint ambulance district or joint emergency medical
services district;
      (5)   An emergency medical technician-basic, emergency medical
technician- intermediate, emergency medical technician- paramedic, ambulance
operator, or other member of an emergency medical service that is owned of
operated by a political subdivision or a private entity;
      (6)   The State Fire Marshal, the Chief Deputy State Fire Marshal, or an
assistant state fire marshal;
      (7)   A fire prevention officer of a political subdivision or an arson,
fire, or similar investigator of a political subdivision.
   (aa)   “Federally-licensed firearms dealer.” Has the same meaning as in Ohio
R.C. 5502.63.
   (bb)   “Firearm” and “dangerous ordnance.” Have the same meaning as in Ohio
R.C. 2923.11.
   (cc)   “Forge.” To fabricate or create, in whole or in part and by any
means, any spurious writing, or to make, execute, alter, complete, reproduce,
or otherwise purport to authenticate any writing, when the writing in fact is
not authenticated by that conduct.
   (dd)   “Gain access.” To approach, instruct, communicate with, store data
in, retrieve data from, or otherwise make use of any resources of a computer,
computer system, or computer network, or any cable service or cable system both
as defined in Ohio R.C. 2913.04.
   (ee)   “Information service.”
      (1)   Subject to division (2) of this definition, the offering of a
capability for generating, acquiring, storing, transforming, processing,
retrieving, utilizing, or making available information via telecommunications,
including but not limited to electronic publishing.
      (2)   “Information service” does not include any use of a capability of a
type described in division (1) of this definition for the management, control,
or operation of a telecommunications system or the management of a
telecommunications service.
   (ff)   “Internet.” Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 341.42.
   (gg)   “Motor vehicle” Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 4501.01.
   (hh)   “Occupied structure” means any house, building, outbuilding,
watercraft, aircraft, railroad car, truck, trailer, tent, or other structure,
vehicle, or shelter, or any portion thereof, to which any of the following
applies:
      (1)   It is maintained as a permanent or temporary dwelling, even though
it is temporarily unoccupied and whether or not any person is actually present;
      (2)   At the time, it is occupied as the permanent or temporary
habitation of any person, whether or not any person is actually present;
      (3)   At the time, it is specially adapted for the overnight
accommodation of any person, whether or not any person is actually present;
      (4)   At the time, any person is present or likely to be present in it.
   (ii)   “Owner.” Unless the context requires a different meaning, any person,
other than the actor, who is the owner of, who has possession or control of, or
who has any license or interest in property or services, even though the
ownership, possession, control, license, or interest is unlawful.
   (jj)   “Police dog or horse” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2921.321.
   (kk)   “Political subdivision.” Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C.
2744.01.
   (ll)   “Rented property.” Personal property in which the right of possession
and use of the property is for a short and possibly indeterminate term in
return for consideration; the rentee generally controls the duration of
possession of the property within any applicable minimum or maximum term; and
the amount of consideration is generally determined by the duration of
possession of the property.
   (mm)   “Services.” Includes labor, personal services, professional services,
rental services, public utility services including wireless service as defined
in Ohio R.C. 128.01(F)(1), common carrier services, and food, drink,
transportation, entertainment, and cable television services and, for purposes
of Ohio R.C. 2913.04 or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
includes cable services as defined in that section.
   (nn)   “Slug.” An object that, by virtue of its size, shape, composition, or
other quality, is capable of being inserted or deposited in a coin machine as
an improper substitute for a genuine coin, bill, or token made for that
purpose.
   (oo)   “State.” Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2744.01.
   (pp)   “Telecommunication.” The origination, emission, dissemination,
transmission, or reception of data, images, signals, sounds, or other
intelligence or equivalence or intelligence of any nature over any
communications system by any method, including but not limited to a fiber
optic, electronic, magnetic, optical, digital or analog method.
   (qq)   “Telecommunications device.” Any instrument, equipment, machine, or
other device that facilitates telecommunication, including but not limited to a
computer, computer network, computer chip, computer circuit, scanner,
telephone, cellular telephone, pager, personal communications device,
transponder, receiver, radio, modem, or device that enables the use of a modem.
   (rr)   “Telecommunications service.” The providing, allowing, facilitating,
or generating of any form of telecommunication through the use of a
telecommunications device over a telecommunications system.
   (ss)   “Theft offense.” Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of Ohio R.C. 2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2911.12,
2911.13, 2911.31, 2911.32, 2913.02, 2913.03, 2913.04, 2913.041, 2913.11,
2913.21, 2913.31, 2913.32, 2913.33, 2913.34, 2913.40, 2913.42, 2913.43,
2913.44, 2913.45, 2913.47, 2913.48, former Ohio R.C. 2913.47 or 2913.48, or
Ohio R.C. 2913.51, 2915.05, or 2921.41;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States substantially equivalent to any
section listed in division (1) of this definition, or a violation of Ohio R.C.
2913.41, 2913.81 or 2915.06 as it existed prior to July 1, 1996;
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former municipal ordinance or law
of this or any other state or the United States involving robbery, burglary,
breaking and entering, theft, embezzlement, wrongful conversion, forgery,
counterfeiting, deceit, or fraud;
      (4)   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing any offense under division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
   (tt)   “Utter.” To issue, publish, transfer, use, put or send into
circulation, deliver, or display.
   (uu)   “Writing.” Any computer software, document, letter, memorandum, note,
paper, plate, data, film, or other thing having in or upon it any written,
type-written, or printed matter, and any token, stamp, seal, credit card,
badge, trademark, label, or other symbol of value, right, privilege, license,
or identification.
(ORC 2909.01, 2913.01)
§ 642.02 THEFT.
   (a)   No person, with purpose to deprive the owner of property or services,
shall knowingly obtain or exert control over either the property or services in
any of the following ways:
      (1)   Without the consent of the owner or person authorized to give
consent;
      (2)   Beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of the owner or
person authorized to give consent;
      (3)   By deception;
      (4)   By threat;
      (5)   By intimidation.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of theft. Except as otherwise
provided in this division, a violation of this section is misdemeanor theft, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If any of the following criteria are met, then
a violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law:
      (1)   If the value of the property or services is one thousand dollars
($1,000) or more;
      (2)   If the property stolen is any of the property listed in Ohio R.C.
2913.71;
      (3)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person, disabled adult,
active duty service member, or spouse of an active duty service member;
      (4)   If the property stolen is a firearm or dangerous ordnance;
      (5)   If the property stolen is a motor vehicle;
      (6)   If the property stolen is any dangerous drug, or if the offender
previously has been convicted of a felony drug abuse offense;
      (7)   If the property stolen is a police dog or horse or an assistance
dog and the offender knows or should know that the property stolen is a police
dog or horse or an assistance dog;
      (8)   If the property stolen is anhydrous ammonia;
      (9)   If the property stolen is a special purchase article as defined in
Ohio R.C. 4737.04 or is a bulk merchandise container as defined in Ohio R.C.
4737.012.
   (c)   In addition to the penalties described in division (b) of this
section, if the offender committed the violation by causing a motor vehicle to
leave the premises of an establishment at which gasoline is offered for retail
sale without the offender making full payment for gasoline that was dispensed
into the fuel tank of the motor vehicle or into another container, the court
may do one of the following:
      (1)   Unless division (c)(2) of this section applies, suspend for not
more than six months the offenders driver’s license, probationary driver’s
license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or
nonresident operating privilege;
      (2)   If the offender’s driver’s license, probationary driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or nonresident
operating privilege has previously been suspended pursuant to division (c)(1)
of this section, or any other substantially equivalent state or local law,
impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s license, permit, or privilege
from the range specified in Ohio R.C. 4510.02(A)(7), provided that the
suspension shall be at least six months;
      (3)   The court, in lieu of suspending the offender’s driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, probationary driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, or nonresident operating privilege pursuant to division (c)
(1) or (c)(2) of this section, instead may require the offender to perform
community service for a number of hours determined by the court.
   (d)   In addition to the penalties described in division (b) of this
section, if the offender committed the violation by stealing rented property or
rental services, the court may order that the offender make restitution
pursuant to R.C. § 2929.18 or R.C. § 2929.28. Restitution may include, but is
not limited to, the cost of repairing or replacing the stolen property, or the
cost of repairing the stolen property and any loss of revenue resulting from
deprivation of the property due to theft of rental services that is less than
or equal to the actual value of the property at the time it was rented.
Evidence of intent to commit theft of rented property or rental services shall
be determined pursuant to the provisions of R.C. § 2913.72.
   (e)   The sentencing court that suspends an offender’s license, permit, or
nonresident operating privilege under division (c) of this section may grant
the offender limited driving privileges during the period of the suspension in
accordance with Ohio R.C. Chapter 4510.
(ORC 2913.02)
Statutory reference:
   Felony theft provisions, see R.C. § 2913.02(B)
§ 642.03 DEGREE OF OFFENSE WHEN CERTAIN PROPERTY INVOLVED.
   Regardless of the value of the property involved, and regardless of whether
the offender previously has been convicted of a theft offense, a violation of
§§
642.02 or
642.22 is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law if the property
involved is any of the following:
   (a)   A credit card;
   (b)   A printed form for a check or other negotiable instrument, that on its
face identifies the drawer or maker for whose use it is designed or identifies
the account on which it is to be drawn, and that has not been executed by the
drawer or maker or on which the amount is blank;
   (c)   A motor vehicle identification license plate as prescribed by R.C. §
4503.22, a temporary motor vehicle license registration as prescribed by R.C. §
4503.182, or any comparable temporary motor vehicle license registration as
prescribed by the applicable law of another state or the United States;
   (d)   A blank form for a certificate of title or a manufacturer’s or
importer’s certificate to a motor vehicle, as prescribed by Ohio R.C. 4505.07;
   (e)   A blank form for any license listed in Ohio R.C. 4507.01.
(R.C. § 2913.71)
§ 642.04 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF A VEHICLE.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly use or operate an aircraft, motor vehicle,
motorcycle, motorboat, or other motor-propelled vehicle without the consent of
the owner or person authorized to give consent.
   (b)   No person shall knowingly use or operate an aircraft, motor vehicle,
motorboat, or other motor-propelled vehicle without the consent of the owner or
person authorized to give consent, and either remove it from this state, or
keep possession of it for more than 48 hours.
   (c)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under this section:
      (1)   At the time of the alleged offense, the actor, though mistaken,
reasonably believed that he or she was authorized to use or operate the
property.
      (2)   At the time of the alleged offense, the actor reasonably believed
that the owner or person empowered to give consent would authorize the actor to
use or operate the property.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unauthorized use of a
vehicle.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (d)(1), a violation
of division (a) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled adult and if the victim
incurs a loss as a result of the violation, a violation of division (a) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (b) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(ORC 2913.03)
Statutory reference:
   Theft offense involving a motor vehicle, offender to pay towing and storage
fees, see R.C. § 2913.82
§ 642.05 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF PROPERTY.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly use or operate the property of another
without the consent of the owner or person authorized to give consent.
   (b)   No person, in any manner and by any means, including but not limited
to computer hacking, shall knowingly gain access to, attempt to gain access to,
or cause access to be gained to any computer, computer system, computer
network, cable service, cable system, telecommunications device,
telecommunications service, or information service without the consent of, or
beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of, the owner of the
computer, computer system, computer network, cable service, cable system,
telecommunications device, telecommunications service, or information service
or other person authorized to give consent.
   (c)   Except as permitted under R.C. § 5503.101, no person shall knowingly
gain access to, attempt to gain access to, cause access to be granted to, or
disseminate information gained from access to the law enforcement automated
database system created pursuant to Ohio R.C. 5503.10 without the consent of,
or beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of, the chair of the Law
Enforcement Automated Data System Steering Committee.
   (d)   No person shall knowingly gain access to, attempt to gain access to,
cause access to be granted to, or disseminate information gained from access to
the Ohio law enforcement gateway established and operated pursuant to R.C. §
109.57(C)(1) without the consent of, or beyond the scope of the express or
implied consent of, the Superintendent of the Bureau of Criminal Identification
and Investigation.
   (e)   The affirmative defenses contained in Ohio R.C. 2913.03(C) are
affirmative defenses to a charge under this section.
   (f)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of property. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
unauthorized use of property is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (1)   If unauthorized use of property is committed for the purpose of
devising or executing a scheme to defraud or to obtain property or services,
unauthorized use of property is whichever of the following is applicable:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided below, unauthorized use of property
is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         B.   If the value of the property or services or the loss to the
victim is one thousand dollars ($1,000) or more, it is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled
adult, unauthorized use of property is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (g)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of computer, cable, or telecommunication property, a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (h)   Whoever violates division (c) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of the law enforcement automated database system, a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (i)   Whoever violates subsection (d) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of the Ohio law enforcement gateway, a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
   (j)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Cable operator” means any person or group of persons that does
either of the following:
         A.   Provides cable service over a cable system and directly through
one or more affiliates owns a significant interest in that cable system;
         B.   Otherwise controls or is responsible for, through any
arrangement, the management and operation of a cable system.
      (2)   “Cable service” means any of the following:
         A.   The one-way transmission to subscribers of video programming or
of information that a cable operator makes available to all subscribers
generally;
         B.   Subscriber interaction, if any, that is required for the
selection or use of video programming or of information that a cable operator
makes available to all subscribers generally, both as described in division (f)
(2)A. above;
         C.   Any cable television service.
      (3)   “Cable system” means any facility, consisting of a set of closed
transmission paths and associated signal generation, reception, and control
equipment that is designed to provide cable service that includes video
programming and that is provided to multiple subscribers within a community.
“Cable system” does not include any of the following:
         A.   Any facility that serves only to retransmit the television
signals of one or more television broadcast stations;
         B.   Any facility that serves subscribers without using any public
right-of-way;
         C.   Any facility of a common carrier that, under 47 U.S.C. 522(7)(c),
is excluded from the term “cable system” as defined in 47 U.S.C. 522(7);
         D.   Any open video system that complies with 47 U.S.C. 573;
         E.   Any facility of any electric utility used solely for operating
its electric utility system.
(ORC 2913.04)
Statutory reference:
   Telecommunications: fraud and unlawful use of a device, felony offenses, see
Ohio R.C. 2913.05 and 2913.06
§ 642.06 INJURING VINES, BUSHES, TREES OR CROPS.
   (a)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall recklessly cut down,
destroy, girdle, or otherwise injure a vine, bush, shrub, sapling, tree, or
crop standing or growing on the land of another or upon public land.
   (b)   In addition to the penalty provided in division (c) of this section,
whoever violates this section is liable in treble damages for the injury
caused.
(ORC 901.51)
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(ORC 901.99(A))
§ 642.07 DESECRATION.
   (a)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall purposely deface, damage,
pollute or otherwise physically mistreat any of the following:
      (1)   Any public monument;
      (2)   Any historical or commemorative marker, or any structure, Indian
mound or earthwork, cemetery, thing or site of great historical or
archeological interest;
      (3)   A place of worship, its furnishings, or religious artifacts or
sacred texts within the place of worship or within the grounds upon which the
place of worship is located;
      (4)   A work of art or museum piece;
      (5)   Any other object of reverence or sacred devotion.
   (b)   As used in this section, “cemetery” means any place of burial and
includes burial sites that contain American Indian burial objects placed with
or containing American Indian human remains.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of desecration. A violation of
division (a)(1), (2), (4) or (5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. A violation of division (a)(3) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(ORC 2927.11)
§ 642.08 REMOVAL OF IMPROVEMENTS FROM REAL PROPERTY.
   (a)   No person having an interest in real property, buyer, lessee, tenant
or occupant of real property, knowing that such real property is mortgaged or
the subject of a land contract, shall remove, or cause or permit the removal of
any improvement or fixture from such real property without the consent of the
mortgagee, vendor under the land contract or other person authorized to give
such consent.
(ORC 5301.61)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree and shall be subject to the penalty provided in §
698.02.
(ORC 5301.99)
§ 642.09 ARSON.
   (a)   No person, by means of fire or explosion, shall knowingly do any of
the following:
      (1)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
property of another without the other person’s consent;
      (2)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
property of the offender or another, with purpose to defraud;
      (3)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to the
statehouse or a courthouse, school building, or other building or structure
that is owned or controlled by the state, any political subdivision, or any
department, agency, or instrumentality of the state or a political subdivision,
and that is used for public purposes;
      (4)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm, through the
offer or the acceptance of an agreement for hire or other consideration, to any
property of another without the other person’s consent or to any property of
the offender or another with purpose to defraud;
      (5)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any park,
preserve, wildlands, brush-covered land, cut-over land, forest, timberland,
greenlands, woods, or similar real property that is owned or controlled by
another person, the state, or a political subdivision without the consent of
the other person, the state, or the political subdivision;
      (6)   With purpose to defraud, cause, or create a substantial risk of,
physical harm to any park, preserve, wildlands, brush- covered land, cut-over
land, forest, timberland, greenlands, woods, or similar real property that is
owned or controlled by the offender, another person, the state, or a political
subdivision.
   (b)   No person, by means of fire or explosion, shall knowingly do any of
the following:
      (1)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
structure of another that is not an occupied structure;
      (2)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm, through the
offer or the acceptance of an agreement for hire or other consideration, to any
structure of another that is not an occupied structure;
      (3)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
structure that is not an occupied structure and that is in or on any park,
preserve, wildlands, brush-covered land, cut-over land, forest, timberland,
greenlands, woods, or similar real property that is owned or controlled by
another person, the state, or a political subdivision.
   (c)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (b)(1)
or (b)(2) of this section that the defendant acted with the consent of the
other person.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (b)(3) of
this section that the defendant acted with the consent of the other person, the
state, or the political subdivision.
   (d)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of arson.
      (2)   A violation of division (a)(1) or (b)(1) of this section is one of
the following:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (d)(2)B. of this
section, a misdemeanor of the first degree;
         B.   If the value of the property or the amount of the physical harm
involved is one thousand dollars ($1,000) or more, a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (3)   A violation of division (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5), (a)(6), (b)
(2) or (b)(3) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2909.03)
Statutory reference:
   Aggravated arson, felony provisions, see Ohio R.C. 2909.02
   Arson, felony provisions generally, see Ohio R.C. 2909.03
   Convicted arsonist to make restitution to public agency, see Ohio R.C.
2929.28
§ 642.10 CRIMINAL DAMAGING OR ENDANGERING; VEHICULAR VANDALISM.
   (a)   Criminal damaging or endangering.
      (1)   No person shall cause or create a substantial risk of physical harm
to any property of another without the other person’s consent:
         A.   Knowingly, by any means; or
         B.   Recklessly, by means of fire, explosion, flood, poison gas,
poison, radioactive material, caustic or corrosive material, or other
inherently dangerous agency or substance.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (a) is guilty of criminal damaging
or endangering, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If violation of this
division (a) creates a risk of physical harm to any person, criminal damaging
or endangering is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the property involved
in a violation of this division (a) is an aircraft, an aircraft engine,
propeller, appliance, spare part, or any other equipment or implement used or
intended to be used in the operation of an aircraft and if the violation
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, criminal damaging or endangering
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the property
involved in a violation of this division (a) is an aircraft, an aircraft
engine, propeller, appliance, spare part, or any other equipment or implement
used or intended to be used in the operation of an aircraft and if the
violation creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any person or if the
property involved in a violation of this division (a) is an occupied aircraft,
criminal damaging or endangering is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(ORC 2909.06)
   (b)   Vehicular vandalism.
      (1)   As used in this division (b):
         A.   “Alley,” “street,” and “vehicle” have the same meanings as in
Ohio R.C. 4511.01.
         B.   “Highway” means any highway as defined in Ohio R.C. 4511.01 or
any lane, road, street, alley, bridge, or overpass.
         C.   “Vessel” and “waters in this state” have the same meanings as in
Ohio R.C. 1546.01.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly, and by any means, drop or throw any
object at, onto, or in the path of any of the following:
         A.   Any vehicle on a highway;
         B.   Any boat or vessel on any of the waters in this state.
      (3)   Whoever violates this division (b) is guilty of vehicular
vandalism. Except as otherwise provided in this division (b)(3), vehicular
vandalism is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation of this
division (b) creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any person or the
violation of this division (b) causes serious physical harm to property,
vehicular vandalism is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
If the violation of this division (b) causes physical harm to any person or
serious physical harm to any person, vehicular vandalism is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(ORC 2909.09)
Statutory reference:
   Disrupting public services, felony offense, see Ohio R.C. 2909.04
   Railroad grade crossing device vandalism, see Ohio R.C. 2909.101
   Railroad vandalism, see Ohio R.C. 2909.10
   Vandalism, felony offense, see Ohio R.C. 2909.05
§ 642.11 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   (a)   No person shall:
      (1)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage,
destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper with the either of the following:
         A.   The property of another;
         B.   One’s own residential real property with the purpose to decrease
the value of or enjoyment of the residential real property, if both of the
following apply:
            1.   The residential real property is subject to a mortgage.
            2.   The person has been served with a summons and complaint in a
pending residential mortgage loan foreclosure action relating to that real
property. As used in this division, “pending” includes the time between
judgment entry and confirmation of sale.
      (2)   With purpose to interfere with the use or enjoyment of property of
another, employ a tear gas device, stink bomb, smoke generator, or other device
releasing a substance that is harmful or offensive to persons exposed, or that
tends to cause public alarm;
      (3)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage,
destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper with a bench mark, triangulation
station, boundary marker, or other survey station, monument, or marker;
      (4)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage,
destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper with any safety device, the property of
another, or the property of the offender when required or placed for the safety
of others, so as to destroy or diminish its effectiveness or availability for
its intended purpose;
      (5)   With purpose to interfere with the use or enjoyment of the property
of another, set a fire on the land of another or place personal property that
has been set on fire on the land of another, which fire or personal property is
outside and apart from any building, other structure, or personal property that
is on that land;
      (6)   Without privilege to do so, and with intent to impair the
functioning of any computer, computer system, computer network, computer
software, or computer program, knowingly do any of the following:
         A.   In any manner or by any means, including but not limited to,
computer hacking, alter, damage, destroy, or modify a computer, computer
system, computer network, computer software, or computer program or data
contained in a computer, computer system, computer network, computer software,
or computer program;
         B.   Introduce a computer contaminant into a computer, computer
system, computer network, computer software, or computer program.
      (7)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly destroy or improperly tamper
with a critical infrastructure facility.
   (b)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Critical infrastructure facility.” Has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 2911.21.
      (2)   “Improperly tamper.” Means to change the physical location or the
physical condition of the property.
      (3)   “Safety device.” Means any fire extinguisher, fire hose, or fire
axe, or any fire escape, emergency exit, or emergency escape equipment, or any
life line, life-saving ring, life preserver, or life boat or raft, or any
alarm, light, flare, signal, sign, or notice intended to warn of danger or
emergency, or intended for other safety purposes, or any guard railing or
safety barricade, or any traffic sign or signal, or any railroad grade crossing
sign, signal, or gate, or any first aid or survival equipment, or any other
device, apparatus, or equipment intended for protecting or preserving the
safety of persons or property.
   (c)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal mischief,
and shall be punished as provided in division (c)(2), (c)(3), or (c)(4) of this
section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4), or (a)(5) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the third degree. Except as otherwise provided
in this division, if the violation of division (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4),
or (a)(5) of this section creates a risk of physical harm to any person,
criminal mischief committed in violation of division (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3),
(a)(4), or (a)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
property involved in the violation of division (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4),
or (a)(5) of this section is an aircraft, an aircraft engine, propeller,
appliance, spare part, fuel, lubricant, hydraulic fluid, any other equipment,
implement, or material used or intended to be used in the operation of an
aircraft, or any cargo carried or intended to be carried in an aircraft and if
the violation creates any risk of physical harm to any person, or if the
aircraft in question is an occupied aircraft, criminal mischief committed in
violation of division (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4), or (a)(5) of this section
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (a)(6) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the value of the computer, computer system, computer
network, computer software, computer program, or data involved in the violation
of division (a)(6) of this section or the loss to the victim resulting from the
violation is $1,000 or more, or if the computer, computer system, computer
network, computer software, computer program, or data involved in the violation
of division (a)(6) is used or intended to be used in the operation of an
aircraft and the violation creates any risk of physical harm to any person, or
if the aircraft in question is an occupied aircraft, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (a)(6) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)   Criminal mischief committed in violation of division (a)(7) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.07)
§ 642.12 CRIMINAL TRESPASS.
   (a)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly enter or remain on the land or premises of another;
      (2)   Knowingly enter or remain on the land or premises of another, the
use of which is lawfully restricted to certain persons, purposes, modes, or
hours, when the offender knows the offender is in violation of any such
restriction or is reckless in that regard;
      (3)   Recklessly enter or remain on the land or premises of another, as
to which notice against unauthorized access or presence is given by actual
communication to the offender, or in a manner prescribed by law, or by posting
in a manner reasonably calculated to come to the attention of potential
intruders, or by fencing or other enclosure manifestly designed to restrict
access;
      (4)   Being on the land or premises of another, negligently fail or
refuse to leave upon being notified by signage posted in a conspicuous place or
otherwise being notified to do so by the owner or occupant, or the agent or
servant of either.
      (5)   Knowingly enter or remain on a critical infrastructure facility.
   (b)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that the land or
premises involved was owned, controlled, or in custody of a public agency.
   (c)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that the offender was
authorized to enter or remain on the land or premises involved, when the
authorization was secured by deception.
   (d)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal trespass.
Criminal trespass in violation of division (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), or (a)(4) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Criminal trespass in
violation of division (a)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (2)   Notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.28, if the person, in committing the
violation of this section, used a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-
purpose vehicle, the court shall impose a fine of two times the usual amount
imposed for the violation.
      (3)   If an offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to two or more violations of this section, R.C. § 2911.21 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, and the offender, in committing each violation,
used a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle, the court, in
addition to or independent of all other penalties imposed for the violation,
may impound the certificate of registration of that snowmobile or off-highway
motorcycle or the certificate of registration and license plate of that all-
purpose vehicle for not less than 60 days. In such a case, R.C. § 4519.47
applies.
   (e)   Notwithstanding any provision of the Ohio Revised Code, if the
offender, in committing the violation of this section, used an all-purpose
vehicle, the Clerk of the Court shall pay the fine imposed pursuant to this
section to the State Recreational Vehicle Fund created by R.C. § 4519.11.
   (f)   As used in divisions (a) through (e) of this section:
      (1)   “All-purpose vehicle”, “off-highway motorcycle”, and “snowmobile”.
Have the same meanings as in R.C. § 4519.01.
      (2)   “Critical infrastructure facility.” Means:
         A.   One of the following, if completely enclosed by a fence or other
physical barrier that is obviously designed to exclude intruders, or if clearly
marked with signs that are reasonably likely to come to the attention of
potential intruders and that indicate entry is forbidden without site
authorization:
            1.   A petroleum or alumina refinery;
            2.   An electric generating facility, substation, switching
station, electrical control center, or electric transmission and distribution
lines and associated equipment;
            3.   A chemical, polymer, or rubber manufacturing facility;
            4.   A water intake structure, water treatment facility, waste
water facility, drainage facility, water management facility, or any similar
water or sewage treatment system and its water and sewage piping;
            5.   A natural gas company facility or interstate natural gas
pipeline, including a pipeline interconnection, a natural gas compressor
station and associated facilities, city gate or town border station, metering
station, above-ground piping, regulator station, valve site, delivery station,
fabricated assembly, or any other part of a natural gas storage facility
involved in the gathering, storage, transmission, or distribution of gas;
            6.   A telecommunications central switching office or remote
switching facility or an equivalent network facility that serves a similar
purpose;
            7.   Wireline or wireless telecommunications infrastructure,
including telecommunications towers and telephone poles and lines, including
fiber optic lines;
            8.   A port, trucking terminal, or other freight transportation
facility;
            9.   A gas processing plant, including a plant used in the
processing, treatment, or fractionation of natural gas or natural gas liquids;
            10.   A transmission facility used by a federally licensed radio or
television station;
            11.   A steel-making facility that uses an electric arc furnace to
make steel;
            12.   A facility identified and regulated by the United States
Department of Homeland Security's Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards
Program under 6 C.F.R. part 27;
            13.   A dam that is regulated by the state or federal government;
            14.   A crude oil or refined products storage and distribution
facility, including valve sites, pipeline interconnections, pump station,
metering station, below- or above-ground pipeline, or piping and truck loading
or off-loading facility;
            15.   A video service network and broadband infrastructure,
including associated buildings and facilities, video service headends, towers,
utility poles, and utility lines such as fiber optic lines. As used in this
division, “video service network” has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.21.
            16.   Any above-ground portion of an oil, gas, hazardous liquid or
chemical pipeline, tank, or other storage facility;
            17.   Any above-ground portion of a well, well pad, or production
operation;
            18.   A laydown area or construction site for pipe and other
equipment intended for use on an interstate or intrastate natural gas or crude
oil pipeline;
            19.   Any mining operation, including any processing equipment,
batching operation, or support facility for that mining operation.
         B.   With respect to a video service network or broadband or wireless
telecommunications infrastructure, the above-ground portion of a facility
installed in a public right-of-way on a utility pole or in a conduit;
         C.   Any railroad property;
         D.   An electronic asset of any of the following:
            1.   An electric light company that is a public utility under R.C.
§ 4905.02;
            2.   An electric cooperative, as defined in R.C. § 4928.01;
            3.   A municipal electric utility, as defined in R.C. § 4928.01;
            4.   A natural gas company that is a public utility under R.C. §
4905.02;
            5.   A telephone company that is a public utility under R.C. §
4905.02;
            6.   A video service provider, including a cable operator, as those
terms are defined in R.C. § 1332.21.
      (3)   “Electronic asset.” Includes, but is not limited to, the hardware,
software, and data of a programmable electronic device; all communications,
operations, and customer data networks; and the contents of those data
networks.
      (4)   “Land” or “premises.” Includes any land, building, structure, or
place belonging to, controlled by, or in custody of another, and any separate
enclosure or room, or portion thereof.
      (5)   “Production operation”, “well,” and “well pad.” Have the same
meanings as in R.C. § 1509.01.
(R.C. § 2911.21)
   (g)   Criminal trespass on a place of public amusement.
      (1)   As used in this division (g), “place of public amusement” means a
stadium, theater, or other facility, whether licensed or not, at which a live
performance, sporting event, or other activity takes place for entertainment of
the public and to which access is made available to the public, regardless of
whether admission is charged.
      (2)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall knowingly enter or
remain on any restricted portion of a place of public amusement and, as a
result of that conduct, interrupt or cause the delay of the live performance,
sporting event, or other activity taking place at the place of public amusement
after a printed written notice has been given as provided in division (g)(4)A.
of this section that the general public is restricted from access to that
restricted portion of the place of public amusement. A restricted portion of a
place of public amusement may include, but is not limited to, a playing field,
an athletic surface, or a stage located at the place of public amusement.
      (3)   An owner or lessee of a place of public amusement, an agent of the
owner or lessee, or a performer or participant at a place of public amusement
may use reasonable force to restrain and remove a person from a restricted
portion of the place of public amusement if the person enters or remains on the
restricted portion of the place of public amusement and, as a result of that
conduct, interrupts or causes the delay of the live performance, sporting
event, or other activity taking place at the place of public amusement. This
division does not provide immunity from criminal liability for any use of force
beyond reasonable force by an owner or lessee of a place of public amusement,
an agent of either the owner or lessee, or a performer or participant at a
place of public amusement.
      (4)   A.   Notice has been given that the general public is restricted
from access to a portion of a place of public amusement if a printed written
notice of the restricted access has been conspicuously posted or exhibited at
the entrance to that portion of the place of public amusement. If a printed
written notice is posted or exhibited as described in this division regarding a
portion of a place of public amusement, in addition to that posting or
exhibition, notice that the general public is restricted from access to that
portion of the place of public amusement also may be given, but is not required
to be given, by either of the following means:
            1.   By notifying the person personally, either orally or in
writing, that access to that portion of the place of public amusement is
restricted;
            2.   By broadcasting over the public address system of the place of
public amusement an oral warning that access to that portion of the place of
public amusement is restricted.
         B.   If notice that the general public is restricted from access to a
portion of a place of public amusement is provided by the posting or exhibition
of a printed written notice as described in division (g)(4)A. of this section,
the municipality, in a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (g)(2)
of this section, is not required to prove that the defendant received actual
notice that the general public is restricted from access to a portion of a
place of public amusement.
      (5)   A.   Whoever violates division (g)(2) of this section is guilty of
criminal trespass on a place of public amusement, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
         B.   In addition to any jail term, fine, or other sentence, penalty,
or sanction it imposes upon the offender pursuant to division (g)(5)A. of this
section, a court may require an offender who violates this section to perform
not less than 30 and not more than 120 hours of supervised community service
work.
(ORC 2911.23)
§ 642.125 AGGRAVATED TRESPASS.
   (a)   (1)   No person shall enter or remain on the land or premises of
another with purpose to commit on that land or those premises a misdemeanor,
the elements of which involve causing physical harm to another person or
causing another person to believe that the offender will cause physical harm to
that person.
      (2)   No person shall enter or remain on a critical infrastructure
facility with purpose to destroy or tamper with the facility.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of aggravated trespass.
Aggravated trespass in violation of division (a)(1) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. Aggravated trespass in violation of division
(a)(2) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
   (c)   As used in this section, “Critical infrastructure facility” has the
same meaning as in R.C. § 2911.21.
(R.C. § 2911.211)
§ 642.13 TAMPERING WITH COIN MACHINES.
   (a)   No person, with purpose to commit theft or to defraud, shall knowingly
enter, force an entrance into, tamper with, or insert any part of an instrument
into any coin machine.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of tampering with coin
machines, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a violation of this section or of any theft offense as
defined in Ohio R.C. 2913.01, tampering with coin machines is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(ORC 2911.32)
§ 642.14 PASSING BAD CHECKS.
   (a)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Check” includes any form of debit from a demand deposit account,
including but not limited to any of the following:
         (a)   A check, bill of exchange, draft, order of withdrawal, or
similar negotiable or non-negotiable instrument;
         (b)   An electronic check, electronic transaction, debit card
transaction, check card transaction, substitute check, web check, or any form
of automated clearing house transaction.
      (2)   “Issue a check” is causing any form of debit from a demand deposit
account.
   (b)   No person, with purpose to defraud, shall issue or transfer or cause
to be issued or transferred a check or other negotiable instrument, knowing
that it will be dishonored or knowing that a person has ordered or will order
stop payment on the check or other negotiable instrument.
   (c)   For purposes of this section, a person who issues or transfers a check
or other negotiable instrument is presumed to know that it will be dishonored
if either of the following occurs:
      (1)   The drawer has no account with the drawee at the time of issue or
the stated date, whichever is later.
      (2)   The check or other negotiable instrument was properly refused
payment for insufficient funds upon presentment within 30 days after issue or
the stated date, whichever is later, and the liability of the drawer, indorser,
or any party who may be liable thereon is not discharged by payment or
satisfaction within ten days after receiving notice of dishonor.
   (d)   In determining the value of the payment for purposes of division (e)
of this section, the court may aggregate all checks and other negotiable
instruments that the offender issued or transferred or caused to be issued or
transferred in violation of division (b) of this section within a period of 180
consecutive days.
   (e)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of passing bad checks. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, passing bad checks is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the check or checks or other negotiable instrument or
instruments are issued or transferred to a single vendor or single other person
for the payment of one thousand dollars ($1,000) or more, or if the check or
checks or other negotiable instrument or instruments are issued or transferred
to multiple vendors or persons for the payment of one thousand five hundred
dollars ($1,500) or more, passing bad checks is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.11)
§ 642.15 MISUSE OF CREDIT CARDS.
   (a)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Practice deception for the purpose of procuring the issuance of a
credit card, when a credit card is issued in actual reliance thereon;
      (2)   Knowingly buy or sell a credit card from or to a person other than
the issuer;
      (3)   As an officer, employee, or appointee of a political subdivision or
as a public servant as defined under R.C. § 2921.01, knowingly misuse a credit
card account held by a political subdivision.
   (b)   No person, with purpose to defraud, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Obtain control over a credit card as security for a debt;
      (2)   Obtain property or services by the use of a credit card, in one or
more transactions, knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that the card
has expired or been revoked, or was obtained, is retained, or is being used in
violation of law;
      (3)   Furnish property or services upon presentation of a credit card,
knowing that the card is being used in violation of law;
      (4)   Represent or cause to be represented to the issuer of a credit card
that property or services have been furnished, knowing that the representation
is false.
   (c)   No person, with purpose to violate this section, shall receive,
possess, control, or dispose of a credit card.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of misuse of credit cards.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (d)(3) of this section, a
violation of division (a), (b)(1), or (c) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division or division (d)(3) of
this section, a violation of division (b)(2), (b)(3), or (b)(4) of this section
is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the cumulative retail value of the
property and services involved in one or more violations of division (b)(2),
(b)(3), or (b)(4) of this section which violations involve one or more credit
card accounts and occur within a period of 90 consecutive days commencing on
the date of the first violation, is one thousand dollars ($1,000) or more,
misuse of credit cards is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (3)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled
adult, and if the offense involves a violation of division (b)(1) or (b)(2) of
this section, misuse of credit cards is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(ORC 2913.21)
§ 642.155 RECORDING CREDIT CARD, TELEPHONE OR SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBERS.
   (a)   No person shall record or cause to be recorded either of the
following:
      (1)   A credit card account number of the other party to a transaction,
when a check, bill of exchange or other draft is presented for payment; or
      (2)   The telephone number or Social Security account number of the other
party to a transaction, when payment is made by credit card charge agreement,
check, bill of exchange or other draft.
   (b)   Division (a) of this section does not apply to a transaction, if all
of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The credit card account number, Social Security account number or
telephone number is recorded for a legitimate business purpose, including
collection purposes.
      (2)   The other party to the transaction consents to the recording of the
credit card account number, Social Security account number or telephone number.
      (3)   The credit card account number, Social Security account number or
telephone number that is recorded during the course of the transaction is not
disclosed to any third party for any purposes other than collection purposes
and is not used to market goods or services unrelated to the goods or services
purchased in the transaction.
   (c)   Nothing in this section prohibits the recording of the number of a
credit card account when given in lieu of a deposit to secure payment in the
event of default, loss, damage or other occurrence, or requires a person to
accept a check presented for payment, if the other party to the transaction
refuses to consent to the recording of the number of the party’s Social
Security account or license to operate a motor vehicle.
(ORC 1349.17)
   (d)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 1349.99)
§ 642.16 MAKING OR USING SLUGS.
   (a)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Insert or deposit a slug in a coin machine, with purpose to
defraud;
      (2)   Make, possess, or dispose of a slug, with purpose of enabling
another to defraud by inserting or depositing it in a coin machine.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making or using slugs, a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
(ORC 2913.33)
§ 642.17 PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE OF PURPOSE TO DEFRAUD.
   In a prosecution of a person for a theft offense that alleges that the
person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she was facilitating a
fraud, hired or rented an aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat,
sailboat, camper, trailer, horse, buggy, or other property or equipment, kept
or operated any of the same that has been hired or rented, or engaged
accommodations at a hotel, motel, inn, campground, or other hostelry, it is
prima facie evidence of purpose to defraud if the person did any of the
following:
   (a)   Used deception to induce the rental agency to furnish the person with
the aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat, sailboat, camper, trailer,
horse, buggy, or other property or equipment, or used deception to induce the
hostelry to furnish the person with accommodations;
   (b)   Hired or rented any aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat,
sailboat, camper, trailer, horse, buggy, or other property or equipment, or
engaged accommodations, knowing that he or she is without sufficient means to
pay the hire or rental;
   (c)   Absconded without paying the hire or rental;
   (d)   Knowingly failed to pay the hire or rental as required by the contract
of hire or rental, without reasonable excuse for the failure;
   (e)   Knowingly failed to return hired or rented property as required by the
contract of hire or rental, without reasonable excuse for the failure.
(ORC 2913.41)
§ 642.18 TAMPERING WITH RECORDS.
   (a)   No person, knowing that he or she has no privilege to do so, and with
purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she is facilitating a fraud, shall do
any of the following:
      (1)   Falsify, destroy, remove, conceal, alter, deface, or mutilate any
writing, computer software, data, or record;
      (2)   Utter any writing or record, knowing it to have been tampered with
as provided in division (a)(1) of this section.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of tampering with records.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (b)(3) of this section, if the
offense does not involve data or computer software, tampering with records is
whichever of the following is applicable:
         A.   If division (b)(1)B. of this section does not apply, it is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         B.   If the writing or record is a will unrevoked at the time of the
offense, it is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (b)(3) of this section, if the
offense involves a violation of division (a) of this section involving data or
computer software, tampering with records is whichever of the following is
applicable:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (b)(2)B. of this
section, it is a misdemeanor of the first degree;
         B.   If the value of the data or computer software involved in the
offense or the loss to the victim is one thousand dollars ($1,000) or more or
if the offense is committed for the purpose of devising or executing a scheme
to defraud or to obtain property or services and the value of the property or
services or the loss to the victim is seven thousand five hundred dollars
($7,500) or more, it is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the writing, data, computer software, or record is kept by or
belongs to a local, state, or federal governmental entity, it is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(ORC 2913.42)
§ 642.19 SECURING WRITINGS BY DECEPTION.
   (a)   No person, by deception, shall cause another to execute any writing
that disposes of or encumbers property, or by which a pecuniary obligation is
incurred.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of securing writings by
deception. Except as otherwise provided in this division, securing writings by
deception is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the property or
the obligation involved is one thousand dollars ($1,000) or more, securing
writings by deception is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate to state
law. If the victim of the offense is an elderly person, disabled adult, active
duty service member, or spouse of an active duty service member, securing
writings by deception is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(ORC 2913.43)
§ 642.20 PERSONATING AN OFFICER.
   (a)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she is
facilitating a fraud, or with purpose to induce another to purchase property or
services, shall personate a law enforcement officer, or an inspector,
investigator, or agent of any governmental agency.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of personating an officer, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(ORC 2913.44)
Cross-reference:
   Impersonating an officer (non-fraud offense), see §
606.25
§ 642.21 DEFRAUDING CREDITORS.
   (a)   No person, with purpose to defraud one or more of his or her
creditors, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Remove, conceal, destroy, encumber, convey, or otherwise deal with
any of his or her property;
      (2)   Misrepresent or refuse to disclose to a fiduciary appointed to
administer or manage his or her affairs or estate, the existence, amount, or
location of any of his or her property, or any other information regarding the
property which he or she is legally required to furnish to the fiduciary.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of defrauding creditors.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, defrauding creditors is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the property involved is one
thousand dollars ($1,000) or more, defrauding creditors is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(ORC 2913.45)
§ 642.22 RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY.
   (a)   No person shall receive, retain, or dispose of property of another
knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that the property has been
obtained through commission of a theft offense.
   (b)   It is not a defense to a charge of receiving stolen property in
violation of this section that the property was obtained by means other than
through the commission of a theft offense if the property was explicitly
represented to the accused person as being obtained through the commission of a
theft offense.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of receiving stolen property.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, receiving stolen property is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If any of the following criteria are met, then
a violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law:
      (1)   The value of the property involved is one thousand dollars ($1,000)
or more;
      (2)   The property involved is any of the property listed in Ohio R.C.
2913.71;
      (3)   The property involved is a firearm or dangerous ordnance, as
defined in Ohio R.C. 2923.11;
      (4)   The property involved is a motor vehicle as defined in Ohio R.C.
4501.01;
      (5)   The property involved is any dangerous drug, as defined in Ohio
R.C. 4729.01; or
      (6)   The property involved in violation of this section is a special
purchase article as defined in Ohio R.C. 4737.04 or a bulk merchandise
container as defined in Ohio R.C. 4737.012.
(ORC 2913.51)
§ 642.23 POSSESSION OF MUNICIPAL PROPERTY.
   (a)   No person shall, without being authorized, have in his or her control
or possession any equipment, tools, implements or other property belonging to
the municipality.
(ORC 5589.12)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 5589.99(B))
§ 642.24 DETERMINING PROPERTY VALUE IN THEFT OFFENSE.
   (a)   If more than one item of property or services is involved in a theft
offense or in a violation of Ohio R.C. 1716.14(A) involving a victim who is an
elderly person or disabled adult, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, the value of the property or services involved for the purpose of
determining the value as required by Ohio R.C. 2913.61(A) is the aggregate
value of all property or services involved in the offense.
   (b)   (1)   When a series of offenses under Ohio R.C. 2913.02, or a series
of violations of, attempts to commit a violation of, conspiracies to violate,
or complicity in violations of Ohio R.C. 1716.14(A), Ohio R.C. 2913.02,
2913.03, or 2913.04, Ohio R.C. 2913.21(B)(1) or (B)(2), or Ohio R.C. 2913.31 or
2913.43 involving a victim who is an elderly person or disabled adult, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, is
committed by the offender in the offender’s same employment, capacity, or
relationship to another, all of those offenses shall be tried as a single
offense. When a series of offenses under R.C. § 2913.02, or a series of
violations of, attempts to commit a violation of, conspiracies to violate, or
complicity in violations of R.C. § 2913.02 or 2913.43 involving a victim who is
an active duty service member or spouse of an active duty service member, or
any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, is
committed by the offender in the offender’s same employment, capacity, or
relationship to another, all of those offenses shall be tried as a single
offense. The value of the property or services involved in the series of
offenses for the purpose of determining the value as required by Ohio R.C.
2913.61(A) is the aggregate value of all property and services involved in all
offenses in the series.
      (2)   If an offender commits a series of offenses under Ohio R.C. 2913.02
that involves a common course of conduct to defraud multiple victims, all of
the offenses may be tried as a single offense. If an offender is being tried
for the commission of a series of violations of, attempts to commit a violation
of, conspiracies to violate, or complicity in violations of Ohio R.C. 1716.14
(A), Ohio R.C. 2913.02, 2913.03, or 2913.04, Ohio R.C. 2913.21(B)(1) or (B)(2),
or Ohio R.C. 2913.31 or 2913.43, whether committed against one victim or more
than one victim, involving a victim who is an elderly person or disabled adult,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses,
pursuant to a scheme or course of conduct, all of those offenses may be tried
as a single offense. If an offender is being tried for the commission of a
series of violations of, attempts to commit a violation of, conspiracies to
violate, or complicity in violations of R.C. § 2913.02 or 2913.43, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, whether
committed against one victim or more than one victim, involving a victim who is
an active duty service member or spouse of an active duty service member
pursuant to a scheme or course of conduct, all of those offenses may be tried
as a single offense. If the offenses are tried as a single offense, the value
of the property or services involved for the purpose of determining the value
as required by Ohio R.C. 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value of all property and
services involved in all of the offenses in the course of conduct.
      (3)   When a series of two or more offenses under Ohio R.C. 2913.40,
2913.48, or 2921.41 is committed by the offender in the offender’s same
employment, capacity, or relationship to another, all of those offenses may be
tried as a single offense. If the offenses are tried as a single offense, the
value of the property or services involved for the purpose of determining the
value as required by Ohio R.C. 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value of all
property and services involved in all of the offenses in the series of two or
more offenses.
      (4)   In prosecuting a single offense under division (b)(1), (b)(2) or
(b)(3) of this section, it is not necessary to separately allege and prove each
offense in the series. Rather, it is sufficient to allege and prove that the
offender, within a given span of time, committed one or more theft offenses or
violations of Ohio R.C. 2913.40, 2913.48, or 2921.41 in the offender’s same
employment, capacity, or relationship to another as described in division (b)
(1) or (b)(3) of this section, or committed one or more theft offenses that
involve a common course of conduct to defraud multiple victims or a scheme or
course of conduct as described in division (b)(2) of this section. While it is
not necessary to separately allege and prove each offense in the series in
order to prosecute a single offense under division (b)(1), (b)(2), or (b)(3) of
this section, it remains necessary in prosecuting them as a single offense to
prove the aggregate value of the property or services in order to meet the
requisite statutory offense level sought by the prosecution.
   (c)   The following criteria shall be used in determining the value of
property or services involved in a theft offense:
      (1)   The value of an heirloom, memento, collector’s item, antique,
museum piece, manuscript, document, record, or other thing that has intrinsic
worth to its owner and that either is irreplaceable or is replaceable only on
the expenditure of substantial time, effort, or money, is the amount which
would compensate the owner for its loss.
      (2)   The value of personal effects and household goods, and of
materials, supplies, equipment, and fixtures used in the profession, business,
trade, occupation, or avocation of its owner, which property is not covered
under division (c)(1) of this section, and which retains substantial utility
for its purpose regardless of its age or condition, is the cost of replacing
such property with new property of like kind and quality.
      (3)   The value of any real or personal property that is not covered
under division (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this section, and the value of services, is
the fair market value of the property or services. As used in this section,
“fair market value” is the money consideration which a buyer would give and a
seller would accept for property or services, assuming that the buyer is
willing to buy and the seller is willing to sell, that both are fully informed
as to all facts material to the transaction, and that neither is under any
compulsion to act.
   (d)   Without limitation on the evidence which may be used to establish the
value of property or services involved in a theft offense:
      (1)   When the property involved is personal property held for sale at
wholesale or retail, the price at which the property was held for sale is prima
facie evidence of its value.
      (2)   When the property involved is a security or commodity traded on an
exchange, the closing price or, if there is no closing price, the asked price,
given in the latest marked quotation prior to the offense, is prima facie
evidence of the value of the security or commodity.
      (3)   When the property involved is livestock, poultry, or raw
agricultural products for which a local market price is available, the latest
local market price prior to the offense is prima facie evidence of the value of
the livestock, poultry, or products.
      (4)   When the property involved is a negotiable instrument, the face
value is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument.
      (5)   When the property involved is a warehouse receipt, bill of lading,
pawn ticket, claim check, or other instrument entitling the holder or bearer to
receive property, the face value or, if there is no face value, the value of
the property covered by the instrument less any payment necessary to receive
the property, is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument.
      (6)   When the property involved is a ticket of admission, ticket for
transportation, coupon, token, or other instrument entitling the holder or
bearer to receive property or services, the face value or, if there is no face
value, the value of the property or services which may be received by the
instrument is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument.
      (7)   When the services involved are gas, electricity, water, telephone,
transportation, shipping, or other services for which the rate is established
by law, the duly established rate is prima facie evidence of the value of the
services.
      (8)   When the services involved are services for which the rate is not
established by law, and the offender has been notified prior to the offense of
the rate for the services, either in writing, or orally, or by posting in a
manner reasonably calculated to come to the attention of potential offenders,
the rate contained in the notice is prima facie evidence of the value of the
services.
(ORC 2913.61(B) - (E))
§ 642.25 DETERMINING PROPERTY VALUE IN ARSON.
   (a)   The following criteria shall be used in determining the value of
property or amount of physical harm involved in a violation of §
642.06:
      (1)   If the property is an heirloom, memento, collector’s item, antique,
museum piece, manuscript, document, record, or other thing that is either
irreplaceable or is replaceable only on the expenditure of substantial time,
effort, or money, the value of the property or the amount of physical harm
involved is the amount that would compensate the owner for its loss.
      (2)   If the property is not covered under division (a)(1) of this
section, and the physical harm is such that the property can be restored
substantially to its former condition, the amount of physical harm involved is
the reasonable cost of restoring the property.
      (3)   If the property is not covered under division (a)(1) of this
section, and the physical harm is such that the property cannot be restored
substantially to its former condition, the value of the property, in the case
of personal property, is the cost of replacing the property with new property
of like kind and quality, and in the case of real property or real property
fixtures, is the difference in the fair market value of the property
immediately before and immediately after the offense.
   (b)   As used in this section, “fair market value” has the same meaning as
in Ohio R.C. 2913.61.
   (c)   Prima facie evidence of the value of property, as provided in Ohio
R.C. 2913.61(D), may be used to establish the value of property pursuant to
this section.
(ORC 2909.11(B) - (D))
§ 642.26 TAMPERING WITH AND THEFT OF UTILITIES.
   (a)   In a prosecution for a theft offense, as defined in Ohio R.C. 2913.01,
that involves alleged tampering with a gas, electric, steam or water meter,
conduit or attachment of a utility that has been disconnected by the utility,
proof that a meter, conduit or attachment of a utility has been tampered with
is prima facie evidence that the person who is obligated to pay for the service
rendered through the meter, conduit or attachment, and who is in possession or
control of the meter, conduit or attachment at the time the tampering occurred
has caused the tampering with intent to commit a theft offense.
   (b)   In a prosecution for a theft offense, as defined in Ohio R.C. 2913.01,
that involves the alleged reconnection of a gas, electric, steam or water
meter, conduit or attachment of a utility that has been disconnected by the
utility, proof that a meter, conduit or attachment disconnected by a utility
has been reconnected without the consent of the utility is prima facie evidence
that the person in possession or control of the meter, conduit or attachment at
the time of the reconnection has reconnected the meter, conduit or attachment
with intent to commit a theft offense.
   (c)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Tamper” means to interfere with, damage or bypass a utility meter,
conduit or attachment with the intent to impede the correct registration of a
meter or the proper functions of a conduit or attachment so as to reduce the
amount of utility service that is registered on the meter.
      (2)   “Utility” means any electric light company, gas company, natural
gas company, pipe-line company, water-works company or heating or cooling
company, as defined in Ohio R.C. 4905.03(C), (D), (E), (F), (G), or (H), its
lessees, trustees or receivers, or any similar utility owned or operated by a
political subdivision.
(ORC 4933.18)
   (d)   Each electric light company, gas company, natural gas company,
pipeline company, waterworks company or heating or cooling company, as defined
by Ohio R.C. 4905.03(C), (D), (E), (F), (G), or (H), or its lessees, trustees
or receivers, and each similar utility owned or operated by a political
subdivision, shall notify its customers, on an annual basis, that tampering
with or bypassing a meter constitutes a theft offense that could result in the
imposition of criminal sanctions.
(ORC 4933.19)
§ 642.27 FOOD STAMPS. (REPEALED)
   ( Editor’s note: Section 672.19 was repealed as part of the 1997 updating
and revision of these Codified Ordinances because a violation of substantially
equivalent state law (Ohio R.C. 2913.46) was made a felony by the Ohio General
Assembly.)
§ 642.28 MISCONDUCT INVOLVING A PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM.
   (a)   As used in this section, “public transportation system” means a county
transit system operated in accordance with Ohio R.C. 306.01 through 306.13, a
regional transit authority operated in accordance with Ohio R.C. 306.30 through
306.71, or a regional transit commission operated in accordance with Ohio R.C.
306.80 through 306.90.
   (b)   No person shall evade the payment of the known fares of a public
transportation system.
   (c)   No person shall alter any transfer, pass, ticket or token of a public
transportation system with the purpose of evading the payment of fares or of
defrauding the system.
   (d)   No person shall do any of the following while in any facility or on
any vehicle of a public transportation system:
      (1)   Play sound equipment without the proper use of a private earphone;
      (2)   Smoke, eat or drink in any area where the activity is clearly
marked as being prohibited; or
      (3)   Expectorate upon a person, facility or vehicle.
   (e)   No person shall write, deface, draw or otherwise mark on any facility
or vehicle of a public transportation system.
   (f)   No person shall fail to comply with a lawful order of a public
transportation system police officer, and no person shall resist, obstruct or
abuse a public transportation police officer in the performance of the
officer’s duties.
   (g)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of
misconduct involving a public transportation system.
      (1)   A violation of division (b), (c), or (f) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   A violation of division (d) of this section is a minor misdemeanor
on a first offense. If a person previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of any division of this section or of a municipal
ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any division of this section, a
violation of division (D) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
      (3)   A violation of division (e) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
   (h)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 75 percent of each fine
paid to satisfy a sentence imposed for a violation of any of the provisions of
this section shall be deposited into the treasury of the county and 25 percent
shall be deposited with the county transit board, regional transit authority or
regional transit commission that operates the public transportation system
involved in the violation, unless the Board of County Commissioners operates
the public transportation system, in which case 100 percent of each fine shall
be deposited into the treasury of the county.
(ORC 2917.41)
§ 642.29 ASSAULTING POLICE DOG OR HORSE, OR ASSISTANCE DOG.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly cause, or attempt to cause, physical harm to
a police dog or horse in either of the following circumstances:
      (1)   The police dog or horse is assisting a law enforcement officer in
the performance of the officer’s official duties at the time the physical harm
is caused or attempted.
      (2)   The police dog or horse is not assisting a law enforcement officer
in the performance of the officer’s official duties at the time the physical
harm is caused or attempted, but the offender has actual knowledge that the dog
or horse is a police dog or horse.
   (b)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following:
      (1)   Taunt, torment, or strike a police dog or horse;
      (2)   Throw an object or substance at a police dog or horse;
      (3)   Interfere with or obstruct a police dog or horse, or interfere with
or obstruct a law enforcement officer who is being assisted by a police dog or
horse, in a manner that does any of the following:
         A.   Inhibits or restricts the law enforcement officer’s control of
the police dog or horse;
         B.   Deprives the law enforcement officer of control of the police dog
or horse;
         C.   Releases the police dog or horse from its area of control;
         D.   Enters the area of control of the police dog or horse without the
consent of the law enforcement officer, including placing food or any other
object or substance into that area;
         E.   Inhibits or restricts the ability of the police dog or horse to
assist a law enforcement officer;
      (4)   Engage in any conduct that is likely to cause serious physical
injury or death to a police dog or horse;
      (5)   If the person is the owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog, fail to
reasonably restrain the dog from taunting, tormenting, chasing, approaching in
a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack, or attempting to bite or
otherwise endanger a police dog or horse that at the time of the conduct, the
police dog or horse is assisting a law enforcement officer in the performance
of the officer’s duties or that the person knows is a police dog or horse.
   (c)   No person shall knowingly cause, or attempt to cause, physical harm to
an assistance dog in either of the following circumstances:
      (1)   The dog, at the time the physical harm is caused or attempted, is
assisting or serving a person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired or a
person with a mobility impairment.
      (2)   The dog, at the time the physical harm is caused or attempted, is
not assisting or serving a person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired or a
person with a mobility impairment, but the offender has actual knowledge that
the dog is an assistance dog.
   (d)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following:
      (1)   Taunt, torment, or strike an assistance dog;
      (2)   Throw an object or substance at an assistance dog;
      (3)   Interfere with or obstruct an assistance dog, or interfere with or
obstruct a person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired or a person with a
mobility impairment who is being assisted or served by an assistance dog, in a
manner that does any of the following:
         A.   Inhibits or restricts the assisted or served person’s control of
the dog;
         B.   Deprives the assisted or served person of control of the dog;
         C.   Releases the dog from its area of control;
         D.   Enters the area of control of the dog without the consent of the
assisted or served person, including placing food or any other object or
substance into that area;
         E.   Inhibits or restricts the ability of the dog to assist the
assisted or served person;
      (4)   Engage in any conduct that is likely to cause serious physical
injury or death to an assistance dog;
      (5)   If the person is the owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog, fail to
reasonably restrain the dog from taunting, tormenting, chasing, approaching in
a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack, or attempting to bite or
otherwise endanger an assistance dog that at the time of the conduct is
assisting or serving a person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired or a
person with a mobility impairment or that the person knows is an assistance
dog.
   (e)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of
assaulting a police dog or horse. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, assaulting a police dog or horse is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. If the violation results in physical harm to the police dog or horse
other than death or serious physical harm, assaulting a police dog or horse is
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation results in serious physical
harm to the police dog or horse or results in its death, assaulting a police
dog or horse is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of
harassing a police dog or horse. Except as otherwise provided this division,
harassing a police dog or horse is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
violation results in physical harm to the police dog or horse but does not
result in its death or in serious physical harm to it, harassing a police dog
or horse is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation results in
serous physical harm to the police dog or horse or results in its death,
harassing a police dog or horse is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (c) of this section is guilty of
assaulting an assistance dog. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
assaulting an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
violation results in physical harm to the assistance dog other than death or
serious physical harm, assaulting an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the violation results in serious physical harm to the
assistance dog or results in its death, assaulting an assistance dog is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (d) of this section is guilty of
harassing an assistance dog. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
harassing an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
violation results in physical harm to the assistance dog but does not result in
the death or in serious physical harm to it, harassing an assistance dog is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation results in serious physical
harm to the assistance dog or results in its death, harassing an assistance dog
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   In addition to any other sanctions or penalty imposed for the
offense under this section, Ohio R.C. Chapter 2929 or any other provision of
the Revised Code or this Code, whoever violates division (a), (b), (c), or (d)
of this section is responsible for the payment of all of the following:
         A.   Any veterinary bill or bill for medication incurred as a result
of the violation by the police department regarding a violation of division (a)
or (b) of this section or by the person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired
or the person with a mobility impairment assisted or served by the assistance
dog regarding a violation of division (c) or (d) of this section;
         B.   The cost of any damaged equipment that results from the
violation;
         C.   If the violation did not result in the death of the police dog or
horse or the assistance dog that was the subject of the violation and if, as a
result of that dog or horse being the subject of the violation, the dog or
horse needs further training or retraining to be able to continue in the
capacity of a police dog or horse or an assistance dog, the cost of any further
training or retraining of that dog or horse by a law enforcement officer or by
the person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired or the person with a
mobility impairment assisted or served by the assistance dog;
         D.   If the violation resulted in the death of the assistance dog that
was the subject of the violation or resulted in serious physical harm to the
police dog or horse or the assistance dog or horse that was the subject of the
violation to the extent that the dog or horse needs to be replaced on either a
temporary or a permanent basis, the cost of replacing that dog or horse and of
any further training of a new police dog or horse or a new assistance dog by a
law enforcement officer or by the person who is blind, deaf, or hearing
impaired or the person with a mobility impairment assisted or served by the
assistance dog, which replacement or training is required because of the death
of or the serious physical harm to the dog or horse that was the subject of the
violation.
   (f)   This section does not apply to a licensed veterinarian whose conduct
is in accordance with Ohio R.C. Chapter 4741.
   (g)   This section only applies to an offender who knows or should know at
the time of the violation that the police dog or horse or assistance dog that
is the subject of a violation under this section is a police dog or horse or an
assistance dog.
   (h)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   “Assistance dog,” “blind” and “person with a mobility impairment”
have the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 955.011.
      (2)   “Physical harm” means any injury, illness, or other psychological
impairment, regardless of its gravity or duration.
      (3)   “Police dog or horse” means a dog or horse that has been trained
and may be used to assist law enforcement officers in the performance of their
official duties.
      (4)   “Serious physical harm” means any of the following:
         A.   Any physical harm that carries a substantial risk of death.
         B.   Any physical harm that causes permanent maiming or that involves
some temporary, substantial maiming.
         C.   Any physical harm that causes acute pain of a duration that
results in substantial suffering.
(ORC 2921.321)
§ 642.30 EVIDENCE OF THEFT OF RENTED PROPERTY.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   “Renter.” A person who owns rented property.
      (2)   “Rentee.” A person who pays consideration to a renter for the use
of rented property.
   (b)   Each of the following shall be considered evidence of intent to commit
theft of rented property or rental services:
      (1)   At the time of entering into the rental contract, the rentee
presented the renter with identification that was materially false, fictitious,
or not current with respect to name, address, place of employment, or other
relevant information.
      (2)   After receiving a notice demanding the return of the rented
property as provided in division (c) of this section, the rentee neither
returned the rented property nor made arrangements acceptable with the renter
to return the rented property.
   (c)   To establish that a rentee has an intent to commit theft of rented
property or rental services under division (b)(2) above, a renter may issue a
notice to a rentee demanding the return of the rented property. The renter
shall mail the notice by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
rentee at the address the rentee gave when the rental contract was executed, or
to the rentee at the last address the rentee or the rentee’s agent furnished in
writing to the renter.
   (d)   A demand for the return of the rented property is not a prerequisite
for the prosecution of a rentee for theft of rented property or rental
services. The evidence specified in division (b) above does not constitute the
only evidence that may be considered as evidence of intent to commit theft of
rented property or rental services.
(ORC 2913.72)
§ 642.31 FORGING OR SELLING FORGED IDENTIFICATION.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly do either of the following:
      (1)   Forge an identification card.
      (2)   Sell or otherwise distribute a card that purports to be an
identification card, knowing it was forged.
   (b)   As used in this section, “identification card” means a card that
includes personal information or characteristics of an individual, a purpose of
which is to establish the identity of the bearer described on the card, whether
the words “identity,” “identification,” “identification card,” or other similar
words appear on the card.
   (c)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of forging
identification cards or selling or distributing forged identification cards.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, forging identification cards or
selling or distributing forged identification cards is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of
division (a) of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, forging identification cards or selling or distributing
forged identification cards is a misdemeanor of the first degree and, in
addition, the court shall impose upon the offender a fine not less than two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00).
      (2)   If the victim of a violation of this section is an elderly person,
R.C. § 2913.31(C)(2)(b) applies and the offense shall be prosecuted under R.C.
§ 2913.31.
(ORC 2913.31(B), (C)(2))
Statutory reference:
   Forgery, felony provisions, see Ohio R.C. 2913.31(A), (C)(1)
   Forgery of originating address or other routing information in connection
with the transmission of an electronic mail advertisement, felony provisions,
see Ohio R.C. 2307.64
§ 642.32 CRIMINAL SIMULATION.
   (a)   No person, with purpose to defraud, or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Make or alter any object so that it appears to have value because
of antiquity, rarity, curiosity, source, or authorship, which it does not in
fact possess.
      (2)   Practice deception in making, retouching, editing, or reproducing
any photograph, movie film, video tape, phonograph record, or recording tape.
      (3)   Falsely or fraudulently make, simulate, forge, alter, or
counterfeit any wrapper, label, stamp, cork or cap prescribed by the Liquor
Control Commission under Ohio R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303, falsely or
fraudulently cause to be made, simulated, forged, altered, or counterfeited any
wrapper, label, stamp, cork or cap prescribed by the Liquor Control Commission
under Ohio R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303, or use more than once any wrapper,
label, stamp, cork or cap prescribed by the Liquor Control Commission under
Ohio R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303.
      (4)   Offer, or possess with the purpose to offer, any object that the
person knows to have been simulated as provided in divisions (a)(1), (2) or (3)
of this section.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal simulation. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, criminal simulation is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the loss to the victim is one thousand dollars ($1,000) or
more, criminal simulation is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
(ORC 2913.32)
§ 642.33 INSURANCE FRAUD.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   “Data” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2913.01 and
additionally includes any other representation of information, knowledge,
facts, concepts, or instructions that are being or have been prepared in a
formalized manner.
      (2)   “Deceptive” means that a statement, in whole or in part, would
cause another to be deceived because it contains a misleading representation,
withholds information, prevents the acquisition of information, or by any other
conduct, act, or omission creates, confirms, or perpetuates a false impression,
including, but not limited to, a false impression as to law, value, state of
mind, or other objective or subjective fact.
      (3)   “Insurer” means any person that is authorized to engage in the
business of insurance in this state under Ohio R.C. Title 39, the Ohio Fair
Plan Underwriting Association created under Ohio R.C. 3929.43, any health
insuring corporation, and any legal entity that is self-insured and provides
benefits to its employees or members.
      (4)   “Policy” means a policy, certificate, contract, or plan that is
issued by an insurer.
      (5)   “Statement” includes but is not limited to any notice, letter, or
memorandum; proof of loss; bill of lading; receipt for payment; invoice,
account, or other financial statement; estimate of property damage; bill for
services; diagnosis or prognosis; prescription; hospital, medical, or dental
chart or other record; x-ray, photograph, videotape, or movie film; test
result; other evidence of loss, injury, or expense; computer-generated
document; and data in any form.
   (b)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Present to, or cause to be presented to, an insurer any written or
oral statement that is part of, or in support of, an application for insurance,
a claim for payment pursuant to a policy, or a claim for any other benefit
pursuant to a policy, knowing that the statement, or any part of the statement,
is false or deceptive;
      (2)   Assist, aid, abet, solicit, procure, or conspire with another to
prepare or make any written or oral statement that is intended to be presented
to an insurer as part of, or in support of, an application for insurance, a
claim for payment pursuant to a policy, or a claim for any other benefit
pursuant to a policy, knowing that the statement, or any part of the statement,
is false or deceptive.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of insurance fraud. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, insurance fraud is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the amount of the claim that is false or deceptive is one
thousand dollars ($1,000) or more, insurance fraud is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
   (d)   This section shall not be construed to abrogate, waive, or modify Ohio
R.C. 2317.02(A).
(ORC 2913.47)
§ 642.34 WORKERS’ COMPENSATION FRAUD.
   (a)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Receive workers’ compensation benefits to which the person is not
entitled;
      (2)   Make or present or cause to be made or presented a false or
misleading statement with the purpose to secure payment for goods or services
rendered under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4121, 4123, 4127, or 4131 or to secure
workers’ compensation benefits;
      (3)   Alter, falsify, destroy, conceal, or remove any record or document
that is necessary to fully establish the validity of any claim filed with, or
necessary to establish the nature and validity of all goods and services for
which reimbursement or payment was received or is requested from the Bureau of
Workers’ Compensation, or a self-insuring employer under Ohio R.C. Chapter
4121, 4123, 4127, or 4131;
      (4)   Enter into an agreement or conspiracy to defraud the Bureau of
Workers’ Compensation or a self-insuring employer by making or presenting or
causing to be made or presented a false claim for workers’ compensation
benefits;
      (5)   Make or present or cause to be made or presented a false statement
concerning manual codes, classification or employees, payroll, paid
compensation, or number of personnel, when information of that nature is
necessary to determine the actual workers’ compensation premium or assessment
owed to the Bureau by an employer;
      (6)   Alter, forge, or create a workers’ compensation certificate or
falsely show current or correct workers’ compensation coverage;
      (7)   Fail to secure or maintain workers’ compensation coverage as
required by Ohio R.C. Chapter 4123 with the intent to defraud the Bureau of
Workers’ Compensation.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of workers’ compensation
fraud. Except as otherwise provided in this division, workers’ compensation
fraud is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of premiums and
assessments unpaid pursuant to actions described in divisions (a)(5), (a)(6),
or (a)(7) of this section, or goods, services, property, or money stolen is one
thousand dollars ($1,000) or more, workers’ compensation fraud is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (c)   Upon application of the governmental body that conducted the
investigation and prosecution of a violation of this section, the court shall
order the person who is convicted of the violation to pay the governmental body
its costs of investigating and prosecuting the case. These costs are in
addition to any other costs or penalty provided under federal, state or local
law.
   (d)   The remedies and penalties provided in this section are not exclusive
remedies and penalties and do not preclude the use of any other criminal or
civil remedy or penalty for any act that is in violation of this section.
   (e)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   “Claim” means any attempt to cause the Bureau of Workers’
Compensation, an independent third party with whom the administrator or an
employer contracts under Ohio R.C. 4121.44, or a self-insuring employer to make
payment or reimbursement for workers’ compensation benefits.
      (2)   “Employer,” “employee,” and “self-insuring employer” have the same
meanings as in Ohio R.C. 4123.01.
      (3)   “Employment” means participating in any trade, occupation,
business, service, or profession for substantial gainful remuneration.
      (4)   “False” means wholly or partially untrue or deceptive.
      (5)   “Goods” includes but is not limited to medical supplies,
appliances, rehabilitative equipment, and any other apparatus or furnishing
provided or used in the care, treatment, or rehabilitation of a claimant for
workers’ compensation benefits.
      (6)   “Records” means any medical, professional, financial, or business
record relating to the treatment or care of any person, to goods or services
provided to any person, or to rates paid for goods or services provided to any
person, or any record that the administrator of workers’ compensation requires
pursuant to rule.
      (7)   “Remuneration” includes but is not limited to wages, commissions,
rebates, and any other reward or consideration.
      (8)   “Services” includes but is not limited to any service provided by
any health care provider to a claimant for workers’ compensation benefits and
any and all services provided by the Bureau as part of workers’ compensation
insurance coverage.
      (9)   “Statement” includes but is not limited to any oral, written,
electronic, electronic impulse, or magnetic communication notice, letter,
memorandum, receipt for payment, invoice, account, financial statement, or bill
for services; a diagnosis, prognosis, prescription, hospital, medical, or
dental chart or other record; and a computer generated document.
      (10)   “Workers’ compensation benefits” means any compensation or
benefits payable under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4121, 4123, 4127, or 4131.
(ORC 2913.48)
§ 642.35 MEDICAID FRAUD.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   “Provider.” Any person who has signed a provider agreement with the
Department of Medicaid to provide goods or services pursuant to the Medicaid
program or any person who has signed an agreement with a party to such a
provider agreement under which the person agrees to provide goods or services
that are reimbursable under the Medicaid program.
      (2)   “Provider agreement.” Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 5164.01.
      (3)   “Recipient.” Any individual who receives goods or services from a
provider under the Medicaid program.
      (4)   “Records.” Any medical, professional, financial or business records
relating to the treatment or care of any recipient, to goods or services
provided to any recipient, or to rates paid for goods or services provided to
any recipient, and any records that are required by the rules of the Medicaid
Director to be kept for the Medicaid program.
      (5)   “Statement or representation.” Any oral, written, electronic,
electronic impulse or magnetic communication that is used to identify an item
of goods or a service for which reimbursement may be made under the Medicaid
program or that states income and expense and is or may be used to determine a
rate of reimbursement under the Medicaid program.
   (b)   No person shall knowingly make or cause to be made a false or
misleading statement or representation for use in obtaining reimbursement from
the Medicaid program.
   (c)   No person, with purpose to commit fraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Contrary to the terms of the person’s provider agreement, charge,
solicit, accept or receive for goods or services that the person provides under
the Medicaid program any property, money or other consideration in addition to
the amount of reimbursement under the Medicaid program and the person’s
provider agreement for the goods or services and any cost-sharing expenses
authorized by Ohio R.C. 5162.20 or rules adopted by the Medicaid Director
regarding the Medicaid program.
      (2)   Solicit, offer or receive any remuneration, other than any cost-
sharing expenses authorized by Ohio R.C. 5162.20 or rules adopted by the
Medicaid Director regarding the Medicaid program, in cash or in kind, including
but not limited to a kickback or rebate, in connection with the furnishing of
goods or services for which whole or partial reimbursement is or may be made
under the Medicaid program.
   (d)   No person, having submitted a claim for or provided goods or services
under the Medicaid program, shall do either of the following for a period of at
least six years after a reimbursement pursuant to that claim, or a
reimbursement for those goods or services, is received under the Medicaid
program:
      (1)   Knowingly alter, falsify, destroy, conceal or remove any records
that are necessary to fully disclose the nature of all goods or services for
which the claim was submitted, or for which reimbursement was received, by the
person; or
      (2)   Knowingly alter, falsify, destroy, conceal or remove any records
that are necessary to disclose fully all income and expenditures upon which
rates of reimbursements were based for the person.
   (e)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of Medicaid fraud. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, Medicaid fraud is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the value of the property, services or funds obtained in
violation of this section is one thousand dollars ($1,000) or more, Medicaid
fraud is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (f)   Upon application of the governmental agency, office or other entity
that conducted the investigation and prosecution in a case under this section,
the court shall order any person who is convicted of a violation of this
section for receiving any reimbursement for furnishing goods or services under
the Medicaid program to which the person is not entitled to pay to the
applicant its cost of investigating and prosecuting the case. The costs of
investigation and prosecution that a defendant is ordered to pay pursuant to
this division shall be in addition to any other penalties for the receipt of
that reimbursement that are provided in this section, Ohio R.C. 2913.40 or
5164.35, or any other provision of law.
   (g)   The provisions of this section are not intended to be exclusive
remedies and do not preclude the use of any other criminal or civil remedy for
any act that is in violation of this section.
(ORC 2913.40)
   (h)   Medicaid eligibility fraud.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following in an application
for enrollment in the Medicaid program or in a document that requires a
disclosure of assets for the purpose of determining eligibility for the
Medicaid program:
         A.   Make or cause to be made a false or misleading statement;
         B.   Conceal an interest in property;
         C.   1.   Except as provided in division (h)(1)C.2. of this section,
fail to disclose a transfer of property that occurred during the period
beginning 36 months before submission of the application or document and ending
on the date the application or document was submitted;
            2.   Fail to disclose a transfer of property that occurred during
the period beginning 60 months before submission of the application or document
and ending on the date the application or document was submitted and that was
made to an irrevocable trust a portion of which is not distributable to the
applicant for or recipient of Medicaid or to a revocable trust.
      (2)   A.   Whoever violates this division (h) is guilty of Medicaid
eligibility fraud. Except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation
of this division (h) is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the
Medicaid services paid as a result of the violation is one thousand dollars
($1,000) or more, a violation of this division (h) is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
         B.   In addition to imposing a sentence under division (h)(2)A. of
this section, the court shall order that a person who is guilty of Medicaid
eligibility fraud make restitution in the full amount of any Medicaid services
paid on behalf of an applicant for or recipient of Medicaid for which the
applicant or recipient was not eligible, plus interest at the rate applicable
to judgments on unreimbursed amounts from the date on which the Medicaid
services were paid to the date on which restitution is made.
         C.   The remedies and penalties provided in this division (h) are not
exclusive and do not preclude the use of any other criminal or civil remedy for
any act that is in violation of this division (h).
      (3)   This division (h) does not apply to a person who fully disclosed in
an application for Medicaid or in a document that requires a disclosure of
assets for the purpose of determining eligibility for Medicaid all of the
interests in property of the applicant for or recipient of Medicaid, all
transfers of property by the applicant for or recipient of Medicaid, and the
circumstances of all those transfers.
      (4)   Any amounts of Medicaid services recovered as restitution under
this division (h) and any interest on those amounts shall be credited to the
General Revenue Fund, and any applicable federal share shall be returned to the
appropriate agency or department of the United States.
      (5)   For the purpose of this division (h), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         A.   “Medicaid services.” Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C.
5164.01.
         B.   “Property.”Any real or personal property or other asset in which
a person has any legal title or interest.
(ORC 2913.401)
§ 642.36 DIMINISHING OR INTERFERING WITH FORFEITABLE PROPERTY.
   (a)   No person shall destroy, damage, remove, or transfer property that is
subject to forfeiture or otherwise take any action in regard to property that
is subject to forfeiture with purpose to do any of the following:
      (1)   Prevent or impair the state’s or political subdivision’s lawful
authority to take the property into its custody or control under Ohio R.C.
Chapter 2981 or to continue holding the property under its lawful custody or
control;
      (2)   Impair or defeat the court’s continuing jurisdiction over the
person and property;
      (3)   Devalue property that the person knows, or has reasonable cause to
believe, is subject to forfeiture proceedings under Ohio R.C. Chapter 2981.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interference with or
diminishing forfeitable property. Except as otherwise provided in this division
(b), interference with or diminishing forfeitable property is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the value of the property is one thousand dollars ($1,000)
or more, interference with or diminishing forfeitable property is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(ORC 2981.07)
§ 642.37 MOTION PICTURE PIRACY.
   (a)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Audiovisual recording function” means the capability of a device
to record or transmit a motion picture or any part of a motion picture by means
of any technology existing on, or developed after, March 9, 2004.
      (2)   “Facility “ means a movie theater.
   (b)   No person, without the written consent of the owner or lessee of the
facility and of the licensor of the motion picture, shall knowingly operate an
audiovisual recording function of a device in a facility in which the motion
picture is being shown.
   (c)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of motion
picture piracy, a misdemeanor of the first degree on the first offense and a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
   (d)   This section does not prohibit or restrict a lawfully authorized
investigative, law enforcement, protective, or intelligence gathering employee
or agent of the government of this state or a political subdivision of this
state, or of the federal government, when acting in an official capacity, from
operating an audiovisual recording function of a device in any facility in
which a motion picture is being shown.
   (e)   Division (b) of this section does not limit or affect the application
of any other prohibition in this Code or the Ohio Revised Code. Any act that is
a violation of both division (b) of this section and another provision of this
Code or the Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under this section, under the
other provision of this Code or the Ohio Revised Code, or under both this
section and the other provision of this Code or the Ohio Revised Code.
(ORC 2913.07)
§ 642.38 RAILROAD VANDALISM; CRIMINAL TRESPASS; INTERFERENCE WITH OPERATION OF
TRAIN; GRADE CROSSING DEVICE VANDALISM.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly, and by any means, drop or throw any object
at, onto, or in the path of, any railroad rail, railroad track, locomotive,
engine, railroad car, or other vehicle of a railroad company while such vehicle
is on a railroad track.
   (b)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall climb upon or into any
locomotive, engine, railroad car, or other vehicle of a railroad company when
it is on a railroad track.
   (c)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall disrupt, delay, or
prevent the operation of any train or other vehicle of a railroad company while
such vehicle is on a railroad track.
   (d)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of railroad
vandalism. Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of criminal
trespass on a locomotive, engine, railroad car, or other railroad vehicle.
Whoever violates division (c) of this section is guilty of interference with
the operation of a train. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
railroad vandalism; criminal trespass on a locomotive, engine, railroad car, or
other railroad vehicle; and interference with the operation of a train each is
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation of division (a), (b), or
(c) of this section causes serious physical harm to property or creates a
substantial risk of physical harm to any person, causes physical harm to any
person, or causes serious physical harm to any person, the violation is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.10)
   (e)   No person shall knowingly deface, damage, obstruct, remove, or
otherwise impair the operation of any railroad grade crossing warning signal or
other protective device, including any gate, bell, light, crossbuck, stop sign,
yield sign, advance warning sign, or advance pavement marking.
   (f)   Whoever violates division (e) of this section is guilty of railroad
grade crossing device vandalism. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
railroad grade crossing device vandalism is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
If the violation of division (e) of this section causes serious physical harm
to property or creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any person,
causes physical harm to any person, or causes serious physical harm to any
person, railroad grade crossing device vandalism is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.101)
§ 642.39 NUISANCE ABATEMENT.
   (a)   Purpose.
      (1)   Chronic nuisance properties present health, safety, and welfare
concerns to the city, and have a negative impact upon the quality of life,
safety, and health of the neighborhoods in which they are located. This section
is enacted to remedy nuisance activities that occur throughout the city and
affect citizens by providing a process for abatement.
      (2)   Chronic nuisance properties are a financial burden to the city due
to the calls for service for nuisance activities that occur repeatedly on these
properties. This is a means to lessen that burden and hold accountable those
persons responsible for such properties.
   (b)   Definitions.
      (1)   “Chronic nuisance property.”
         A.   Property on which three or more nuisance activities and/or two
felony drug activities have occurred during any 12-month period; or
         B.   Property on which any person associated with the property has
engaged in three or more nuisance activities within any 12-month period.
      (2)   “Felony drug activity.” Any violation charged under R.C. Chapters
2925 or 3917, the penalty for which includes the possibility of incarceration
in a local jail, or a state or federal penitentiary. This includes, but is not
limited to, possession of a controlled substance, permitting drug abuse,
trafficking drugs, corrupting another with drugs, illegal manufacture of drugs,
and illegal assembly of chemicals.
      (3)   “Nuisance activities.” Any of the following activities, behaviors,
or criminal conduct:
         A.   Any falsification violation under R.C. § 2921.13, obstructing
official business violation under R.C. § 2921.31, obstructing justice violation
under R.C. § 2921.32, resisting arrest violation under R.C. § 2921,33, failure
to comply with order or signal of police officer violation under R.C. §
2921.331, disrupting public services violation under R.C. § 2909.04, failure to
disclose personal information violation under R.C. § 2921.29;
         B.   Any alcohol violations under R.C. Title 43;
         C.   Any animal violations under R.C. Title 9;
         D.   Any drug violations under R.C. Chapter 2925;
         E.   Any gambling violations under R.C. Chapter 2915;
         F.   Any offense against another person under R.C. Chapter 2903,
excluding R.C. Chapter 2903 offenses where the person in charge or person
associated with the property is a victim of the offense and not the
perpetrator;
         G.   Any illegal distribution of or permitting children to use
cigarettes or other tobacco or alternative nicotine products violations under
R.C. § 2927.02;
         H.   Any offense against property under R.C. Chapter 2913, excluding
R.C. Chapter 2913 offenses where the person in charge or person associated with
the property is a victim of the offense and not the perpetrator;
         I.   Any disorderly conduct or violations against the public peace
under R.C. Chapter 2917;
         J.   Any sex offenses under R.C. Chapter 2907;
         K.   Any weapons, explosives, firearm, or handgun violations under
R.C. Chapter 2923;
         L.   Any activity or violation indicated to be a public nuisance
anywhere in the Ohio Revised Code;
         M.   Any activity in violation of R.C. § 3719.10 or R.C. Chapter 3767;
         N.   Any drug paraphernalia violation under R.C. § 2925.14;
         O.   Any property that has had a medical response to drug related
activity, including, but not limited to: an overdose, or where overdose
reversing drugs were administered;
         P.   Any condition in or around the property that endangers the life,
health, property, safety, or welfare of the public, or of any current or
prospective occupants, regardless of whether there has been a conviction for
said violation.
      (4)   “Permit.” To suffer, allow, consent to, acquiesce by failure to
prevent, or expressly assent or agree to the doing of an act.
      (5)   “Person.” Any natural person, agent, association, firm,
partnership, limited liability company, or corporation capable of owning,
occupying, or using property.
      (6)   “Person associated with.” Any person who, on the occasion of a
nuisance activity, has entered, patronized, visited, or attempted to enter,
patronize, or visit a property or person present on a property, including
without limitation any officer, director, customer, agent, employee, or any
independent contractor of a property, person in charge, or owner thereof.
      (7)   “Person in charge.” Any person, in actual or constructive
possession of a property, including but not limited to an owner or occupant of
a property under his or her dominion, ownership, or control.
      (8)   “Property or premises.” These terms may be used interchangeably in
this chapter. Any public or private building, lot, parcel, dwelling, rental
unit, real estate, or land or portion thereof including property used as a
residential or commercial property. Property consisting of more than one unit
shall be limited to the unit or portion of the property on which any nuisance
activity occurs.
   (c)   Violation.
      (1)   Any property which is a chronic nuisance property is in violation
of the Ohio Revised Code and subject to its remedies.
      (2)   Any person in charge who permits property to be a chronic nuisance
property shall be in violation of the Ohio Revised Code and subject to its
remedies.
   (d)   Procedure.
      (1)   The Chief of Police or his designee, upon finding that two or more
nuisance activities, or one felony drug activity, declared in the Ohio Revised
Code within any 12-month period, may cause a written notice and order to be
served on the owner of the property declaring that such property is a nuisance
property. The notice shall contain the following information:
         A.   The street address or a legal description sufficient to identify
the property.
         B.   A statement detailing the nature of the nuisances, the possible
penalties for failure to abate the nuisance(s), and that the owner may avoid
being charged said penalties by taking steps to prevent any further nuisance
activity as set forth in the Ohio Revised Code.
         C.   A statement that if a third or subsequent nuisance activity or
second felony drug activity as declared in the Ohio Revised Code occurs within
12 months of the dates of the first two nuisance activities or first felony
drug activity, the city may abate the nuisance by responding to the activities
using administrative and law enforcement actions, and the costs of such
abatement shall be assessed on the nuisance property.
      (2)   Notice shall be deemed properly served by the following methods:
         A.   Sent by first class mail to the address of the owner as listed in
the County Auditor's office; AND
         B.   Posted on the front door or other conspicuous location of the
property that is subject to the notice; OR
         C.   Delivered in person to the owner.
      (3)   Return of service shall be made by affidavit of the person serving,
mailing or posting such notice, and when notice is given by mail, such
affidavit shall identify the property by County Auditor's parcel number and
shall show the name and address of the person to whom the notice was mailed and
the date of mailing.
      (4)   If within 12 months after the two nuisances or the first felony
drug activity referred to in the Ohio Revised Code has occurred, a third
nuisance activity or second felony drug activity as declared in the Ohio
Revised Code occurs, the city shall notify the owner that the property has been
deemed a chronic nuisance property and direct the owner to abate the nuisance.
If the owner has not done so within 30 days, the city may abate the nuisance by
responding to the activity using administrative and law enforcement actions.
         A.   Notice shall be posted on the premises or at the site of the
nuisance directing the responsible party to abate the nuisance, a copy of the
notice shall be forwarded by first class mail to the address of the owner as
listed in the County Auditor's office. Personal service may be used in lieu of
posting and mailing.
         B.   The notice to abate shall contain:
            1.   The street address or a legal description sufficient to
identify the property.
            2.   A direction to abate the nuisance within 30 calendar days from
the date of the notice.
            3.   A description of the nuisance.
            4.   A statement that, unless the nuisance is removed, the city may
abate the nuisance and the cost of abatement shall be charged to the owner or
assessed against the property, or both.
            5.   The owner of a nuisance property who receives a notice from
the Chief of Police or his designee pursuant to this section may appeal such
notice by submitting a written request for reconsideration to the Director of
Public Safety within 30 days of the date of the notice. If the Director finds
that the facts presented do not support the declaration of a nuisance, the
Director shall rescind the notice. Otherwise, the Director shall deny the
request and the owner may appeal for hearing pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2506. Any
such appeal shall not automatically stay actions by the city to abate the
nuisance activity.
   (e)   Burden of proof; affirmative defenses.
      (1)   In an action under the Ohio Revised Code, the city shall have the
initial burden of proof to show by a preponderance of the evidence that a
violation under that section has occurred.
      (2)   The city shall be deemed to have failed to have met this standard
if the owner demonstrates by preponderance of the evidence that:
         A.   He or she was not the owner at the time of any of the nuisance
activity that is the basis of the notice;
         B.   He or she has knowledge of the nuisance activity, but has
promptly and vigorously taken all actions necessary to abate each nuisance
including, without limitation, compliance with the requirements of R.C. §§
5321.17(C) and 5321.04(A)(9); or
         C.   He or she has no knowledge of the nuisance activity and could
not, with reasonable care and diligence, have known of the nuisance activity;
and upon receipt of the notice of the declaration of the property as a nuisance
property, he or she promptly took all actions necessary to abate the nuisance
including, without limitation, compliance with the requirements of R.C. §§
5321.17(C) and 5321.04(A)(9).
      (3)   If the owner provides proof of having performed a background check
prior to leasing and is in the process of eviction, either at the time of the
third nuisance/second felony drug activity or as a result of the third
nuisance/second drug felony activity, the city shall not deem the property a
chronic nuisance.
   (f)   Impact.
      (1)   Once a property has been determined to be a chronic nuisance
property, the owner of that property shall be charged for the actual cost of
each subsequent service by the city for a nuisance or felony drug activity or
that property.
      (2)   The Chief of Police or his or her designee shall also assess a
civil penalty against an owner who violates any provision of the Ohio Revised
Code or fails to obey any order to abate a chronic nuisance. Assessments for
nuisance activities shall be imposed based on the number of nuisance or felony
drug activities that occur on that property once it has been deemed a chronic
nuisance property. The assessment shall be issued as follows:
         A.   For the third nuisance activity or second felony drug activity
(that activity designating the property as a chronic nuisance property), a
civil penalty against the owner of one hundred and fifty dollars ($150.00)
shall be imposed;
         B.   For the first nuisance or felony drug activity after being
declared a chronic nuisance property, a civil penalty against the owner of two
hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00) shall be imposed;
         C.   For the second nuisance or felony drug activity after being
declared a chronic nuisance properly, a civil penalty against the owner of five
hundred dollars ($500.00) shall be imposed;
         D.   For the third nuisance or felony drug activity after being
declared a chronic nuisance property, a civil penalty against the owner of
seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) shall be imposed;
         E.   For each nuisance or felony drug activity after the third, set
forth directly above, a civil penalty against the owner of one thousand dollars
($1,000) shall be imposed.
      (3)   The determination that a premises is a chronic nuisance subject to
remittance for the cost of enforcement pursuant to the Ohio Revised Code and
subject to civil penalties or criminal prosecution pursuant to the Ohio Revised
Code shall be effective for a two year period beginning with the date the
property is declared to be a chronic nuisance property. If at any point during
that two-year period another nuisance activity or felony drug activity occurs
at the property, the two-year period shall restart from the date of that
activity. The two-year period shall restart for any subsequent nuisance or
felony drug activity.
      (4)   In addition to other relief ordered, a court of competent
jurisdiction may authorize the city to physically secure the property against
all access, use or occupancy in the event that the owner fails to do so within
the time specified by the court. In the event that the city is authorized to
secure the property, all costs reasonably incurred by the city to physically
secure the property shall be paid to the city by the owner and may be included
in the city's money judgment, including court costs. The court may, in its
discretion, award attorney fees to the prevailing party.
   (g)   Other penalties.
      (1)   In addition to any other civil penalties contained herein, whoever
is assessed a civil penalty under the terms and conditions set forth above may
also be charged with a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined up to one hundred
fifty dollars ($150.00). No culpable mental state is required to commit an
offense; it being the express intent to impose strict criminal liability for
each offense.
      (2)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day on which a
violation occurs or continues.
      (3)   Permits, including those for occupancy, health, etc., granted to
the owner may be subject to revocation based on the declaration that a property
is a chronic nuisance property.
      (4)   The declaration of a nuisance property, an order to abate a
nuisance, or the assessment of costs by the city on a property do not affect or
limit the city's right or authority to being a criminal prosecution or other
legal action against any person for violation of the Ohio Revised Code,
including those provided in R.C. § 3767.06.
      (5)   The cost of abating or lessening the severity of such public
nuisance, or of such other action taken by the city pursuant to the above
sections, shall be recovered in the following manner:
         A.   The owner shall be billed directly by certified mail for the cost
of abating or lessening the severity of such public nuisance. The bill for the
costs thereof shall be paid within 60 days after receipt of the bill.
         B.   If the costs are not so recovered, the city may collect the costs
by any of the following methods:
            1.   The city may cause of abating or lessening the severity of
such public nuisance to be levied as an assessment and recovered in accordance
with R.C. § 715.261.
            2.   The city may commence a civil action to recover the costs from
the owner as provided in R.C. § 715.216.
   (h)   This is not exclusive. This shall not be deemed to be a limitation or
restriction of any department, division, official, or employee of the city, but
shall be deemed as an enlargement of any authority existing by virtues of the
statutes of the State of Ohio or any ordinance heretofore enacted by Council.
   (i)   Reputation. In any case in which it is necessary to prove that a
property is a public nuisance and defined above, evidence as to the reputation
of such place shall be admissible on the question of whether the property is or
is not a public nuisance, and every owner and every person responsible for the
premises shall be presumed to have knowledge of the reputation of the place.
(Ord. 19-48, passed 7-25-2019)
CHAPTER 648: PEACE DISTURBANCES
Section
648.01   Riot
648.02   Failure to disperse
648.03   Justifiable use of force to suppress riot
648.04   Disorderly conduct
648.05   Disturbing a lawful meeting
648.06   Misconduct at an emergency
648.07   Inducing panic
648.08   Making false alarms
648.09   Minors’ curfew
648.10   Loitering
648.11   Inciting to violence
648.12   Parental responsibility
648.13   Impeding public passage of an emergency service responder
Cross-reference:
   Arson, see GEN. OFF.
642.09
   Assault, see GEN. OFF.
636.02,
636.03
   Barking or howling dogs, see GEN. OFF.
618.07
   Criminal trespass, see GEN. OFF.
642.12
   Definitions generally, see GEN. OFF.
606.01
   “Deadly force” defined, see GEN. OFF.
606.01(c)
   Desecration, see GEN. OFF.
642.07
   Detention of disorderly persons, see GEN. OFF.
606.23
   Fireworks, see GEN. OFF.
672.10
   “Force” defined, see GEN. OFF.
606.01(f)
   Interfering with civil rights, see GEN. OFF.
606.20
   Liquor sale to intoxicated person, see GEN. OFF.
612.03
   Menacing, see GEN. OFF.
636.04,
636.05
   Noisy mufflers, see TRAF.
438.21
   “Peeling;” cracking exhaust noises, see TRAF.
432.35
   Pointing and discharging firearms and other weapons, see GEN. OFF.
672.09
   Resisting arrest, see GEN. OFF.
606.16
   Sirens, whistles and bells on motor vehicles, see TRAF.
438.20
Statutory reference:
   See section histories for similar state law
   Cordoning off riot areas; prohibiting sales of firearms and explosives, see
Ohio R.C. 3761.16
   Power to regulate peace disturbances, see Ohio R.C. 715.49, 715.55
   Riot and civil disorder assistance by state Highway Patrol, see Ohio R.C.
5503.02(B)
   Suspension of beer and liquor sales by Ohio Director of Liquor Control
during emergency, see Ohio R.C. 4301.251
§ 648.01 RIOT.
   (a)   No person shall participate with four or more others in a course of
disorderly conduct in violation of Ohio R.C. 2917.11 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance:
      (1)   With purpose to commit or facilitate the commission of a
misdemeanor, other than disorderly conduct;
      (2)   With purpose to intimidate a public official or employee into
taking or refraining from official action, or with purpose to hinder, impede,
or obstruct a function of government;
      (3)   With purpose to hinder, impede, or obstruct the orderly process of
administration or instruction at an educational institution, or to interfere
with or disrupt lawful activities carried on at the institution.
   (b)   No person shall participate with four or more others with purpose to
do an act with unlawful force or violence, even though the act might otherwise
be lawful.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of riot, a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(ORC 2917.03)
   (d)   For the purposes of prosecuting violations of this section, the
prosecution is not required to allege or prove that the offender expressly
agreed with four or more others to commit any act that constitutes a violation
this section prior to or while committing those acts.
(ORC 2917.031)
Statutory reference:
   Aggravated riot, felony provisions, see Ohio R.C. 2917.02
§ 648.02 FAILURE TO DISPERSE.
   (a)   Where five or more persons are participating in a course of disorderly
conduct in violation of Ohio R.C. 2917.11 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, and there are other persons in the vicinity whose presence
creates the likelihood of physical harm to persons or property or of serious
public inconvenience, annoyance, or alarm, a law enforcement officer or other
public official may order the participants and the other persons to disperse.
No person shall knowingly fail to obey the order.
   (b)   Nothing in this section requires persons to disperse who are peaceably
assembled for a lawful purpose.
   (c)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to disperse.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (c)(3) of this section,
failure to disperse is a minor misdemeanor.
      (3)   Failure to disperse is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if the
failure to obey the order described in division (a) of this section creates the
likelihood of physical harm to persons or is committed at the scene of a fire,
accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind.
(ORC 2917.04)
§ 648.03 JUSTIFIABLE USE OF FORCE TO SUPPRESS RIOT.
   A law enforcement officer or firefighter engaged in suppressing a riot or in
protecting persons or property during a riot:
   (a)   Is justified in using force, other than deadly force, when and to the
extent he or she has probable cause to believe such force is necessary to
disperse or apprehend rioters;
   (b)   Is justified in using force, including deadly force, when and to the
extent he or she has probable cause to believe such force is necessary to
disperse or apprehend rioters whose conduct is creating a substantial risk of
serious physical harm to persons.
(ORC 2917.05)
§ 648.04 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (a)   No person shall recklessly cause inconvenience, annoyance, or alarm to
another, by doing any of the following:
      (1)   Engaging in fighting, in threatening harm to persons or property,
or in violent or turbulent behavior;
      (2)   Making unreasonable noise or an offensively coarse utterance,
gesture, or display, or communicating unwarranted and grossly abusive language
to any person;
      (3)   Insulting, taunting, or challenging another, under circumstances in
which that conduct is likely to provoke a violent response;
      (4)   Hindering or preventing the movement of persons on a public street,
road, highway, or right-of-way, or to, from, within, or upon public or private
property, so as to interfere with the rights of others, and by any act that
serves no lawful and reasonable purpose of the offender;
      (5)   Creating a condition that is physically offensive to persons or
that presents a risk of physical harm to persons or property, by any act that
serves no lawful and reasonable purpose of the offender.
   (b)   No person while voluntarily intoxicated shall do either of the
following:
      (1)   In a public place or in the presence of two or more persons, engage
in conduct likely to be offensive or to cause inconvenience, annoyance, or
alarm to persons of ordinary sensibilities, which conduct the offender, if he
or she were not intoxicated, should know is likely to have such effect on
others;
      (2)   Engage in conduct or create a condition that presents a risk of
physical harm to himself, herself or another, or to the property of another.
   (c)   Violation of any statute or ordinance of which an element is operating
a motor vehicle, locomotive, watercraft, aircraft, or other vehicle while under
the influence of alcohol or any drug of abuse is not a violation of division
(b) of this section.
   (d)   If a person appears to an ordinary observer to be intoxicated, it is
probable cause to believe that the person is voluntarily intoxicated for
purposes of division (b) of this section.
   (e)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disorderly conduct.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (e)(2) and (e)(3) of this
section, disorderly conduct is a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Disorderly conduct is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if any of
the following applies:
         A.   The offender persists in disorderly conduct after reasonable
warning or request to desist.
         B.   The offense is committed in the vicinity of a school or in a
school safety zone.
         C.   The offense is committed in the presence of any law enforcement
officer, firefighter, rescuer, medical person, emergency medical services
person, or other authorized person who is engaged in the person’s duties at the
scene of a fire, accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind.
         D.   The offense is committed in the presence of any emergency
facility person who is engaged in the person’s duties in an emergency facility.
      (3)   If an offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to three or more violations of division (b) of this section, Ohio R.C. 2917.11
(B), or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (b) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
   (f)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Committed in the vicinity of a school” has the same meaning as in
Ohio R.C. 2925.01.
      (2)   “Emergency facility” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2909.04.
      (3)   “Emergency facility person” is the singular of “emergency facility
personnel” as defined in Ohio R.C. 2909.04.
      (4)   “Emergency medical services person” is the singular of “emergency
medical services personnel” as defined in Ohio R.C. 2133.21.
(ORC 2917.11)
§ 648.05 DISTURBING A LAWFUL MEETING.
   (a)   No person, with purpose to prevent or disrupt a lawful meeting,
procession, or gathering, shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Do any act which obstructs or interferes with the due conduct of
the meeting, procession, or gathering.
      (2)   Make any utterance, gesture, or display which outrages the
sensibilities of the group.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disturbing a lawful
meeting. Except as otherwise provided in this division, disturbing a lawful
meeting is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Disturbing a lawful meeting is a
misdemeanor of the first degree if either of the following applies:
      (1)   The violation is committed with the intent to disturb or disquiet
any assemblage of people met for religious worship at a tax-exempt place of
worship, regardless of whether the conduct is within the place at which the
assemblage is held or is on the property on which that place is located and
disturbs the order and solemnity of the assemblage.
      (2)   The violation is committed with the intent to prevent, disrupt, or
interfere with a virtual meeting or gathering of people for religious worship,
through use of a computer, computer system, telecommunications device, or other
electronic device or system, or in any other manner.
   (c)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Computer.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      (2)   “Computer system.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      (3)   “Telecommunications device.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2913.01.
      (4)   “Virtual meeting or gathering.” A meeting or gathering by
interactive video conference or teleconference, or by a combination thereof.
(R.C. § 2917.12)
§ 648.06 MISCONDUCT AT AN EMERGENCY.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Hamper the lawful operations of any law enforcement officer,
firefighter, rescuer, medical person, emergency medical services person, or
other authorized person engaged in the person’s duties at the scene of a fire,
accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind;
      (2)   Hamper the lawful activities of any emergency facility person who
is engaged in the person’s duties in an emergency facility;
      (3)   Fail to obey the lawful order of any law enforcement officer
engaged in the law enforcement officer’s duties at the scene of or in
connection with a fire, accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind.
   (b)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit access or deny
information to any news media representative in the lawful exercise of the news
media representative’s duties.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of misconduct at an emergency.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, misconduct at an emergency is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If violation of this section creates a risk
of physical harm to persons or property, misconduct at an emergency is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (d)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Emergency facility” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2909.04.
      (2)   “Emergency facility person” is the singular of “emergency facility
personnel” as defined in Ohio R.C. 2909.04.
      (3)   “Emergency medical services person” is the singular of “emergency
medical services personnel” as defined in Ohio R.C. 2133.21.
(ORC 2917.13)
§ 648.07 INDUCING PANIC.
   (a)   No person shall cause the evacuation of any public place, or otherwise
cause serious public inconvenience or alarm, by doing any of the following:
      (1)   Initiating or circulating a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime, or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false.
      (2)   Threatening to commit any offense of violence.
      (3)   Committing any offense, with reckless disregard of the likelihood
that its commission will cause serious public inconvenience or alarm.
   (b)   Division (a)(1) of this section does not apply to any person
conducting an authorized fire or emergency drill.
   (c)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of inducing panic.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (c)(3), inducing panic is
a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   If a violation of this section results in physical harm to any
person, inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law. If a violation of this section results in economic harm of one thousand
dollars ($1,000) or more, inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If the public place involved in a violation of division
(a)(1) is a school or an institution of higher education, inducing panic is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If a violation of this
section pertains to a purported, threatened or actual use of a weapon of mass
destruction, inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (d)   (1)   It is not a defense to a charge under this section that pertains
to a purported or threatened use of a weapon of mass destruction that the
offender did not possess or have the ability to use a weapon of mass
destruction or that what was represented to be a weapon of mass destruction was
not a weapon of mass destruction.
      (2)   Any act that is a violation of this section and any other section
of the Ohio Revised Code or these Codified Ordinances may be prosecuted under
this section, the other section, or both sections.
   (e)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Biological agent” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2917.33.
      (2)   “Economic harm” means any of the following:
         A.   All direct, incidental and consequential pecuniary harm suffered
by a victim as a result of the criminal conduct. “Economic harm” as described
in this division includes but is not limited to all of the following:
            1.   All wages, salaries or other compensation lost as a result of
the criminal conduct;
            2.   The cost of all wages, salaries or other compensation paid to
employees for time those employees are prevented from working as a result of
the criminal conduct;
            3.   The overhead costs incurred from the time that a business is
shut down as a result of the criminal conduct;
            4.   The loss of value to tangible or intangible property that was
damaged as a result of the criminal conduct.
         B.   All costs incurred by the state or any political subdivision as a
result of, or in making any response to, the criminal conduct that constituted
the violation of this section or Ohio R.C. 2917.32, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, including but not limited to all costs so
incurred by any law enforcement officers, firefighters, rescue personnel, or
emergency medical services personnel of the state or the political subdivision.
      (3)   “Emergency medical services personnel” has the same meaning as in
Ohio R.C. 2133.21.
      (4)   “Institution of higher education” means any of the following:
         A.   A state university or college as defined in Ohio R.C. 3345.12(A)
(1), community college, state community college, university branch, or
technical college;
         B.   A private, nonprofit college, university or other post- secondary
institution located in this state that possesses a certificate of authorization
issued by the Chancellor of Higher Education pursuant to R.C. Chapter 1713;
         C.   A post-secondary institution with a certificate of registration
issued by the State Board of Career Colleges and Schools pursuant to Ohio R.C.
Chapter 3332.
      (5)   “School” means any school operated by a board of education or any
school for which the Director of Education and Workforce prescribes minimum
standards under R.C. § 3301.07, whether or not any instruction, extracurricular
activities, or training provided by the school is being conducted at the time a
violation of this section is committed.
      (6)   “Weapon of mass destruction” means any of the following:
         A.   Any weapon that is designed or intended to cause death or serious
physical harm through the release, dissemination, or impact of toxic or
poisonous chemicals, or other precursors;
         B.   Any weapon involving a disease organism or biological agent;
         C.   Any weapon that is designed to release radiation or radioactivity
at a level dangerous to human life;
         D.   Any of the following, except to the extent that the item or
device in question is expressly excepted from the definition of “destructive
device” pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 921(a)(4) and regulations issued under that
section:
            1.   Any explosive, incendiary, or poison gas bomb, grenade, rocket
having a propellant charge of more than four ounces, missile having an
explosive or incendiary charge of more than one-quarter ounce, mine, or similar
device;
            2.   Any combination of parts either designed or intended for use
in converting any item or device into any item or device described in division
D.1. of this definition and from which an item or device described in that
division may be readily assembled.
(ORC 2917.31)
§ 648.08 MAKING FALSE ALARMS.
   (a)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Initiate or circulate a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime, or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false and likely to cause public inconvenience or alarm.
      (2)   Knowingly cause a false alarm of fire or other emergency to be
transmitted to or within any organization, public or private, for dealing with
emergencies involving a risk of physical harm to persons or property.
      (3)   Report to any law enforcement agency an alleged offense or other
incident within its concern, knowing that the offense did not occur.
      (4)   Initiate or circulate a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime, or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false and likely to impede the operation of a critical
infrastructure facility.
   (b)   This section does not apply to any person conducting an authorized
fire or emergency drill.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making false alarms. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, making false alarms is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If a violation of this section results in economic harm of
one thousand dollars ($1,000) or more, making false alarms is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law. If a violation of this section pertains
to a purported, threatened, or actual use of a weapon of mass destruction,
making false alarms is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (d)   (1)   It is not a defense to a charge under this section that pertains
to a purported or threatened use of a weapon of mass destruction that the
offender did not possess or have the ability to use a weapon of mass
destruction or that what was represented to be a weapon of mass destruction was
not a weapon of mass destruction.
      (2)   Any act that is a violation of this section and any other section
of the Ohio Revised Code or these Codified Ordinances may be prosecuted under
this section, the other section, or both sections.
   (e)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Critical infrastructure facility.” Has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 2911.21.
      (2)   “Economic harm” and “weapon of mass destruction.” Have the same
meaning as in R.C. § 2917.31.
(R.C. § 2917.32)
§ 648.09 MINORS’ CURFEW.
   (a)   Minors under thirteen. No minor under the age of 13 years shall
loiter, idle, wander, stroll or play in or upon the public streets, highways,
roads, alleys, parks, playgrounds or other public grounds, public places,
public buildings, places of amusement and entertainment, vacant lots or other
unsupervised places between 9:00 p.m. and dawn of the following day. However,
this division does not apply to a minor accompanied by his or her parent,
guardian or other adult person having the care and custody of the minor, or
where the minor is upon an emergency errand or legitimate business directed by
his or her parent, guardian or other adult person having the care and custody
of the minor.
   (b)   Minors between thirteen and eighteen. No minor under the age of 18
years and over the age of 13 years shall loiter, idle, wander, stroll or play
in or upon the public streets, highways, roads, alleys, parks, playgrounds or
other public grounds, public places, public buildings, places of amusement and
entertainment, vacant lots or other unsupervised places between 12:00 midnight
and dawn. However, this division does not apply to a minor accompanied by his
or her parent, guardian or other adult person having the care and custody of
the minor, or where the minor is upon an emergency errand or legitimate
business directed by his or her parent, guardian or other adult person having
the care and custody of the minor.
(Ord. 4456, passed 7-14-1955)
   (c)   Disposition of minor. Any minor found in violation of this section
shall be taken to the Police Department and the parent, guardian or person in
loco parentis shall be notified to come to the Department and take personal
charge of the minor. The minor shall be released only to the parent, guardian
or person in loco parentis or to the juvenile authorities.
   (d)   Responsibility of parents.
      (1)   No parent, guardian or other person having the lawful care, custody
or control of any minor under the age of 18 years shall knowingly allow or
permit such minor to violate division (a) or (b) hereof.
      (2)   It shall be prima-facie evidence of a violation of this division if
the child of a parent, guardian or person having lawful custody is found in
violation of this section.
      (3)   Whoever violates this division is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and
shall be subject to the penalty provided in §
698.02.
(Ord. 79-72, passed 8-21-1979)
§ 648.10 LOITERING.
   (a)   No person shall loiter on or about the streets, sidewalks or public
places of the city or on or about private property without the owner’s consent.
Failure to leave such street, sidewalk or public or private property after
request by a police officer or the property owner shall be deemed a violation
of this section.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and
shall be subject to the penalty provided in §
698.02.
(Ord. 81-97, passed 11-23-1981)
§ 648.11 INCITING TO VIOLENCE.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly engage in conduct designed to urge or incite
another to commit any offense of violence when either of the following apply:
      (1)   The conduct takes place under circumstances that create a clear and
present danger that any offense of violence will be committed.
      (2)   The conduct proximately results in the commission of any offense of
violence.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of inciting to violence. If
the offense of violence that the other person is being urged or incited to
commit is a misdemeanor, inciting to violence is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the offense of violence that the other person is being urged or
incited to commit is a felony, inciting to violence is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(ORC 2917.01)
§ 648.12 PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (a)   (1)   A parent who has parental rights and responsibilities for the
care of a child under 18 years of age and is the residential parent and legal
custodian of such child, a guardian who has custody of such child, or other
custodian of such child, is charged with the control of the child and shall
have the power to exercise parental control and authority over the child.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for a parent, legal custodian, legal guardian
or other person lawfully charged with the care of a child under 18 years of
age, to fail to supervise such child.
      (3)   Parental responsibility to supervise such child and exercise
parental control with regard to such child includes but is not limited to the
following duties:
         A.   To keep illegal drugs out of the home and out of possession of
such child, except those drugs duly prescribed by a licensed physician or other
authorized medical professional;
         B.   To keep firearms out of the possession of such child except those
used for hunting in accordance with state law and with knowledge and
supervision of a parent;
         C.   To exercise and have in place reasonable controls so as to
prevent such child from maliciously or willfully damaging, defacing or
destroying real or personal property belonging to others, including the City of
Ironton;
         D.   To exercise and have in place reasonable controls so as to
prevent such child from engaging in theft of property or keeping in his or her
possession property known to be stolen;
         E.   To exercise and have in place reasonable controls so as to
prevent such child from engaging in violent or assaultive behavior directed at
persons.
      (4)   An adjudication that a child under the age of 18 years of age has
been found a “delinquent child,” as such is defined in Ohio R.C. 2151.02 for
criminal conduct other than that which would lead to a “status” crime
violation, such as a curfew or truancy violation, or has been found guilty of a
criminal conviction when the child has been tried as an adult, three times
within any two year period, shall be prima facie evidence that the parent or
guardian failed to supervise the child.
   (b)   This section shall not apply to a public children services agency as
defined in Ohio R.C. 2151.011, or to foster parents.
   (c)   In a prosecution of a person for failing to supervise a child under
division (a) of this section, it is an affirmative defense that the person:
      (1)   Is the victim of the act that brings the child within the
jurisdiction of the juvenile court; or
      (2)   Reported the act to the appropriate authorities.
   (d)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failing to supervise
a child. Upon first conviction, the offender shall be subject to a fine of up
to two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00) and/or ordered to perform community
service, not to exceed ten days. The fine and/or community service will be
suspended if the person charged completes a parenting training class designated
by the City of Ironton.
      (2)   For conviction of a second offense and/or additional offenses, the
offender shall be subject to a fine of up to five hundred dollars ($500.00)
and/or ordered to perform community service for each offense, not to exceed 20
days.
(Ord. 97-31, passed 8-14-1997)
§ 648.13 IMPEDING PUBLIC PASSAGE OF AN EMERGENCY SERVICE RESPONDER.
   (a)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall recklessly obstruct any
highway, street, sidewalk, or any other public passage in such a manner as to
render the highway, street, sidewalk, or passage impassable without
unreasonable inconvenience or hazard if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The obstruction prevents an emergency vehicle from accessing a
highway or street, prevents an emergency service responder from responding to
an emergency, or prevents an emergency vehicle or an emergency service
responder from having access to an exit from an emergency.
      (2)   Upon receipt of a request or order from an emergency service
responder to remove or cease the obstruction, the person refuses to remove or
cease the obstruction.
   (b)   Division (a) of this section does not limit or affect the application
of R.C. § 2921.31 or any other section of the Ohio Revised Code. Any conduct
that is a violation of division (a) of this section and that also is a
violation of R.C. § 2921.31 or any other section of the Ohio Revised Code may
be prosecuted under this section, the other section of the Ohio Revised Code,
or both sections.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawfully impeding public
passage of an emergency service responder, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (d)   As used in this section, “emergency service responder” has the same
meaning as in R.C. § 2903.13.
(R.C. § 2917.14)
CHAPTER 654: RAILROADS
Section
654.01   Obstructing streets by railroad companies (Repealed)
654.02   Climbing upon railroad cars (Repealed)
654.03   Duties of locomotive engineer (Repealed)
654.04   Speed limits; sounding warning at crossings
Cross-reference:
   Definitions generally, see GEN. OFF.
606.01
   Personal accountability for organizational conduct, see GEN. OFF.
606.09
   Organizational criminal liability, see GEN. OFF.
606.08
   Stopping at grade crossings, see TRAF.
432.31 et seq.
Statutory reference:
   See section histories for similar state law
   Duties of engineers, see Ohio R.C. 4999.04
   Lighting railroads, see Ohio R.C. 723.33 et seq.
Editor’s note:
   The United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit has held in
a recent case that the Federal Railway Safety Act preempts local ordinances
regarding railroad obstructions and railroad safety. See CSX Transportation,
Inc. v. City of Plymouth, 86 F.3d 626 (6th Cir. 1996). Therefore, the
provisions in this chapter have been repealed. For current enforcement, please
consult appropriate state law.
§ 654.01 OBSTRUCTING STREETS BY RAILROAD COMPANIES. (REPEALED)
Statutory reference:
   Obstructing streets by railroad companies, see Ohio R.C. 5589.21
§ 654.02 CLIMBING UPON RAILROAD CARS. (REPEALED)
Statutory reference:
   Climbing upon railroad cars, see Ohio R.C. 4999.02
§ 654.03 DUTIES OF LOCOMOTIVE ENGINEER. (REPEALED)
Statutory reference:
   Duties of locomotive engineer, see Ohio R.C. 4999.04
§ 654.04 SPEED LIMITS; SOUNDING WARNING AT CROSSINGS.
   (a)   No person shall operate a train in the city at a speed in excess of 25
miles per hour.
   (b)   Any person operating a train in the city shall sound the train’s
whistle at a distance of 300 yards approaching a street crossing.
   (c)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section shall be
subject to the penalty of a fine in the amount of $1,500.
(Ord. 79-11, passed 3-8-1979; Am. Ord. 23-24, passed 5-22-2023)
CHAPTER 660: SAFETY, SANITATION AND HEALTH
Section
660.01   Venting of heaters and burners
660.02   Spreading contagion
660.03   Littering
660.031   Illegal dumping of garbage or trash within alleys or ways
660.04   Noxious odors; filthy accumulations; polluting and diverting
watercourses
660.05   Duty to keep sidewalks in repair and clean
660.06   Abandoned refrigerators and airtight containers
660.07   Storage of inoperable motor vehicles
660.08   Open burning
660.09   Barricades and warning lights
660.10   Sidewalk obstructions; damage or injury
660.11   Notice to fill lots, remove putrid substances
660.12   Fences
660.13   Smoking in places of public assembly
660.135   Smoking within 25 feet of any entrance to a non-smoking facility
660.14   Handbills
660.15   Posting notices on public property
660.16   Removal of noxious weeds, litter and automobiles
660.17   Outdoor storage (Repealed)
Cross-reference:
   Animal nuisances-see GEN. OFF.
618.13
   Inducing panic, see GEN. OFF.
648.07
   Loads dropping or leaking; tracking mud; removal required, see TRAF.
440.06
   Placing harmful substance or objects in food or confection, see GEN. OFF.
636.16
   Placing injurious material or obstruction in street, see TRAF.
412.01
   Rabies quarantine, see GEN. OFF.
618.11
   Riot, see GEN. OFF.
648.01 et seq.
   Safety and equipment for motor vehicles, see TRAF.
Ch. 438
   Weapons and explosives, see GEN. OFF.
Ch. 672
   Willfully leaving vehicles on private or public property, see TRAF.
452.05
Statutory reference:
   See section histories for similar state law
   Excavation liability, see Ohio R.C. 723.49 et seq.
   Nuisances, see Ohio R.C. Ch. 3767
§ 660.01 VENTING OF HEATERS AND BURNERS.
   (a)   The use of a brazier, salamander, space heater, room heater, furnace,
water heater, or other burner or heater using wood, coal, coke, fuel oil,
kerosene, gasoline, natural gas, liquid petroleum gas or similar fuel, and
tending to give off carbon monoxide or other harmful gases must comply with the
following provisions;
      (1)   When used in living quarters, or in any enclosed building or space
in which persons are usually present, shall be used with a flue or vent so
designed, installed, and maintained as to vent the products of combustion
outdoors; except in storage, factory, or industrial buildings which are
provided with sufficient ventilation to avoid the danger of carbon monoxide
poisoning.
      (2)   When used as a portable or temporary burner or heater at a
construction site, or in a warehouse, shed, or structure in which persons are
temporarily present, shall be vented as provided in division (a)(1) or used
with sufficient ventilation to avoid the danger of carbon monoxide poisoning.
   (b)   This section does not apply to domestic ranges, laundry stoves, gas
logs installed in a fireplace with an adequate flue, or hot plates, unless the
same are used as space or room heaters.
   (c)   No person shall negligently use, or, being the owner, person in
charge, or occupant of premises, negligently permit the use of a burner or
heater in violation of the standards for venting and ventilation provided in
this section.
   (d)   Division (a) above does not apply to any kerosene-fired space or room
heater that is equipped with an automatic extinguishing tip-over device, or to
any natural gas-fired or liquid petroleum gas-fired space or room heater that
is equipped with an oxygen depletion safety shut-off system, and that has its
fuel piped from a source outside the building in which it is located, that are
approved by an authoritative source recognized by the State Fire Marshal in the
State Fire Code adopted by him or her under Ohio R.C. 3737.82.
   (e)   The State Fire Marshal may make rules to ensure the safe use of
unvented kerosene, natural gas, or liquid petroleum gas heaters exempted from
division (a) above when used in assembly buildings, business buildings, high
hazard buildings, institutional buildings, mercantile buildings, and type R-
1 and R-2 residential buildings, as these groups of buildings are defined in
rules adopted by the Board of Building Standards under Ohio R.C. 3781.10. No
person shall negligently use, or, being the owner, person in charge or occupant
of premises, negligently permit the use of a heater in violation of any rules
adopted under this division.
   (f)   The State Fire Marshal may make rules prescribing standards for
written instructions containing ventilation requirements and warning of any
potential fire hazards that may occur in using a kerosene, natural gas, or
liquid petroleum gas heater. No person shall sell or offer for sale any
kerosene, natural gas, or liquid petroleum gas heater unless the manufacturer
provides with the heater written instructions that comply with any rules
adopted under this division.
   (g)   No product labeled as a fuel additive for kerosene heaters and having
a flash point below 100°F or 37.8°C shall be sold, offered for sale, or used in
any kerosene space heater.
   (h)   No device that prohibits any safety feature on a kerosene, natural
gas, or liquid petroleum gas space heater from operating shall be sold, offered
for sale, or used in connection with any kerosene, natural gas, or liquid
petroleum gas space heater.
   (i)   No person shall sell or offer for sale any kerosene-fired, natural
gas, or liquid petroleum gas-fired heater that is not exempt from division (a)
above, unless it is marked conspicuously by the manufacturer on the container
with the phrase “Not Approved For Home Use.”
   (j)   No person shall use a cabinet-type, liquid petroleum gas-fired heater
having a fuel source within the heater, inside any building, except as
permitted by the State Fire Marshal in the State Fire Code adopted by him or
her under Ohio R.C. 3737.82.
(ORC 3701.82)
   (k)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(ORC 3701.99(B))
§ 660.02 SPREADING CONTAGION.
   (a)   No person, knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that the
person has a dangerous, contagious disease, shall knowingly fail to take
reasonable measures to prevent exposing self to other persons, except when
seeking medical aid.
   (b)   No person, having charge or care of a person whom the person having
charge or care knows or has reasonable cause to believe has a dangerous,
contagious disease, shall recklessly fail to take reasonable measures to
protect others from exposure to the contagion, and to inform health authorities
of the existence of the contagion.
   (c)   No person, having charge of a public conveyance or place of public
accommodation, amusement, resort, or trade, and knowing or having reasonable
cause to believe that persons using such conveyance or place have been or are
being exposed to a dangerous, contagious disease, shall negligently fail to
take reasonable measures to protect the public from exposure to the contagion,
and to inform health authorities of the existence of the contagion.
(ORC 3701.81)
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second
degree.
(ORC 3701.99(C))
§ 660.03 LITTERING.
   (a)   No person, regardless of intent, shall deposit litter or cause litter
to be deposited on any public property, on private property not owned by him or
her, or in or on waters of the state, unless one of the following applies:
      (1)   The person is directed to do so by a public official as part of a
litter collection drive.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (b) of this section, the person
deposits the litter in a litter receptacle in a manner that prevents its being
carried away by the elements.
      (3)   The person is issued a permit or license covering the litter
pursuant to Ohio R.C. Chapter 3734 or 6111.
   (b)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall knowingly deposit litter,
or cause it to be deposited, in a litter receptacle located on any public
property or on any private property not owned by him or her, unless one of the
following applies:
      (1)   The litter was generated or located on the property on which the
litter receptacle is located.
      (2)   The person is directed to do so by a public official as part of a
litter collection drive.
      (3)   The person is directed to do so by a person whom he or she
reasonably believes to have the privilege to use the litter receptacle.
      (4)   The litter consists of any of the following:
         A.   The contents of a litter bag or container of a type and size
customarily carried and used in a motor vehicle.
         B.   The contents of an ash tray of a type customarily installed or
carried and used in a motor vehicle.
         C.   Beverage containers and food sacks, wrappings, and containers of
a type and in an amount that reasonably may be expected to be generated during
routine commuting or business or recreational travel by a motor vehicle.
         D.   Beverage containers, food sacks, wrappings, containers, and other
materials of a type and in an amount that reasonably may be expected to be
generated during a routine day by a person and deposited in a litter receptacle
by a casual passerby.
   (c)   (1)   As used in division (b)(1) of this section, “public property”
includes any private property open to the public for the conduct of business,
the provision of a service, or upon the payment of a fee but does not include
any private property to which the public otherwise does not have a right of
access.
      (2)   As used in division (b)(4) of this section, “casual passerby” means
a person who does not have depositing litter in a litter receptacle as his or
her primary reason for traveling to or by the property on which the litter
receptacle is located.
   (d)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   “Auxiliary container.” A bag, can, cup, food or beverage service
item, container, keg, bottle, or other packaging to which all of the following
apply:
         A.   It is designed to be either single use or reusable.
         B.   It is made of cloth, paper, plastic, foamed or expanded plastic,
cardboard, corrugated material, aluminum, metal, glass, postconsumer recycled
material, or similar materials or substances, including coated, laminated, or
multilayered substrates.
         C.   It is designed for consuming, transporting, or protecting
merchandise, food, or beverages from or at a food service operation, retail
food establishment, grocery, or any other type of retail, manufacturing, or
distribution establishment.
      (2)   “Deposit.” To throw, drop, discard or place.
      (3)   “Litter.” Garbage, trash, waste, rubbish, ashes, cans, bottles,
wire, paper, cartons, boxes, automobile parts, furniture, glass, auxiliary
containers, or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature.
      (4)   “Litter receptacle.” A dumpster, trash can, trash bin, garbage can
or similar container in which litter is deposited for removal.
   (e)   This section may be enforced by any sheriff, deputy sheriff, police
officer of a municipal corporation, police constable or officer of a township,
or township or joint police district, wildlife officer designated under R.C. §
1531.13, natural resources officer appointed under R.C. § 1501.24, forest-fire
investigator appointed under R.C. § 1503.09, conservancy district police
officer, inspector of nuisances of a county, or any other law enforcement
officer within the law enforcement officer’s jurisdiction.
(R.C. § 3767.32)
   (f)   Whoever violates any provision of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. The sentencing court may, in addition to or in
lieu of the penalty provided in this division, require a person who violates
this section to remove litter from any public or private property or in or on
waters of the state.
(R.C. § 3767.99(C))
§ 660.031 ILLEGAL DUMPING OF GARBAGE OR TRASH WITHIN ALLEYS OR WAYS.
   (a)   No person, not a resident of the City of Ironton, shall drop, discard,
place or deposit litter, garbage, trash, refuse or rubbish in the alleys,
streets or ways of the City of Ironton.
   (b)   The definitions of litter, garbage, refuse and rubbish shall be
considered as set forth in §
660.16 of the Codified Ordinances of the City of Ironton as amended.
   (c)   It shall be no defense that such deposit was made with the consent of
a resident of the City of Ironton or that such deposit was made in a proper
litter receptacle or garbage container.
   (d)   Any person who violates this section is guilty of illegal dumping, a
misdemeanor of the third degree, punishable by not more than 60 days
imprisonment and a fine of not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). The
sentencing court may in addition to or in lieu of the penalty provided herein,
require a person who violated this section to remove such illegal deposit.
(Ord. 92-29, passed 5-14-1992)
§ 660.04 NOXIOUS ODORS; FILTHY ACCUMULATIONS; POLLUTING AND DIVERTING
WATERCOURSES.
   (a)   No person shall erect, continue to use, or maintain a building,
structure, or place for the exercise of a trade, employment, or business or for
keeping or feeding an animal which, by occasioning noxious exhalations or
noisome or offensive smells, becomes injurious to the health, comfort, or
property of individuals or of the public.
   (b)   No person shall cause or allow offal, filth, or noisome substances to
be collected or remain in any place to the damage or prejudice of others or of
the public.
   (c)   No person shall unlawfully obstruct or impede the passage of a
navigable river, harbor, or collection of water, or corrupt or render
unwholesome or impure a watercourse, stream of water, or unlawfully divert such
watercourse from its natural course or state to the injury or prejudice of
others.
   (d)   Persons who are engaged in agriculture-related activities, as
“agriculture” is defined in Ohio R.C. 519.01, and who are conducting those
activities outside the municipality, in accordance with generally accepted
agricultural practices, and in such a manner so as not to have a substantial,
adverse effect on the public health, safety, or welfare, are exempt from
divisions (a) and (b) above and from any ordinances, resolutions, rules, or
other enactments of the municipality that prohibit excessive noise.
(ORC 3767.13)
   (e)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(ORC 3767.99(C))
§ 660.05 DUTY TO KEEP SIDEWALKS IN REPAIR AND CLEAN.
   (a)   No owner or occupant of lots or lands abutting any sidewalk, curb or
gutter shall fail to keep the sidewalks, curbs and gutters in repair and free
from snow, ice or any nuisance, and to remove from such sidewalks, curbs or
gutters all snow and ice accumulated thereon within a reasonable time, which
will ordinarily not exceed 12 hours after any storm during which the snow and
ice has accumulated.
(ORC 723.011)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
§ 660.06 ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS AND AIRTIGHT CONTAINERS.
   (a)   No person shall abandon, discard, or knowingly permit to remain on
premises under the person’s control, in a place accessible to children, any
abandoned or discarded icebox, refrigerator, or other airtight or semi-airtight
container which has a capacity of 1 and one-half cubic feet or more and an
opening of 50 square inches or more and which has a door or lid equipped with a
hinge, latch, or other fastening device capable of securing such door or lid,
without rendering the equipment harmless to human life by removing such hinges,
latches or other hardware which may cause a person to be confined therein. This
section shall not apply to an icebox, refrigerator or other airtight or semi-
airtight container located in that part of a building occupied by a dealer,
warehouse or repairer.
(ORC 3767.29)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(ORC 3767.99(B))
§ 660.07 STORAGE OF INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (a)   No person shall store or permit to be stored an inoperable motor
vehicle on public or private property in the city for longer than 24 hours
unless the inoperative motor vehicle is stored inside a building or in such a
location as not to be viewable by the public, and unless the same is maintained
so as not to create a possible source of health and safety hazards. The storage
of an inoperable motor vehicle shall be prima-facie evidence of a violation of
this section.
   (b)   As used in this section, “inoperable motor vehicle” means any motor
vehicle which has any of the following parts removed: engine, drive train or
any part thereof, doors, hood, trunk, windshield, side glass, fenders,
headlights, tail lights and/or tires. It includes any motor vehicle which could
not operate under its own power.
(Ord. 5726, passed 9-13-1973)
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and
shall be subject to the penalty provided in §
698.02 A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which
a violation occurs or continues.
§ 660.08 OPEN BURNING.
   (a)   (1)   Definitions. As used in this section:
         A.   “Agricultural waste.” Any waste material generated by crop,
horticultural, or livestock production practices, and includes such items as
woody debris and plant matter from stream flooding, bags, cartons, structural
materials, and landscape wastes that are generated in agricultural activities,
but does not include land clearing waste; buildings (including dismantled/
fallen barns); garbage; dead animals; animal waste; motor vehicles and parts
thereof; nor economic poisons and containers thereof, unless the manufacturer
has identified open burning as a safe disposal procedure.
         B.   “Air curtain burner.” An engineered apparatus consisting of a
motorized high-velocity fan and an air distribution system designed to aid in
the efficient combustion of materials placed in a manufactured steel structure
and for which a permit-to-install has been obtained as required in O.A.C.
Chapter 3745-31 and a permit-to-operate has been obtained as required in O.A.C.
Chapter 3745-77.
         C.   “Air curtain destructor.” An engineered apparatus consisting of a
motorized high-velocity fan and an air distribution system designed to aid in
the efficient combustion of materials placed in an adjacent pit. An air curtain
burner may be used in place of an air curtain destructor, but an air curtain
destructor may not be used in place of an air curtain burner.
         D.   “Economic poisons.” Include but are not restricted to pesticides
such as insecticides, fungicides, rodenticides, miticides, nematocides and
fumigants; herbicides; seed disinfectants; and defoliants.
         E.   “Emergency burning.” The burning of clean wood waste or deceased
animals caused by a natural disaster or an uncontrolled event such as the
following:
            1.   A tornado.
            2.   High winds.
            3.   An earthquake.
            4.   An explosion.
            5.   A flood.
            6.   A hail storm, a rain storm, or an ice storm.
         F.   “Garbage.” Any waste material resulting from the handling,
processing, preparation, cooking and consumption of food or food products.
         G.   “Inhabited building.” Any inhabited private dwelling house and
any public structure which may be used as a place of resort, assembly,
education, entertainment, lodging, trade, manufacture, repair, storage,
traffic, or occupancy by the public. Examples would include, but are not
limited to, highway rest stops, restaurants, motels, hotels and gas stations.
         H.   “Land clearing waste.” Plant waste material which is removed from
land, including plant waste material removed from stream banks during projects
involving more than one property owner, for the purpose of rendering the land
useful for residential, commercial, or industrial development. Land clearing
waste also includes the plant waste material generated during the clearing of
land for new agricultural development.
         I.   “Landscape waste.” Any plant waste material, except garbage,
including trees, tree trimmings, branches, stumps, brush, weeds, leaves, grass,
shrubbery, yard trimmings, and crop residues.
         J.   “Ohio EPA.” The Ohio Environmental Protection Agency Director or
agencies delegated authority by the Director of the Ohio Environmental
Protection Agency pursuant to Ohio R.C. 3704.03 or the Chief of any Ohio
Environmental Protection Agency District Office.
         K.   “Open burning.” The burning of any materials wherein air
contaminants resulting from combustion are emitted directly into the ambient
air without passing through a stack or chimney. Open burning includes the
burning of any refuse or salvageable material in any device not subject to or
designed specifically to comply with the requirements of O.A.C. 3745-17-09 or
O.A.C. 3745-17-10.
         L.   “Residential waste.” Any waste material, including landscape
waste, generated on the property of a one-, two- or three-family residence as a
result of residential activities, but not including garbage, rubber, grease,
asphalt, liquid petroleum products, or plastics.
         M.   “Restricted area.” The area within the boundary of the
municipality, plus a zone extending 1,000 feet beyond the boundaries of a
municipality having a population of 1,000 to 10,000 persons and a zone
extending one mile beyond any municipality having a population of 10,000
persons or more according to the latest federal census.
         N.   “Unrestricted area.” All areas outside the boundaries of a
restricted area as defined in this section.
      (2)   Referenced materials. This section includes references to certain
matter or materials. The text of the referenced materials is not included in
the legislation contained in this section. Information on the availability of
the referenced materials as well as the date of, and/or the particular edition
or version of the material is included in this legislation. For materials
subject to change, only the specific versions specified in this legislation are
referenced. Material is referenced as it exists on the effective date of this
legislation. Except for subsequent annual publication of existing (unmodified)
Code of Federal Regulation compilations, any amendment or revision to a
referenced document is not applicable unless and until this section has been
amended to specify the new dates.
         A.   Availability. The referenced materials are available as follows:
            1.   Clean Air Act. Information and copies may be obtained by
writing to: Superintendent of Documents, Attn: New Orders, PO Box 371954,
Pittsburgh, PA 15250-7954. The full text of the act as amended in 1990 is also
available in electronic format at www.epa.gov/oar/caa/. A copy of the act is
also available for inspection and use at most public libraries and the State
Library of Ohio.
            2.   Code of Federal Regulations (C.F.R.). Information and copies
may be obtained by writing to: Superintendent of Documents, Attn: New Orders,
PO Box 371954, Pittsburgh, PA 15250-7954. The full text of the C.F.R. is also
available in electronic format at http://www.ecfr.gov. The C.F.R. compilations
are also available for inspection and use at most public libraries and the
State Library of Ohio.
            3.   National Fire Protection Association. Information on the
National Fire Protection Association codes may be obtained by contacting the
Association at 1 Batterymarch Park, Quincy, Massachusetts 02169-7471, 617-770-
3000. Codes may be ordered at www.nfpa.org/ catalog/home/index.asp. Copies of
the code exist or are available at most public libraries and the State Library
of Ohio.
         B.   Referenced materials.
            1.   40 C.F.R. § 60.2974: “Am I required to apply for and obtain a
title V operating permit for my air curtain incinerator that burns only wood
waste, clean lumber, and yard waste?” as published in the July 1, 2012 Code of
Federal Regulations.
            2.   40 C.F.R. § 60.3069: “Am I required to apply for and obtain a
title V operating permit for my air curtain incinerator that burns only wood
waste, clean lumber, and yard waste?” as published in the July 1, 2012 Code of
Federal Regulations.
            3.   NFPA publication 1403: “Standard on Live Fire Training
Evolutions, Chapter 4, Acquired Structures” published April 30, 2007.
            4.   Section 129 of the Clean Air Act, contained in 42 U.S.C. §
7429: “Solid waste combustion” published January 2, 2006 in Supplement V of the
2000 Edition of the United States Code.
(O.A.C. 3745-19-01)
   (b)   Relation to other laws.
      (1)   Notwithstanding any provision in O.A.C. Chapter 3745-19, no open
burning shall be conducted in an area where an air alert, warning or emergency
under O.A.C. Chapter 3745-25 is in effect.
      (2)   No provisions of O.A.C. Chapter 3745-19 permitting open burning,
and no permission to open burn granted by the Ohio EPA, shall exempt any person
from compliance with any section of the Ohio Revised Code, or any regulation of
any state department, or any local ordinance or regulation dealing with open
burning.
(O.A.C. 3745-19-02)
   (c)   Open burning in restricted areas.
      (1)   No person or property owner shall cause or allow open burning in a
restricted area except as provided in divisions (c)(2) to (c)(4) of this
section or in Ohio R.C. 3704.11.
      (2)   A.   Open burning shall be allowed for the following purposes
without notification to or permission from the Ohio EPA:
            1.   Cooking for human consumption;
            2.   Heating tar, welding, acetylene torches, highway safety
flares, heating for warmth of outdoor workers and strikers, smudge pots and
similar occupational needs.
         B.   Fires set at the direction of federal, state, and local law
enforcement officials for the purpose of destruction of cannabis sativa
(marijuana) plant vegetation, processed marijuana material and/or other drugs
seized by federal, state, or local law enforcement officials.
         C.   Fires allowed by divisions (c)(2)A.1. and (c)(2)A.2. of this
section shall not be used for waste disposal purposes and shall be of minimum
size sufficient for their intended purpose; the fuel shall be chosen to
minimize the generation and emission of air contaminants.
      (3)   Open burning shall be allowed for the following purposes with prior
notification to the Ohio EPA in accordance with division (d)(2) of this
section:
         A.   Prevention or control of disease or pests, with written or verbal
verification to the Ohio EPA from the Ohio Department of Health or local health
department, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, cooperative
extension service, Ohio Department of Agriculture, or United States Department
of Agriculture, that open burning is the only appropriate disposal method.
         B.   Ceremonial fires provided the following conditions are met:
            1.   The ceremonial fires shall be less than five feet by five feet
in dimension and shall burn no longer than three hours;
            2.   The ceremonial fires shall not be used for waste disposal
purposes; and
            3.   The fuel shall be chosen so as to minimize the generation and
emission of air contaminants.
         C.   Disposal of agricultural waste generated on the premises if the
following conditions are observed:
            1.   The fire is set only when atmospheric conditions will readily
dissipate contaminants;
            2.   The fire does not create a visibility hazard on the roadways,
railroad tracks, or air fields;
            3.   The fire is located at a point on the premises no less than
1,000 feet from any inhabited building not located on said premises;
            4.   The wastes are stacked and dried to provide the best
practicable condition for efficient burning; and
            5.   No materials are burned which contain rubber, grease, asphalt
or liquid petroleum products, plastics or building materials.
      (4)   Open burning shall be allowed for the following purposes upon
receipt of written permission from the Ohio EPA, in accordance with division
(d)(1) of this section, provided that any conditions specified in the
permission are followed:
         A.   Disposal of ignitable or explosive materials where the Ohio EPA
determines that there is no practical alternate method of disposal;
         B.   Instruction in methods of fire fighting or for research in the
control of fires;
         C.   In emergency or other extraordinary circumstances for any purpose
determined to be necessary by the Ohio EPA; and
         D.   Recognized horticultural, silvicultural (forestry), range, or
wildlife management practices; and
         E.   Fires and/or pyrotechnic effects, for purposes other than waste
disposal, set as part of commercial film-making or video production activities
for motion pictures and television.
(O.A.C. 3745-19-03)
   (d)   Permission to individuals and notification to the Ohio EPA.
      (1)   Permission.
         A.   An application for permission to open burn shall be submitted in
writing to Ohio EPA. The applicant shall allow Ohio EPA at least ten working
days to review the permit. Applicant may proceed with burn upon receipt of
written permission from Ohio EPA. Saturday, Sunday, and legal holidays shall
not be considered working days. The application shall be in such form and
contain such information as required by the Ohio EPA.
         B.   Except as provided in division (d)(1)F. of this section, such
applications shall contain, as a minimum, information regarding:
            1.   The purpose of the proposed burning;
            2.   The quantity or acreage and the nature of the materials to be
burned;
            3.   The date or dates when such burning will take place;
            4.   The location of the burning site, including a map showing
distances to residences, populated areas, roadways, air fields, and other
pertinent landmarks; and
            5.   The methods or actions which will be taken to reduce the
emissions of air contaminants.
         C.   Permission to open burn shall not be granted unless the applicant
demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Ohio EPA that open burning is necessary
to the public interest; will be conducted in a time, place, and manner as to
minimize the emission of air contaminants, when atmospheric conditions are
appropriate; and will have no serious detrimental effect upon adjacent
properties or the occupants thereof. The Ohio EPA may impose such conditions as
may be necessary to accomplish the purpose of O.A.C. Chapter 3745-19.
         D.   Except as provided in division (d)(1)F. of this section,
permission to open burn must be obtained for each specific project. In
emergencies where public health or environmental quality will be seriously
threatened by delay while written permission is sought, the fire may be set
with oral permission of the Ohio EPA.
         E.   Violations of any of the conditions set forth by the Ohio EPA in
granting permission to open burn shall be grounds for revocation of such
permission and refusal to grant future permission, as well as for the
imposition of other sanctions provided by law.
         F.   The Ohio Department of Commerce, Division of State Fire Marshal,
may request permission to open burn on an annual basis for the purpose of
training firefighters on pre-flashover conditions using the Ohio Fire Academy’s
mobile training laboratory at either the Academy or at other training sites in
Ohio. The annual application required pursuant to division (d)(1)A. of this
section shall contain information as required in division (d)(1)B. of this
section, except the information required in divisions (d)(1)B.3. and (d)(1)B.4.
of this section need not be provided unless it is available at the time of
submittal of the application. The Academy shall contact the appropriate Ohio
EPA district office or local air agency at least five days before each training
session of the date or dates when the training session will take place and its
location.
      (2)   Notification.
         A.   Notification shall be submitted in writing at least ten days
before the fire is to be set. It shall be in such form and contain such
information as shall be required by the Ohio EPA.
         B.   Such notification shall inform the Ohio EPA regarding:
            1.   The purpose of the proposed burning;
            2.   The nature and quantities of materials to be burned;
            3.   The date or dates when such burning will take place; and
            4.   The location of the burning site.
         C.   The Ohio EPA, after receiving notification, may determine that
the open burning is not allowed under O.A.C. Chapter 3745-19 and the Ohio EPA
shall notify the applicant to this effect.
(O.A.C. 3745-19-05)
   (e)   Penalty. Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is
guilty of a minor misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed
each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. In addition, the
offender shall be required to pay the cost of proper disposal of the materials
burned. The cost of proper disposal of the materials burned shall be the amount
it would have cost to dispose of the materials in a manner that is consistent
with the air, water and solid waste laws, ordinances and regulations of the
municipality and the state.
§ 660.09 BARRICADES AND WARNING LIGHTS.
   (a)   No person shall abandon or knowingly permit to remain on public or
private property, any excavation, well, cesspool or structure which is in the
process of construction, reconstruction, repair or alteration unless the same
is adequately protected by suitable barricades and guarded by warning devices
or lights at night so that the condition will not reasonably prove dangerous to
life or limb.
   (b)   No person shall destroy, remove, damage or extinguish any barricade or
warning light that is placed for the protection of the public so as to prevent
injury to life or limb.
   (c)   Any owner or agent in control of a premises upon which a basement,
cellar, well or cistern has been abandoned due to demolition, failure to build
or any other reason shall cause the same to be filled to the ground surface
with rock, gravel, earth or other suitable material.
   (d)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues.
§ 660.10 SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTIONS; DAMAGE OR INJURY.
   (a)   No person shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a sidewalk or
playground any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails or other articles which may
damage property of another or injure any person or animal traveling along or
upon such sidewalk or playground.
   (b)   No person shall walk on, or allow any animal upon, or injure or deface
in any way, any soft or newly laid sidewalk pavement.
   (c)   No person shall place, deposit or maintain any merchandise, goods,
material or equipment upon any sidewalk so as to obstruct pedestrian traffic
thereon except for such reasonable time as may be actually necessary for the
delivery or pickup of such articles. In no case shall the obstruction remain on
such sidewalk for more than one hour.
   (d)   No person shall unload upon, or transport any heavy merchandise,
goods, material or equipment over or across any sidewalk or curb without first
placing some sufficient protection over the pavement to protect against damage
or injury.
   (e)   No person shall allow any cellar or trap door, coal chute or elevator
or lift opening in any sidewalk to remain open without providing suitable
safeguards to protect and warn pedestrian traffic of the dangerous conditions.
   (f)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues.
§ 660.11 NOTICE TO FILL LOTS, REMOVE PUTRID SUBSTANCES.
   (a)   No person shall fail to comply with the following requirements within
the lawful time after service or publication of the notice or resolution is
made as required by law: to fill or drain any lot or land or remove all putrid
substances therefrom, or remove all obstructions from culverts, covered drains
or natural watercourses as provided in Ohio R.C. 715.47.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
§ 660.12 FENCES.
   (a)   No person shall erect or maintain any fence charged with electrical
current.
   (b)   No person shall erect or maintain a barbed wire fence which abuts or
is adjacent to any public street or sidewalk. This division (b) does not
prevent the placement and use of not more than two strands of barbed wire on
top of a fence other than a barbed wire fence, provided such strands are not
less than 48 inches from the ground.
   (c)   Barbed wire partition fences may be erected and maintained as provided
in Ohio R.C. 971.03.
   (d)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues.
§ 660.13 SMOKING IN PLACES OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY.
   (a)   As used in this section, “place of public assembly” means:
      (1)   Enclosed theaters, except the lobby; opera houses; auditoriums;
classrooms; elevators; rooms in which persons are confined as a matter of
health care, including but not limited to a hospital room and a room in a
residential care facility serving as the residence of a person living in such
residential care facility.
      (2)   All buildings and other enclosed structures owned by the state, its
agencies, or political subdivisions, including but not limited to hospitals and
state institutions for persons with mental illnesses and persons with
intellectual disabilities; university and college buildings, except rooms
within those buildings used primarily as the residences of students or other
persons affiliated with the university or college; office buildings; libraries;
museums; and vehicles used in public transportation. That portion of a building
or other enclosed structure that is owned by the state, a state agency, or a
political subdivision, and that is used primarily as a food service
establishment, is not a place of public assembly.
      (3)   Each portion of a building or enclosed structure that is not
included in division (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section is a place of public
assembly if it has a seating capacity of 50 or more persons and is available to
the public. Restaurants, food service establishments, dining rooms, cafes,
cafeterias, or other rooms used primarily for the service of food, as well as
bowling alleys and places licensed by the Ohio Division of Liquor Control to
sell intoxicating beverages for consumption on the premises, are not places of
public assembly.
   (b)   For the purpose of separating persons who smoke from persons who do
not smoke for the comfort and health of persons not smoking, in every place of
public assembly there shall be an area where smoking is not permitted, which
shall be designated a no smoking area, provided that not more than one-half of
the rooms in any health care facility in which persons are confined as a matter
of health care may be designated as smoking areas in their entirety. The
designation shall be made before the place of public assembly is made available
to the public. In places included in division (a)(1) of this section, the local
fire authority having jurisdiction shall designate the no smoking area. In
places included in division (a)(2) of this section that are owned by the state
or its agencies, the Ohio Director of Administrative Services shall designate
the area, and if the place is owned by a political subdivision, its legislative
authority shall designate an officer who shall designate the area. In places
included in division (a)(3) of this section, the person having control of the
operations of the place of public assembly shall designate the no smoking area.
In places included in division (a)(2) of this section which are also included
in division (a)(1) of this section, the officer who has authority to designate
the area in places in division (a)(2) of this section shall designate the no
smoking area. A no smoking area may include the entire place of public
assembly. Designations shall be made by the placement of signs that are clearly
visible and that state “no smoking.” No person shall remove signs from areas
designated as no smoking areas.
   (c)   This section does not affect or modify the prohibition contained in
Ohio R.C. 3313.751(B).
   (d)   No person shall smoke in any area designated as a no smoking area in
accordance with division (b) of this section.
   (e)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(ORC 3791.031)
§ 660.135 SMOKING WITHIN 25 FEET OF ANY ENTRANCE TO A NON-SMOKING FACILITY.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke tobacco products within
25 feet of any entrance to any facility or building that has a no smoking
policy within the facility or building.
   (b)   Whoever violates the smoking prohibition in division (a) shall be
guilty of a minor misdemeanor and be subject to a fine of up to one hundred
dollars ($100.00).
(Ord. 05-08, passed 1-24-2005)
§ 660.14 HANDBILLS.
   (a)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      (1)   “Commercial handbill” means any printed or written matter, sample,
device, dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet or other printed or
otherwise reproduced original or copy of any matter of literature which:
         A.   Advertises for sale any merchandise, product, commodity or thing;
         B.   Directs attention to any business, mercantile or commercial
establishment or other activity for the purpose of either directly or
indirectly promoting the interest thereof by sales;
         C.   Directs attention to or advertises any meeting, theatrical
performance, exhibition or event of any kind for which an admission fee is
charged for the purpose of private gain or profit. This section shall not apply
where an admission fee is charged or a collection is taken up for the purpose
of defraying the expenses incident to such meeting, theatrical performance,
exhibition or event of any kind, when either of the same is held, given or
takes place in connection with the dissemination of information which is not
restricted under the ordinary rules of decency, good morals, public peace,
safety and good order. However, nothing contained in this section shall be
deemed to authorize the holding, giving or taking place of any meeting,
theatrical performance, exhibition or event of any kind, without a license,
where such license is or may be required by any law of the state or under any
ordinance of the city; or
         D.   While containing reading matter other than advertising matter, is
predominantly and essentially an advertisement and is distributed or circulated
for advertising purposes or for the private benefit and gain of any person so
engaged as an advertiser or distributor.
      (2)   “Newspaper” means any newspaper of general circulation, as defined
by general law, any newspaper duly entered with the United States Postal
Service in accordance with federal statues or regulations and any newspaper
filed and recorded with any recording officer as provided by general law. In
addition, “newspaper” means any periodical or current magazine regularly
published with not less than four issues per year and sold to the public.
      (3)   “Noncommercial handbill” means any printed or written matter,
sample, device, dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, newspaper, magazine,
paper, booklet or other printed or otherwise reproduced original or copy of any
matter of literature not included in the definitions of commercial handbill or
newspaper.
      (4)   “Private premises” means any dwelling, house, building or other
structure designed or used either wholly or in part for private residential
purposes, whether inhabited or temporarily or continuously uninhabited or
vacant, and includes any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, porch, steps, vestibule
or mailbox belonging or appurtenant to such dwelling, house, building or other
structure.
      (5)   “Public place” means any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards,
alleys or other public ways and any and all public parks, squares, spaces,
grounds and buildings.
      (6)   “Vehicle” means every device in, upon or by which any person or
property is or may be transported or drawn upon a highway, including devices
used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
   (b)   Public property. No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or
noncommercial handbill in or upon any sidewalk, street or other public place in
the city. No person shall hand out, distribute or sell any commercial handbill
in any public place. However, on any sidewalk, street or other public place in
the city, any person may hand out or distribute, without charge to the receiver
thereof, any noncommercial handbill to any person willing to accept it.
   (c)   Motor vehicles. No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or
noncommercial handbill in or upon any vehicle. However, in any public place any
person may hand out or distribute, without charge to the receiver thereof, a
noncommercial handbill to any occupant of a vehicle who is willing to accept
it.
   (d)   Vacant private property. No person shall throw or deposit any
commercial or noncommercial handbill in or upon any private premises which are
temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant.
   (e)   Prohibitions. No person shall throw, deposit or distribute any
commercial or noncommercial handbill upon any private premises, if requested by
anyone thereon not to do so, or if there is placed on the premises, in a
conspicuous position near the entrance thereof, a sign bearing the words: “No
trespassing,” “No peddlers or agents,” “No advertisement” or any similar notice
indicating in any matter that the occupants of the premises do not desire to be
molested, have their right of privacy disturbed or have any handbills left upon
the premises.
   (f)   Private property. No person shall throw, deposit or distribute any
commercial or noncommercial handbill in or upon private premises which are
inhabited, except by handing or transmitting such handbill directly to the
owner, occupant or other person then present in or upon the private premises.
   (g)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to the distribution of mail
by the United States, nor to newspapers, except that newspapers shall be placed
on private property in such a manner as to prevent their being carried or
deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other public place or
upon private property.
(Ord. 4990, passed 7-12-1963)
   (h)   Penalty. Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree and shall be subject to a fine not
exceeding fifty dollars ($50.00) to an amount not exceeding two hundred dollars
($200.00).
(Ord. 98-47, passed 8-13-1998)
§ 660.15 POSTING NOTICES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (a)   No person shall post or affix any notice, poster or other paper or
device, calculated to attract the attention of the public, to any lamp post,
public utility pole or shade tree, or upon any public structure or building,
except as may be authorized or required by law.
(Ord. 4990, passed 7-12-1963)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree and shall be subject and be subject to a fine not exceeding fifty
dollars ($50.00) to an amount not exceeding two hundred dollars ($200.00).
(Ord. 98-47, passed 8-13-1998)
§ 660.16 REMOVAL OF NOXIOUS WEEDS, LITTER AND AUTOMOBILES.
   (a)   Notice to cut or remove.
      (1)   Upon written or verbal information that noxious weeds are growing
on lands in the city and are about to spread or mature seeds, the Law
Enforcement Officer for the City of Ironton shall have cause to investigate the
information and/or complaint.
      (2)   Upon finding that noxious weeds are growing on lands in the city
and are about to spread or mature, the Law Enforcement Officer for the City of
Ironton shall cause a written notice to be served upon the owner, lessee, agent
or tenant having charge of such land, notifying him or her that noxious weeds
are growing on such land and that they must be cut and destroyed within five
days after the service of such notice.
      (3)   Upon a finding by the Law Enforcement Officer for the City of
Ironton that litter has been placed on lands in the city and has not been
removed, and constitutes a detriment to public health, the Law Enforcement
Officer for the City of Ironton shall cause a written notice to be served upon
the owner and, if different, upon the lessee, agent or tenant having charge of
the littered land, notifying him or her that litter is on the land and that it
must be collected and removed within five days after the service of the notice.
      (4)   In residential areas, all outdoor storage of any kind, including
inoperative or abandoned vehicles, shall be enclosed and obscured from view in
a fenced in area and/or garage out of view from the public. The storage of
standard items, such as firewood, toys, bicycles and cookout equipment, shall
be exempt from the foregoing requirement.
      (5)   For purposes of this section, an inoperative or abandoned vehicle
shall be defined as set forth in R.C. § 4513.63(A), (B), (C), (D) and (E). The
definition of an inoperative vehicle shall also include any vehicle which is
not properly registered or licensed.
      (6)   The Law Enforcement Officer for the City of Ironton is hereby
authorized and empowered to notify and direct any person who is responsible for
outside storage that is in violation of the provisions of this chapter to
comply with the provisions hereof.
      (7)   Notice required by division (a)(2), (a)(3) and (a)(4) of this
section shall be served by one of the following means:
         A.   The Sheriff or a Deputy of the county or an officer of the
Ironton Police Department in one or more of the methods provided in the Ohio
Rules of Civil Procedure;
         B.   Certified or registered mail, overnight delivery service, hand
delivery, or any other method which includes a written evidence or receipt;
         C.   If the owner or other person having charge of the land is a
nonresident of the city whose address is known, the notice shall be sent to his
or her address by certified mail. If the address of the owner or other person
having charge of the land is unknown, it is sufficient to publish the notice
once in a newspaper of general circulation in the county.
         D.   The means provided in division (H) of R.C. § 1701.07, if the
person is a corporation.
         E.   At the discretion of the Law Enforcement Officer for the City of
Ironton, service of the foregoing notice may be accomplished by personal
service.
         F.   For purposes of this section, service is complete upon receipt of
the party being served, except as provided in division (H) of R.C. § 1701.07.
If the service is attempted upon the owner, lessee, agent or tenant having
charge of such land at the address contained in the Lawrence County Auditor's
tax duplicate for such property, and if the notice is returned unclaimed or
refused for any reason not the fault of the parties serving the notice, service
is complete when first attempted.
   (b)   Noncompliance with notice. If the owner, lessee, agent or tenant
having charge of the lands mentioned in division (a)(2), (a)(3), and (a)(4) of
this section fails, neglects or refuses to comply with the provisions of this
chapter within five days after receipt of the written notice provided for in
division (a)(6) of this section or within ten days after the date of such
notice in the event the same is returned to the city by the Post Office because
of its inability to make delivery thereof, provided the same was properly
addressed to the last known address of such person, the Law Enforcement Officer
for the City of Ironton shall cause such noxious weeds to be cut and destroyed,
litter removed and vehicles towed and may employ the necessary labor to perform
the task. All expenses incurred shall, when approved by Council, be paid out of
any money in the city treasury not otherwise appropriated.
   (c)   Written return to County Auditor; amount of lien upon. The Law
Enforcement Officer for the City of Ironton shall make a written return to the
County Auditor of his or her action under this section, with a statement of the
charges for the city's services, the amount paid for the performing of such
labor, the fees of the officers who made the service of the notice and return
and a proper description of the premises. Such amounts, when allowed, shall be
entered upon the tax duplicate, shall be a lien upon such lands from the date
of the entry and shall be collected as other taxes and returned to the city
with the General Fund.
   (d)   Penalty. Whoever fails to comply with notice required by this chapter
is guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be fined in the
amount not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00). Each day such violation is
committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and
shall be punishable as such hereunder.
   (e)   Exceptions. This section does not apply to land being used under a
municipal building or construction permit or license, a municipal permit or
license, a conditional zoning permit or variance to operate a junk yard, scrap
metal processing facility or similar businesses, or a permit or license issued
pursuant to R.C. Chapter 3734, §§ 4737.05 to 4737.12, or Chapter 6111.
   (f)   Definitions.
      (1)   “Litter" includes any "garbage," "refuse," and "rubbish" as defined
herein and all other waste material which, if thrown or deposited as herein
prohibited tends to create a danger to the public health, safety and welfare.
      (2)   "Garbage" includes any putrescible animal and vegetable waste
resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
      (3)   "Law Enforcement Officer" means a law enforcement officer as
defined in R.C. § 2901.01, code enforcement officer, building inspector, health
commissioner, or other officer authorized to enforce any code, ordinance,
resolution, or regulation described in this section.
      (4)   "Refuse" includes any putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes,
including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals, tires, and
solid market and industrial waste.
      (5)   "Rubbish" includes any nonputrescible solid wastes consisting of
both combustible and noncombustible waste, such as paper, bottles, wire,
wrappings, parts of automobiles, furniture, cardboard, cans, wood, glass,
bedding, crockery and anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature.
      (6)   "Weeds" shall be defined as noxious weeds, all grasses, annual
plants and vegetation, other than trees or scrubs provided; however, this term
shall not include cultivated flowers and gardens.
   (g)   Fee schedule for property assessment.
Lot size
   Less than 1 lot      $100.00
   1 lot                $150.00
   1.5 lots             $200.00
   2.0 lots             $300.00
Grass/weed height
Trash/debris/brush removed from property
   1 level P.U. truck lo$140.00
   Each additional load $160.00
Removal of appliance/furniture from property
   1st item             $60.00
   Each additional item $40.00
Tire removal
   Each tire            $100.00
Use of bush hog
   Per lot              $100.00
Use of front end load and/or dump truck per hour
   First hour           $160.00
   Additional hours     $80.00
 
(Ord. 14-12, passed 3-27-2014; Am. Ord. 18-28, passed 6-14-2018)
§ 660.17 OUTDOOR STORAGE. (REPEALED)
   (Editor’s note: Section 660.17 was repealed by Ordinance No. 14-12, passed
March 27, 2014.)
CHAPTER 666: SEX RELATED OFFENSES
Section
666.01   Definitions
666.02   Unlawful sexual conduct with a minor
666.03   Sexual imposition
666.04   Public indecency
666.05   Voyeurism
666.06   Polygraph examinations for victims: restrictions on use
666.07   Procuring; engagement in sexual activity for hire
666.08   Soliciting
666.085   Loitering to engage in solicitation
666.09   Prostitution
666.10   Rules of evidence
666.11   Disseminating matter harmful to juveniles
666.115   Displaying matter harmful to juveniles
666.12   Pandering obscenity (Repealed)
666.13   Possession and viewing of obscene material involving a minor
(Repealed)
666.14   Deception to obtain matter harmful to juveniles
666.15   Presumptions; notice
666.16   Declaratory judgment
666.17   Injunction; abatement of nuisance
666.18   Obscene dancing
666.19   Unlawful operation of viewing booths depicting sexual conduct
666.20   Juveniles on the premises of adult entertainment establishments
prohibited
666.21   Sexually oriented businesses; illegal operation and activity
666.22   Unlawful advertising of massage
666.23   Nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual images
666.24   Restricting sex offenders
666.99   Sentencing for sexually oriented offenses; sexual predators;
registration
Cross-reference:
   Criminal child enticement, see GEN. OFF.
636.08
   Definitions generally, see GEN. OFF.
606.01
   Spreading contagion, see GEN. OFF.
660.02
Statutory reference:
   Examination and treatment of venereal disease, see Ohio R.C. 2907.27
   Power to restrain houses of ill fame, see Ohio R.C. 715.52
   Registration of sex offenders in cities and counties, see Ohio R.C. 2950.01
et seq.
§ 666.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter:
   (a)   “Harmful to juveniles.” That quality of any material or performance
describing or representing nudity, sexual conduct, sexual excitement, or sado-
masochistic abuse in any form to which all of the following apply:
      (1)   The material or performance, when considered as a whole, appeals to
the prurient interest of juveniles in sex.
      (2)   The material or performance is patently offensive to prevailing
standards in the adult community as a whole with respect to what is suitable
for juveniles.
      (3)   The material or performance, when considered as a whole, lacks
serious literary, artistic, political, and scientific value for juveniles.
   (b)   “Juvenile.” Any unmarried person under 18 years of age.
   (c)   “Material.” Any book, magazine, newspaper, pamphlet, poster, print,
picture, figure, image, description, motion picture film, video cassette, laser
disc, phonograph record, cassette tape, compact disc, or other tangible thing
capable of arousing interest through sight, sound, or touch and includes an
image or text appearing on a computer monitor, television screen, liquid
crystal display, or similar display device or an image or text recorded on a
computer hard disk, computer floppy disk, compact disk, magnetic tape, or
similar data storage device.
   (d)   “Mental health client or patient.” Has the same meaning as in Ohio
R.C. 2305.51.
   (e)   “Mental health professional.” Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C.
2305.115.
   (f)   “Minor.” A person under the age of 18.
   (g)   “Nudity.” The showing, representation, or depiction of human male or
female genitals, pubic area, or buttocks with less than a full, opaque
covering, or of a female breast with less than a full, opaque covering of any
portion thereof below the top of the nipple, or of covered male genitals in a
discernibly turgid state.
   (h)   “Obscene.” When considered as a whole, and judged with reference to
ordinary adults or, if it is designed for sexual deviates or other specially
susceptible group, judged with reference to that group, any material or
performance is “obscene” if any of the following apply:
      (1)   Its dominant appeal is to prurient interest.
      (2)   Its dominant tendency is to arouse lust by displaying or depicting
sexual activity, masturbation, sexual excitement, or nudity in a way that tends
to represent human beings as mere objects of sexual appetite.
      (3)   Its dominant tendency is to arouse lust by displaying or depicting
bestiality or extreme or bizarre violence, cruelty, or brutality.
      (4)   Its dominant tendency is to appeal to scatological interest by
displaying or depicting human bodily functions of elimination in a way that
inspires disgust or revulsion in persons with ordinary sensibilities, without
serving any genuine scientific, educational, sociological, moral, or artistic
purpose.
      (5)   It contains a series of displays or descriptions of sexual
activity, masturbation, sexual excitement, nudity, bestiality, extreme or
bizarre violence, cruelty, or brutality, or human bodily functions of
elimination, the cumulative effect of which is a dominant tendency to appeal to
prurient or scatological interest, when the appeal to such an interest is
primarily for its own sake or for commercial exploitation, rather than
primarily for a genuine scientific, educational, sociological, moral, or
artistic purpose.
   (i)   “Performance.” Any motion picture, preview, trailer, play, show, skit,
dance, or other exhibition performed before an audience.
   (j)   “Place where a person has a reasonable expectation of privacy.” A
place where a reasonable person would believe that the person could fully
disrobe in private.
   (k)   “Private area.” The genitals, pubic area, buttocks, or female breast
below the top of the areola, where nude or covered by an undergarment.
   (l)   “Prostitute.” A male or female who promiscuously engages in sexual
activity for hire, regardless of whether the hire is paid to the prostitute or
to another.
   (m)   “Sado-masochistic abuse.” Flagellation or torture by or upon a person
or the condition of being fettered, bound, or otherwise physically restrained.
   (n)   “Sexual activity.” Sexual conduct or sexual contact, or both.
   (o)   “Sexual conduct.” Vaginal intercourse between a male and female; anal
intercourse, fellatio, and cunnilingus between persons regardless of sex; and,
without privilege to do so, the insertion, however slight, of any part of the
body or any instrument, apparatus, or other object into the vaginal or anal
opening of another. Penetration, however slight, is sufficient to complete
vaginal or anal intercourse.
   (p)   “Sexual contact.” Any touching of an erogenous zone of another,
including without limitation the thigh, genitals, buttock, pubic region, or, if
the person is a female, a breast, for the purpose of sexually arousing or
gratifying either person.
   (q)   “Sexual excitement.” The condition of human male or female genitals
when in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
   (r)   “Spouse.” A person married to an offender at the time of an alleged
offense, except that such person shall not be considered the spouse when any of
the following apply:
      (1)   When the parties have entered into a written separation agreement
pursuant to Ohio R.C. 3103.06.
      (2)   When an action is pending between the parties for annulment,
divorce, dissolution of marriage, or legal separation.
      (3)   In the case of an action for legal separation, after the effective
date of the judgment for legal separation.
(ORC 2907.01)
§ 666.02 UNLAWFUL SEXUAL CONDUCT WITH A MINOR.
   (a)   No person who is 18 years of age or older shall engage in sexual
conduct with another who is not the spouse of the offender, when the offender
knows the other person is 13 years of age or older but less than 16 years of
age, or the offender is reckless in that regard.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful sexual conduct
with a minor.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (b)(2), unlawful sexual
conduct with a minor is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (b)(3) of this section, if
the offender is less than four years older than the other person, unlawful
sexual conduct with a minor is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of Ohio R.C. 2907.02, 2907.03 or 2907.04, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, or a violation of former Ohio R.C. 2907.12, or
any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, unlawful sexual conduct with
a minor is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(ORC 2907.04)
§ 666.03 SEXUAL IMPOSITION.
   (a)   No person shall have sexual contact with another, not the spouse of
the offender; cause another, not the spouse of the offender, to have sexual
contact with the offender; or cause two or more other persons to have sexual
contact when any of the following applies:
      (1)   The offender knows that the sexual contact is offensive to the
other person, or one of the other persons, or is reckless in that regard.
      (2)   The offender knows that the other person’s, or one of the other
person’s ability to appraise the nature of or control the offender’s or
touching person’s conduct is substantially impaired.
      (3)   The offender knows that the other person, or one of the other
persons, submits because of being unaware of the sexual contact.
      (4)   The other person, or one of the other persons, is 13 years of age
or older but less than 16 years of age, whether or not the offender knows the
age of the person, and the offender is at least 18 years of age and four or
more years older than the other person.
      (5)   The offender is a mental health professional, the other person or
one of the other persons is a mental health client or patient of the offender,
and the offender induces the other person who is the client or patient to
submit by falsely representing to the other person who is the client or patient
that the sexual contact is necessary for mental health treatment purposes.
   (b)   No person shall be convicted of a violation of this section solely
upon the victim’s testimony unsupported by other evidence.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of sexual imposition, a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section, R.C. § 2907.02, 2907.03,
2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.06, former R.C. § 2907.12, or a substantially equivalent
state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of this section is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to three or more violations of this section, R.C. § 2907.02,
2907.03, 2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.06, former R.C. § 2907.12, or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or of any combination of those
sections, a violation of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree and,
notwithstanding the range of jail terms prescribed in R.C. § 2929.24, the court
may impose on the offender a definite jail term of not more than one year.
(R.C. § 2907.06)
Statutory reference:
   Gross sexual imposition, felony, see Ohio R.C. 2907.05
   Notice to licensing board or agency upon indictment, conviction or guilty
plea of mental health professional, see Ohio R.C. 2907.17 and 2907.18
§ 666.04 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   (a)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following, under
circumstances in which the person’s conduct is likely to be viewed by and
affront others who are in the person’s physical proximity and who are not
members of the person’s household:
      (1)   Expose the person’s private parts.
      (2)   Engage in sexual conduct or masturbation.
      (3)   Engage in conduct that to an ordinary observer would appear to be
sexual conduct or masturbation.
   (b)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following, under circumstances
in which the person’s conduct is likely to be viewed by and affront another
person who is in the person’s physical proximity, who is a minor, and who is
not the spouse of the offender:
      (1)   Engage in masturbation.
      (2)   Engage in sexual conduct.
      (3)   Engage in conduct that to an ordinary observer would appear to be
sexual conduct or masturbation.
      (4)   Expose the person’s private parts with the purpose of personal
sexual arousal or gratification or to lure the minor into sexual activity.
   (c)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of public indecency and
shall be punished as provided in divisions (c)(2), (c)(3), (c)(4), and (c)(5)
of this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (c)(2), a violation
of division (a)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
violation of this section or a substantially equivalent State law or municipal
ordinance, a violation of division (a)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the third degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by
the offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations
of this section or a substantially equivalent State law municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (a)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by the
offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more
violations of this section or a substantially equivalent State law or municipal
ordinance, a violation of division (a)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by
the offender’s conduct was a minor, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
State law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (c)(3), a violation
of division (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the third
degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to
one violation of this section or a substantially equivalent State law or
municipal ordinance, a violation of division (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this section
is a misdemeanor of the second degree or, if any person who was likely to view
and be affronted by the offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section or a substantially equivalent
State law municipal ordinance, a violation of division (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if any person who was likely
to view and be affronted by the offender’s conduct was a minor, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate State law.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (c)(4), a violation
of division (b)(1), (b)(2), or (b)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
second degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one violation of this section or a substantially equivalent State law
or municipal ordinance, a violation of division (b)(1), (b)(2), or (b)(3) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this
section or a substantially equivalent State law municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (b)(1), (b)(2), or (b)(3) of this section is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate State law.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (c)(5), a violation
of division (b)(4) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation of
this section or a substantially equivalent State law municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (b)(4) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate State law.
(ORC 2907.09)
   (d)   (1)   If either of the following applies, the court may determine at
the time of sentencing whether to classify the offender as a tier I sex
offender/child-victim offender for a violation of division (b)(4) of this
section:
         A.   The offender is less than ten years older than the other person.
         B.   The offender is ten or more years older than the other person and
the offender has not previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any
violation of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance.
      (2)   If the offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (b)(4) of this section, is ten or more years older than the other
person, and previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation
of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the court shall issue an order at the time of sentencing that
classifies the offender as a tier I sex offender/child-victim offender subject
to registration under R.C. §§ 2950.04, 2950.041, 2950.05, and 2950.06.
(R.C. § 2907.09)
   (e)   A mother is entitled to breast-feed her baby in any location of a
place of public accommodation, as defined in Ohio R.C. 4112.01, wherein the
mother otherwise is permitted.
(ORC 3781.55)
Statutory reference:
   Bail considerations for persons charged, see Ohio R.C. 2907.41
§ 666.05 VOYEURISM.
   (a)   No person, for the purpose of sexually arousing or gratifying himself
or herself, shall commit trespass or otherwise surreptitiously invade the
privacy of another, to spy or eavesdrop upon another.
   (b)   No person shall knowingly commit trespass or otherwise secretly or
surreptitiously videotape, film, photograph, broadcast, stream, or otherwise
record another person, in a place where a person has a reasonable expectation
of privacy, for the purpose of viewing the private areas of that person.
   (c)   No person shall knowingly commit trespass or otherwise secretly or
surreptitiously videotape, film, photograph, broadcast, stream, or otherwise
record a minor, in a place where a person has a reasonable expectation of
privacy, for the purpose of viewing the private areas of the minor.
   (d)   No person shall secretly or surreptitiously videotape, film,
photograph, or otherwise record another person above, under, or through the
clothing being worn by that other person for the purpose of viewing the body
of, or the undergarments worn by, that other person.
   (e)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of voyeurism.
      (1)   A violation of division (a) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
      (2)   A violation of division (b) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
second degree.
      (3)   A violation of division (d) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (4)   A violation of division (c) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(ORC 2907.08)
§ 666.06 POLYGRAPH EXAMINATIONS FOR VICTIMS: RESTRICTIONS ON USE.
   (a)   (1)   A peace officer, prosecutor, other public official, defendant,
defendant’s attorney, alleged juvenile offender, or alleged juvenile offender’s
attorney shall not ask or require a victim of an alleged sex offense to submit
to a polygraph examination as a condition for proceeding with the investigation
or prosecution of the alleged sex offense.
      (2)   The refusal of the victim of an alleged sex offense to submit to a
polygraph examination shall not prevent the investigation of the alleged sex
offense, the filing of criminal charges with respect to the alleged sex
offense, or the prosecution of the alleged perpetrator of the alleged sex
offense.
   (b)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Alleged juvenile offender.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2930.01.
      (2)   “Peace officer” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2921.51.
      (3)   “Polygraph examination” means any mechanical or electrical
instrument or device of any type used or allegedly used to examine, test, or
question an individual for the purpose of determining the individual’s
truthfulness.
      (4)   “Prosecution” means the prosecution of criminal charges in a
criminal prosecution or the prosecution of a delinquent child complaint in a
delinquency proceeding.
      (5)   “Prosecutor” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2935.01.
      (6)   “Public official” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 117.01.
      (7)   “Sex offense” means a violation of any provision of Sections 666.02
to 666.05 or Ohio R.C. 2907.02 to 2907.09.
(ORC 2907.10)
§ 666.07 PROCURING; ENGAGEMENT IN SEXUAL ACTIVITY FOR HIRE.
   (a)   Procuring.
      (1)   No person, knowingly and for gain, shall do either of the
following:
         A.   Entice or solicit another to patronize a prostitute or brothel;
         B.   Procure a prostitute for another to patronize, or take or direct
another at the other’s request to any place for the purpose of patronizing a
prostitute.
      (2)   No person, having authority or responsibility over the use of
premises, shall knowingly permit the premises to be used for the purpose of
engaging in sexual activity for hire.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (a)(1)A. or (a)(1)B. of this section is
guilty of procuring. Except as otherwise provided in this division, procuring
is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the prostitute who is procured,
patronized, or otherwise involved in a violation of division (a)(1)B. of this
section is under 18 years of age at the time of the violation, regardless of
whether the offender who violates division (a)(1)B. of this section knows the
prostitute’s age, or if a prostitute who engages in sexual activity for hire in
premises used in violation of division (a)(2) of this section is under 18 years
of age at the time of the violation, regardless of whether the offender who
violates division (a)(2) of this section knows the prostitute’s age, procuring
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.23)
   (b)   Engagement in sexual activity for hire.
      (1)   As used in this division (b):
         A.   “Person with a developmental disability.” Has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 2905.32.
         B.   “Sexual activity for hire.” An implicit or explicit agreement to
provide sexual activity in exchange for anything of value paid to the person
engaging in such sexual activity, to any person trafficking that person, or to
any person associated with either such person.
      (2)   No person shall recklessly induce, entice, or procure another to
engage in sexual activity for hire in exchange for the person giving anything
of value to the other person.
      (3)   No person shall recklessly induce, entice, or procure another to
engage in sexual activity for hire in exchange for the person giving anything
of value to the other person if the other person is a person with a
developmental disability and the offender knows or has reasonable cause to
believe that the other person is a person with a developmental disability.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (b)(2) of this section is guilty of
engaging in prostitution, a misdemeanor of the first degree. Whoever violates
division (b)(3) of this section is guilty of engaging in prostitution with a
person with a developmental disability, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. In sentencing an offender under this division for a
violation of division (b)(2) of this section, the court shall require the
offender to attend an education or treatment program aimed at preventing
persons from inducing, enticing, or procuring another to engage in sexual
activity for hire in exchange for the person giving anything of value to the
other person. Notwithstanding the fine specified in R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a) for
a misdemeanor of the first degree, in sentencing an offender under this
division for a violation of division (b)(2) of this section, the court may
impose upon the offender a fine of not more than $1,500.
(R.C. § 2907.231)
§ 666.08 SOLICITING.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly solicit another to engage in sexual activity
for hire in exchange for the person receiving anything of value from the other
person.
   (b)   No person, with knowledge that the person has tested positive as a
carrier of a virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, shall engage
in conduct in violation of division (a) of this section.
   (c)   As used in division (a) of this section, “sexual activity for hire”
means an implicit or explicit agreement to provide sexual activity in exchange
for anything of value paid to the person engaging in such sexual activity, to
any person trafficking that person, or to any person associated with either
such person.
   (d)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of
soliciting. Soliciting is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of engaging
in solicitation after a positive HIV test, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.24)
Statutory reference:
   Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see Ohio R.C. 2907.27
§ 666.085 LOITERING TO ENGAGE IN SOLICITATION.
   (a)   No person, with purpose to solicit another to engage in sexual
activity for hire and while in or near a public place, shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Beckon to, stop or attempt to stop another;
      (2)   Engage or attempt to engage another in conversation;
      (3)   Stop or attempt to stop the operator of a vehicle or approach a
stationary vehicle;
      (4)   If the offender is the operator of or a passenger in a vehicle,
stop, attempt to stop, beckon to, attempt to beckon to, or entice another to
approach or enter the vehicle of which the offender is the operator or in which
the offender is the passenger;
      (5)   Interfere with the free passage of another.
   (b)   No person, with knowledge that the person has tested positive as a
carrier of a virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, shall engage
in conduct in violation of division (a) of this section.
   (c)   As used in division (a) of this section:
      (1)   “Public place” means any of the following:
         A.   A street, road, highway, thoroughfare, bikeway, walkway,
sidewalk, bridge, alley, alleyway, plaza, park, driveway, parking lot or
transportation facility.
         B.   A doorway or entrance way to a building that fronts on a place
described in division (1)A. of this definition.
         C.   A place not described in division (1)A. or (1)B. of this
definition that is open to the public.
      (2)   “Vehicle” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 4501.01.
   (d)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of
loitering to engage in solicitation, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of
loitering to engage in solicitation after a positive HIV test, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.241)
Statutory reference:
   Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see Ohio R.C. 2907.27
§ 666.09 PROSTITUTION.
   (a)   No person shall engage in sexual activity for hire.
   (b)   No person, with knowledge that the person has tested positive as a
carrier of a virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, shall engage
in sexual activity for hire.
   (c)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of
prostitution, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of engaging
in prostitution after a positive HIV test, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.25)
Statutory reference:
   Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see Ohio R.C. 2907.27
§ 666.10 RULES OF EVIDENCE.
   (a)   In any case in which it is necessary to prove that a place is a
brothel, evidence as to the reputation of such place and as to the reputation
of the persons who inhabit or frequent it is admissible on the question of
whether such place is or is not a brothel.
   (b)   In any case in which it is necessary to prove that a person is a
prostitute, evidence as to the reputation of such person is admissible on the
question of whether such person is or is not a prostitute.
   (c)   In any prosecution for a violation of §§
666.07 to
666.09, proof of a prior conviction of the accused of any such offense or
substantially equivalent offense is admissible in support of the charge.
   (d)   The prohibition contained in Ohio R.C. 2317.02(D) against testimony by
a husband or wife concerning communications between them does not apply, and
the accused’s spouse may testify concerning any such communication in any of
the following cases:
      (1)   When the husband or wife is charged with a violation of §
666.07 and the spouse testifying was the prostitute involved in the offense or
the person who used the offender’s premises to engage in sexual activity for
hire;
      (2)   When the husband or wife is charged with a violation of §
666.08 or §
666.09.
(ORC 2907.26)
§ 666.11 DISSEMINATING MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (a)   No person, with knowledge of its character or content, shall
recklessly do any of following:
      (1)   Directly sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit,
rent, or present to a juvenile any material or performance that is obscene or
harmful to juveniles;
      (2)   Offer or agree to sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate, provide,
exhibit, rent, or present to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law
enforcement officer posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement
officers posing as juveniles any material or performance that is obscene or
harmful to juveniles;
      (3)   While in the physical proximity of the juvenile or law enforcement
officer posing as a juvenile, allow any juvenile or law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile to review or peruse any material or view any live
performance that is harmful to juveniles.
   (b)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under this section
that involves material or a performance that is harmful to juveniles but not
obscene:
      (1)   The defendant is the parent, guardian, or spouse of the juvenile
involved.
      (2)   The juvenile involved, at the time of the conduct in question, was
accompanied by his or her parent or guardian who, with knowledge of its
character, consented to the material or performance being furnished or
presented to the juvenile.
      (3)   The juvenile exhibited to the defendant or his or her agent or
employee a draft card, driver’s license, birth record, marriage license, or
other official or apparently official document purporting to show that the
juvenile was 18 years of age or over or married, and the person to whom the
document was exhibited did not otherwise have reasonable cause to believe that
the juvenile was under the age of 18 and unmarried.
   (c)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section,
involving material or a performance that is obscene or harmful to juveniles,
that the material or performance was furnished or presented for a bona fide
medical, scientific, educational, governmental, judicial, or other proper
purpose, by a physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist, teacher,
librarian, clergy, prosecutor, judge, or other proper person.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (b)(3) of this section, mistake of
age is not a defense to a charge under this section.
   (d)   (1)   A person directly sells, delivers, furnishes, disseminates,
provides, exhibits, rents, or presents or directly offers or agrees to sell,
deliver, furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit, rent, or present material or a
performance to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles in violation of this section by means of an electronic method of
remotely transmitting information if the person knows or has reason to believe
that the person receiving the information is a juvenile or the group of persons
receiving the information are juveniles.
      (2)   A person remotely transmitting information by means of a method of
mass distribution does not directly sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate,
provide, exhibit, rent, or present or directly offer or agree to sell, deliver,
furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit, rent, or present the material or
performance in question to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement
officer posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles in violation of this section if either of the following applies:
         A.   The person has inadequate information to know or have reason to
believe that a particular recipient of the information or offer is a juvenile.
         B.   The method of mass distribution does not provide the person the
ability to prevent a particular recipient from receiving the information.
   (e)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disseminating matter
harmful to juveniles. If the material or performance involved is harmful to
juveniles except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the material or performance
involved is obscene, violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(ORC 2907.31)
§ 666.115 DISPLAYING MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (a)   No person who has custody, control, or supervision of a commercial
establishment, with knowledge of the character or content of the material
involved, shall display at the establishment any material that is harmful to
juveniles and that is open to view by juveniles as part of the invited general
public.
   (b)   It is not a violation of division (a) of this section if the material
in question is displayed by placing it behind “blinder racks” or similar
devices that cover at least the lower two-thirds of the material, if the
material in question is wrapped or placed behind the counter, or if the
material in question otherwise is covered or located so that the portion that
is harmful to juveniles is not open to the view of juveniles.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of displaying matter harmful
to juveniles, a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each day during which the
offender is in violation of this section constitutes a separate offense.
(ORC 2907.311)
§ 666.12 PANDERING OBSCENITY. (REPEALED)
   ( Editor’s note: Section 666.12 was repealed as part of the 1996-B revision
of these Codified Ordinances because a violation of substantially equivalent
state law (Ohio R.C. 2907.32) was made a felony by the General Assembly.)
§ 666.13 POSSESSION AND VIEWING OF OBSCENE MATERIAL INVOLVING A MINOR.
(REPEALED)
   ( Editor’s note: Section 666.13 was repealed as part of the 1996-B revision
of these Codified Ordinances because a violation of substantially equivalent
state law (Ohio R.C. 2907.322 and 2907.323) was made a felony by the General
Assembly.)
§ 666.14 DECEPTION TO OBTAIN MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (a)   No person, for the purpose of enabling a juvenile to obtain any
material or gain admission to any performance which is harmful to juveniles,
shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Falsely represent that he or she is the parent, guardian, or spouse
of the juvenile.
      (2)   Furnish the juvenile with any identification or document purporting
to show that the juvenile is 18 years of age or over or married.
   (b)   No juvenile, for the purpose of obtaining any material or gaining
admission to any performance which is harmful to juveniles, shall do either of
the following:
      (1)   Falsely represent that he or she is 18 years of age or over or
married.
      (2)   Exhibit any identification or document purporting to show that he
or she is 18 years of age or over or married.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of deception to obtain matter
harmful to juveniles, a misdemeanor of the second degree. A juvenile who
violates division (b) of this section shall be adjudged an unruly child, with
the disposition of the case as may be appropriate under Ohio R.C. Chapter 2151.
(ORC 2907.33)
§ 666.15 PRESUMPTIONS; NOTICE.
   (a)   An owner or manager, or agent or employee of an owner or manager, of a
bookstore, newsstand, theater, or other commercial establishment engaged in
selling material or exhibiting performances, who, in the course of business
does any of the acts prohibited by §
666.11 is presumed to have knowledge of the character of the material or
performance involved if the owner, manager, or agent or employee of the owner
or manager has actual notice of the nature of such material or performance,
whether or not the owner, manager, or agent or employee of the owner or manager
has precise knowledge of its contents.
   (b)   Without limitation on the manner in which such notice may be given,
actual notice of the character of material or a performance may be given in
writing by the chief legal officer of the municipality. Such notice, regardless
of the manner in which it is given, shall identify the sender, identify the
material or performance involved, state whether it is obscene or harmful to
juveniles, and bear the date of such notice.
   (c)   Section
666.11 does not apply to a motion picture operator or projectionist acting
within the scope of employment as an employee of the owner or manager of the
theater or other place for the showing of motion pictures to the general
public, and having no managerial responsibility or financial interest in the
operator’s or projectionist’s place of employment, other than wages.
   (d)   (1)   The provisions of §§
666.11,
666.12 and
666.15(a) do not apply to a person solely because the person provided access or
connection to or from an electronic method of remotely transferring information
not under that person’s control, including having provided capabilities that
are incidental to providing access or connection to or from the electronic
method of remotely transferring the information, and that do not include the
creation of the content of the material that is the subject of the access or
connection.
      (2)   Division (d)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who
conspires with an entity actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of §
666.11,
666.12 or
666.15 or who knowingly advertises the availability of material of that nature.
      (3)   Division (d)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who
provides access or connection to an electronic method of remotely transferring
information that is engaged in the violation of §
666.11,
666.12 or
666.15 and that contain content that person has selected and introduced into
the electronic method of remotely transferring information or content over
which that person exercises editorial control.
   (e)   An employer is not guilty of a violation of §
666.11,
666.12 or
666.15 based on the actions of an employee or agent of the employer unless the
employee’s or agent’s conduct is within the scope of the employee’s or agent’s
employment or agency, and the employer does either of the following:
      (1)   With knowledge of the employee’s or agent’s conduct, the employer
authorizes or ratifies the conduct.
      (2)   The employer recklessly disregards the employee’s or agent’s
conduct.
   (f)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under §
666.11 or
666.12 as the section applies to an image transmitted through the internet or
other electronic method of remotely transmitting information that the person
charged with violating the section has taken, in good faith, reasonable,
effective, and appropriate actions under the circumstances to restrict or
prevent access by juveniles to material that is harmful to juveniles, including
any method that is feasible under available technology.
(ORC 2907.35)
§ 666.16 DECLARATORY JUDGMENT.
   (a)   Without limitation on the persons otherwise entitled to bring an
action for a declaratory judgment pursuant to Ohio R.C. Chapter 2721, involving
the same issue, the following persons have standing to bring a declaratory
judgment action to determine whether particular materials or performances are
obscene or harmful to juveniles:
      (1)   The chief legal officer of the municipality if and when there is
reasonable cause to believe that Ohio R.C. 2907.31 or Ohio R.C. 2907.32, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, is being or is about to be
violated;
      (2)   Any person who, pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2907.35(B) or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, has received notice in writing from the chief
legal officer stating that particular materials or performances are obscene or
harmful to juveniles.
   (b)   Any party to an action for a declaratory judgment pursuant to division
(a) of this section is entitled, upon the party’s request, to trial on the
merits within five days after joinder of the issues, and the court shall render
judgment within five days after trial is concluded.
   (c)   An action for a declaratory judgement pursuant to division (a) of this
section shall not be brought during the pendency of any civil action or
criminal prosecution when the character of the particular materials or
performances involved is at issue in the pending case, and either of the
following applies:
      (1)   Either of the parties to the action for a declaratory judgment is a
party to the pending case;
      (2)   A judgment in the pending case will necessarily constitute res
judicata as to the character of the materials or performances involved.
   (d)   A civil action or criminal prosecution in which the character of
particular materials or performances is at issue, brought during the pendency
of an action for a declaratory judgment involving the same issue, shall be
stayed during the pendency of the action for a declaratory judgment.
   (e)   The fact that a violation of Ohio R.C. 2907.31 or Ohio R.C. 2907.32,
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, occurs prior to a judicial
determination of the character of the material or performance involved in the
violation does not relieve the offender of criminal liability for the
violation, even though prosecution may be stayed pending the judicial
determination.
(ORC 2907.36)
§ 666.17 INJUNCTION; ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   (a)   Where it appears that Ohio R.C. 2907.31 or Ohio R.C. 2907.32, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, is being or is about to be
violated, the chief legal officer of the municipality may bring an action to
enjoin the violation. The defendant, upon his or her request, is entitled to
trial on the merits within five days after the joinder of the issues, and the
court shall render judgment within five days after the trial is concluded.
   (b)   Premises used or occupied for repeated violations of Ohio R.C. 2907.31
or Ohio R.C. 2907.32, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
constitute a nuisance subject to abatement pursuant to Ohio R.C. Chapter 3767.
(ORC 2907.37)
§ 666.18 OBSCENE DANCING.
   (a)   No person shall perform or engage another to perform, publicly or in a
commercial establishment, by disrobing while dancing, by dancing in a sexually
suggestive manner or by allowing members of the audience to touch the genital
area of a dancer.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree and shall be subject to the penalty provided in §
698.02.
(Ord. 85-09, passed 3-4-1985)
§ 666.19 UNLAWFUL OPERATION OF VIEWING BOOTHS DEPICTING SEXUAL CONDUCT.
   (a)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Commercial establishment” means an entity that is open to the
public and to which either of the following applies:
         A.   It has a substantial or significant portion of its stock in trade
of the sale, rental, or viewing of visual materials or performances depicting
sexual conduct.
         B.   It has as a principal business purpose the sale, rental, or
viewing of visual materials or performances depicting sexual conduct.
      (2)   “Visual materials or performances” means films, videos, CD-ROM
discs, streaming video, or other motion pictures.
   (b)   No person who has custody, control, or supervision of a commercial
establishment, with knowledge of the character of the visual material or
performance involved, shall knowingly permit the use of, or offer the use of,
viewing booths, stalls, or partitioned portions of a room located in the
commercial establishment for the purpose of viewing visual materials or
performances depicting sexual conduct unless both of the following apply:
      (1)   The inside of each booth, stall, or partitioned room is visible
from, and at least one side of each booth, stall, or partitioned room is open
to, a continuous and contiguous main aisle or hallway that is open to the
public areas of the commercial establishment and is not obscured by any
curtain, door, or other covering or enclosure.
      (2)   No booth, stall, or partitioned room is designed, constructed,
pandered, or allowed to be used for the purpose of encouraging or facilitating
nudity or sexual activity on the part of or between patrons or members of the
public, and no booth, stall, or partitioned room has any aperture, hole, or
opening for the purpose of encouraging or facilitating nudity or sexual
activity.
   (c)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that
either of the following applies to the involved visual materials or
performances:
      (1)   The visual materials or performances depicting sexual conduct are
disseminated or presented for a bona fide medical, scientific, educational,
religious, governmental, judicial, or other proper purpose and by or to a
physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist, teacher, person pursuing bona
fide studies or research, librarian, member of the clergy, prosecutor, judge,
or other person having a proper interest in the visual materials or
performances.
      (2)   The visual materials or performances depicting sexual conduct,
taken as a whole, would be found by a reasonable person to have serious
literary, artistic, political, or scientific value or are presented or
disseminated in good faith for a serious literary, artistic, political, or
scientific purpose and are not pandered for their prurient appeal.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of permitting unlawful
operation of viewing booths depicting sexual conduct, a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(ORC 2907.38)
§ 666.20 JUVENILES ON THE PREMISES OF ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS
PROHIBITED.
   (a)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Adult arcade” means any place to which the public is permitted or
invited in which coin-operated, slug-operated, or electronically, electrically,
or mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, or
other image-producing devices are regularly maintained to show images to five
or fewer persons per machine at any one time, and in which the images so
displayed are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis upon matter
exhibiting or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
      (2)   “Adult bookstore,” “adult novelty store,” or “adult video store.”
         A.   Means a commercial establishment that, for any form of
consideration, has as a significant or substantial portion of its stock-in-
trade in, derives a significant or substantial portion of its revenues from,
devotes a significant or substantial portion of its interior business or
advertising to, or maintains a substantial section of its sales or display
space for the sale or rental of any of the following:
            1.   Books, magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, compact discs, slides, or
other visual representations, that are characterized by their emphasis upon the
exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas;
            2.   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia that are designed for
use or marketed primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of self or others.
         B.   Includes a commercial establishment as defined in Ohio R.C.
2907.38. An establishment may have other principal business purposes that do
not involve the offering for sale, rental, or viewing of materials exhibiting
or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas and
still be categorized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty store, or adult video
store. The existence of other principal business purposes does not exempt an
establishment from being categorized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty
store, or adult video store so long as one of its principal business purposes
is offering for sale or rental, for some form of consideration, such materials
that exhibit or describe specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
      (3)   “Adult cabaret” means a nightclub, bar, juice bar, restaurant,
bottle club, or similar commercial establishment, whether or not alcoholic
beverages are served, that regularly features any of the following:
         A.   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or seminudity;
         B.   Live performances that are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities;
         C.   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other
photographic reproductions that are distinguished or characterized by their
emphasis upon the exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
      (4)   “Adult entertainment” means the sale, rental, or exhibition, for
any form of consideration, of books, films, video cassettes, magazines,
periodicals, or live performances that are characterized by an emphasis on the
exposure or display of specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activity.
      (5)   “Adult entertainment establishment” means an adult arcade, adult
bookstore, adult novelty store, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motion
picture theater, adult theater, nude or seminude model studio, or sexual
encounter establishment. An establishment in which a medical practitioner,
psychologist, psychiatrist, or similar professional person licensed by the
state engages in medically approved and recognized therapy, including, but not
limited to, massage therapy, as regulated pursuant to Ohio R.C. 4731.15, is not
an “adult entertainment establishment.”
      (6)   “Adult motion picture theater” means a commercial establishment
where films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or similar photographic
reproductions that are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis upon
the exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas are regularly shown for any form of consideration.
      (7)   “Adult theater” means a theater, concert hall, auditorium, or
similar commercial establishment that, for any form of consideration, regularly
features persons who appear in a state of nudity or seminudity or live
performances that are characterized by their emphasis upon the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities.
      (8)   “Distinguished or characterized by their emphasis upon” means the
dominant or principal character and theme of the object described by this
phrase. For instance, when the phrase refers to films “that are distinguished
or characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition or description of
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas,” the films so
described are those whose dominant or principal character and theme are the
exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
      (9)   “Nude or seminude model studio” means any place where a person, who
regularly appears in a state of nudity or seminudity, is provided for money or
any other form of consideration to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted,
sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by other persons. A modeling
class or studio is not a nude or seminude model studio and is not subject to
this chapter if it is operated in any of the following ways:
         A.   By a college or university supported entirely or partly by
taxation;
         B.   By a private college or university that maintains and operates
educational programs, the credits for which are transferable to a college or
university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
         C.   In a structure that has no sign visible from the exterior of the
structure and no other advertising indicating that a person appearing in a
state of nudity or seminudity is available for viewing, if in order to
participate in a class in the structure, a student must enroll at least three
days in advance of the class and if not more than one nude or seminude model is
on the premises at any one time.
      (10)   “Nudity,” “nude,” or “state of nudity” means the showing of the
human male or female genitals, pubic area, vulva, anus, anal cleft, or cleavage
with less than a fully opaque covering; or the showing of the female breasts
with less than a fully opaque covering of any part of the nipple.
      (11)   “Regularly features” or “regularly shown” means a consistent or
substantial course of conduct, such that the films or performances exhibited
constitute a substantial portion of the films or performances offered as a part
of the ongoing business of the adult entertainment establishment.
      (12)   “Seminude” or “state of seminudity” means a state of dress in
which opaque clothing covers not more than the genitals, pubic region, and
nipple of the female breast, as well as portions of the body covered by
supporting straps or devices.
      (13)   “Sexual encounter establishment.”
         A.   Means a business or commercial establishment that, as one of its
principal business purposes, offers for any form of consideration a place where
either of the following occur:
            1.   Two or more persons may congregate, associate, or consort for
the purpose of engaging in specified sexual activities.
            2.   Two or more persons appear nude or seminude for the purpose of
displaying their nude or seminude bodies for their receipt of consideration or
compensation in any type or form.
         B.   An establishment where a medical practitioner, psychologist,
psychiatrist, or similar professional person licensed by the state engages in
medically approved and recognized therapy, including, but not limited to,
massage therapy, as regulated pursuant to Ohio R.C. 4731.15, is not a “sexual
encounter establishment.”
      (14)   “Specified anatomical areas” means the cleft of the buttocks,
anus, male or female genitals, or the female breast.
      (15)   “Specified sexual activity” means any of the following:
         A.   Sex acts, normal or perverted, or actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, masturbation, or sodomy;
         B.   Excretory functions as a part of or in connection with any of the
activities described in division A. of this definition.
   (b)   No person knowingly shall allow an individual, including, but not
limited to, a patron, customer, or employee, who is under 18 years of age on
the premises of an adult entertainment establishment.
   (c)   No individual who is under 18 years of age knowingly shall show or
give false information concerning the individual’s name or age, or other false
identification, for the purpose of gaining entrance to an adult entertainment
establishment.
   (d)   A person shall not be found guilty of a violation of division (b) of
this section if the person raises as an affirmative defense and if the jury or,
in a nonjury trial, the court finds the person has established by a
preponderance of the evidence, all of the following:
      (1)   The individual gaining entrance to the adult entertainment
establishment exhibited to an operator, employee, agent, or independent
contractor of the adult entertainment establishment a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card issued under Ohio R.C. 4507.50 and
4507.52 showing that the individual was then at least 18 years of age.
      (2)   The operator, employee, agent, or independent contractor made a
bona fide effort to ascertain the true age of the individual gaining entrance
to the adult entertainment establishment by checking the identification
presented, at the time of entrance, to ascertain that the description on the
identification compared with the appearance of the individual and that the
identification had not been altered in any way.
      (3)   The operator, employee, agent, or independent contractor had reason
to believe that the individual gaining entrance to the adult entertainment
establishment was at least 18 years of age.
   (e)   In any criminal action in which the affirmative defense described in
division (d) of this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or the
Deputy Registrar who issued a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an
identification card under Ohio R.C. 4507.50 and 4507.52 shall be permitted to
submit certified copies of the records, in the Registrar’s or Deputy
Registrar’s possession, of the issuance of the license or identification card
in question, in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of the Bureau of Motor
Vehicles in the action.
   (f)   (1)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of
permitting a juvenile on the premises of an adult entertainment establishment,
a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each day a person violates this division
constitutes a separate offense.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (c) of this section is guilty of use by a
juvenile of false information to enter an adult entertainment establishment, a
delinquent act that would be a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if committed by
an adult.
(ORC 2907.39)
§ 666.21 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; ILLEGAL OPERATION AND ACTIVITY.
   (a)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Adult bookstore” or “adult video store” means a commercial
establishment that has as a significant or substantial portion of its stock in
trade or inventory in, derives a significant or substantial portion of its
revenues from, devotes a significant or substantial portion of its interior
business or advertising to, or maintains a substantial section of its sales or
display space for the sale or rental, for any form of consideration, of books,
magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter, or photographs, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, compact discs, slides, or other visual
representations, that are characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition
or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (2)   “Adult cabaret” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2907.39.
      (3)   “Adult motion picture theater” means a commercial establishment
where films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, or similar photographic
reproductions that are characterized by their emphasis upon the display of
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas are regularly shown
to more than five individuals for any form of consideration.
      (4)   “Characterized by” means describing the essential character or
quality of an item.
      (5)   “Employee” means any individual who performs any service on the
premises of a sexually oriented business on a full-time, part-time, or contract
basis, regardless of whether the individual is denominated an employee,
independent contractor, agent, or otherwise, but does not include an individual
exclusively on the premises for repair or maintenance of the premises or for
the delivery of goods to the premises.
      (6)   “Nudity,” “nude,” or “state of nudity” has the same meaning as in
Ohio R.C. 2907.39.
      (7)   “Operator” means any individual on the premises of a sexually
oriented business who causes the business to function or who puts or keeps in
operation the business or who is authorized to manage the business or exercise
overall operational control of the business premises.
      (8)   “Patron” means any individual on the premises of a sexually
oriented business except for any of the following:
         A.   An operator or an employee of the sexually oriented business;
         B.   An individual who is on the premises exclusively for repair or
maintenance of the premises or for the delivery of goods to the premises;
         C.   A public employee or a volunteer firefighter emergency medical
services worker acting within the scope of the public employee’s or volunteer’s
duties as a public employee or volunteer.
      (9)   “Premises” means the real property on which the sexually oriented
business is located and all appurtenances to the real property, including, but
not limited, to the sexually oriented business, the grounds, private walkways,
and parking lots or parking garages adjacent to the real property under the
ownership, control, or supervision of the owner or operator of the sexually
oriented business.
      (10)   “Regularly” means consistently or repeatedly.
      (11)   “Seminude” or “state of seminudity” has the same meaning as in
Ohio R.C. 2907.39.
      (12)   “Sexual device” means any three-dimensional object designed and
marketed for stimulation of the male or female human genitals or anus or female
breasts or for sadomasochistic use or abuse of oneself or others, including,
but not limited to, dildos, vibrators, penis pumps, and physical
representations of the human genital organs, but not including devices
primarily intended for protection against sexually transmitted diseases or for
preventing pregnancy.
      (13)   “Sexual device shop” means a commercial establishment that
regularly features sexual devices, but not including any pharmacy, drug store,
medical clinic, or establishment primarily dedicated to providing medical or
healthcare products or services, and not including any commercial establishment
that does not restrict access to its premises by reason of age.
      (14)   “Sexual encounter center” means a business or commercial
enterprise that, as one of its principal business purposes, purports to offer
for any form of consideration physical contact in the form of wrestling or
tumbling between individuals of the opposite sex when one or more of the
individuals is nude or seminude.
      (15)   “Sexually oriented business” means an adult bookstore, adult video
store, adult cabaret, adult motion picture theater, sexual device shop, or
sexual encounter center, but does not include a business solely by reason of
its showing, selling, or renting materials that may depict sex.
      (16)   “Specified anatomical areas” includes human genitals, pubic
region, and buttocks and the human female breast below a point immediately
above the top of the areola.
      (17)   “Specified sexual activity” means sexual intercourse, oral
copulation, masturbation, or sodomy, or excretory functions as a part of or in
connection with any of these activities.
   (b)   No sexually oriented business shall be or remain open for business
between 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. on any day, except that a sexually
oriented business that holds a liquor permit pursuant to Ohio R.C. Chapter 4303
may remain open until the hour specified in that permit if it does not conduct,
offer, or allow sexually oriented entertainment activity in which the
performers appear nude.
   (c)   (1)   No patron who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family
shall knowingly touch any employee while that employee is nude or seminude or
touch the clothing of any employee while that employee is nude or seminude.
      (2)   No employee who regularly appears nude or seminude on the premises
of a sexually oriented business, while on the premises of that sexually
oriented business and while nude or seminude, shall knowingly touch a patron
who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or another employee who
is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or the clothing of a patron
who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or another employee who
is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or allow a patron who is not
a member of the employee’s immediate family or another employee who is not a
member of the employee’s immediate family to touch the employee or the clothing
of the employee.
   (d)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of illegally
operating a sexually oriented business, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (e)   Whoever violates division (c) of this section is guilty of illegal
sexually oriented activity in a sexually oriented business. If the offender
touches a specified anatomical area of the patron or employee, or the clothing
covering a specified anatomical area, a violation of division (c) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender does not touch a
specified anatomical area of the patron or employee, or the clothing covering a
specified anatomical area, a violation of division (c) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(ORC 2907.40)
Statutory reference:
   State indemnification for certain municipal liability stemming from local
adult business regulations, see Ohio R.C. 715.55
§ 666.22 UNLAWFUL ADVERTISING OF MASSAGE.
   (a)   No person, by means of a statement, solicitation, or offer in a print
or electronic publication, sign, placard, storefront display, or other medium,
shall advertise massage, relaxation massage, any other massage technique or
method, or any related service, with the suggestion or promise of sexual
activity.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful advertising of
massage, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (c)   Nothing in this section prevents the municipality from enacting any
regulation of the advertising of massage further than and in addition to the
provisions of divisions (a) and (b) of this section.
   (d)   As used in this section, “sexual activity” has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2907.01.
(R.C. § 2927.17)
§ 666.23 NONCONSENSUAL DISSEMINATION OF PRIVATE SEXUAL IMAGES.
   (a)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Cable service provider.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
1332.01.
      (2)   “Direct-to-home satellite service.” Has the meaning defined in 47
U.S.C. § 303, as amended.
      (3)   “Disseminate.” Means to post, distribute, or publish on a computer
device, computer network, web site, or other electronic device or medium of
communication.
      (4)   “Image.” Means a photograph, film, videotape, digital recording, or
other depiction or portrayal of a person.
      (5)   “Interactive computer service.” Has the meaning defined in the
“Telecommunications Act of 1996”, 47 U.S.C. § 230, as amended.
      (6)   “Internet provider.” Means a provider of internet service,
including all of the following:
         A.   Broadband service, however defined or classified by the Federal
Communications Commission;
         B.   Information service or telecommunications service, both as
defined in the “Telecommunications Act of 1996”, 47 U.S.C. § 153, as amended;
         C.   Internet protocol- enabled services, as defined in R.C. §
4927.01.
      (7)   “Mobile service.” Has the meaning defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153, as
amended.
      (8)   “Sexual act.” Means any of the following:
         A.   Sexual activity;
         B.   Masturbation;
         C.   An act involving a bodily substance that is performed for the
purpose of sexual arousal or gratification;
         D.   Sado-masochistic abuse.
      (9)   “Telecommunications carrier.” Has the meaning defined in 47 U.S.C.
§ 153, as amended.
      (10)   “Video service provider.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
1332.21.
   (b)   No person shall knowingly disseminate an image of another person if
all of the following apply:
      (1)   The person in the image is 18 years of age or older.
      (2)   The person in the image can be identified from the image itself or
from information displayed in connection with the image and the offender
supplied the identifying information.
      (3)   The person in the image is in a state of nudity or is engaged in a
sexual act.
      (4)   The image is disseminated without consent from the person in the
image.
      (5)   The image is disseminated with intent to harm the person in the
image.
   (c)   This section does not prohibit the dissemination of an image if any of
the following apply:
      (1)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of a criminal
investigation that is otherwise lawful.
      (2)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of, or in connection
with, the reporting of unlawful conduct.
      (3)   The image is part of a news report or commentary or an artistic or
expressive work, such as a performance, work of art, literary work, theatrical
work, musical work, motion picture, film, or audiovisual work.
      (4)   The image is disseminated by a law enforcement officer, or a
corrections officer or guard in a detention facility, acting within the scope
of the person’s official duties.
      (5)   The image is disseminated for another lawful public purpose.
      (6)   The person in the image is knowingly and willingly in a state of
nudity or engaged in a sexual act and is knowingly and willingly in a location
in which the person does not have a reasonable expectation of privacy.
      (7)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of medical treatment or
examination.
   (d)   The following entities are not liable for a violation of this section
solely as a result of an image or other information provided by another person:
      (1)   A provider of interactive computer service;
      (2)   A mobile service;
      (3)   A telecommunications carrier;
      (4)   An internet provider;
      (5)   A cable service provider;
      (6)   A direct-to-home satellite service;
      (7)   A video service provider.
   (e)   Any conduct that is a violation of this section and any other section
of this Code or the Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under this section, the
other section, or both sections.
   (f)   (1)   A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (f)(1)B., (f)
(1)C., or (f)(1)D. of this section, whoever violates this section is guilty of
nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual images, a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
         B.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of this section or any substantially equivalent state or
local law, nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual images is a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
         C.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section or any substantially
equivalent state or local law, nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual
images is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         D.   If the offender is under 18 years of age and the person in the
image is not more than five years older than the offender, the offender shall
not be prosecuted under this section.
      (2)   In addition to any other penalty or disposition authorized or
required by law, the court may order any person who is convicted of a violation
of this section or who is adjudicated delinquent by reason of a violation of
this section to criminally forfeit all of the following property to the state
under R.C. Chapter 2981:
         A.   Any profits or proceeds and any property the person has acquired
or maintained in violation of this section that the sentencing court determines
to have been acquired or maintained as a result of the violation;
         B.   Any interest in, securities of, claim against, or property or
contractual right of any kind affording a source of influence over any
enterprise that the person has established, operated, controlled, or conducted
in violation of this section that the sentencing court determines to have been
acquired or maintained as a result of the violation.
   (g)   A victim of a violation of this section may commence a civil cause of
action against the offender, as described in R.C. § 2307.66.
(R.C. § 2917.211)
§ 666.24 RESTRICTING SEX OFFENDERS.
   (a)   Two or more sex offenders are not permitted to reside together in any
residential neighborhood, unless they are family members.
   (b)   No two sex offenders living together are permitted to reside within
5,000 feet of any school, church, or library.
(Ord. 24-15, passed 4-25-2024)
§ 666.99 SENTENCING FOR SEXUALLY ORIENTED OFFENSES; SEXUAL PREDATORS;
REGISTRATION.
   (a)   If an offender is being sentenced for a sexually oriented offense or
child-victim oriented offense that is a misdemeanor committed on or after
January 1, 1997, and the offender is a tier III sex offender/child-victim
offender relative to the offense or the offense is any offense listed in Ohio
R.C. 2901.07(D)(1) to (D)(3), the judge shall include in the offender’s
sentence a statement that the offender is a tier III sex offender/child-victim
offender, shall comply with the requirements of Ohio R.C. 2950.03, and shall
require the offender to submit to a DNA specimen collection procedure pursuant
to Ohio R.C. 2901.07.
   (b)   If an offender is being sentenced for a sexually oriented offense or a
child-victim oriented offense that is a misdemeanor committed on or after
January 1, 1997, the judge shall include in the sentence a summary of the
offender’s duties imposed under Ohio R.C. 2950.04, 2950.041, 2950.05, and
2950.06, and the duration of the duties. The judge shall inform the offender,
at the time of sentencing, of those duties and of their duration. If required
under Ohio R.C. 2950.03(A)(2), the judge shall perform the duties specified in
that section or, if required under Ohio R.C. 2950.03(A)(6), the judge shall
perform the duties specified in that division.
(ORC 2929.23)
CHAPTER 672: WEAPONS AND EXPLOSIVES
Section
672.01   Definitions
672.02   Carrying concealed weapons
672.025   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention
672.03   Using weapons while intoxicated
672.04   Improperly handling firearms in a motor vehicle
672.05   License or permit to possess dangerous ordnance
672.06   Failure to secure dangerous ordnance
672.07   Unlawful transactions in weapons
672.08   Improperly furnishing firearms to a minor (Repealed)
672.085   Underage purchase of a firearm or handgun
672.09   Pointing and discharging firearms and other weapons
672.095   Discharge of a firearm on or near prohibited premises
672.10   Fireworks
672.11   Endangering aircraft and airport operations
672.12   Possessing criminal tools
672.13   Possession of an object indistinguishable from a firearm in a school
safety zone
672.14   Concealed handgun licenses: possession of a revoked or suspended
license; additional restrictions; posting of signs prohibiting possession
672.15   Defaced firearms
Cross-reference:
   Arson, see GEN. OFF.
642.09
   Definitions generally, see GEN. OFF.
606.01
   Hunting prohibited, see GEN. OFF.
618.12
   Reporting gunshot wounds, see GEN. OFF.
606.12(b)
   Vehicles transporting explosives, see TRAF.
440.04
Statutory references:
   See section histories for similar state law
   Return of surrendered firearms by law enforcement, see Ohio R.C. 2923.163
   Prohibiting sales of firearms and explosives in riot areas, see Ohio R.C.
3761.16
§ 672.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (a)   “Active duty.” Has the same meaning as defined in 10 U.S.C. § 101.
   (b)   “Alien registration number.” The number issued by the United States
Citizenship and Immigration Services Agency that is located on the alien’s
permanent resident card and may also be commonly referred to as the “USCIS
number” or the “alien number.”
   (c)   “Automatic firearm.” Any firearm designed or specially adapted to fire
a succession of cartridges with a single function of the trigger.
   (d)   “Ballistic knife.” A knife with a detachable blade that is propelled
by a spring- operated mechanism.
   (e)   “Concealed handgun license” or “license to carry a concealed handgun.”
      (1)   Means, subject to division (2) of this definition, a license or
temporary emergency license to carry a concealed handgun issued under Ohio R.C.
2923.125 or Ohio R.C. 2923.1213 or a license to carry a concealed handgun
issued by another state with which the Attorney General has entered into a
reciprocity agreement under Ohio R.C. 109.69.
      (2)   A reference in any provision of this Code to a concealed handgun
license issued under Ohio R.C. 2923.125 or a license to carry a concealed
handgun issued under Ohio R.C. 2923.125 means only a license of the type that
is specified in that section. A reference in any provision of this Code to a
concealed handgun license issued under Ohio R.C. 2923.1213, a license to carry
a concealed handgun issued under Ohio R.C. 2923.1213, or a license to carry a
concealed handgun on a temporary emergency basis means only a license of the
type that is specified in Ohio R.C. 2923.1213. A reference in any provision of
this Code to a concealed handgun license issued by another state or a license
to carry a concealed handgun issued by another state means only a license
issued by another state with which the Attorney General has entered into a
reciprocity agreement under Ohio R.C. 109.69.
   (f)   “Dangerous ordnance.”
      (1)   Any of the following, except as provided in division (2) of this
definition:
         A.   Any automatic or sawed-off firearm, zip-gun, or ballistic knife.
         B.   Any explosive device or incendiary device.
         C.   Nitroglycerin, nitrocellulose, nitrostarch, PETN, cyclonite, TNT,
picric acid, and other high explosives; amatol, tritonal, tetrytol, pentolite,
pecretol, cyclotol, and other high explosive compositions; plastic explosives;
dynamite, blasting gelatin, gelatin dynamite, sensitized ammonium nitrate,
liquid-oxygen blasting explosives, blasting powder, and other blasting agents;
and any other explosive substance having sufficient brisance or power to be
particularly suitable for use as a military explosive, or for use in mining,
quarrying, excavating, or demolitions.
         D.   Any firearm, rocket launcher, mortar, artillery piece, grenade,
mine, bomb, torpedo, or similar weapon, designed and manufactured for military
purposes, and the ammunition for that weapon.
         E.   Any firearm muffler or suppressor.
         F.   Any combination of parts that is intended by the owner for use in
converting any firearm or other device into a dangerous ordnance.
      (2)   “Dangerous ordnance” does not include any of the following:
         A.   Any firearm, including a military weapon and the ammunition for
that weapon, and regardless of its actual age, that employs a percussion cap or
other obsolete ignition system, or that is designed and safe for use only with
black powder.
         B.   Any pistol, rifle, or shotgun, designed or suitable for sporting
purposes, including a military weapon as issued or as modified, and the
ammunition for that weapon, unless the firearm is an automatic or sawed-off
firearm.
         C.   Any cannon or other artillery piece that, regardless of its
actual age, is of a type in accepted use prior to 1887, has no mechanical,
hydraulic, pneumatic, or other system for absorbing recoil and returning the
tube into battery without displacing the carriage, and is designed and safe for
use only with black powder.
         D.   Black powder, priming quills, and percussion caps possessed and
lawfully used to fire a cannon of a type defined in division (2)C. of this
definition during displays, celebrations, organized matches or shoots, and
target practice, and smokeless and black powder, primers, and percussion caps
possessed and lawfully used as a propellant or ignition device in small-arms or
small-arms ammunition.
         E.   Dangerous ordnance that is inoperable or inert and cannot readily
be rendered operable or activated, and that is kept as a trophy, souvenir,
curio, or museum piece.
         F.   Any device that is expressly excepted from the definition of a
destructive device pursuant to the Gun Control Act of 1968, 18 U.S.C. 921(a)
(4), as amended, and regulations issued under that Act.
         G.   Any firearm with an overall length of at least 26 inches that is
approved for sale by the Federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and
Explosives under the “Gun Control Act of 1968”, 82 Stat. 1213, 18 U.S.C. § 921
(a)(3), but that is found by the Bureau not to be regulated under the “National
Firearms Act”, 68A Stat. 725 (1934), 26 U.S.C. § 5845(a).
   (g)   “Deadly weapon.” Any instrument, device, or thing capable of
inflicting death, and designed or specially adapted for use as a weapon, or
possessed, carried, or used as a weapon.
   (h)   “Explosive.” Any chemical compound, mixture, or device, the primary or
common purpose of which is to function by explosion. “Explosive” includes all
materials that have been classified as division 1.1, division 1.2, division
1.3, or division 1.4 explosives by the United States Department of
Transportation in its regulations and includes, but is not limited to,
dynamite, black powder, pellet powders, initiating explosives, blasting caps,
electric blasting caps, safety fuses, fuse igniters, squibs, cordeau detonant
fuses, instantaneous fuses, and igniter cords and igniters. “Explosives” does
not include “fireworks,” as defined in Ohio R.C. 3743.01, or any substance or
material otherwise meeting the definition of explosive set forth in this
section that is manufactured, sold, possessed, transported, stored, or used in
any activity described in Ohio R.C. 3743.80, provided the activity is conducted
in accordance with all applicable laws, rules, and regulations, including, but
not limited to, the provisions of Ohio R.C. 3743.80 and the rules of the Fire
Marshal adopted pursuant to Ohio R.C. 3737.82.
   (i)   “Explosive device.” Any device designed or specially adapted to cause
physical harm to persons or property by means of an explosion, and consisting
of an explosive substance or agency and a means to detonate it. “Explosive
device” includes without limitation any bomb, any explosive demolition device,
any blasting cap or detonator containing an explosive charge, and any pressure
vessel that has been knowingly tampered with or arranged so as to explode.
   (j)   “Firearm.”
      (1)   Any deadly weapon capable of expelling or propelling one or more
projectiles by the action of an explosive or combustible propellant. “Firearm”
includes an unloaded firearm, and any firearm that is inoperable but that can
readily be rendered operable.
      (2)   When determining whether a firearm is capable of expelling or
propelling one or more projectiles by the action of an explosive or combustible
propellant, the trier of fact may rely upon circumstantial evidence, including,
but not limited to, the representations and actions of the individual
exercising control over the firearm.
   (k)   “Handgun.” Means any of the following:
      (1)   Any firearm that has a short stock and is designed to be held and
fired by the use of a single hand;
      (2)   Any combination of parts from which a firearm of a type described
in division (1) of this definition can be assembled.
   (l)   “Incendiary device.” Any firebomb, and any device designed or
specially adapted to cause physical harm to persons or property by means of
fire, and consisting of an incendiary substance or agent and a means to ignite
it.
   (m)   “Misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment for a term exceeding one
year.” The phrase does not include any of the following:
      (1)   Any federal or state offense pertaining to antitrust violations,
unfair trade practices, restraints of trade, or other similar offenses relating
to the regulation of business practices;
      (2)   Any misdemeanor offense punishable by a term of imprisonment of two
years or less.
   (n)   “Sawed-off firearm.” A shotgun with a barrel less than 18 inches long,
or a rifle with a barrel less than 16 inches long, or a shotgun or rifle less
than 26 inches long overall. “Sawed-off firearm” does not include any firearm
with an overall length of at least 26 inches that is approved for sale by the
Federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives under the “Gun
Control Act of 1968”, 82 Stat. 1213, 18 U.S.C. § 921(a)(3), but that is found
by the Bureau not to be regulated under the “National Firearms Act”, 68A Stat.
725 (1934), 26 U.S.C. § 5845(a).
   (o)   “Semi-automatic firearm.” Any firearm designed or specially adapted to
fire a single cartridge and automatically chamber a succeeding cartridge ready
to fire, with a single function of the trigger.
   (p)   “Valid concealed handgun license” or “valid license to carry a
concealed handgun.” A concealed handgun license that is currently valid, that
is not under a suspension under Ohio R.C. 2923.128(A)(1), under Ohio R.C.
2923.1213, or under a suspension provision of the state other than this state
in which the license was issued, and that has not been revoked under Ohio R.C.
2923.128(B)(1), under Ohio R.C. 2923.1213, or under a revocation provision of
the state other than this state in which the license was issued.
   (q)   “Zip-gun.” Any of the following:
      (1)   Any firearm of crude and extemporized manufacture.
      (2)   Any device, including without limitation a starter’s pistol, not
designed as a firearm, but that is specially adapted for use as a firearm.
      (3)   Any industrial tool, signaling device, or safety device, not
designed as a firearm, but that as designed is capable of use as such, when
possessed, carried, or used as a firearm.
(ORC 2923.11)
§ 672.02 CARRYING CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly carry or have, concealed on the person’s
person or concealed ready at hand, any of the following:
      (1)   A deadly weapon other than a handgun;
      (2)   A handgun other than a dangerous ordnance;
      (3)   A dangerous ordnance.
   (b)   No person who has been issued a concealed handgun license shall do any
of the following:
      (1)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose and is
carrying a concealed handgun, before or at the time a law enforcement officer
asks if the person is carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly fail to disclose
that the person then is carrying a concealed handgun, provided that it is not a
violation of this division if the person fails to disclose that fact to an
officer during the stop and the person already has notified another officer of
that fact during the same stop;
      (2)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose and is
carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly fail to keep the person’s hands in
plain sight at any time after any law enforcement officer begins approaching
the person while stopped and before the law enforcement officer leaves, unless
the failure is pursuant to and in accordance with directions given by a law
enforcement officer;
      (3)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose, if the
person is carrying a concealed handgun, and if the person is approached by any
law enforcement officer while stopped, knowingly remove or attempt to remove
the loaded handgun from the holster, pocket, or other place in which the person
is carrying it, knowingly grasp or hold the loaded handgun, or knowingly have
contact with the loaded handgun by touching it with the person’s hands or
fingers at any time after the law enforcement officer begins approaching and
before the law enforcement officer leaves, unless the person removes, attempts
to remove, grasps, holds, or has contact with the loaded handgun pursuant to
and in accordance with directions given by the law enforcement officer;
      (4)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose and is
carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly disregard or fail to comply with any
lawful order of any law enforcement officer given while the person is stopped,
including, but not limited to, a specific order to the person to keep the
person’s hands in plain sight.
   (c)   (1)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
         A.   An officer, agent, or employee of this or any other state or the
United States, or to a law enforcement officer, who is authorized to carry
concealed weapons or dangerous ordnance or is authorized to carry handguns and
is acting within the scope of the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s duties;
         B.   Any person who is employed in this state, who is authorized to
carry concealed weapons or dangerous ordnance or is authorized to carry
handguns, and who is subject to and in compliance with the requirements of Ohio
R.C. 109.801, unless the appointing authority of the person has expressly
specified that the exemption provided in this division (c)(1)B. does not apply
to the person.
         C.   A person’s transportation or storage of a firearm, other than a
firearm described in Ohio R.C. 2923.11(G) to (M), in a motor vehicle for any
lawful purpose if the firearm is not on the actor’s person;
         D.   A person’s storage or possession of a firearm, other than a
firearm described in Ohio R.C. 2923.11(G) to (M), in the actor’s own home for
any lawful purpose.
      (2)   Division (a)(2) of this section does not apply to any person who
has been issued a concealed handgun license that is valid at the time of the
alleged carrying or possession of a handgun or who, at the time of the alleged
carrying or possession of a handgun, is an active duty member of the armed
forces of the United States and is carrying a valid military identification
card and documentation of successful completion of firearms training that meets
or exceeds the training requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), unless
the person knowingly is in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
   (d)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (a)(1) of this
section of carrying or having control of a weapon other than a handgun and
other than a dangerous ordnance, that the actor was not otherwise prohibited by
law from having the weapon, and that any of the following applies:
      (1)   The weapon was carried or kept ready at hand by the actor for
defensive purposes, while the actor was engaged in or was going to or from the
actor’s lawful business or occupation, which business or occupation was of a
character or was necessarily carried on in a manner or at a time or place as to
render the actor particularly susceptible to criminal attack, such as would
justify a prudent person in going armed.
      (2)   The weapon was carried or kept ready at hand by the actor for
defensive purposes, while the actor was engaged in a lawful activity and had
reasonable cause to fear a criminal attack upon the actor, a member of the
actor’s family, or the actor’s home, such as would justify a prudent person in
going armed.
      (3)   The weapon was carried or kept ready at hand by the actor for any
lawful purpose and while in the actor’s own home.
   (e)   (1)   No person who is charged with a violation of this section shall
be required to obtain a concealed handgun license as a condition for the
dismissal of the charge.
      (2)   If a person is convicted of, was convicted of, pleads guilty to, or
has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (b)(1) of this section as it
existed prior to June 13, 2022, the person may file an application under R.C. §
2953.35 requesting the expungement of the record of conviction.
   (f)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of carrying concealed
weapons. Except as otherwise provided in this division or divisions (f)(2), (f)
(6), and (f)(7) of this section, carrying concealed weapons in violation of
division (a) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Except as
otherwise provided in this division or divisions (f)(2), (f)(6), and (f)(7) of
this section, if the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of
this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance
or of any offense of violence, if the weapon involved is a firearm that is
either loaded or for which the offender has ammunition ready at hand, or if the
weapon involved is dangerous ordnance, carrying concealed weapons in violation
of division (a) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law. Except as otherwise provided in divisions (f)(2), (f)(6), and (f)(7)
of this section, if the offense is committed aboard an aircraft, or with
purpose to carry a concealed weapon aboard an aircraft, regardless of the
weapon involved, carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (a) of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A person shall not be arrested for a violation of division (a)(2)
of this section solely because the person does not promptly produce a valid
concealed handgun license. If a person is arrested for a violation of division
(a)(2) of this section and is convicted of or pleads guilty to the violation,
the offender shall be punished as follows:
         A.   The offender shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor if both of
the following apply:
            1.   Within ten days after the arrest, the offender presents a
concealed handgun license, which license was valid at the time of the arrest to
the law enforcement agency that employs the arresting officer.
            2.   At the time of the arrest, the offender was not knowingly in a
place described in Ohio R.C. 2923.126(B).
         B.   The offender shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined
five hundred dollars ($500.00) if all of the following apply:
            1.   The offender previously had been issued a concealed handgun
license, and that license expired within the two years immediately preceding
the arrest.
            2.   Within 45 days after the arrest, the offender presents a
concealed handgun license to the law enforcement agency that employed the
arresting officer, and the offender waives in writing the offender’s right to a
speedy trial on the charge of the violation that is provided in Ohio R.C.
2945.71.
            3.   At the time of the commission of the offense, the offender was
not knowingly in a place described in Ohio R.C. 2923.126(B).
         C.   If neither division (f)(2)A. nor (f)(2)B. of this section
applies, the offender shall be punished under division (f)(2) of this section.
      (3)   Carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (b)(1) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (4)   Carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (b)(2) or (b)
(4) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division
(b)(2) or (b)(4) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. In
addition to any other penalty or sanction imposed for a misdemeanor violation
of division (b)(2) or (b)(4) of this section, the offender’s concealed handgun
license shall be suspended pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2923.128(A)(2).
      (5)   Carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (b)(3) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (6)   If a person being arrested for a violation of division (a)(2) of
this section is an active duty m ember of the armed forces of the United States
and is carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of
successful completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training
requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), and if at the time of the
violation the person was not knowingly in a place described in R.C. 2923.126
(B), the officer shall not arrest the person for a violation of that division.
If the person is not able to promptly produce a valid military identification
card and documentation of successful completion of firearms training that meets
or exceeds the training requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1) and if
the person is not in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B), the officer shall
issue a citation and the offender shall be assessed a civil penalty of not more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00). The citation shall be automatically
dismissed and the civil penalty shall not be assessed if both of the following
apply:
         A.   Within ten days after the issuance of the citation, the offender
presents a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), which were both valid at the time of the
issuance of the citation to the law enforcement agency that employs the citing
officer.
         B.   At the time of the citation, the offender was not knowingly in a
place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
      (7)   If a person being arrested for a violation of division (a)(2) of
this section is knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B)(5) and is
not authorized to carry a handgun or have a handgun concealed on the person’s
person or concealed ready at hand under that division, the penalty shall be as
follows:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person
produces a valid concealed handgun license within ten days after the arrest and
has not previously been convicted or pleaded guilty to a violation of division
(a)(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the person is guilty of a minor misdemeanor;
         B.   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person has
previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (a)
(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
         C.   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person has
previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of division
(a)(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree;
         D.   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person has
previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of
division (a)(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, or convicted of or pleaded guilty to any offense of
violence, if the weapon involved is a firearm that is either loaded or for
which the offender has ammunition ready at hand, or if the weapon involved is a
dangerous ordnance, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (g)   If a law enforcement officer stops a person to question the person
regarding a possible violation of this section, for a traffic stop, or for any
other law enforcement purpose, if the person surrenders a firearm to the
officer, either voluntarily or pursuant to a request or demand of the officer,
and if the officer does not charge the person with a violation of this section
or arrest the person for any offense, the person is not otherwise prohibited by
law from possessing the firearm, and the firearm is not contraband, the officer
shall return the firearm to the person at the termination of the stop. If a
court orders a law enforcement officer to return a firearm to a person pursuant
to the requirement set forth in this division, Ohio R.C. 2923.163(B) applies.
   (h)   For purposes of this section, “deadly weapon” or “weapon” does not
include any knife, razor, or cutting instrument if the instrument was not used
as a weapon.
(R.C. § 2923.12)
Statutory reference:
   Carrying concealed handguns, licensing through county sheriff, see Ohio R.C.
2923.124 et seq.
   Concealed carry by a qualifying adult, see R.C. § 2923.111
   Conveyance or possession of deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance on school
premises, felony offense, see Ohio R.C. 2923.122
   Conveyance, possession, or control of deadly weapon or dangerous ordinance
in a courthouse, felony offense, see Ohio R.C. 2923.123
   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, felony offense, see Ohio
R.C. 2923.131
   Possession of firearm in liquor permit premises, felony offense, see Ohio
R.C. 2923.121
§ 672.025 POSSESSION OF DEADLY WEAPON WHILE UNDER DETENTION.
   (a)   “Detention” and “detention facility” have the same meanings as in Ohio
R.C. 2921.01.
   (b)   No person under detention at a detention facility shall possess a
deadly weapon.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possession of a deadly
weapon while under detention.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (c)(2) of this section,
possession of a deadly weapon while under detention is a felony to be
prosecuted under state law.
      (2)   If the offender, at the time of the commission of the offense, was
under detention as an alleged or adjudicated delinquent child or unruly child
and if at the time the offender commits the act for which the offender was
under detention it would not be a felony if committed by an adult, possession
of a deadly weapon while under detention is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(ORC 2923.131)
Statutory reference:
   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, felony offenses, see Ohio
R.C. 2923.131
§ 672.03 USING WEAPONS WHILE INTOXICATED.
   (a)   No person, while under the influence of alcohol or any drug of abuse,
shall carry or use any firearm or dangerous ordnance.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of using weapons while
intoxicated, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(ORC 2923.15)
§ 672.04 IMPROPERLY HANDLING FIREARMS IN A MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly discharge a firearm while in or on a motor
vehicle.
   (b)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a loaded firearm in a
motor vehicle in such a manner that the firearm is accessible to the operator
or any passenger without leaving the vehicle.
   (c)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a firearm in a motor
vehicle, unless the person may lawfully possess that firearm under applicable
law of this state or the United States, the firearm is unloaded, and the
firearm is carried in one of the following ways:
      (1)   In a closed package, box, or case.
      (2)   In a compartment that can be reached only by leaving the vehicle.
      (3)   In plain sight and secured in a rack or holder made for the
purpose.
      (4)   If the firearm is at least 24 inches in overall length as measured
from the muzzle to the part of the stock furthest from the muzzle and if the
barrel is at least 18 inches in length, either in plain sight with the action
open or the weapon stripped, or, if the firearm is of a type on which the
action will not stay open or which cannot easily be stripped, in plain sight.
   (d)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a loaded handgun in a
motor vehicle if, at the time of that transportation or possession, any of the
following applies:
      (1)   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a
combination of them.
      (2)   The person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine
contains a concentration of alcohol, a listed controlled substance, or a listed
metabolite of a controlled substance prohibited for persons operating a
vehicle, as specified in Ohio R.C. 4511.19(A), regardless of whether the person
at the time of the transportation or possession as described in this division
is the operator of or a passenger in the motor vehicle.
   (e)   No person who has been issued a concealed handgun license or who is an
active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is carrying a
valid military identification card and documentation of successful completion
of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements described
in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), who is the driver or an occupant of a motor vehicle
that is stopped as a result of a traffic stop or a stop for another law
enforcement purpose or is the driver or an occupant of a commercial motor
vehicle that is stopped by an employee of the motor carrier enforcement unit
for the purposes defined in Ohio R.C. 5503.34, and who is transporting or has a
loaded handgun in the motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle in any manner,
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Before or at the time a law enforcement officer asks if the person
is carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly fail to disclose that the person
then possesses or has a loaded handgun in the motor vehicle, provided that it
is not a violation of this division if the person fails to disclose that fact
to an officer during the stop and the person already has notified another
officer of that fact during the same stop;
      (2)   Before or at the time an employee of the motor carrier enforcement
unit asks if the person is carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly fail to
disclose that the person then possesses or has a loaded handgun in the
commercial motor vehicle, provided that it is not a violation of this division
if the person fails to disclose that fact to an employee of the unit during the
stop and the person already has notified another employee of the unit of that
fact during the same stop;
      (3)   Knowingly fail to remain in the motor vehicle while stopped, or
knowingly fail to keep the person’s hands in plain sight at any time after any
law enforcement officer begins approaching the person while stopped and before
the law enforcement officer leaves, unless the failure is pursuant to and in
accordance with directions given by a law enforcement officer;
      (4)   Knowingly have contact with the loaded handgun by touching it with
the person’s hands or fingers in the motor vehicle at any time after the law
enforcement officer begins approaching and before the law enforcement officer
leaves, unless the person has contact with the loaded handgun pursuant to and
in accordance with directions given by the law enforcement officer.
      (5)   Knowingly disregard or fail to comply with any lawful order of any
law enforcement officer given while the motor vehicle is stopped, including but
not limited to a specific order to the person to keep the person’s hands in
plain sight.
   (f)   (1)   Divisions (a), (b), (c), and (e) of this section do not apply to
any of the following:
         A.   An officer, agent, or employee of this or any other state or the
United States, or a law enforcement officer, when authorized to carry or have
loaded or accessible firearms in motor vehicles and acting within the scope of
the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s duties;
         B.   Any person who is employed in this state, who is authorized to
carry or have loaded or accessible firearms in motor vehicles, and who is
subject to and in compliance with the requirements of Ohio R.C. 109.801, unless
the appointing authority of the person has expressly specified that the
exemption provided in this division (f)(1)B. does not apply to the person.
      (2)   Division (a) of this section does not apply to a person if all of
the following circumstances apply:
         A.   The person discharges a firearm from a motor vehicle at a coyote
or groundhog, the discharge is not during the deer gun hunting season as set by
the Chief of the Division of Wildlife of the Department of Natural Resources,
and the discharge at the coyote or groundhog, but for the operation of this
section, is lawful.
         B.   The motor vehicle from which the person discharges the firearm is
on real property that is located in an unincorporated area of a township and
that is either zoned for agriculture or is used for agriculture.
         C.   The person owns the real property described in division (f)(2)B.
of this section, is the spouse or a child of another person who owns that real
property, is a tenant of another person who owns that real property, or is the
spouse or a child of a tenant of another person who owns that real property.
         D.   The person does not discharge the firearm in any of the following
manners:
            1.   While under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or
alcohol and a drug of abuse;
            2.   In the direction of a street, highway or other public or
private property used by the public for vehicular traffic or parking;
            3.   At or into an occupied structure that is a permanent or
temporary habitation;
            4.   In the commission of any violation of law, including but not
limited to a felony that includes, as an essential element, purposely or
knowingly causing or attempting to cause the death of or physical harm to
another and that was committed by discharging a firearm from a motor vehicle.
      (3)   Division (a) of this section does not apply to a person if all of
the following apply:
         A.   The person possesses a valid all-purpose vehicle permit issued
under R.C. § 1533.103 by the Chief of the Division of Wildlife.
         B.   The person discharges a firearm at a wild quadruped or game bird
as defined in Ohio R.C. 1531.01 during the open hunting season for the
applicable wild quadruped or game bird.
         C.   The person discharges a firearm from a stationary all-purpose
vehicle as defined in R.C. § 1531.01 from private or publicly owned lands or
from a motor vehicle that is parked on a road that is owned or administered by
the Division of Wildlife.
         D.   The person does not discharge the firearm in any of the following
manners:
            1.   While under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or
alcohol and a drug of abuse;
            2.   In the direction of a street, a highway, or other public or
private property that is used by the public for vehicular traffic or parking;
            3.   At or into an occupied structure that is a permanent or
temporary habitation;
            4.   In the commission of any violation of law, including, but not
limited to, a felony that includes, as an essential element, purposely or
knowingly causing or attempting to cause the death of or physical harm to
another and that was committed by discharging a firearm from a motor vehicle.
      (4)   Divisions (b) and (c) of this section do not apply to a person if
all of the following circumstances apply:
         A.   At the time of the alleged violation of either of those
divisions, the person is the operator of or a passenger in a motor vehicle.
         B.   The motor vehicle is on real property that is located in an
unincorporated area of a township and that is either zoned for agriculture or
is used for agriculture.
         C.   The person owns the real property described in division (f)(4)B.
of this section, is the spouse or a child of another person who owns that real
property, is a tenant of another person who owns that real property, or is the
spouse or a child of a tenant of another person who owns that real property.
         D.   The person, prior to arriving at the real property described in
division (f)(4)B. of this section, did not transport or possess a firearm in
the motor vehicle in a manner prohibited by division (b) or (c) of this section
while the motor vehicle was being operated on a street, highway or other public
or private property used by the public for vehicular traffic or parking.
      (5)   Divisions (b) and (c) of this section do not apply to a person who
transports or possesses a handgun in a motor vehicle if, at the time of that
transportation or possession, both of the following apply:
         A.   The person transporting or possessing the handgun has been issued
a concealed handgun license that is valid at the time in question or the person
is an active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is
carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1).
         B.   The person transporting or possessing the handgun is not
knowingly in a place described in Ohio R.C. 2923.126(B).
      (6)   Divisions (b) and (c) of this section do not apply to a person if
all of the following apply:
         A.   The person possesses a valid all-purpose vehicle permit issued
under R.C. § 1533.103 by the Chief of the Division of Wildlife.
         B.   The person is on or in an all-purpose vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 1531.01 or a motor vehicle during the open hunting season for a wild
quadruped or game bird.
         C.   The person is on or in an all-purpose vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 1531.01 on private or publicly owned lands or on or in a motor vehicle that
is parked on a road that is owned or administered by the Division of Wildlife.
   (g)   (1)   The affirmative defenses authorized in Ohio R.C. 2923.12(D)(1)
and (D)(2) are affirmative defenses to a charge under division (b) or (c) of
this section that involves a firearm other than a handgun.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (b) or (c)
of this section of improperly handling firearms in a motor vehicle that the
actor transported or had the firearm in the motor vehicle for any lawful
purpose and while the motor vehicle was on the actor’s own property, provided
that this affirmative defense is not available unless the person, immediately
prior to arriving at the actor’s own property, did not transport or possess the
firearm in a motor vehicle in a manner prohibited by division (b) or (c) of
this section while the motor vehicle was being operated on a street, highway,
or other public or private property used by the public for vehicular traffic.
   (h)   (1)   No person who is charged with a violation of division (b), (c),
or (d) of this section shall be required to obtain a concealed handgun license
as a condition for the dismissal of the charge.
      (2)   A.   If a person is convicted of, was convicted of, pleads guilty
to, or has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (e) of this section as it
existed prior to September 30, 2011, and the conduct that was the basis of the
violation no longer would be a violation of division (e) of this section on or
after September 30, 2011, or if a person is convicted of, was convicted of,
pleads guilty to, or has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (e)(1) or
(e)(2) of this section as it existed prior to June 13, 2022, the person may
file an application under R.C. § 2953.35 requesting the expungement of the
record of conviction.
         B.   If a person is convicted of, was convicted of, pleads guilty to,
or has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (b) or (c) of this section as
the division existed prior to September 30, 2011, and if the conduct that was
the basis of the violation no longer would be a violation of division (b) or
(c) of this section on or after September 30, 2011, due to the application of
division (f)(5) of this section as it exists on and after September 30, 2011,
the person may file an application under R.C. § 2953.35 requesting the
expungement of the record of conviction.
   (i)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of improperly handling
firearms in a motor vehicle. A violation of division (a) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation of division
(c) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. A violation of
division (d) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law and, if the loaded handgun is concealed on the person’s person, it is
also a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation of
division (e)(1) or (e)(2) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. A violation of division (e)(4) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation of division (e)(3) or (e)
(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division
(e)(3) or (e)(5) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. In
addition to any other penalty or sanction imposed for a misdemeanor violation
of division (e)(3) or (e)(5) of this section, the offender’s concealed handgun
license shall be suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2). A violation of
division (b) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (j)   If a law enforcement officer stops a motor vehicle for a traffic stop
or any other purpose, if any person in the motor vehicle surrenders a firearm
to the officer, either voluntarily or pursuant to a request or demand of the
officer, and if the officer does not charge the person with a violation of this
section or arrest the person for any offense, the person is not otherwise
prohibited by law from possessing the firearm, and the firearm is not
contraband, the officer shall return the firearm to the person at the
termination of the stop. If a court orders a law enforcement officer to return
a firearm to a person pursuant to the requirement set forth in this division,
Ohio R.C. 2923.163(B) applies.
   (k)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Agriculture” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 519.01.
      (2)   “Commercial motor vehicle” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C.
4506.25(A).
      (3)   “Motor carrier enforcement unit” means the Motor Carrier
Enforcement Unit in the Department of Public Safety, Division of State Highway
Patrol, that is created by Ohio R.C. 5503.34.
      (4)   “Motor vehicle,” “street” and “highway” have the same meaning as in
Ohio R.C. 4511.01.
      (5)   “Occupied structure” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2909.01.
      (6)   “Tenant” has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 1531.01.
      (7)   “Unloaded.”
         A.   With respect to a firearm other than a firearm described in
division D. of this definition, means that no ammunition is in the firearm in
question, no magazine or speed loader containing ammunition is inserted into
the firearm, and one of the following applies:
            1.   There is no ammunition in a magazine or speed loader that is
in the vehicle in question and that may be used with the firearm in question.
            2.   Any magazine or speed loader that contains ammunition and that
may be used with the firearm in question is stored in a compartment within the
vehicle in question that cannot be accessed without leaving the vehicle or is
stored in a container that provides complete and separate enclosure.
         B.   For the purposes of division A.2. of this definition, a
“container that provides complete and separate enclosure” includes, but is not
limited to, any of the following:
            1.   A package, box, or case with multiple compartments, as long as
the loaded magazine or speed loader and the firearm in question either are in
separate compartments within the package, box, or case, or, if they are in the
same compartment, the magazine or speed loader is contained within a separate
enclosure in that compartment that does not contain the firearm and that closes
using a snap, button, buckle, zipper, hook and loop closing mechanism, or other
fastener that must be opened to access the contents or the firearm is contained
within a separate enclosure of that nature in that compartment that does not
contain the magazine or speed loader;
            2.   A pocket or other enclosure on the person of the person in
question that closes using a snap, button, buckle, zipper, hook and loop
closing mechanism, or other fastener that must be opened to access the
contents.
         C.   For the purposes of divisions A. and B. of this definition,
ammunition held in stripper-clips or in en-bloc clips is not considered
ammunition that is loaded into a magazine or speed loader.
         D.   “Unloaded” means, with respect to a firearm employing a
percussion cap, flintlock, or other obsolete ignition system, when the weapon
is uncapped or when the priming charge is removed from the pan.
   (l)   Divisions A. and B. of the definition of “unloaded” in division (k) of
this section do not affect the authority of a person who has been issued a
concealed handgun license that is valid at the time in question to have one or
more magazines or speed loaders containing ammunition anywhere in a vehicle,
without being transported as described in those divisions, as long as no
ammunition is in a firearm, other than a handgun, in the vehicle other than as
permitted under any other provision of this chapter. A person who has been
issued a concealed handgun license that is valid at the time in question may
have one or more magazines or speed loaders containing ammunition anywhere in a
vehicle without further restriction, as long as no ammunition is in a firearm,
other than a handgun, in the vehicle other than as permitted under any
provision of this chapter.
(ORC 2923.16)
Statutory reference:
   Return of surrendered firearms by law enforcement, see Ohio R.C. 2923.163
§ 672.05 LICENSE OR PERMIT TO POSSESS DANGEROUS ORDNANCE.
   (a)   Upon application to the Sheriff of the county or Safety Director or
Police Chief of the municipality where the applicant resides or has the
applicant’s principal place of business, and upon payment of the fee specified
in division (b) of this section, a license or temporary permit shall be issued
to qualified applicants to acquire, possess, carry or use a dangerous ordnance
for the following purposes:
      (1)   Contractors, wreckers, quarriers, mine operators and other persons
regularly employing explosives in the course of a legitimate business, with
respect to explosives and explosive devices acquired, possessed, carried or
used in the course of such business.
      (2)   Farmers, with respect to explosives and explosive devices acquired,
possessed, carried or used for agricultural purposes on lands farmed by them.
      (3)   Scientists, engineers, and instructors, with respect to a dangerous
ordnance acquired, possessed, carried or used in the course of bona fide
research or instruction.
      (4)   Financial institutions and armored car company guards, with respect
to automatic firearms lawfully acquired, possessed, carried or used by any such
person while acting within the scope of the person’s duties.
      (5)   In the discretion of the issuing authority, any responsible person,
with respect to a dangerous ordnance lawfully acquired, possessed, carried or
used for a legitimate research, scientific, educational, industrial or other
proper purpose.
   (b)   Application for a license or temporary permit under this section shall
be in writing under oath to the Sheriff of the county or Safety Director or
Police Chief of the municipality where the applicant resides or has the
applicant’s principal place of business. The application shall be accompanied
by an application fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) when the application is for a
license, and an application fee of five dollars ($5.00) when the application is
for a temporary permit. The fees shall be paid into the general revenue fund of
the county or municipality. The application shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   The name, age, address, occupation and business address of the
applicant, if the applicant is a natural person, or the name, address, and
principal place of business of the applicant if the applicant is a corporation.
      (2)   A description of the dangerous ordnance for which a permit is
requested.
      (3)   A description of the places where and the manner in which the
dangerous ordnance is to be kept, carried, and used.
      (4)   A statement of the purposes for which the dangerous ordnance is to
be acquired, possessed, carried or used.
      (5)   Such other information as the issuing authority may require in
giving effect to this section.
   (c)   Upon investigation, the issuing authority shall issue a license or
temporary permit only if all of the following apply:
      (1)   The applicant is not otherwise prohibited by law from acquiring,
having, carrying or using a dangerous ordnance.
      (2)   The applicant is 21 years of age or over, if the applicant is a
natural person.
      (3)   It appears that the applicant has sufficient competence to safely
acquire, possess, carry or use the dangerous ordnance, and that proper
precautions will be taken to protect the security of the dangerous ordnance and
ensure the safety of persons and property.
      (4)   It appears that the dangerous ordnance will be lawfully acquired,
possessed, carried and used by the applicant for a legitimate purpose.
   (d)   The license or temporary permit shall identify the person to whom it
is issued, identify the dangerous ordnance involved and state the purposes for
which the license or temporary permit is issued, state the expiration date, if
any, and list such restrictions on the acquisition, possession, carriage, or
use of the dangerous ordnance as the issuing authority considers advisable to
protect the security of the dangerous ordnance and ensure the safety of persons
and property.
   (e)   A temporary permit shall be issued for the casual use of explosives
and explosive devices, and other consumable dangerous ordnance, and shall
expire within 30 days of its issuance. A license shall be issued for the
regular use of consumable dangerous ordnance, or for any non-consumable
dangerous ordnance, which license need not specify an expiration date, but the
issuing authority may specify such expiration date, not earlier than one year
from the date of issuance, as it considers advisable in view of the nature of
the dangerous ordnance and the purposes for which the license is issued.
   (f)   The dangerous ordnance specified in a license or temporary permit may
be obtained by the holder anywhere in the state. Pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2923.18
(F), the holder of a license may use such dangerous ordnance anywhere in the
state. The holder of a temporary permit may use such dangerous ordnance only
within the territorial jurisdiction of the issuing authority.
   (g)   The issuing authority shall forward to the State Fire Marshal a copy
of each license or temporary permit issued pursuant to this section, and a copy
of each record of a transaction in a dangerous ordnance and of each report of a
lost or stolen dangerous ordnance, given to the local law enforcement authority
as required by R.C. § 2923.20(A)(6) and (A)(7) or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance. The State Fire Marshal will keep a permanent file of all
licenses and temporary permits issued pursuant to this section, and of all
records of transactions in, and losses or thefts of a dangerous ordnance
forwarded by local law enforcement authorities pursuant to this section.
(R.C. § 2923.18)
§ 672.06 FAILURE TO SECURE DANGEROUS ORDNANCE.
   (a)   No person, in acquiring, possessing, carrying, or using any dangerous
ordnance, shall negligently fail to take proper precautions:
      (1)   To secure the dangerous ordnance against theft, or against its
acquisition or use by any unauthorized or incompetent person.
      (2)   To insure the safety of persons and property.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to a secure
dangerous ordnance, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(ORC 2923.19)
§ 672.07 UNLAWFUL TRANSACTIONS IN WEAPONS.
   (a)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Recklessly sell, lend, give or furnish any firearm to any person
prohibited by R.C. § 2923.13 or 2923.15, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, from acquiring or using any firearm, or recklessly sell,
lend, give or furnish any dangerous ordnance to any person prohibited by R.C. §
2923.13, 2923.15 or 2923.17, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
from acquiring or using any dangerous ordnance;
      (2)   Possess any firearm or dangerous ordnance with purpose to dispose
of it in violation of division (a)(1) of this section;
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in division (b) of this section,
knowingly solicit, persuade, encourage, or entice a federally licensed firearms
dealer or private seller to transfer a firearm or ammunition to any person in a
manner prohibited by state or federal law;
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in division (b) of this section, with
an intent to deceive, knowingly provide materially false information to a
federally licensed firearms dealer or private seller;
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in division (b) of this section,
knowingly procure, solicit, persuade, encourage, or entice a person to act in
violation of division (a)(3) or (a)(4) of this section;
      (6)   When transferring any dangerous ordnance to another, negligently
fail to require the transferee to exhibit the identification, license or permit
showing the transferee to be authorized to acquire dangerous ordnance pursuant
to R.C. § 2923.17, or negligently fail to take a complete record of the
transaction and forthwith forward a copy of the record to the Sheriff of the
county or Safety Director or Police Chief of the municipality where the
transaction takes place;
      (7)   Knowingly fail to report to law enforcement authorities forthwith
the loss or theft of any firearm or dangerous ordnance in the person’s
possession and under his or her control.
   (b)   Divisions (a)(3), (a)(4), and (a)(5) of this section do not apply to
any of the following:
      (1)   A law enforcement officer who is acting within the scope of the
officer’s duties;
      (2)   A person who is acting in accordance with directions given by a law
enforcement officer described in division (b)(1) of this section.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful transactions in
weapons. A violation of division (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4), or (a)(5) of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. A
violation of division (a)(6) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. A violation of division (a)(7) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (d)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Ammunition.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.401.
      (2)   “Federally licensed firearms dealer.” Has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 5502.63.
      (3)   “Materially false information.” Means information regarding the
transfer of a firearm or ammunition that portrays an illegal transaction as
legal or a legal transaction as illegal.
      (4)   “Private seller.” Means a person who sells, offers for sale, or
transfers a firearm or ammunition and who is not a federally licensed firearms
dealer.
(R.C. § 2923.20)
§ 672.08 IMPROPERLY FURNISHING FIREARMS TO A MINOR. (REPEALED)
   ( Editor’s note: Section 678.08 was repealed as part of the 1996 revision of
these Codified Ordinances because a violation of substantially equivalent state
law (Ohio R.C. 2923.21) was made a felony by the Ohio General Assembly.)
§ 672.085 UNDERAGE PURCHASE OF A FIREARM OR HANDGUN.
   (a)   No person under 18 years of age shall purchase or attempt to purchase
a firearm.
   (b)   No person under 21 years of age shall purchase or attempt to purchase
a handgun; provided, that this division does not apply to the purchase or
attempted purchase of a handgun by a person 18 years of age or older and under
21 years of age, if either of the following applies:
      (1)   The person is a law enforcement officer and has received firearms
training approved by the Ohio Peace Officer Training Council or equivalent
firearms training.
      (2)   The person is an active or reserve member of the armed services of
the United States or the Ohio National Guard, or was honorably discharged from
military service in the active or reserve armed services of the United States
or the Ohio National Guard, and the person has received firearms training from
the armed services or the national guard or equivalent firearms training.
   (c)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of underage
purchase of a firearm, a delinquent act that would be a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law if it could be committed by an adult. Whoever
violates division (b) of this section is guilty of underage purchase of a
handgun, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(ORC 2923.211)
§ 672.09 POINTING AND DISCHARGING FIREARMS AND OTHER WEAPONS.
   (a)   Except as provided in divisions (c) and (d) of this section, no person
shall discharge any air gun, rifle, shotgun, revolver, pistol or other firearm,
or make use of any sling or arrow, within the corporate limits of the
municipality.
   (b)   No person shall, intentionally and without malice, point or aim a
firearm at or toward another or discharge a firearm so pointed or aimed.
   (c)   This section does not extend to cases in which firearms, slings or
arrows are used in self-defense, in the discharge of official duty or in
justifiable homicide.
   (d)   This section does not extend to cases in which BB guns and other air
guns, or slings or arrows, are used in the confines of dwellings, provided such
use is under adult supervision and is approved by the Chief of Police.
   (e)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
§ 672.095 DISCHARGE OF A FIREARM ON OR NEAR PROHIBITED PREMISES.
   (a)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Without permission from the proper officials and subject to
division (b)(1) of this section, discharge a firearm upon or over a cemetery or
within 100 yards of a cemetery;
      (2)   Subject to division (b)(2) of this section, discharge of a firearm
on a lawn, park, pleasure ground, orchard, or other ground appurtenant to a
schoolhouse, church, or inhabited dwelling, the property of another, or a
charitable institution;
      (3)   Discharge a firearm upon or over a public road or highway.
   (b)   (1)   Division (a)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who
while on the person’s own land, discharges a firearm.
      (2)   Division (a)(2) of this section does not apply to a person who owns
any type of property described in that division and who, while on the person’s
own enclosure, discharges a firearm.
   (c)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of discharge
of a firearm on or near prohibited premises. A violation of division (a)(1) or
(a)(2) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. A violation of
division (a)(3) of this section shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (c)(2) of this section, a
violation of division (a)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (2)   If the violation created a substantial risk of physical harm to any
person, caused serious physical harm to property, caused physical harm to any
person, or caused serious physical harm to any person, a violation of division
(a)(3) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(ORC 2923.162)
§ 672.10 FIREWORKS.
   (a)   Definitions. As used in this section, unless otherwise provided:
      (1)   “1.3G fireworks.” Display fireworks consistent with regulations of
the United States Department of Transportation as expressed using the
designation “Division 1.3" in Title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
      (2)   “1.4G fireworks.” Consumer fireworks consistent with regulations of
the United States Department of Transportation as expressed using the
designation “Division 1.4" in Title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
      (3)   “Beer” and “intoxicating liquor.” Have the same meaning as in Ohio
R.C. 4301.01.
      (4)   “Booby trap.” A small tube that has a string protruding from both
ends that has a friction-sensitive composition and that is ignited by pulling
the ends of the string.
      (5)   “Cigarette load.” A small wooden peg that is coated with a small
quantity of explosive composition and that is ignited in a cigarette.
      (6)   “Controlled substance.” Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C.
3719.01.
      (7)   “Discharge site.” An area immediately surrounding the mortars used
to fire aerial shells.
      (8)   “Fireworks.” Any composition or device prepared for the purpose of
producing a visible or an audible effect by combustion, deflagration, or
detonation, except ordinary matches and except as provided in Ohio R.C.
3743.80.
      (9)   “Fireworks incident.” Any action or omission that occurs at a
fireworks exhibition that results in injury or death, or a substantial risk of
injury or death, to any person, and that involves either of the following:
         A.   The handling or other use, or the results of the handling or
other use, of fireworks or associated equipment or other materials;
         B.   The failure of any person to comply with any applicable
requirement imposed by this section or Ohio R.C. Chapter 3743, or any
applicable rule adopted under this section or Ohio R.C. Chapter 3743.
      (10)   “Fireworks incident site.” A discharge site or other location at a
fireworks exhibition where a fireworks incident occurs, a location where an
injury or death associated with a fireworks incident occurs, or a location
where evidence of a fireworks incident or an injury or death associated with a
fireworks incident is found.
      (11)   “Fireworks plant.” All buildings and other structures in which the
manufacturing of fireworks, or the storage or sale of manufactured fireworks by
a manufacturer, takes place.
      (12)   “Fountain device.” Means a specific type of 1.4G firework that
meets all of the following criteria:
         A.   It is nonaerial and nonreport producing.
         B.   It is recognized and manufactured in accordance with sections
3.1.1 and 3.5 of APA standard 87-1 (2001 edition).
         C.   It is a ground-based or hand-held sparkler with one or more tubes
containing a nonexplosive pyrotechnic mixture that produces a shower of sparks
upon ignition, with or without additional effects that may include a colored
flame, audible crackling effect, audible whistle effect, or smoke.
         D.   It contains not more than 75 grams of the nonexplosive
pyrotechnic mixture in any individual tube and not more than 500 grams or less
for multiple tubes.
      (13)   “Highway.” Any public street, road, alley, way, lane or other
public thoroughfare.
      (14)   “Intoxicating liquor.” Had the same meaning as in R.C. § 4301.01.
      (15)   “Licensed building.” A building on the licensed premises of a
licensed manufacturer or wholesaler of fireworks that is approved for occupancy
by the building official having jurisdiction.
      (16)   “Licensed exhibitor of fireworks” or “licensed exhibitor.” A
person licensed pursuant to Ohio R.C. 3743.50 through 3743.55.
      (17)   "Licensed fountain device retailer" or "licensed retailer." Means
a person licensed pursuant to R.C. § 3743.26.
      (18)   “Licensed manufacturer of fireworks” or “licensed manufacturer.” A
person licensed pursuant to Ohio R.C. 3743.02 through 3743.08.
      (19)   “Licensed premises.” The real estate upon which a licensed
manufacturer or wholesaler of fireworks conducts business.
      (20)   “Licensed wholesaler of fireworks” or “licensed wholesaler.” A
person licensed pursuant to Ohio R.C. 3743.15 through 3743.21.
      (21)   “List of licensed exhibitors.” The list required by R.C. § 3743.51
(C).
      (22)   “List of licensed manufacturers.” The list required by R.C. §
3743.03(C).
      (23)   “List of licensed wholesalers.” The list required by R.C. §
3743.16(C).
      (24)   “Manufacturing of fireworks.” The making of fireworks from raw
materials, none of which in and of themselves constitute fireworks, or the
processing of fireworks.
      (25)   “Navigable waters.” Any body of water susceptible of being used in
its ordinary condition as a highway of commerce over which trade and travel is
or may be conducted in the customary modes, but does not include a body of
water that is not capable of navigation by barges, tugboats, and other large
vessels.
      (26)   “Novelties” and “trick noisemakers.”
         A.   Devices that produce a small report intended to surprise the
user, including but not limited to booby traps, cigarette loads, party poppers,
and snappers;
         B.   Snakes or glow worms;
         C.   Smoke devices;
         D.   Trick matches.
      (27)   “Party popper.” A small plastic or paper item that contains not
more than 16 milligrams of friction-sensitive explosive composition that is
ignited by pulling a string protruding from the item, and from which paper
streamers are expelled when the item is ignited.
      (28)   “Processing of fireworks.” The making of fireworks from materials
all or part of which in and of themselves constitute fireworks, but does not
include the mere packaging or repackaging of fireworks.
      (29)   “Railroad.” Any railway or railroad that carries freight or
passengers for hire, but does not include auxiliary tracks, spurs, and sidings
installed and primarily used in serving a mine, quarry or plant.
      (30)   “Retail sale” or “sell at retail.” A sale of fireworks to a
purchaser who intends to use the fireworks and not to resell them.
      (31)   “Smoke device.” A tube or sphere that contains pyrotechnic
composition that, upon ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary
effect.
      (32)   “Snake” or “glow worm.” A device that consists of a pressed pellet
of pyrotechnic composition that produces a large snake-like ash upon burning,
which ash expands in length as the pellet burns.
      (33)   “Snapper.” A small paper- wrapped item that contains a minute
quantity of explosive composition coated on small bits of sand and that, when
dropped, implodes.
      (34)   “Storage location.” A single parcel or contiguous parcels of real
estate approved by the Ohio Fire Marshal pursuant to R.C. § 3743.04(I) or
3743.17(F) that are separate from a licensed premises containing a retail
showroom, and which parcel or parcels a licensed manufacturer or wholesaler of
fireworks may use only for the distribution, possession and storage of
fireworks in accordance with this chapter.
      (35)   “Trick match.” A kitchen or book match that is coated with a small
quantity of explosive composition and that, upon ignition, produces a small
report or a shower of sparks.
      (36)   “Wholesale sale” or “sell at wholesale.” A sale of fireworks to a
purchaser who intends to resell the fireworks so purchased.
      (37)   “Wire sparkler.” A sparkler consisting of a wire or stick coated
with a nonexplosive
pyrotechnic mixture that produces a shower of sparks upon ignition and that
contains no more than 100 grams of this mixture.
(R.C. § 3743.01)
   (b)   Manufacturing.
      (1)   No licensed manufacturer of fireworks shall knowingly fail to
comply with the rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal pursuant to Ohio R.C.
3743.05 or the requirements of Ohio R.C. 3743.06.
      (2)   No licensed manufacturer of fireworks shall fail to maintain
complete inventory, wholesale sale and retail records as required by Ohio R.C.
3743.07, or to permit an inspection of these records or the premises of a
fireworks plant or the wholesaler pursuant to Ohio R.C. 3743.08.
      (3)   No licensed manufacturer of fireworks shall fail to comply with an
order of the State Fire Marshal issued pursuant to Ohio R.C. 3743.08(B)(1)
within the specified period of time.
      (4)   No licensed manufacturer of fireworks shall fail to comply with an
order of the State Fire Marshal issued pursuant to Ohio R.C. 3743.08(B)(2)
until the nonconformities are eliminated, corrected or otherwise remedied or
the 72-hour period specified in those divisions has expired, whichever occurs
first.
      (5)   No person shall smoke or shall carry a pipe, cigarette, or cigar,
or a match, lighter, other flame-producing item, or open flame on, or shall
carry a concealed source of ignition into, the premises of a fireworks plant,
except as smoking is authorized in specified lunchrooms or restrooms by a
manufacturer pursuant to Ohio R.C. 3743.06(C).
      (6)   No person shall have possession or control of, or be under the
influence of, any intoxicating liquor, beer, or controlled substance while on
the premises of a fireworks plant.
      (7)   No licensed manufacturer of fireworks shall negligently fail to
furnish a safety pamphlet to a purchaser of 1.4G fireworks as required by R.C.
§ 3743.47(A).
      (8)   No licensed manufacturer of fireworks shall negligently fail to
have safety glasses available for sale as required by R.C. § 3743.47(B).
(R.C. § 3743.60(E) - (L))
   (c)   Wholesaling.
      (1)   No licensed wholesaler of fireworks shall knowingly fail to comply
with the rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal pursuant to Ohio R.C. 3743.18
or the requirements of Ohio R.C. 3743.19.
      (2)   No licensed wholesaler of fireworks shall fail to maintain complete
inventory, wholesale sale and retail records as required by Ohio R.C. 3743.20,
or to permit an inspection of these records or the premises of a fireworks
plant or the wholesaler pursuant to Ohio R.C. 3743.21.
      (3)   No licensed wholesaler of fireworks shall fail to comply with an
order of the State Fire Marshal issued pursuant to Ohio R.C. 3743.21(B)(1)
within the specified period of time.
      (4)   No licensed wholesaler of fireworks shall fail to comply with an
order of the State Fire Marshal issued pursuant to Ohio R.C. 3743.21(B)(2)
until the nonconformities are eliminated, corrected or otherwise remedied or
the 72-hour period specified in those divisions has expired, whichever occurs
first.
      (5)   No person shall smoke or shall carry a pipe, cigarette, or cigar,
or a match, lighter, other flame-producing item, or open flame on, or shall
carry a concealed source of ignition into, the premises of a wholesaler of
fireworks, except as smoking is authorized in specified lunchrooms or restrooms
by a wholesaler pursuant to Ohio R.C. 3743.19(D).
      (6)   No person shall have possession or control of, or be under the
influence of, any intoxicating liquor, beer, or controlled substance while on
the premises of a wholesaler of fireworks.
      (6)   No person shall have possession or control of, or be under the
influence of, any intoxicating liquor, beer, or controlled substance while on
the premises of a wholesaler of fireworks.
      (7)   No licensed wholesaler of fireworks shall negligently fail to
furnish a safety pamphlet to a purchaser of 1.4G fireworks as required by R.C.
§ 3743.47(A).
      (8)   No licensed wholesaler of fireworks shall negligently fail to have
safety glasses available for sale as required by R.C. § 3743.47(B).
(R.C. § 3743.61(E) - (L))
   (d)   Purchasing and transporting.
      (1)   No person who purchases fireworks in this municipality shall obtain
possession of the fireworks in this municipality unless the person complies
with R.C. §§ 3743.44 to 3743.46.
      (2)   Except for the purchase of 1.4G fireworks made under R.C. §
3743.45, no person who resides in another state and who purchases fireworks in
this state shall obtain possession of fireworks in this state other than from a
licensed manufacturer or wholesaler, or fail, when transporting 1.3G fireworks,
to transport them directly out of this state within 72 hours after the time of
their purchase.
      (3)   No person who purchases fireworks in this state under R.C. §
3743.45 shall give or sell to any other person in this municipality fireworks
that the person has acquired in this state.
(R.C. § 3743.63)
   (e)   Prohibited activities by exhibitors.
      (1)   An exhibitor of fireworks licensed under Ohio R.C. 3743.50 through
3743.55 who wishes to conduct a public fireworks exhibition shall apply for
approval to conduct the exhibition to the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer
and to the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or the
designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer,
having jurisdiction over the premises.
      (2)   The approval required by division (e)(1) of this section shall be
evidenced by the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and by the Police Chief
or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or the designee of the Police
Chief or similar chief law enforcement officer, signing a permit for the
exhibition. Any exhibitor of fireworks who wishes to conduct a public fireworks
exhibition may obtain a copy of the form from the State Fire Marshal or, if
available, from the Fire Chief, a fire prevention officer, the Police Chief or
other similar chief law enforcement officer, or a designee of the Police Chief
or other similar chief law enforcement officer.
      (3)   Before a permit is signed and issued to a licensed exhibitor of
fireworks, the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer, in consultation with the
Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or the designee of
the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, shall inspect
the premises on which the exhibition will take place and shall determine that,
in fact, the applicant for the permit is a licensed exhibitor of fireworks.
Each applicant shall show his or her license as an exhibitor of fireworks to
the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer.
      (4)   The Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and the Police Chief or
other similar chief law enforcement officer, or the designee of the Police
Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, shall give approval to
conduct a public fireworks exhibition only if satisfied, based on the
inspection, that the premises on which the exhibition will be conducted allow
the exhibitor to comply with the rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal
pursuant to Ohio R.C. 3743.53(B) and (E) and that the applicant is, in fact, a
licensed exhibitor of fireworks. The Fire Chief or fire prevention officer, in
consultation with the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement
officer or with the designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief law
enforcement officer, may inspect the premises immediately prior to the
exhibition to determine if the exhibitor has complied with the rules, and may
revoke a permit for noncompliance with the rules.
      (5)   If the Council has prescribed a fee for the issuance of a permit
for a public fireworks exhibition, the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer
and Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or their
designee, shall not issue a permit until the exhibitor pays the requisite fee.
      (6)   Each exhibitor shall provide an indemnity bond in the amount of at
least one million dollars with surety satisfactory to the Fire Chief or fire
prevention officer and to the Police Chief or other similar chief law
enforcement officer, or the designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief
law enforcement officer, conditioned for the payment of all final judgments
that may be rendered against the exhibitor on account of injury, death, or loss
to person or property emanating from the fireworks exhibitor, or proof of
insurance coverage of at least one million dollars for liability arising from
injury, death, or loss of persons or property emanating from the fireworks
exhibition. The Council may require the exhibitor to provide an indemnity bond
or proof of insurance coverage in amounts greater than those required by this
division. The Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and Police Chief or other
similar chief law enforcement officer, or their designee, shall not issue a
permit until the exhibitor provides the bond or proof of the insurance coverage
required by this division or by the Council.
      (7)   Each permit for a fireworks exhibition issued by the Fire Chief or
fire prevention officer and by the Police Chief or other similar chief law
enforcement officer, or the designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief
law enforcement officer, shall contain a distinct number, designate the
municipality, and identify the certified fire safety inspector, Fire Chief, or
fire prevention officer who will be present before, during and after the
exhibition, where appropriate. A copy of each permit issued shall be forwarded
by the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and by the Police Chief or other
similar chief law enforcement officer, or designee of the Police Chief or other
similar chief law enforcement officer, issuing it to the State Fire Marshal. A
permit is not transferable or assignable.
      (8)   The Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and Police Chief or other
similar chief law enforcement officer, or designee of the Police Chief or other
similar chief law enforcement officer, shall keep a record of issued permits
for fireworks exhibitions. In this list, the Fire Chief, fire prevention
officer, Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or
designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer,
shall list the name of the exhibitor, his or her license number, the premises
on which the exhibition will be conducted, the date and time of the exhibition,
and the number and political subdivision designation of the permit issued to
the exhibitor for the exhibition.
      (9)   The Council shall require that a certified fire safety inspector,
Fire Chief or fire prevention officer be present before, during and after the
exhibition, and shall require the certified fire safety inspector, Fire Chief
or fire prevention officer to inspect the premises where the exhibition is to
take place and determine whether the exhibition is in compliance with this
section and Ohio R.C. Chapter 3743.
(ORC 3743.54)
      (10)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall fail to comply with the
applicable requirements of the rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal pursuant
to Ohio R.C. 3743.53(B) and (E) or to comply with Ohio R.C. 3743.53(C) and (D).
      (11)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall conduct a fireworks
exhibition unless a permit has been secured for the exhibition pursuant to Ohio
R.C. 3743.54 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or if a permit
so secured is revoked by a Fire Chief or fire prevention officer, in
consultation with a Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement
officer, or with a designee of a Police Chief or other similar chief law
enforcement officer, pursuant to those sections.
      (12)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall acquire fireworks for use
at a fireworks exhibition other than in accordance with Ohio R.C. 3743.54 and
3743.55, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (13)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks or other person associated with
the conduct of a fireworks exhibition shall have possession or control of, or
be under the influence of, any intoxicating liquor, beer, or controlled
substance while on the premises on which the exhibition is being conducted.
      (14)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall permit an employee to
assist the licensed exhibitor in conducting fireworks exhibitions unless the
employee is registered with the State Fire Marshal under Ohio R.C. 3743.56.
(ORC 3743.64)
   (f)   Possession, sale, discharge and advertising; falsification.
      (1)   No person shall possess fireworks in this municipality or shall
possess for sale or sell fireworks in this municipality, except a licensed
manufacturer of fireworks as authorized by R.C. §§ 3743.02 to 3743.08, a
licensed wholesaler of fireworks as authorized by R.C. §§ 3743.15 to 3743.21, a
shipping permit holder as authorized by R.C. § 3743.40, a licensed fountain
device retailer as authorized by R.C. § 3743.27, a person as authorized by R.C.
§§ 3743.44 and 3743.45, or a licensed exhibitor of fireworks as authorized by
R.C. §§ 3743.50 to 3743.55, or as authorized by any municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to any of these statutes, and except as provided in
R.C. § 3743.80 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (f)(8), R.C. §§ 3743.45 and 3743.80
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and except for licensed
exhibitors of fireworks authorized to conduct a fireworks exhibition pursuant
to R.C. §§ 3743.50 through 3743.55 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, no person shall discharge, ignite, or explode any fireworks in this
municipality.
      (3)   No person shall use in a theater or public hall what is technically
known as fireworks showers, or a mixture containing potassium chlorate and
sulphur.
      (4)   No person shall sell fireworks of any kind to a person under 18
years of age. No person under 18 years of age shall enter a fireworks sales
showroom unless that person is accompanied by a parent, legal guardian, or
other responsible adult. No person under 18 years of age shall touch or possess
fireworks on a licensed premises without the consent of the licensee. A
licensee may eject any person from a licensed premises that is in any way
disruptive to the safe operation of the premises.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 3743.44, no person, other
than a licensed manufacturer, licensed wholesaler, licensed exhibitor, or
shipping permit holder shall possess 1.3G fireworks in this municipality.
      (6)   No person shall negligently discharge, ignite, or explode fireworks
while in possession or control of, or under the influence of, any intoxicating
liquor, beer, or controlled substance.
      (7)   No person shall negligently discharge, ignite, or explode fireworks
on the property of another person without that person's permission to use
fireworks on that property.
(R.C. § 3743.65(A) - (E), (G), (H))
      (8)   Purchase, use, and local regulation of consumer-grade fireworks.
         A.   Any person who intends to obtain possession in this state of 1.4G
fireworks purchased in this state shall obtain possession of the 1.4G fireworks
only from a licensed retailer, licensed manufacturer, or licensed wholesaler
and shall be subject to this division (f)(8).
         B.   Any person authorized under this division (f)(8) to possess 1.4G
fireworks in this state may discharge, ignite, or explode those fireworks on
private property, with authorization from the property owner, on the following
days each year:
            1.   January 1st;
            2.   Chinese new year's day;
            3.   May 5th;
            4.   The last Monday in May, and the Saturday and Sunday
immediately preceding that day;
            5.   June 19th;
            6.   July 3rd, 4th, and 5th;
            7.   The first Friday, Saturday, and Sunday before and after July
4th;
            8.   The first Monday of September, and the Saturday and Sunday
immediately preceding that day;
            9.   Diwali;
            10.   December 31st.
         C.   Fireworks discharged, ignited, or exploded pursuant to this
division (f)(8) shall not be considered a public exhibition.
         D.   The municipality may do either of the following:
            1.   Restrict the dates and times a person may discharge, ignite,
or explode fireworks purchased pursuant to this division (f)(8).
            2.   Ban the discharge, ignition, or explosion of fireworks
purchased pursuant to this division (f)(8).
         E.   This division (f)(8) does not limit the enforcement of any
ordinance, resolution, or statute that regulates noise, disturbance of the
peace, or disorderly conduct.
(R.C. § 3743.45)
   (g)   Transporting and shipping.
      (1)   No person shall transport fireworks in this municipality except in
accordance with the rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal pursuant to Ohio
R.C. 3743.58.
      (2)   As used in this division, “fireworks” includes only 1.3G and 1.4G
fireworks. No person shall ship fireworks into this municipality by mail,
parcel post, or common carrier unless the person possesses a valid shipping
permit issued under Ohio R.C. 3743.40, and the fireworks are shipped directly
to the holder of a license issued under Ohio R.C. 3743.03, 3743.16 or 3743.51.
      (3)   No person shall ship fireworks within this municipality by mail,
parcel post, or common carrier unless the fireworks are shipped directly to the
holder of a license issued under Ohio R.C. 3743.01, 3743.16 or 3743.51.
(ORC 3743.66)
   (h)   Exceptions. This section does not prohibit or apply to the following:
      (1)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage, or use
in emergency situations of pyrotechnic signaling devices and distress signals
for marine, aviation, or highway use;
      (2)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use
of fusees, torpedoes, or other signals necessary for the safe operation of
railroads;
      (3)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use
of blank cartridges in connection with theaters or shows, or in connection with
athletics as signals for ceremonial purposes;
      (4)   The manufacture for, the transportation, storage, possession or use
by, or the sale to the armed forces of the United States and the militia of
this state, as recognized by the Adjutant General of Ohio, of pyrotechnic
devices;
      (5)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use
of toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns, or other devices in which paper or plastic
caps containing 0.25 grains or less of explosive material are used, provided
that they are constructed so that a hand cannot come into contact with a cap
when it is in place for explosion, or apply to the manufacture, sale,
possession, transportation, storage or use of those caps;
      (6)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use
of novelties and trick noisemakers, auto burglar alarms, or model rockets and
model rocket motors designed, sold, and used for the purpose of propelling
recoverable aero models;
      (7)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use
of wire sparklers;
      (8)   The conduct of radio-controlled special effect exhibitions that use
an explosive black powder charge of not more than one-quarter pound per charge,
and that are not connected in any manner to propellant charges; provided, that
the exhibition complies with all of the following:
         A.   No explosive aerial display is conducted in the exhibition;
         B.   The exhibition is separated from spectators by not less than 200
feet;
         C.   The person conducting the exhibition complies with regulations of
the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms of the United States Department of
the Treasury and the United States Department of Transportation with respect to
the storage and transport of the explosive black powder used in the exhibition.
(ORC 3743.80)
   (i)   Forfeiture and disposal. Fireworks manufactured, sold, possessed,
transported, or used in violation of this section shall be forfeited by the
offender. The Fire Marshal’s office or certified fire safety inspector’s office
shall dispose of seized fireworks pursuant to the procedures specified in Ohio
R.C. 2981.11 to 2981.13 for the disposal of forfeited property by law
enforcement agencies, and the Fire Marshal or that office is not liable for
claims for the loss of or damages to the seized fireworks.
(ORC 3743.68(B))
   (j)   Penalty.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (j)(2) or (j)(3) of this
section, whoever violates any provisions of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of Ohio R.C. 3743.60(I) or Ohio R.C. 3743.61(I), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, a violation of division (b)(5) of
this section or division (c)(5) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (e)(10) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree. In addition to any other penalties that may be
imposed on a licensed exhibitor of fireworks under this division and unless the
third sentence of this division applies, the person's license as an exhibitor
of fireworks or as an assistant exhibitor of fireworks shall be suspended. If
the violation of division (e)(10) of this section results in serious physical
harm to persons or serious physical harm to property, the person's license as
an exhibitor of fireworks or as an assistant exhibitor of fireworks shall be
revoked.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (f)(6) is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree. Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, a
person may be convicted at the same trial or proceeding of a violation of
division (f)(6) and a violation of R.C. § 2917.11(B), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, that constitutes the basis of the charge of the
violation of division (f)(6).
      (5)   Whoever violates division (b)(7), (b)(8), (c)(7), or (c)(8) is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (f)(7) is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 3743.99(C), (D), (F) - (H))
§ 672.11 ENDANGERING AIRCRAFT AND AIRPORT OPERATIONS.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   “Air gun.” A hand pistol or rifle that propels its projectile by
means of releasing compressed air, carbon dioxide, or other gas.
      (2)   “Airport operational surface.” Any surface of land or water that is
developed, posted, or marked so as to give an observer reasonable notice that
the surface is designed and developed for the purpose of storing, parking,
taxiing, or operating aircraft, or any surface of land or water that is
actually being used for any of those purposes.
      (3)   “Firearm.” Has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2923.11.
      (4)   “Spring-operated gun.” A hand pistol or rifle that propels a
projectile not less than four or more than five millimeters in diameter by
means of a spring.
   (b)   No person shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly throw an object at, or drop an object upon, any moving
aircraft.
      (2)   Knowingly shoot with a bow and arrow, or knowingly discharge a
firearm, air gun, or spring-operated gun, at or toward any aircraft.
   (c)   No person shall knowingly or recklessly shoot with a bow and arrow, or
shall knowingly or recklessly discharge a firearm, air gun, or spring-operated
gun, upon or over any airport operational surface. This division does not apply
to the following:
      (1)   An officer, agent, or employee of this or any other state or of the
United States, or a law enforcement officer, authorized to discharge firearms
and acting within the scope of his or her duties.
      (2)   A person who, with the consent of the owner or operator of the
airport operational surface or the authorized agent of either, is lawfully
engaged in any hunting or sporting activity or is otherwise lawfully
discharging a firearm.
   (d)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of endangering
aircraft, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation creates any risk
of physical harm to any person, or if the aircraft that is the subject of the
violation is occupied, endangering aircraft is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (e)   Whoever violates division (c) of this section is guilty of endangering
airport operations, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the violation
creates a risk of physical harm to any person or substantial risk of serious
harm to any person, endangering airport operations is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law. In addition to any other penalty or sanction
imposed for the violation, the hunting license or permit of a person who
violates division (c) of this section while hunting shall be suspended or
revoked pursuant to Ohio R.C. 1533.68.
(ORC 2909.08(A) - (E))
§ 672.12 POSSESSING CRIMINAL TOOLS.
   (a)   No person shall possess or have under his or her control any
substance, device, instrument, or article, with purpose to use it criminally.
   (b)   Each of the following constitutes prima facie evidence of criminal
purpose:
      (1)   Possession or control of any dangerous ordnance, or the materials
or parts for making a dangerous ordnance, in the absence of circumstances
indicating the dangerous ordnance, materials or parts are intended for a
legitimate use.
      (2)   Possession or control of any substance, device, instrument, or
article designed or specially adapted for criminal use.
      (3)   Possession or control of any substance, device, instrument, or
article commonly used for criminal purposes, under circumstances indicating the
item is intended for criminal use.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possessing criminal tools.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, possessing criminal tools is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the circumstances indicate that the
substance, device, instrument, or article involved in the offense was intended
for use in the commission of a felony, possessing criminal tools is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(ORC 2923.24)
§ 672.13 POSSESSION OF AN OBJECT INDISTINGUISHABLE FROM A FIREARM IN A SCHOOL
SAFETY ZONE.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly possess an object in a school safety zone if
both of the following apply:
      (1)   The object is indistinguishable from a firearm, whether or not the
object is capable of being fired.
      (2)   The person indicates that the person possesses the object and that
it is a firearm, or the person knowingly displays or brandishes the object and
indicates that it is a firearm.
   (b)   (1)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
         A.   An officer, agent, or employee of this or any other state or the
United States who is authorized to carry deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance
and is acting within the scope of the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s duties;
         B.   A law enforcement officer who is authorized to carry deadly
weapons or dangerous ordnance;
         C.   A security officer employed by a board of education or governing
body of a school during the time that the security officer is on duty pursuant
to that contract of employment;
         D.   1.   Any person not described in divisions (b)(1)A. to (b)(1)C.
of this section who has written authorization from the board of education or
governing body of a school to convey deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance into
a school safety zone or to possess a deadly weapon or dangerous ordnance in a
school safety zone and who conveys or possesses the deadly weapon or dangerous
ordnance in accordance with that authorization, provided both of the following
apply:
               a.    Either the person has successfully completed the
curriculum, instruction, and training established under R.C. § 5502.703, or the
person has received a certificate of having satisfactorily completed an
approved basic peace officer training program or is a law enforcement officer;
               b.   The board or governing body has notified the public, by
whatever means the affected school regularly communicates with the public, that
the board or governing body has authorized one or more persons to go armed
within a school operated by the board or governing authority.
            2.   A district board or school governing body that authorizes a
person under division (b)(1)D. of this section shall require that person to
submit to an annual criminal records check conducted in the same manner as R.C.
§ 3319.39 or R.C. § 3319.391.
         E.   Any person who is employed in this state, who is authorized to
carry deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance, and who is subject to and in
compliance with the requirements of R.C. § 109.801, unless the appointing
authority of the person has expressly specified that the exemption provided in
division (b)(1)E. of this section does not apply to the person.
      (2)   This section does not apply to premises upon which home schooling
is conducted. This section also does not apply to a school administrator,
teacher or employee who possesses an object that is indistinguishable from a
firearm for legitimate school purposes during the course of employment, a
student who uses an object that is indistinguishable from a firearm under the
direction of a school administrator, teacher or employee, or any other person
who, with the express prior approval of a school administrator, possesses an
object that is indistinguishable from a firearm for a legitimate purpose,
including the use of the object in a ceremonial activity, a play, re-enactment
or other dramatic presentation, school safety training, or a ROTC activity or
another similar use of the object.
      (3)   This section does not apply to a person who conveys or attempts to
convey a handgun into, or possesses a handgun in, a school safety zone if, at
the time of that conveyance, attempted conveyance, or possession of the
handgun, all of the following apply:
         A.   The person does not enter into a school building or onto school
premises and is not at a school activity.
         B.   The person has been issued a concealed handgun license that is
valid at the time of the conveyance, attempted conveyance, or possession or the
person is an active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is
carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1).
         C.   The person is in the school safety zone in accordance with 18
U.S.C. 922(q)(2)(B).
         D.   The person is not knowingly in a place described in R.C. §
2923.126(B)(1) or (B)(3) to (B)(8).
      (4)   This section does not apply to a person who conveys or attempts to
convey a handgun into, or possesses a handgun in, a school safety zone if at
the time of that conveyance, attempted conveyance, or possession of the handgun
all of the following apply:
         A.   The person has been issued a concealed handgun license that is
valid at the time of the conveyance, attempted conveyance, or possession or the
person is an active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is
carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1).
         B.   The person leaves the handgun in a motor vehicle.
         C.   The handgun does not leave the motor vehicle.
         D.   If the person exits the motor vehicle, the person locks the motor
vehicle.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal possession of an
object indistinguishable from a firearm in a school safety zone. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, illegal possession of an object
indistinguishable from a firearm in a school safety zone is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation
of this section, illegal possession of an object indistinguishable from a
firearm in a school safety zone is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (d)   (1)   In addition to any other penalty imposed upon a person who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of this section, and subject to
division (d)(2) of this section, if the offender has not attained 19 years of
age, regardless of whether the offender is attending or is enrolled in a school
operated by a board of education or for which the Director of Education and
Workforce prescribes minimum standards under R.C. § 3301.07, the court shall
impose upon the offender a class four suspension of the offender’s probationary
driver’s license, restricted license, driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, or probationary commercial driver’s
license that then is in effect from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4)
and shall deny the offender the issuance of any permit or license of that type
during the period of the suspension. If the offender is not a resident of this
state, the court shall impose a class four suspension of the nonresident
operating privilege of the offender from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02
(A)(4).
      (2)   If the offender shows good cause why the court should not suspend
one of the types of licenses, permits or privileges specified in division (d)
(1) of this section or deny the issuance of one of the temporary instruction
permits specified in division (d)(1) of this section, the court in its
discretion may choose not to impose the suspension, revocation or denial
required in division (d)(1) of this section, but the court, in its discretion,
instead may require the offender to perform community service for a number of
hours determined by the court.
   (e)   As used in this section, “object that is indistinguishable from a
firearm” means an object made, constructed or altered so that, to a reasonable
person without specialized training in firearms, the object appears to be a
firearm.
(ORC 2923.122(C) - (G))
Statutory reference:
   Conveyance or possession of deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance in a school
safety zone, felony offense, see Ohio R.C. 2923.122(A), (B)
§ 672.14 CONCEALED HANDGUN LICENSES: POSSESSION OF A REVOKED OR SUSPENDED
LICENSE; ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS; POSTING OF SIGNS PROHIBITING POSSESSION.
   (a)   Possession of a revoked or suspended concealed handgun license.
      (1)   No person, except in the performance of official duties, shall
possess a concealed handgun license that was issued and that has been revoked
or suspended.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (a) is guilty of possessing a
revoked or suspended concealed handgun license, a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(ORC 2923.1211(B), (C))
   (b)   Additional restrictions pursuant to Ohio R.C. 2923.126.
      (1)   A concealed handgun license that is issued under R.C. § 2923.125
shall expire five years after the date of issuance. A licensee who has been
issued a license under that section shall be granted a grace period of 30 days
after the licensee's license expires during which the licensee's license
remains valid. Except as provided in divisions (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this
section, a licensee who has been issued a concealed handgun license under R.C.
§ 2923.125 or 2923.1213 may carry a concealed handgun anywhere in this state if
the license is valid when the licensee is in actual possession of a concealed
handgun. The licensee shall give notice of any change in the licensee's
residence address to the sheriff who issued the license within 45 days after
that change.
      (2)   A valid concealed handgun license does not authorize the licensee
to carry a concealed handgun in any manner prohibited under Ohio R.C. 2923.12
(B) or in any manner prohibited under Ohio R.C. 2923.16. A valid license does
not authorize the licensee to carry a concealed handgun into any of the
following places:
         A.   A police station, sheriff’s office, or state highway patrol
station, premises controlled by the bureau of criminal identification and
investigation; a state correctional institution, jail, workhouse, or other
detention facility; any area of an airport passenger terminal that is beyond a
passenger or property screening checkpoint or to which access is restricted
through security measures by the airport authority or a public agency; or an
institution that is maintained, operated, managed, and governed pursuant to
R.C. § 5119.14(A) or R.C. § 5123.03(A)(1);
         B.   A school safety zone, if the licensee’s carrying the concealed
handgun is in violation of Ohio R.C. 2923.122;
         C.   A courthouse or another building or structure in which a
courtroom is located if the licensee’s carrying the concealed handgun is in
violation of R.C. § 2923.123;
         D.   Any premises or open air arena for which a D permit has been
issued under Ohio R.C. Chapter 4303 if the licensee’s carrying the concealed
handgun is in violation of Ohio R.C. 2923.121;
         E.   Any premises owned or leased by any public or private college,
university, or other institution of higher education, unless the handgun is in
a locked motor vehicle or the licensee is in the immediate process of placing
the handgun in a locked motor vehicle or unless the licensee is carrying the
concealed handgun pursuant to a written policy, rule, or other authorization
that is adopted by the institution’s board of trustees or other governing body
and that authorizes specific individuals or classes of individuals to carry a
concealed handgun on the premises;
         F.   Any church, synagogue, mosque, or other place of worship, unless
the church, synagogue, mosque, or other place of worship posts or permits
otherwise;
         G.   Any building that is a government facility of this state or a
political subdivision of this state and that is not a building that is used
primarily as a shelter, restroom, parking facility for motor vehicles, or rest
facility and is not a courthouse or other building or structure in which a
courtroom is located that is subject to division (b)(2)C. of this section,
unless the governing body with authority over the building has enacted a
statute, ordinance, or policy that permits a licensee to carry a concealed
handgun into the building;
         H.   A place in which federal law prohibits the carrying of handguns.3
      (3)   A.   Nothing in this division (b) shall negate or restrict a rule,
policy, or practice of a private employer that is not a private college,
university, or other institution of higher education concerning or prohibiting
the presence of firearms on the private employer’s premises or property,
including motor vehicles owned by the private employer. Nothing in this
division (b) shall require a private employer of that nature to adopt a rule,
policy, or practice concerning or prohibiting the presence of firearms on the
private employer’s premises or property, including motor vehicles owned by the
private employer.
         B.   1.   A private employer shall be immune from liability in a civil
action for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly was
caused by or related to a licensee bringing a handgun onto the premises or
property of the private employer, including motor vehicles owned by the private
employer, unless the private employer acted with malicious purpose. A private
employer is immune from liability in a civil action for any injury, death, or
loss to person or property that allegedly was caused by or related to the
private employer’s decision to permit a licensee to bring, or prohibit a
licensee from bringing, a handgun onto the premises or property of the private
employer.
            2.   A political subdivision shall be immune from liability in a
civil action, to the extent and in the manner provided in Ohio R.C. Chapter
2744, for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly was
caused by or related to a licensee bringing a handgun onto any premises or
property owned, leased, or otherwise under the control of the political
subdivision. As used in this division, “political subdivision” has the same
meaning as in Ohio R.C. 2744.01.
            3.   An institution of higher education shall be immune from
liability in a civil action for any injury, death, or loss to person or
property that allegedly was caused by or related to a licensee bringing a
handgun onto the premises of the institution, including motor vehicles owned by
the institution, unless the institution acted with malicious purpose. An
institution of higher education is immune from liability in a civil action for
any injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused by
or related to the institution’s decision to permit a licensee or class of
licensees to bring a handgun onto the premises of the institution.
            4.   A nonprofit corporation shall be immune from liability in a
civil action for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that
allegedly was caused by or related to a licensee bringing a handgun onto the
premises of the nonprofit corporation, including any motor vehicle owned by the
nonprofit corporation, or to any event organized by the nonprofit corporation,
unless the nonprofit corporation acted with malicious purpose. A nonprofit
corporation is immune from liability in a civil action for any injury, death,
or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused by or related to the
nonprofit corporation's decision to permit a licensee to bring a handgun onto
the premises of the nonprofit corporation or to any event organized by the
nonprofit corporation.
         C.   1.   a.    Except as provided in division (b)(3)C.2. of this
section and R.C. § 2923.1214, the owner or person in control of private land or
premises, and a private person or entity leasing land or premises owned by the
state, the United States, or a political subdivision of the state or the United
States, may post a sign in a conspicuous location on that land or on those
premises prohibiting persons from carrying firearms or concealed firearms on or
onto that land or those premises. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, a person who knowingly violates a posted prohibition of that nature
is guilty of criminal trespass in violation of Ohio R.C. 2911.21(A)(4) and is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If a person knowingly violates a
posted prohibition of that nature and the posted land or premises primarily was
a parking lot or other parking facility, the person is not guilty of criminal
trespass under R.C. § 2911.21 or under any other criminal law of this state or
criminal law, ordinance, or resolution of a political subdivision of this
state, and instead is subject only to a civil cause of action for trespass
based on the violation.
               b.   If a person knowingly violates a posted prohibition of the
nature described in this division and the posted land or premises is a child
care center, type A family child care home, or type B family child care home,
unless the person is a licensee who resides in a type A family child care home
or type B family child care home, the person is guilty of aggravated trespass
in violation of R.C. § 2911.211. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the person
previously has been convicted of a violation of this division or any
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or of any offense of
violence, if the weapon involved is a firearm that is either loaded or for
which the offender has ammunition ready at hand, or if the weapon involved is
dangerous ordnance, the offender is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
            2.   A landlord may not prohibit or restrict a tenant who is a
licensee and who on or after September 9, 2008 enters into a rental agreement
with the landlord for the use of residential premises, and the tenant’s guest
while the tenant is present, from lawfully carrying or possessing a handgun on
those residential premises.
            3.   As used in division (b)(3)C. of this section:
               a.    “Residential premises” has the same meaning as in Ohio
R.C. 5321.01, except “residential premises” does not include a dwelling unit
that is owned or operated by a college or university.
               b.    “Landlord”, “tenant”, and “rental agreement” have the same
meanings as in Ohio R.C. 5321.01.
      (4)   A person who holds a valid concealed handgun license issued by
another state that is recognized by the Attorney General pursuant to a
reciprocity agreement entered into pursuant to R.C. § 109.69 or a person who
holds a valid concealed handgun license under the circumstances described in
R.C. § 109.69(B) has the same right to carry a concealed handgun in this state
as a person who was issued a concealed handgun license under R.C. § 2923.125
and is subject to the same restrictions that apply to a person who has been
issued a license under that section that is valid at the time in question.
      (5)   A.   A peace officer has the same right to carry a concealed
handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun license
under Ohio R.C. 2923.125, provided that the officer when carrying a concealed
handgun under authority of this division is carrying validating identification.
For purposes of reciprocity with other states, a peace officer shall be
considered to be a licensee in this state.
         B.   An active duty member of the armed forces of the United States
who is carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of
successful completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training
requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1) has the same right to carry a
concealed handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun
license under R.C. § 2923.125 and is subject to the same restrictions as
specified in this division (b).
         C.   A tactical medical professional who is qualified to carry
firearms while on duty under R.C. § 109.771 has the same right to carry a
concealed handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun
license under R.C. § 2923.125.
      (6)   A.   A qualified retired peace officer who possesses a retired
peace officer identification card issued pursuant to division (b)(6)B. of this
section and a valid firearms requalification certification issued pursuant to
division (b)(6)C. of this section has the same right to carry a concealed
handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun license
under R.C. § 2923.125 and is subject to the same restrictions that apply to a
person who has been issued a license issued under that section that is valid at
the time in question. For purposes of reciprocity with other states, a
qualified retired peace officer who possesses a retired peace officer
identification card issued pursuant to division (b)(6)B. of this section and a
valid firearms requalification certification issued pursuant to division (b)
(6)C. of this section shall be considered to be a licensee in this state.
         B.   1.   Each public agency of this state or of a political
subdivision of this state that is served by one or more peace officers shall
issue a retired peace officer identification card to any person who retired
from service as a peace officer with that agency, if the issuance is in
accordance with the agency’s policies and procedures and if the person, with
respect to the person’s service with that agency, satisfies all of the
following:
               a.   The person retired in good standing from service as a peace
officer with the public agency, and the retirement was not for reasons of
mental instability.
               b.    Before retiring from service as a peace officer with that
agency, the person was authorized to engage in or supervise the prevention,
detection, investigation, or prosecution of, or the incarceration of any person
for, any violation of law and the person had statutory powers of arrest.
               c.   At the time of the person’s retirement as a peace officer
with that agency, the person was trained and qualified to carry firearms in the
performance of the peace officer’s duties.
               d.    Before retiring from service as a peace officer with that
agency, the person was regularly employed as a peace officer for an aggregate
of 15 years or more, or, in the alternative, the person retired from service as
a peace officer with that agency, after completing any applicable probationary
period of that service, due to a service-connected disability, as determined by
the agency.
            2.   A retired peace officer identification card issued to a person
under division (b)(6)B.1. of this section shall identify the person by name,
contain a photograph of the person, identify the public agency of this state or
of the political subdivision of this state from which the person retired as a
peace officer and that is issuing the identification card, and specify that the
person retired in good standing from service as a peace officer with the
issuing public agency and satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (b)
(6)B.1.a. to (b)(6)B.1.d. of this section. In addition to the required content
specified in this division, a retired peace officer identification card issued
to a person under division (b)(6)B.1. of this section may include the firearms
requalification certification described in division (b)(6)C. of this section,
and if the identification card includes that certification, the identification
card shall serve as the firearms requalification certification for the retired
peace officer. If the issuing public agency issues credentials to active law
enforcement officers who serve the agency, the agency may comply with division
(b)(6)B.1. of this section by issuing the same credentials to persons who
retired from service as a peace officer with the agency and who satisfy the
criteria set forth in divisions (b)(6)B.1.a. to (b)(6)B.1.d. of this section,
provided that the credentials so issued to retired peace officers are stamped
with the word “RETIRED.”
            3.   A public agency of this state or of a political subdivision of
this state may charge persons who retired from service as a peace officer with
the agency a reasonable fee for issuing to the person a retired peace officer
identification card pursuant to division (b)(6)B.1. of this section.
         C.   1.   If a person retired from service as a peace officer with a
public agency of this state or of a political subdivision of this state and the
person satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (b)(6)B.1.a. to (b)
(6)B.1.d. of this section, the public agency may provide the retired peace
officer with the opportunity to attend a firearms requalification program that
is approved for purposes of firearms requalification required under Ohio R.C.
109.801. The retired peace officer may be required to pay the cost of the
course.
            2.   If a retired peace officer who satisfies the criteria set
forth in divisions (b)(6)B.1.a. to (b)(6)B.1.d. of this section attends a
firearms requalification program that is approved for purposes of firearms
requalification required under Ohio R.C. 109.801, the retired peace officer’s
successful completion of the firearms requalification program requalifies the
retired peace officer for purposes of division (b)(6) of this section for five
years from the date on which the program was successfully completed, and the
requalification is valid during that five-year period. If a retired peace
officer who satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (b)(6)B.1.a. to (b)
(6)B.1.d. of this section satisfactorily completes such a firearms
requalification program, the retired peace officer shall be issued a firearms
requalification certification that identifies the retired peace officer by
name, identifies the entity that taught the program, specifies that the retired
peace officer successfully completed the program, specifies the date on which
the course was successfully completed, and specifies that the requalification
is valid for five years from that date of successful completion. The firearms
requalification certification for a retired peace officer may be included in
the retired peace officer identification card issued to the retired peace
officer under division (b)(6)B. of this section.
            3.   A retired peace officer who attends a firearms requalification
program that is approved for purposes of firearms requalification required
under Ohio R.C. 109.801 may be required to pay the cost of the program.
      (7)   As used in division (b)(6) of this section:
         A.   "Governing body" has the same meaning as in R.C. § 154.01.
         B.   “Government facility of this State or a political subdivision of
this State” means any of the following:
            1.   A building or part of a building that is owned or leased by
the government of this State or a political subdivision of this State and where
employees of the government of this State or the political subdivision
regularly are present for the purpose of performing their official duties as
employees of the State or political subdivision;
            2.   The office of a deputy registrar serving pursuant to Ohio R.C.
Chapter 4503 that is used to perform deputy registrar functions.
         C.   “Nonprofit corporation.” Means any private organization that is
exempt from federal income taxation pursuant to subsection 501(a) and described
in subsection 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code.
         D.   “Qualified retired peace officer” means a person who satisfies
all of the following:
            1.   The person satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (b)
(6)B.1.a. to (b)(6)B.1.d. of this section.
            2.   The person is not under the influence of alcohol or another
intoxicating or hallucinatory drug or substance.
            3.   The person is not prohibited by Federal law from receiving
firearms.
         E.   “Retired peace officer identification card” means an
identification card that is issued pursuant to division (b)(6)B. of this
section to a person who is a retired peace officer.
         F.   "Tactical medical professional" has the same meaning as in R.C. §
109.71.
         G.   “Validating identification” means photographic identification
issued by the agency for which an individual serves as a peace officer that
identifies the individual as a peace officer of the agency.
(R.C. § 2923.126)
   (c)   Posting of signs prohibiting possession. Each person, board, or entity
that owns or controls any place or premises identified in R.C. § 2923.126(B) as
a place into which a valid license does not authorize the licensee to carry a
concealed handgun, or a designee of such a person, board, or entity, shall post
in the following one or more conspicuous locations in the premises a sign that
contains a statement in substantially the following form: “Unless otherwise
authorized by law, pursuant to the Ohio Revised Code, no person shall knowingly
possess, have under the person’s control, convey, or attempt to convey a deadly
weapon or dangerous ordnance onto these premises.”
(R.C. § 2923.1212)
§ 672.15 DEFACED FIREARMS.
   (a)   No person shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Change, alter, remove, or obliterate the name of the manufacturer,
model, manufacturer’s serial number, or other mark of identification on a
firearm.
      (2)   Possess a firearm knowing or having reasonable cause to believe
that the name of the manufacturer, model, manufacturer’s serial number, or
other mark of identification on the firearm has been changed, altered, removed,
or obliterated.
   (b)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a)(1) of this section is guilty of
defacing identification marks of a firearm. Except as otherwise provided in
this division, defacing identification marks of a firearm is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (a)(1) of this section, defacing
identification marks of a firearm is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (a)(2) of this section is guilty of
possessing a defaced firearm. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
possessing a defaced firearm is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of
division (a)(2) of this section, possessing a defaced firearm is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (c)   Division (a) of this section does not apply to any firearm on which no
manufacturer’s serial number was inscribed at the time of its manufacture.
(ORC 2923.201)
CHAPTER 698: PENALTIES AND SENTENCING
Section
698.01   Definitions
698.02   Penalties for misdemeanor
698.03   Imposing sentence for misdemeanor
698.04   Organizational penalties
698.05   Multiple sentences
698.06   Modification of sentence (Repealed)
698.07   Suspension of driver’s license
Cross-reference:
   Classification of offenses, see GEN. OFF.
606.03
   Criminal law jurisdiction, see GEN. OFF.
606.055
   Culpable mental states, see GEN. OFF.
606.02
   Definitions generally, see GEN. OFF.
606.01
   General provisions; administration and enforcement, see GEN. OFF.
Ch. 606
   Limitation on criminal prosecutions, see GEN. OFF.
606.06
   Obstructing justice, see GEN. OFF.
606.15
   Offenses defined, see GEN. OFF.
606.04
   Organizational criminal liability, see GEN. OFF.
606.08
   Personal accountability for organizational conduct, see GEN. OFF.
606.09
   Requirements for criminal liability, see GEN. OFF.
606.07
   Rule of construction, see GEN. OFF.
606.05
Statutory reference:
   See section histories for similar state law
   Burden and degree of proof, see Ohio R.C. 2901.05
   Criteria for probation; conditions for probation, see Ohio R.C. 2951.02
   Definition of “imprisoned,” see Ohio R.C. 1.05
   Degree of offense; charge and verdict; prior conviction, see Ohio R.C.
2945.75
   Payment of costs and expenses on change of venue, see Ohio R.C. 2931.31
   Procedure on change of venue, see Ohio R.C. 2931.29
   Satisfaction of fine; credit for time served, see Ohio R.C. 2947.14
   Transfer of prisoner on change of venue, see Ohio R.C. 2931.30
   Treatment of drug dependent persons in lieu of conviction, see Ohio R.C.
2951.041
   Venue, see Ohio R.C. 2901.12
§ 698.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter:
   (a)   “Dangerous offender” means a person who has committed an offense,
whose history, character and condition reveal a substantial risk that he or she
will be a danger to others, and whose conduct has been characterized by a
pattern of repetitive, compulsive or aggressive behavior with heedless
indifference to the consequences.
   (b)   “Repeat offender” means a person who has a history of persistent
criminal activity and whose character and condition reveal a substantial risk
that he or she will commit another offense. It is prima facie evidence that a
person is a repeat offender if any of the following applies:
      (1)   Having been convicted of one or more offenses of violence, as
defined in Ohio R.C. 2901.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence
for one or more of those offenses, the person commits a subsequent offense of
violence;
      (2)   Having been convicted of one or more sexually oriented offenses, as
defined in Ohio R.C. 2950.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence
for one or more of those offenses, the person commits a subsequent sexually
oriented offense;
      (3)   Having been convicted of one or more theft offenses, as defined in
Ohio R.C. 2913.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for one or
more of those offenses, the person commits a subsequent theft offense;
      (4)   Having been convicted of one or more felony drug abuse offenses, as
defined in Ohio R.C. 2925.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence
for one or more of those offenses, the person commits a subsequent felony drug
abuse offense;
      (5)   Having been convicted of two or more felonies, and having been
imprisoned pursuant to sentence for any such offense, the person commits a
subsequent offense;
      (6)   Having been convicted of three or more offenses of any type or
degree other than traffic offenses, alcoholic intoxication offenses, or minor
misdemeanors, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for any such
offense, the person commits a subsequent offense.
(ORC 2935.36(E))
§ 698.02 PENALTIES FOR MISDEMEANOR.
   (a)   Considerations in misdemeanor sentencing.
      (1)   A court that sentences an offender for a misdemeanor or minor
misdemeanor violation of any provision of the Ohio Revised Code, or of any
municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to a misdemeanor or minor
misdemeanor violation of a provision of the Ohio Revised Code, shall be guided
by the overriding purposes of misdemeanor sentencing. The overriding purposes
of misdemeanor sentencing are to protect the public from future crime by the
offender and others and to punish the offender. To achieve those purposes, the
sentencing court shall consider the impact of the offense upon the victim and
the need for changing the offender’s behavior, rehabilitating the defender, and
making restitution to the victim of the offense, the public, or the victim and
the public.
      (2)   A sentence imposed for a misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor violation
of an Ohio Revised Code provision or for a violation of a municipal ordinance
that is subject to division (a)(1) of this section shall be reasonably
calculated to achieve the two overriding purposes of misdemeanor sentencing set
forth in division (a)(1) of this section, commensurate with and not demeaning
to the seriousness of the offender’s conduct and its impact upon the victim,
and consistent with sentences imposed for similar offenses committed by similar
offenders.
      (3)   A court that imposes a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor
or minor misdemeanor violation of an Ohio Revised Code provision or for a
violation of a municipal ordinance that is subject to division (a)(1) of this
section shall not base the sentence upon the race, ethnic background, gender,
or religion of the offender.
      (4)   Divisions (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section shall not apply to any
offense that is disposed of by a traffic violations bureau of any court
pursuant to Traffic Rule 13 and shall not apply to any violation of any
provision of the Ohio Revised Code that is a minor misdemeanor and that is
disposed of without a court appearance. Divisions (a)(1) to (a)(3) of this
section do not affect any penalties established by the municipality for a
violation of its ordinances that are not substantially equivalent to a
misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor violation of a provision of the Ohio Revised
Code.
(ORC 2929.21)
   (b)   Misdemeanor jail terms.
      (1)   Except as provided in §
666.99 or
698.03 of this code or R.C. § 2929.22 or 2929.23 or division (b)(5) of this
section and unless another term is required or authorized pursuant to law, if
the sentencing court imposing a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor
elects or is required to impose a jail term on the offender pursuant to this
chapter, the court shall impose a definite jail term that shall be one of the
following:
         A.   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than 180 days;
         B.   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than 90 days;
         C.   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than 60 days;
         D.   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than 30 days.
      (2)   A.   A court that sentences an offender to a jail term under
division (b) of this section may permit the offender to serve the sentence in
intermittent confinement or may authorize a limited release of the offender as
provided in division (d)(2) of this section. The court retains jurisdiction
over every offender sentenced to jail to modify the jail sentence imposed at
any time, but the court shall not reduce any mandatory jail term.
         B.   1.   If a prosecutor, as defined in Ohio R.C. 2935.01, has filed
a notice with the court that the prosecutor wants to be notified about a
particular case and if the court is considering modifying the jail sentence of
the offender in that case, the court shall notify the prosecutor that the court
is considering modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case. The
prosecutor may request a hearing regarding the court’s consideration of
modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case, and, if the
prosecutor requests a hearing, the court shall notify the eligible offender of
the hearing.
            2.   If the prosecutor requests a hearing regarding the court’s
consideration of modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case, the
court shall hold the hearing before considering whether or not to release the
offender from the offender’s jail sentence.
      (3)   If a court sentences an offender to a jail term under division (b)
of this section and the court assigns the offender to a county jail that has
established a County Jail Industry Program pursuant to Ohio R.C. 5147.30, the
court shall specify, as part of the sentence, whether the offender may be
considered for participation in the program. During the offender’s term in the
county jail, the court retains jurisdiction to modify its specification
regarding the offender’s participation in the County Jail Industry Program.
      (4)   If a person sentenced to a jail term pursuant to division (b) of
this section, the court may impose as part of the sentence pursuant to Ohio
R.C. 2929.28 a reimbursement sanction, and, if the local detention facility in
which the term is to be served is covered by a policy adopted pursuant to Ohio
R.C. 307.93, 341.14, 341.19, 341.21, 341.23, 753.02, 753.04, 753.16, 2301.56,
or 2947.19 and Ohio R.C. 2929.37, both of the following apply:
         A.   The court shall specify both of the following as part of the
sentence:
            1.   If the person is presented with an itemized bill pursuant to
Ohio R.C. 2929.37 for payment of the costs of confinement, the person is
required to pay the bill in accordance with that section.
            2.   If the person does not dispute the bill described in division
(b)(4)A.1. of this section and does not pay the bill by the times specified in
Ohio R.C. 2929.37, the Clerk of the Court may issue a certificate of judgment
against the person as described in that section.
         B.   The sentence automatically includes any certificate of judgment
issued as described in division (b)(4)A.2. of this section.
      (5)   A.   If an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
misdemeanor violation of Ohio R.C. 2907.23, 2907.24, 2907.241, or 2907.25, or
any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and to a specification of the
type described in Ohio R.C. 2941.1421 and if the court imposes a jail term on
the offender for the misdemeanor violation, the court may impose upon the
offender an additional definite jail term as follows:
            1.   Subject to division (b)(5)A.2. of this section, an additional
definite jail term of not more than 60 days;
            2.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one or more misdemeanor or felony violations of Ohio R.C. 2907.22,
2907.23, 2907.24, 2907.241, or 2907.25, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, and also was convicted of or pleaded guilty to a
specification of the type described in Ohio R.C. 2941.1421 regarding one or
more of those violations, an additional definite jail term of not more than 120
days.
         B.   In lieu of imposing an additional definite jail term under
division (b)(5)A. of this section, the court may directly impose on the
offender a sanction that requires the offender to wear a real-time processing,
continual tracking electronic monitoring device during the period of time
specified by the court. The period of time specified by the court shall equal
the duration of an additional jail term that the court could have imposed upon
the offender under division (b)(5)A. of this section. A sanction imposed under
this division shall commence on the date specified by the court, provided that
the sanction shall not commence until after the offender has served the jail
term imposed for the misdemeanor violation of Ohio R.C. 2907.23, 2907.24,
2907.241, or 2907.25, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and
any residential sanction imposed for the violation under division (d) of this
section or Ohio R.C. 2929.26. A sanction imposed under this division shall be
considered to be a community control sanction for purposes of division (c) or
this section or Ohio R.C. 2929.25, and all provisions of this Code and the Ohio
Revised Code that pertain to community control sanctions shall apply to a
sanction imposed under this division, except to the extent that they would by
their nature be clearly inapplicable. The offender shall pay all costs
associated with a sanction imposed under this division, including the cost of
the use of the monitoring device.
      (6)   If an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor
violation of R.C. § 2903.13 and also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
specification of the type described in R.C. § 2941.1423 that charges that the
victim of the violation was a woman whom the offender knew was pregnant at the
time of the violation, the court shall impose on the offender a mandatory jail
term that is a definite term of at least 30 days.
      (7)   If a court sentences an offender to a jail term under this division
(b), the sentencing court retains jurisdiction over the offender and the jail
term. Upon motion of either party or upon the court’s own motion, the court, in
the court’s sole discretion and as the circumstances warrant, may substitute
one or more community control sanctions under division (d) or (e) of this
section for any jail days that are not mandatory jail days.
(ORC 2929.24)
   (c)   Misdemeanor community control sanctions.
      (1)   A.   Except as provided in Section
666.99 and
698.03 of this Code or Ohio R.C. 2929.22 and 2929.23 or when a jail term is
required by law, in sentencing an offender for a misdemeanor, other than a
minor misdemeanor, the sentencing court may do either of the following:
            1.   Directly impose a sentence that consists of one or more
community control sanctions authorized by divisions (d), (e), or (f) of this
section. The court may impose any other conditions of release under a community
control sanction that the court considers appropriate. If the court imposes a
jail term upon the offender, the court may impose any community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions in addition to the jail
term.
            2.   Impose a jail term under division (b) of this section from the
range of jail terms authorized under that division for the offense, suspend all
or a portion of the jail term imposed, and place the offender under a community
control sanction or combination of community control sanctions authorized under
divisions (d), (e), or (f) of this section.
         B.   The duration of all community control sanctions imposed upon an
offender and in effect for an offender at any time shall not exceed five years.
         C.   At sentencing, if a court directly imposes a community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions pursuant to division (c)
(1)A.1. of this section, the court shall state the duration of the community
control sanctions imposed and shall notify the offender that if any of the
conditions of the community control sanctions are violated the court may do any
of the following:
            1.   Impose a longer time under the same community control sanction
if the total time under all of the offender’s community control sanctions does
not exceed the five-year limit specified in division (c)(1)B. of this section;
            2.   Impose a more restrictive community control sanction under
division (d), (e), or (f) of this section, but the court is not required to
impose any particular sanction or sanctions;
            3.   Impose a definite jail term from the range of jail terms
authorized for the offense under division (b) of this section.
      (2)   If a court sentences an offender to any community control sanction
or combination of community control sanctions pursuant to division (c)(1)A.1.
of this section, the sentencing court retains jurisdiction over the offender
and the period of community control for the duration of the period of community
control. Upon the motion of either party or on the court’s own motion, the
court, in the court’s sole discretion and as the circumstances warrant, may
modify the community control sanctions or conditions of release previously
imposed, substitute a community control sanction or condition of release for
another community control sanction or condition of release previously imposed,
or impose an additional community control sanction or condition of release.
      (3)   A.   If a court sentences an offender to any community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions authorized under
division (d), (e), or (f) of this section, the court shall place the offender
under the general control and supervision of the court or of a department of
probation in the jurisdiction that serves the court for purposes of reporting
to the court a violation of any of the conditions of the sanctions imposed. If
the offender resides in another jurisdiction and a department of probation has
been established to serve the Municipal Court or county court in that
jurisdiction, the sentencing court may request the municipal court or the
county court to receive the offender into the general control and supervision
of that department of probation for purposes of reporting to the sentencing
court a violation of any of the conditions of the sanctions imposed. The
sentencing court retains jurisdiction over any offender whom it sentences for
the duration of the sanction or sanctions imposed.
         B.   The sentencing court shall require as a condition of any
community control sanction that the offender abide by the law and not leave the
state without the permission of the court or the offender’s probation officer.
In the interests of doing justice, rehabilitating the offender, and ensuring
the offender’s good behavior, the court may impose additional requirements on
the offender. The offender’s compliance with the additional requirements also
shall be a condition of the community control sanction imposed upon the
offender.
      (4)   A.   If the court imposing sentence upon an offender sentences the
offender to any community control sanction or combination of community control
sanctions authorized under division (d), (e), or (f) of this section, and the
offender violates any of the conditions of the sanctions, the public or private
person or entity that supervises or administers the program or activity that
comprises the sanction shall report the violation directly to the sentencing
court or to the department of probation or probation officer with general
control and supervision over the offender. If the public or private person or
entity reports the violation to the department of probation or probation
officer, the department or officer shall report the violation to the sentencing
court.
         B.   Except as provided in division (c)(4)C. of this section, if an
offender violates any condition of a community control sanction, the sentencing
court may impose upon the violator one or more of the following penalties:
            1.   A longer time under the same community control sanction if the
total time under all of the community control sanctions imposed on the violator
does not exceed the five-year limit specified in division (c)(1)B. of this
section;
            2.   A more restrictive community control sanction;
            3.   A combination of community control sanctions, including a jail
term.
         C.   If an offender was acting pursuant to R.C. § 2925.11(B)(2)(b), or
any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or a related provision under
R.C. § 2925.12, R.C. § 2925.14, or R.C. § 2925.141, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, and in so doing violated the conditions of a
community control sanction based on a minor drug possession offense, as defined
in R.C. § 2925.11, or violated R.C. § 2925.12, R.C. § 2925.14(C)(1), or R.C. §
2925.141, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the sentencing
court shall not impose any of the penalties described in division (c)(4)B. of
this section based on the violation.
         D.   If the court imposes a jail term upon a violator pursuant to
division (c)(4)B. of this section, the total time spent in jail for the
misdemeanor offense and the violation of a condition of the community control
sanction shall not exceed the maximum jail term available for the offense for
which the sanction that was violated was imposed. The court may reduce the
longer period of time that the violator is required to spend under the longer
sanction or the more restrictive sanction imposed under division (c)(4)B. of
this section by all or part of the time the violator successfully spent under
the sanction that was initially imposed.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if an offender, for
a significant period of time, fulfills the conditions of a community control
sanction imposed pursuant to division (d), (e), or (f) of this section in an
exemplary manner, the court may reduce the period of time under the community
control sanction or impose a less restrictive community control sanction.
Fulfilling the conditions of a community control sanction does not relieve the
offender of a duty to make restitution under division (f) of this section.
(ORC 2929.25)
   (d)   Community residential sanction.
      (1)   Except when a mandatory jail term is required by law, the court
imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a minor misdemeanor, may
impose upon the offender any community residential sanction or combination of
community residential sanctions under this division (d). Community residential
sanctions include, but are not limited to, the following:
         A.   A term of up to 180 days in a halfway house or a term in a
halfway house not to exceed the longest jail term available for the offense,
whichever is shorter, if the political subdivision that would have
responsibility for paying the costs of confining the offender in a jail has
entered into a contract with the halfway house for use of the facility for
misdemeanor offenders;
         B.   If the offender is an eligible offender, as defined in Ohio R.C.
307.932, a term in a community alternative sentencing center or district
community alternative sentencing center established and operated in accordance
with that section, in the circumstances specified in that section, with one of
the conditions of the sanction being that the offender successfully complete
the portion of the sentence to be served in the center.
      (2)   A sentence to a community residential sanction under division (d)
(1)B. of this section shall be in accordance with R.C. § 307.932. In all other
cases, the court that sentences an offender to a community residential sanction
under this division (d) may do either or both of the following:
         A.   Permit the offender to serve the offender’s sentence in
intermittent confinement, overnight, on weekends or at any other time or times
that will allow the offender to continue at the offender’ occupation or care
for the offender’ family;
         B.   Authorize the offender to be released so that the offender may
seek or maintain employment, receive education or training, receive treatment,
perform community service, or otherwise fulfill an obligation imposed by law or
by the court. A release pursuant to this division shall be only for the
duration of time that is needed to fulfill the purpose of the release and for
travel that reasonably is necessary to fulfill the purposes of release.
      (3)   The court may order that a reasonable portion of the income earned
by the offender upon a release pursuant to division (d)(2) of this section be
applied to any financial sanction imposed under division (f) of this section.
      (4)   No court shall sentence any person to a prison term for a
misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor, or to a jail term for a minor misdemeanor.
      (5)   If a court sentences a person who has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a misdemeanor to a community residential sanction as described in
division (d)(1) of this section, at the time of reception and at other times
the person in charge of the operation of the halfway house, community
alternative sentencing center, district community alternative sentencing
center, or other place at which the offender will serve the residential
sanction determines to be appropriate, the person in charge of the operation of
the halfway house, community alternative sentencing center, district community
alternative sentencing center, or other place may cause the convicted offender
to be examined and tested for tuberculosis, HIV infection, hepatitis,
including, but not limited to, hepatitis A, B, and C, and other contagious
diseases. The person in charge of the operation of the halfway house, community
alternative sentencing center, district community alternative sentencing
center, or other place at which the offender will serve the residential
sanction may cause a convicted offender in the halfway house, community
alternative sentencing center, district community alternative sentencing
center, or other place who refuses to be tested or treated for tuberculosis,
HIV infection, hepatitis, including, but not limited to, hepatitis A, B, and C,
or another contagious disease to be tested and treated involuntarily.
      (6)   The municipality may enter into a contract with a halfway house for
use of the halfway house to house misdemeanor offenders under a sanction
imposed under division (d)(1)A. of this section.
(ORC 2929.26)
   (e)   Nonresidential sanction where jail term is not mandatory.
      (1)   Except when a mandatory jail term is required by law, the court
imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a minor misdemeanor, may
impose upon the offender any nonresidential sanction or combination of
nonresidential sanctions authorized under this division. Nonresidential
sanctions include, but are not limited to, the following:
         A.   A term of day reporting;
         B.   A term of house arrest with electronic monitoring or continuous
alcohol monitoring or both electronic monitoring and continuous alcohol
monitoring, a term of electronic monitoring or continuous alcohol monitoring
without house arrest, or a term of house arrest without electronic monitoring
or continuous alcohol monitoring;
         C.   A term of community service of up to 500 hours for misdemeanor of
the first degree or 200 hours for a misdemeanor of the second, third, or fourth
degree;
         D.   A term in a drug treatment program with a level of security for
the offender as determined necessary by the court;
         E.   A term of intensive probation supervision;
         F.   A term of basic probation supervision;
         G.   A term of monitored time;
         H.   A term of drug and alcohol use monitoring, including random drug
testing;
         I.   A curfew term;
         J.   A requirement that the offender obtain employment;
         K.   A requirement that the offender obtain education or training;
         L.   Provided the court obtains the prior approval of the victim, a
requirement that the offender participate in victim-offender mediation;
         M.   If authorized by law, suspension of the offender’s privilege to
operate a motor vehicle, immobilization or forfeiture of the offender’s motor
vehicle, a requirement that the offender obtain a valid motor vehicle
operator’s license, or any other related sanction;
         N.   A requirement that the offender obtain counseling if the offense
is a violation of Ohio R.C. 2919.25 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance or a violation of Ohio R.C. 2903.13 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance involving a person who was a family or household member at
the time of the violation, if the offender committed the offense in the
vicinity of one or more children who are not victims of the offense, and if the
offender or the victim of the offense is a parent, guardian, custodian, or
person in loco parentis of one or more of those children. This division does
not limit the court in requiring that the offender obtain counseling for any
offense or in any circumstance not specified in this division.
      (2)   If the court imposes a term of community service pursuant to
division (e)(1)C. of this section, the offender may request that the court
modify the sentence to authorize the offender to make a reasonable
contribution, as determined by the court, to the general fund of the county,
municipality, or other local entity that provides funding to the court. The
court may grant the request if the offender demonstrates a change in
circumstances from the date the court imposes the sentence or that the
modification would otherwise be in the interests of justice. If the court
grants the request, the offender shall make a reasonable contribution to the
court, and the clerk of the court shall deposit that contribution into the
general fund of the county, municipality, or other local entity that provides
funding to the court. If more than one entity provides funding to the court,
the clerk shall deposit a percentage of the reasonable contribution equal to
the percentage of funding the entity provides to the court in that entity’s
general fund.
      (3)   In addition to the sanctions authorized under division (e)(1) of
this section, the court imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a
minor misdemeanor, upon an offender who is not required to serve a mandatory
jail term may impose any other sanction that is intended to discourage the
offender or other persons from committing a similar offense if the sanction is
reasonably related to the overriding purposes and principles of misdemeanor
sentencing.
      (4)   The court imposing a sentence for a minor misdemeanor may impose a
term of community service in lieu of all or part of a fine. The term of
community service imposed for a minor misdemeanor shall not exceed 30 hours.
After imposing a term of community service, the court may modify the sentence
to authorize a reasonable contribution, as determined by the court, to the
appropriate general fund as provided in division (e)(2) of this section.
(ORC 2929.27)
   (f)   Financial sanctions.
      (1)   In addition to imposing court costs pursuant to R.C. § 2947.23, the
court imposing a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor, including a minor
misdemeanor, may sentence the offender to any financial sanction or combination
of financial sanctions authorized under this division (f) and, if the offender
is being sentenced for a criminal offense as defined in R.C. § 2930.01, shall
sentence the offender to make restitution pursuant to this division (f) and
R.C. § 2929.281. If the court, in its discretion or as required by this
division (f), imposes one or more financial sanctions, the financial sanctions
that may be imposed pursuant to this division (f) include, but are not limited
to, the following:
         A.   Restitution.
            1.   Unless the misdemeanor offense could be disposed of by the
traffic violations bureau serving the court under Traffic Rule 13, restitution
by the offender to the victim of the offender’s crime or the victim’s estate,
in an amount based on the victim's economic loss. The court may not impose
restitution as a sanction pursuant to this division if the offense could be
disposed of by the traffic violations bureau serving the court under Traffic
Rule 13. If the court requires restitution, the court shall order that the
restitution be made to the victim in open court or to the adult probation
department that serves the jurisdiction or the clerk of the court on behalf of
the victim.
            2.   The court shall determine the amount of restitution to be paid
by the offender. The victim, victim’s representative, victim’s attorney, if
applicable, the prosecutor or the prosecutor’s designee, and the offender may
provide information relevant to the determination of the amount of restitution.
The amount the court orders as restitution shall not exceed the amount of the
economic loss suffered by the victim as a direct and proximate result of the
commission of the offense. If the court imposes restitution for the cost of
accounting or auditing done to determine the extent of economic loss, the court
may order restitution for any amount of the victim’s costs of accounting or
auditing provided that the amount of restitution is reasonable and does not
exceed the value of property or services stolen or damaged as a result of the
offense. If the court decides to or is required to impose restitution, the
court shall hold an evidentiary hearing on restitution if the offender, victim,
victim’s representative, victim’s attorney, if applicable, or victim’s estate
disputes the amount of restitution. The court shall determine the amount of
full restitution by a preponderance of the evidence.
            3.   All restitution payments shall be credited against any
recovery of economic loss in a civil action brought by the victim or the
victim’s estate against the offender. No person may introduce evidence of an
award of restitution under this division (f) in a civil action for purposes of
imposing liability against an insurer under R.C. § 3937.18.
            4.   The court may order that the offender pay a surcharge, of not
more than 5% of the amount of the restitution otherwise ordered, to the entity
responsible for collecting and processing restitution payments.
            5.   The victim, victim’s attorney, if applicable, or the attorney
for the victim’s estate may request that the prosecutor in the case file a
motion, or the offender may file a motion, for modification of the payment
terms of any restitution ordered. If the court grants the motion, it may modify
the payment terms as it determines appropriate but shall not reduce the amount
of restitution ordered, except as provided in R.C. § 2929.281(A).
         B.   Fines. A fine of the type described in divisions (f)(1)B.1. and
2. of this section payable to the appropriate entity as required by law:
            1.   A fine in the following amount:
               a.   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00);
               b.   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00);
               c.   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00);
               d.   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00);
               e.   For a minor misdemeanor, not more than one hundred fifty
dollars ($150.00).
            2.   A state fine or cost as defined in Ohio R.C. 2949.111.
         C.   Reimbursement.
            1.    Reimbursement by the offender of any or all of the costs of
sanctions incurred by the government, including, but not limited to, the
following:
               a.   All or part of the costs of implementing any community
control sanction, including a supervision fee under R.C. § 2951.021 and the
costs of global positioning system device monitoring;
               b.   All or part of the costs of confinement in a jail or other
residential facility, including, but not limited to, a per diem fee for room
and board, the costs of medical and dental treatment, and the costs of
repairing property damaged by the offender while confined;
               c.   All or part of the cost of purchasing and using an
immobilizing or disabling device, including a certified ignition interlock
device, or a remote alcohol monitoring device that a court orders an offender
to use under Ohio R.C. 4510.13.
            2.   The amount of reimbursement under division (f)(1)C.1. of this
section shall not exceed the total amount of reimbursement the offender is able
to pay and shall not exceed the actual cost of the sanctions. The court may
collect any amount of reimbursement the offender is required to pay under that
division. If the court does not order reimbursement under that division,
confinement costs may be assessed pursuant to a repayment policy adopted under
Ohio R.C. 2929.37. In addition, the offender may be required to pay the fees
specified in Ohio R.C. 2929.38 in accordance with that section.
      (2)   A.   If the court determines a hearing is necessary, the court may
hold a hearing to determine whether the offender is able to pay the financial
sanction imposed pursuant to this division (f) or court costs or is likely in
the future to be able to pay the sanction or costs.
         B.   If the court determines that the offender is indigent and unable
to pay the financial sanction or court costs, the court shall consider imposing
and may impose a term of community service under division (e)(1) of this
section in lieu of imposing a financial sanction or court costs. If the court
does not determine that the offender is indigent, the court may impose a term
of community service under division (e)(1) of this section in lieu of or in
addition to imposing a financial sanction under this division (f) and in
addition to imposing court costs. The court may order community service for a
minor misdemeanor pursuant to division (e)(4) of this section in lieu of or in
addition to imposing a financial sanction under this section and in addition to
imposing court costs. If a person fails to pay a financial sanction or court
costs, the court may order community service in lieu of the financial sanction
or court costs.
      (3)   A.   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed upon the
offender pursuant to division (f)(1)C. of this section to pay the costs
incurred by a county pursuant to any sanction imposed under division (d), (e),
or (f) of this section or in operating a facility used to confine offenders
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (d) of this section to the County
Treasurer. The County Treasurer shall deposit the reimbursements in the
county’s general fund. The county shall use the amounts deposited in the fund
to pay the costs incurred by the county pursuant to any sanction imposed under
division (d), (e), or (f) of this section or in operating a facility used to
confine offenders pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (d) of this
section.
         B.   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed upon the offender
pursuant to division (f)(1)C. of this section to pay the costs incurred by a
municipal corporation pursuant to any sanction imposed under division (d), (e),
or (f) of this section or in operating a facility used to confine offenders
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (d) of this section to the
Treasurer of the municipal corporation. The Treasurer shall deposit the
reimbursements in the municipal corporation’s General Fund. The municipal
corporation shall use the amounts deposited in the fund to pay the costs
incurred by the municipal corporation pursuant to any sanction imposed under
division (d), (e), or (f) of this section or in operating a facility used to
confine offenders pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (d) of this
section.
         C.   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed pursuant to
division (f)(1)C. of this section for the costs incurred by a private provider
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (d), (e), or (f) of this section
to the provider.
      (4)   A.   In addition to any other fine that is or may be imposed under
this section, the court imposing sentence upon an offender for misdemeanor
domestic violence or menacing by stalking may impose a fine of not less than
$70 nor more than $500, which shall, except as provided in divisions (h)(4)B.
and (h)(4)C. of this section, be transmitted to the Treasurer of Ohio to be
credited to the address confidentiality program fund created by R.C. § 111.48.
         B.   A court that imposes a fine under division (h)(4)A. of this
section may retain up to 25% of amounts collected in satisfaction of the fine
to cover administrative costs.
         C.   A court that imposes a fine under division (h)(4)A. of this
section may assign up to 25% of amounts collected in satisfaction of the fine
to reimburse the prosecuting attorney for costs associated with prosecution of
the offense.
      (5)   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this division (f)(5), a
financial sanction imposed under division (f)(1) of this section is a judgment
in favor of the state or the political subdivision that operates the court that
imposed the financial sanction, and the offender subject to the financial
sanction is the judgment debtor. A financial sanction of reimbursement imposed
pursuant to division (f)(1)C.1.a. of this section upon an offender is a
judgment in favor of the entity administering the community control sanction,
and the offender subject to the financial sanction is the judgment debtor. A
financial sanction of reimbursement imposed pursuant to division (f)(1)C.1.b.
of this section upon an offender confined in a jail or other residential
facility is a judgment in favor of the entity operating the jail or other
residential facility, and the offender subject to the financial sanction is the
judgment debtor. A financial sanction of restitution imposed pursuant to
division (f)(1)A. of this section is an order in favor of the victim of the
offender’s criminal act that can be collected through a certificate of judgment
as described in division (f)(5)B.1. of this section, through execution as
described in division (f)(5)B.2. of this section or through an order as
described in division (f)(5)B.3. of this section and the offender shall be
considered for purposes of the collection as a judgment debtor.
         B.   Once a financial sanction is imposed as a judgment or order under
this division, the victim, private provider, state, or political subdivision
may do any of the following:
            1.   Obtain from the clerk of the court in which the judgment was
entered, at no charge, a certificate of judgment that shall be in the same
manner and form as a certificate of judgment issued in a civil action;
            2.   Obtain execution of the judgment or order through any
available procedure, including any of the procedures identified in Ohio R.C.
2929.18(D)(1) and (D)(2) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
            3.   Obtain an order for the assignment of wages of the judgment
debtor under Ohio R.C. 1321.33 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
      (6)   The civil remedies authorized under division (f)(5) of this section
for the collection of the financial sanction supplement, but do not preclude,
enforcement of the criminal sentence.
      (7)   Each court imposing a financial sanction upon an offender under
this division (f) may designate the Clerk of the Court or another person to
collect the financial sanction. The Clerk, or another person authorized by law
or the court to collect the financial sanction may do the following:
         A.   Enter into contracts with one or more public agencies or private
vendors for the collection of amounts due under the sanction. Before entering
into a contract for the collection of amounts due from an offender pursuant to
any financial sanction imposed pursuant to this division (f), a court shall
comply with Ohio R.C. 307.86 to 307.92.
         B.   Permit payment of all or any portion of the sanction in
installments, by financial transaction device if the court is a county court or
a municipal court operated by a county, or by any other reasonable method, in
any time, and on any terms that the court considers just. If the court is a
county court or a municipal court operated by a county, the acceptance of
payments by any financial transaction device shall be governed by the policy
adopted by the board of county commissioners of the county pursuant to R.C. §
301.28. If the court is a municipal court not operated by a county, the clerk
may pay any fee associated with processing an electronic transfer out of public
money or may charge the fee to the offender.
         C.   To defray administrative costs, charge a reasonable fee to an
offender who elects a payment plan rather than a lump sum payment of any
financial sanction.
      (8)   No financial sanction imposed under this division (f) shall
preclude a victim from bringing a civil action against the offender.
      (9)   If the court imposes restitution, fines, fees, or incarceration
costs on a business or corporation, it is the duty of the person authorized to
make disbursements from assets of the business or corporation to pay the
restitution, fines, fees, or incarceration costs from those assets.
(R.C. § 2929.28)
§ 698.03 IMPOSING SENTENCE FOR MISDEMEANOR.
   (a)   (1)   Unless a mandatory jail term is required to be imposed by Ohio
R.C. 1547.99(G), 4510.14(B), or 4511.19(G), or any other provision of the
Revised Code, or any municipal ordinance, a court that imposes a sentence under
this chapter upon an offender for a misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor has
discretion to determine the most effective way to achieve the purposes and
principles of sentencing set forth in Section
698.02.
      (2)   Unless a specific sanction is required to be imposed or is
precluded from being imposed by the section setting forth an offense or the
penalty for an offense or by any provision of Sections
666.99 or
698.02 of this Code or Ohio R.C. 2929.23 to 2929.28, a court that imposes a
sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor may impose on the offender any
sanction or combination of sanctions under Section
698.02(b) to (f). The court shall not impose a sentence that imposes an
unnecessary burden on local government resources.
   (b)   (1)   In determining the appropriate sentence for a misdemeanor, the
court shall consider all of the following factors:
         A.   The nature and circumstances of the offense or offenses;
         B.   Whether the circumstances regarding the offender and the offense
or offenses indicate that the offender has a history of persistent criminal
activity and that the offender’s character and condition reveal a substantial
risk that the offender will commit another offense;
         C.   Whether the circumstances regarding the offender and the offense
or offenses indicate that the offender’s history, character, and condition
reveal a substantial risk that the offender will be a danger to others and that
the offender’s conduct has been characterized by a pattern of repetitive,
compulsive, or aggressive behavior with heedless indifference to the
consequences;
         D.   Whether the victim’s youth, age, disability, or other factor made
the victim particularly vulnerable to the offense or made the impact of the
offense more serious;
         E.   Whether the offender is likely to commit future crimes in
general, in addition to the circumstances described in divisions (b)(1)B. and
C. of this section;
         F.   Whether the offender has an emotional, mental, or physical
condition that is traceable to the offender’s service in the armed forces of
the United States and that was a contributing factor in the offender’s
commission of the offense or offenses;
         G.   The offender’s military service record.
      (2)   In determining the appropriate sentence for a misdemeanor, in
addition to complying with division (b)(1) of this section, the court may
consider any other factors that are relevant to achieving the purposes and
principles of sentencing set forth in Section
698.02(a).
   (c)   Before imposing a jail term as a sentence for a misdemeanor, a court
shall consider the appropriateness of imposing a community control sanction or
a combination of community control sanctions under §
698.02(c), (d), (e), and (f). A court may impose the longest jail term
authorized under §
698.02(b) only upon offenders who commit the worst forms of the offense or upon
offenders whose conduct and response to prior sanctions for prior offenses
demonstrate that the imposition of the longest jail term is necessary to deter
the offender from committing a future criminal offense.
   (d)   (1)   A sentencing court shall consider any relevant oral and written
statement made by the victim, the victim’s representative, the victim’s
attorney, if applicable, the defendant, the defense attorney, and the
prosecuting authority regarding sentencing for a misdemeanor. This division
does not create any rights to notice other than those rights authorized by R.C.
Chapter 2930.
      (2)   At the time of sentencing for a misdemeanor or as soon as possible
after sentencing, the court shall notify the victim of the offense of the
victim’s right to file an application for an award of reparations pursuant to
Ohio R.C. 2743.51 to 2743.72.
(ORC 2929.22)
§ 698.04 ORGANIZATIONAL PENALTIES.
   (a)   Regardless of the other penalties provided in Section
698.02, an organization convicted of an offense pursuant to Section
606.09 shall be fined by the court as follows:
      (1)   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than five thousand
dollars ($5,000.00);
      (2)   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than four thousand
dollars ($4,000.00);
      (3)   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than three thousand
dollars ($3,000.00);
      (4)   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than two thousand
dollars ($2,000.00);
      (5)   For a minor misdemeanor, not more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00);
      (6)   For a misdemeanor not specifically classified, not more than two
thousand dollars ($2,000.00);
      (7)   For a minor misdemeanor not specifically classified, not more than
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
   (b)   When an organization is convicted of an offense not specifically
classified, and the section defining the offense or penalty plainly indicates a
purpose to impose the penalty provided for violation upon organizations, then
such penalty shall be imposed in lieu of the penalty provided in this section.
   (c)   When an organization is convicted of an offense not specifically
classified, and the penalty provided includes a higher fine than that provided
in this section, then the penalty imposed shall be pursuant to the penalty
provided for violation of the section defining the offense.
   (d)   This section does not prevent the imposition of available civil
sanctions against an organization convicted of an offense pursuant to Section
606.09, either in addition to or in lieu of a fine imposed pursuant to this
section.
(ORC 2929.31)
§ 698.05 MULTIPLE SENTENCES.
   (a)   Except as provided in division (b) of this section, Ohio R.C. 2929.14
(C), or Ohio R.C. 2971.03(D) or (E), a prison term, jail term, or sentence of
imprisonment shall be served concurrently with any other prison term, jail
term, or sentence of imprisonment imposed by a court of this municipality, the
state, another state, or the United States. Except as provided in division (b)
(2) of this section, a jail term or sentence of imprisonment for misdemeanor
shall be served concurrently with a prison term or sentence of imprisonment for
felony served in a state or federal correctional institution.
   (b)   (1)   A jail term or sentence of imprisonment for a misdemeanor shall
be served consecutively to any other prison term, jail term, or sentence of
imprisonment when the trial court specifies that it is to be served
consecutively or when it is imposed for a misdemeanor violation of Ohio R.C.
2907.322, 2921.34 or 2923.131. When consecutive sentences are imposed for
misdemeanors under this division, the term to be served is the aggregate of the
consecutive terms imposed, except that the aggregate term to be served shall
not exceed 18 months.
      (2)   A jail term or sentence of imprisonment imposed for a misdemeanor
violation of Ohio R.C. 4510.14, 4510.16, 4510.21, or 4511.19, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, shall be served consecutively to
a prison term that is imposed for a felony violation of Ohio R.C. 2903.06,
2903.07, 2903.08 or 4511.19 or a felony violation of Ohio R.C. 2903.04
involving the operation of a motor vehicle by the offender and that is served
in a state correctional institution when the trial court specifies that it is
to be served consecutively. When consecutive jail terms or sentences of
imprisonment and prison terms are imposed for one or more misdemeanors and one
or more felonies under this division, the term to be served is the aggregate of
the consecutive terms imposed, and the offender shall serve all terms imposed
for a felony before serving any term imposed for a misdemeanor.
(ORC 2929.41)
§ 698.06 MODIFICATION OF SENTENCE. (REPEALED)
   ( Editor’s note: Section 698.06 was repealed as part of the 2003 updating
and revision of these Codified Ordinances because substantially equivalent
state law (Ohio R.C. 2929.51) was repealed by the Ohio General Assembly.)
§ 698.07 SUSPENSION OF DRIVER’S LICENSE.
   Except as otherwise provided in Ohio R.C. 4510.07 or in any other provision
of the Revised Code, whenever an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
violation of any provision of this Code of Ordinances that is substantially
equivalent to a provision of the Revised Code, and a court is permitted or
required to suspend a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit for a violation of that provision, a court, in addition to any other
penalties authorized by law, may suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privileges for the period
of time the court determines appropriate, but the period of suspension imposed
for the violation of the provision of this Code of Ordinances shall not exceed
the period of suspension that is permitted or required to be imposed for the
violation of the provision of the Revised Code to which the provision of this
Code of Ordinances is substantially equivalent.
(ORC 4510.05)
PART EIGHT - BUSINESS REGULATION AND TAXATION CODE
      TITLE TWO - Business Regulation
         
Chap. 810.   Circuses.
         
Chap. 812.   Food Regulations.
         
Chap. 816.   Fortunetellers.
         
Chap. 830.   Going-Out-of-Business Sales.
         
Chap. 834.   Home Sales.
         
Chap. 838.   Juke Boxes.
         
Chap. 840.   Junk Collectors and Junk Dealers.
         
Chap. 850.   Mobile Home Parks.
         
Chap. 856.   Pawnbrokers.
         
Chap. 860.   Peddlers.
         
Chap. 864.   Service Work Providers.
         
Chap. 866.   Farmers Market Regulations.
         
Chap. 868.   Rummage Sales.
         
Chap. 872.   Street Fairs.
         
Chap. 876.   Taxicabs.
         
Chap. 880.   Temporary Stores.
         
Chap. 884.   Tents.
      TITLE FOUR - Taxation
         
Chap. 890.   Income Tax.
         
Chap. 892.   Motor Vehicle License Tax.
         
Chap. 894.   Community Reinvestment Areas.
         
Chap. 896.   Short-term Rental/Air BNB Tax.
TITLE TWO - BUSINESS REGULATION
CHAPTER 810: CIRCUSES
Section
810.01   License required
810.02   License application
810.03   Safety requirements
810.04   Location
810.05   License fees
810.06   Water supply fee
810.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Animals, see GEN. OFF.
Ch. 618
   Safety of crowds attending live entertainment performances, see GEN. OFF.
636.18
   Street fairs, see B.R. & T.
Ch. 872
   Tents, see B.R. & T.
Ch. 884
Statutory reference:
   Power of municipality to license, see Ohio R.C. 715.63, 3765.02
   Permit from County Auditor required, see Ohio R.C. 3765.01
§ 810.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall conduct a circus or menagerie, or a combination circus and
menagerie, without first obtaining a license therefor as provided in this
chapter.
(Ord. 4141, passed 8-1-1950)
§ 810.02 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   A written application for a license to conduct a circus or menagerie shall
be made. Such application shall set forth the location and kind of circus or
menagerie proposed to be operated and the name and address of the owner of the
circus or menagerie. The application shall be filed with the Director of
Finance at least ten days prior to the proposed date of operation.
§ 810.03 SAFETY REQUIREMENTS.
   No license shall be issued under this chapter unless all safety requirements
of existing city ordinances have been complied with.
(Ord. 4141, passed 8-1-1950)
§ 810.04 LOCATION.
   No license shall be issued under this chapter for a location so near any
church, school, hospital or residence district as to constitute a disturbance
at any such location.
(Ord. 4141, passed 8-1-1950)
§ 810.05 LICENSE FEES.
   (a)   The fees for a license for a circus or menagerie shall be as follows:
      (1)   For each circus, one hundred dollars ($100.00) per day;
      (2)   For each menagerie, fifty dollars ($50.00) per day;
      (3)   For each circus and menagerie combined, one hundred twenty dollars
($120.00) per day; and
      (4)   For each street procession or parade connected with a circus,
menagerie, exhibition or planned exhibit within the city, twenty-five dollars
($25.00).
(Ord. 4141, passed 8-1-1950)
   (b)   The office of the Mayor has the ability to waive circus license fees
when promoted by a civic or charitable organization.
(Ord. 91-46, passed 8-8-1991)
§ 810.06 WATER SUPPLY FEE.
   In addition to the license fee required by §
810.05, the licensee shall deposit the sum of fifteen dollars ($15.00) with the
Department of Public Works and Services to be applied toward the cost of the
city supplying water to the circus, menagerie or combination thereof. After
deposit of such sum, the city will supply all necessary water for such circus,
menagerie or combination thereof at its reasonable costs for doing so.
§ 810.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree and shall be fined not
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisoned not more than 60 days,
or both, for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each
day during or on which a violation or noncompliance occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 812: FOOD REGULATIONS
Section
812.01   Food truck vendors
812.02   Preventing contamination of food in commercial establishments
812.03   Mobile ice cream vending trucks
§ 812.01 FOOD TRUCK VENDORS.
   (a)   Food truck vendors must, at their own expense, provide, upon demand, a
County Health Department Inspection Report or sticker indicating a passing
grade. This report or sticker must be presented to the Ironton Fire Department
Chief or his or her designee at the time of formal inspection.
   (b)   An inspection of all food trucks operating within the city limits of
Ironton shall be carried out by the Ironton Fire Department (IFD) Chief or his
or her designee. The food truck shall be inspected to see that it meets all
O.R.C. required codes and safety measures including a current Health Department
inspection report indicating a passing grade and Fire and Safety devices (such
as appropriate fire extinguishers in good operating order, grounded power cords
and properly vented generators etc.) and regulations as are necessary for safe
operation within the city. The IFD will provide a receipt of inspection
indicating passing or failing and indicate the reasons(s) for failing if
necessary. If deemed as "Passing" the IFD inspection the food truck owner or
operator will receive a sticker which must be publicly displayed when operating
within the city limits fully visible by patrons at the vending window or
selling location.
   (c)   The fee for this inspection will be two hundred dollars ($200.00) and
is to be paid at the time of inspection. Proceeds from these inspections will
be deposited into the Ironton Fire Department Equipment Replacement Fund and
recorded and reflected as such in the yearly Ironton City Permanent Budget. A
temporary registration fee schedule shall be implemented for food trucks who
are only doing business for a limited time in the city. For one-day operation,
the inspection fee is twenty dollars ($20.00); three-day operation, the
inspection fee is fifty dollars ($50.00); and for 14-day operation, the
inspection fee is one hundred twenty dollars ($120.00).
(Ord. 22-26, passed 5-12-2022)
§ 812.02 PREVENTING CONTAMINATION OF FOOD IN COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (a)   Except when washing fruits and vegetables, no person performing work
in a commercial establishment within the city may contact exposed, ready-to-eat
food with his or her bare hands, and shall use suitable utensils, such as deli
tissue, spatulas, tongs, single-use gloves or food dispensing equipment when
having contact with exposed ready-to-eat food.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section shall be subject to a fine of up to one
hundred dollars ($100.00).
(Ord. 97-17, passed 5-22-1997)
§ 812.03 MOBILE ICE CREAM VENDING TRUCKS.
   (a)   “Mobile ice cream vending trucks” as used herein is defined as a
vehicle which sells or offers for sale ice cream products to the public for
immediate consumption.
   (b)   Any mobile ice cream vending vehicle must have a flashing yellow light
mounted on top of the vehicle, which is operating at all times during which
customers are either being solicited or served.
   (c)   Any mobile ice cream vending vehicle must have warning signs visible
on the vehicle stating “Caution - Slow Moving Vehicle” and “Caution - Watch for
Children.”
   (d)   When in the process of soliciting customers, the mobile ice cream
vending vehicle shall not be operated at a speed in excess of ten miles per
hour.
   (e)   The operator of any mobile ice cream vending vehicle must have a valid
vendor’s license to operate in the corporation limits of the City of Ironton.
(Ord. 98-11, passed 3-26-1998)
CHAPTER 816: FORTUNETELLERS
Section
816.01   License required
816.02   License application; term; register
816.03   License fee
816.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Securing writings by deception, see GEN. OFF.
642.19
   Theft by deception, see GEN. OFF.
642.02
§ 816.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in the business of palmistry, phrenology or the
telling of fortunes by any means whatsoever without first obtaining a license
therefor as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 4141, passed 8-1-1950)
§ 816.02 LICENSE APPLICATION; TERM; REGISTER.
   An application for a license required by §
816.01 shall be made to the Director of Finance. The Director shall, upon
payment of the required license fee issue to the applicant a license for a
period of one year from the date thereof. The Director shall keep a register of
the licenses issued showing to whom granted, when, for what purpose, for what
length of time and the fee received therefor.
§ 816.03 LICENSE FEE.
   The fee for the license required by §
816.01 shall be one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) per year.
§ 816.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree and shall be fined not
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisoned not more than 60 days,
or both, for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each
day during or on which a violation or noncompliance occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 830: GOING-OUT-OF-BUSINESS SALES
Section
830.01   Going-out-of-business sale defined
830.02   License required
830.03   License application
830.04   License issuance; conditions
830.05   License revocation
830.06   License renewal; fee
830.07   License fee; term
830.08   Exceptions
830.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Home sales, see B.R. & T.
Ch. 834
   Peddlers, see B.R. & T.
Ch. 860
   Temporary stores, see B.R. & T.
Ch. 880
Statutory reference:
   Auctions, see Ohio R.C. Ch. 1318
   License revocation, see Ohio R.C. 2961.03
   Power to license, see Ohio R.C. 715.61
§ 830.01 GOING-OUT-OF-BUSINESS SALE DEFINED.
   (a)   As used in this chapter, “going-out-of-business sale” means any offer
to sell to the public or the sale to the public of goods, wares and merchandise
on the implied or direct representation by word of mouth or written or oral
advertising that such sale is in anticipation of the termination of a business
at its present location, or that the sale is being held other than in the
ordinary course of business.
   (b)   Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, “going-out-of-
business sale” includes, but is not limited to, any sale advertised either
specifically or in substance to be any one of the following:
      (1)   A going-out-of-business sale;
      (2)   A liquidation sale;
      (3)   A sale of 50 percent or more of the stock or the entire stock, or
selling out to the bare walls;
      (4)   A lost-our-lease sale;
      (5)   A sale of the interest in the business establishment;
      (6)   An everything must go sale;
      (7)   A trustee’s sale;
      (8)   A bankrupt sale;
      (9)   A save us from bankruptcy sale;
      (10)   An insolvent sale;
      (11)   An assignee’s sale;
      (12)   A must vacate sale;
      (13)   A quitting business sale;
      (14)   A fire damage sale;
      (15)   A water damage sale;
      (16)   A receiver’s sale;
      (17)   A loss of lease sale;
      (18)   A forced-out-of-business sale;
      (19)   A removal sale;
      (20)   An executor’s sale;
      (21)   An administrator’s sale;
      (22)   A warehouse removal sale;
      (23)   A branch store discontinuance sale;
      (24)   A creditor’s sale, or forced to sell by creditors sale;
      (25)   An adjustment sale;
      (26)   A defunct business sale;
      (27)   A selling out an interest sale; or
      (28)   Any other term similar to any of the foregoing.
(Ord. 5743, passed 12-13-1973)
§ 830.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall advertise or conduct a going-out-of-business sale without
first obtaining a license as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 5743, passed 12-13-1973)
§ 830.03 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (a)   Any person desiring to conduct a going-out-of-business sale shall, at
least five days prior to the date on which the sale is to be commenced, make
written application to the Director of Finance, on forms furnished by the
Director and sworn to by the applicant before a person authorized to administer
oaths. If, due to circumstances beyond the control of the applicant, an
application cannot be made five days prior to the commencement of the sale, the
Director shall waive the five-day requirement. Each application shall contain
the following information and such other information as the Director may deem
necessary:
      (1)   The name and address of the owner of the goods, wares or
merchandise to be sold;
      (2)   The name and address of the person or business from whom such goods
were acquired;
      (3)   The address where the sale is to be held;
      (4)   The commencement and termination dates of the sale;
      (5)   A statement as to whether the proposed sale is to be made by the
applicant as the owner or acting on behalf of some other person; and if the
applicant is acting on behalf of some other person, then the name and address
of such person shall be furnished;
      (6)   A general description of the property and the approximate value
thereof. A bill of sale from the former owner to the person who applies for the
license to conduct such sale shall be sufficient if it generally describes the
property so sold and its approximate value; and
      (7)   If the proposed sale of goods, wares and merchandise is advertised
or offered for sale as being bankrupt stock, the name of the bankrupt firm,
person or corporation, and where such bankruptcy adjudication occurred.
   (b)   No person, in contemplation of a going-out-of-business sale, shall
order any goods, wares or merchandise for the purpose of selling and disposing
of the same at such sale. Any unusual purchase and additions to the stock of
such goods, wares and merchandise within 60 days prior to the filing of the
application for a license to conduct such sale shall be presumptive evidence
that such purchases and additions to stock were made in contemplation of such
sale. If the Director, after he or she issues a license for any sale provided
for by this chapter, discovers evidence that the person to whom the license has
been granted had in truth and in fact violated this section, it shall be
sufficient grounds for revoking the license.
§ 830.04 LICENSE ISSUANCE; CONDITIONS.
   When it appears to the Director of Finance that all statements in the
application are true, that the proposed sale is of the character represented
therein, that the application is in full compliance with the terms and
conditions of this chapter and that the required license fee has been paid, the
Director shall issue a license to the applicant authorizing the applicant to
advertise and conduct the sale as described in the application subject to the
following conditions.
   (a)   The sale shall be held at the place named in the application and by
the particular licensee for not more than 30 consecutive calendar days, Sundays
and legal holidays excluded, next following the date specified in the license.
   (b)   Only goods, wares and merchandise included in the inventory attached
to the application shall be sold at the sale.
   (c)   Upon the commencement of the sale and for its duration, the license
issued hereunder shall be prominently displayed in the place at which the sale
is conducted.
   (d)   The licensee shall keep a suitable record during the sale at the
location where the sale is conducted and make daily entries thereon as to what
was sold. The Director may, if he or she desires, inspect such books, either by
himself or herself or through one of his or her duly authorized
representatives.
§ 830.05 LICENSE REVOCATION.
   The Director of Finance shall revoke, subject to appeal to the Mayor within
seven days and a hearing thereon, any license issued pursuant to this chapter
if he or she finds that the licensee has:
   (a)   Violated any of the provisions of this chapter;
   (b)   Made any material misstatement in his or her application for the
license;
   (c)   Failed to include in the inventory required by this chapter all goods,
wares and merchandise being offered for sale;
   (d)   Offered or permitted to be offered at the sale any goods, wares or
merchandise not included in the inventory attached to the application;
   (e)   Failed to keep suitable records of sale; or
   (f)   Made or permitted to be made any false or misleading statements or
representations in advertising the sale or in displaying, ticketing or pricing
goods, wares or merchandise offered for sale.
§ 830.06 LICENSE RENEWAL; FEE.
   The Director of Finance shall, upon application therefor, renew a license
issued under this chapter for not more than 30 days, Sundays and legal holidays
excluded. Only such goods as were listed on the original inventory filed with
the application and not previously sold may be sold during the renewal period.
The fee for the renewal of a license shall be two hundred dollars ($200.00).
§ 830.07 LICENSE FEE; TERM.
   The fee for a license required by this chapter shall be fifty dollars
($50.00) for each going-out-of-business sale. Such fee shall be payable to the
Director of Finance. The license shall be good for the term stated in the
license.
§ 830.08 EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to auction sales where a license is obtained
from the city under other provisions of these Codified Ordinances. In all other
respects, this chapter shall be applicable to any and all sales regulated in
this chapter, regardless of the nature of the goods, wares and merchandise
sold.
(Ord. 5743, passed 12-13-1973)
§ 830.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree and shall be fined not
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisoned not more than 60 days,
or both, for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each
day during or on which a violation or noncompliance occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 834: HOME SALES
Section
834.01   Definitions
834.02   Intent; application of chapter
834.03   License required
834.04   License application
834.05   License fee; issuance; effective period
834.06   Advertising; signs
834.07   Hours of operation; merchandise permitted
834.08   Display of license
834.09   Constructive knowledge of law
834.10   Revocation or nonissuance of license
834.11   Appeals; time limitation
834.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Falsification, see GEN. OFF.
606.10
   Going-out-of-business sales, see B.R. & T.
Ch. 830
   Peddlers, see B.R. & T.
Ch. 860
   Temporary stores, see B.R. & T.
Ch. 880
Statutory reference:
   Power to regulate advertising, see Ohio R.C. 715.65
§ 834.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter:
   (a)   “Home sale” means a sale of tangible personal property to the public
conducted on any portion of any residential property in the city and includes,
but is not limited to, garage sales, patio sales, yard sales, carport sales,
basement sales, porch sales, driveway sales, sidewalk sales and the like.
   (b)   “Residential property” means any real property which is used, either
temporarily or permanently, as a dwelling for one or more persons. The use of
property as a dwelling shall be determinative of whether or not it is subject
to this chapter, regardless of whether or not such property is located in a
district zoned for residential uses in the city.
§ 834.02 INTENT; APPLICATION OF CHAPTER.
   It is the intent of this chapter to regulate, restrict and control home
sales conducted in any location in the city. This chapter shall not apply to
sales conducted by businesses, even though located in residential areas.
§ 834.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall conduct a home sale in the city without first obtaining a
license therefor from the Director of Finance.
§ 834.04 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   The application for the license required by §
834.03 shall contain the name and residence address of the applicant, the
address where the personal property is to be offered for the sale, the dates on
which the sale shall be conducted, a general description of all the tangible
personal property to be included in the sale and a statement as to whether or
not such tangible personal property belongs exclusively to the applicant and,
if not, the names and addresses of the other owners. In addition, the
application shall contain a space for a written acknowledgment by the applicant
that he or she is fully aware of the provisions of this chapter, that he or she
agrees to abide by such requirements and that he or she understands that he or
she may be penalized under §
834.99 for failure to comply with this chapter.
§ 834.05 LICENSE FEE; ISSUANCE; EFFECTIVE PERIOD.
   A fee of three dollars ($3.00) shall be charged for each home sale license.
Such license shall be valid for not more than five consecutive calendar days
and shall be issued only to an adult person residing at the location of the
sale or, in the case of an estate sale, to the personal representative or an
adult heir of the decedent. No license shall be issued for any one location
more than once in any calendar year. No home sale may be conducted on any other
property than that at which the applicant resides.
§ 834.06 ADVERTISING; SIGNS.
   (a)   No person shall place or display, or permit another to place or
display, any tangible personal property to be sold at a home sale in front of
the building setback line of the location upon which such property is to be or
is being sold. The building setback line shall be determined from the zoning
laws in force at the time of the sale.
   (b)   No person shall place, erect or display, or permit another to place,
erect or display, any sign, placard or other advertising which promotes or
gives directions to a home sale, unless all of the following are complied with:
      (1)   The sign, placard or other advertising shall be placed, erected or
displayed only on the property upon which the home sale is taking place, or, if
on property other than that upon which the home sale is taking place, only with
the prior written consent of the owner of such other property;
      (2)   The sign, placard or other advertising shall not be placed in a
public right-of-way or attached to any pole, building or other temporary or
permanent structure, device, tree or object within the public right-of-way; and
      (3)   The sign, placard or other advertising shall be first erected not
earlier than 9:00 a.m. on the beginning date of the home sale and shall be
removed not later than 8:00 p.m. on the last date of such home sale, as
authorized under the license issued in accordance with this chapter.
§ 834.07 HOURS OF OPERATION; MERCHANDISE PERMITTED.
   No home sale shall be conducted during hours other than those prescribed by
the Director of Finance, and in no event shall any home sale be commenced
earlier than 9:00 a.m. or last later than 8:00 p.m. on each day during the
period for which a license is issued. No home sale shall offer any merchandise
for sale that has been purchased for purposes of resale at such home sale. Any
new merchandise offered for sale shall be prima facie evidence of merchandise
purchased for resale at such home sale.
§ 834.08 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   The license required by §
834.03 shall be kept posted in a prominent place upon the premises set forth
therein during the entire duration of the sale.
§ 834.09 CONSTRUCTIVE KNOWLEDGE OF LAW.
   Each person who conducts or attempts to conduct a home sale is deemed to
have constructive knowledge of the requirements and prohibitions of this
chapter.
§ 834.10 REVOCATION OR NONISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (a)   The Director of Finance shall revoke any home sale license issued
pursuant to this chapter upon determining that the licensee has falsified an
application for a home sale license or has otherwise knowingly violated any of
the provisions of §
834.06 or §
834.07.
   (b)   The Director may revoke any home sale license upon determining that
the licensee has violated any of the provisions of this chapter.
   (c)   The Director may refuse to issue a permit to any person who has
previously violated any of the provisions of this chapter.
§ 834.11 APPEALS; TIME LIMITATION.
   Any person who is aggrieved by a decision of the Director of Finance under §
834.10 may appeal to the Mayor. The aggrieved person may appear before the
Mayor and present evidence, information and arguments to support his or her
appeal. The Director shall also appear for the purpose of advising the Mayor of
the basis of his or her findings and to provide additional information if
necessary. The Mayor shall then determine whether to uphold, modify or set
aside the findings and action of the Director, and the decision of the Mayor
shall be final. No appeal may be taken to the Mayor after the expiration of ten
days, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, from the date that the
aggrieved person receives notification of the adverse action of the Director.
§ 834.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree and shall be fined not
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisoned not more than 60 days,
or both, for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each
day during or on which a violation or noncompliance occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 838: JUKE BOXES
Section
838.01   Juke box defined
838.02   License required; display
838.03   License application
838.04   Investigations; reports
838.05   License fees; term
838.06   License transferability
838.07   License revocation
838.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Making or using slugs, see GEN. OFF.
642.16
   Peace disturbances, see GEN. OFF.
Ch. 648
   Tampering with coin machines, see GEN. OFF.
642.13
§ 838.01 JUKE BOX DEFINED.
   As used in this chapter, “juke box” means any phonograph or similar device
constructed or designed to automatically produce or reproduce music, which
device can be operated or placed in a condition to be operated by the insertion
of a coin or slug.
§ 838.02 LICENSE REQUIRED; DISPLAY.
   No person shall operate, maintain, place or permit to be located in a place
where the same can be operated, any juke box without first obtaining a license
therefor. Such license shall be displayed in plain view either on the juke box
or in the place where the same is located.
§ 838.03 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   Every applicant for a license required by this chapter shall file with the
Director of Finance a written application stating the full name and address,
including the street number of the applicant, or if the applicant is more than
one person or is a partnership or corporation, the full names of all parties
interested and their addresses, including street numbers. If the applicant is a
club, society or corporation, the application shall contain a complete list of
the managerial and executive officers of such club, society or corporation,
with their names and addresses, and if a corporation, the application shall
give the name of the state in which such corporation is organized. The
applicant shall also state the following:
   (a)   The premises where the juke box is to be operated, placed or
maintained, including the street number;
   (b)   The age of the applicant or person in charge of the place where such
juke box is placed and maintained; and
   (c)   The name of the owner of the premises in which such juke box is
located and the complete address of the owner.
§ 838.04 INVESTIGATIONS; REPORTS.
   The Mayor and the Chief of Police shall detail police officers who shall
obtain information pertaining to all applicants for a license under this
chapter. The police officers shall investigate all complaints, and at intervals
when so instructed by the Mayor and Chief, make a report of such inspection to
the Mayor and Chief.
(Ord. 4141, passed 8-1-1950; Am. Ord. 81-04, passed 11-23-1981)
§ 838.05 LICENSE FEES; TERM.
    Every person to whom a juke box license is granted shall pay an annual fee
therefor of twelve dollars ($12.00). All such licenses shall expire at 12:00
midnight on December 31 of each year. When such a license is taken out or
issued after June 30 of any year, the fee shall be one-half of the sum. All
money received by way of license fees shall be paid into the general fund.
(Ord. 4141, passed 8-1-1950)
§ 838.06 LICENSE TRANSFERABILITY.
   No transfer of license, either as to person or place, shall be permitted
except with the consent of the Director of Finance which consent shall be
endorsed upon the license, provided that the applicant applying for the
transfer complies with this chapter.
§ 838.07 LICENSE REVOCATION.
   Any license granted or issued under this chapter may be revoked at any time
by the Director of Finance for good cause shown that the laws or ordinances of
the city are being violated in the premises where such juke box is maintained,
placed or operated.
§ 838.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree and shall be fined not
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisoned not more than 60 days,
or both, for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each
day during or on which a violation or noncompliance occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 840: JUNK COLLECTORS AND JUNK DEALERS
Section
840.01   Definitions
840.02   License required
840.03   License application
840.04   License fees
840.05   Inspection of premises
840.06   License renewal
840.07   License transferability
840.08   Bonds
840.09   License issuance
840.10   Display of junk collector’s license
840.11   Posting of junk dealer’s license
840.12   Moving place of business
840.13   Records
840.14   Hours of operation
840.15   Scavenging
840.16   Storage of junk
840.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Garbage and rubbish collection and disposal, see S.U. & P.S.
Ch. 1060
   Impounding of junk vehicles, see TRAF.
404.05
   Parking of junk vehicles, see TRAF.
452.05
   Storage of junk vehicles, see GEN. OFF.
660.07
Statutory reference:
   License revocation for receiving stolen property, see Ohio R.C. 2961.03
   State licensing and required fencing of junk yards, see Ohio R.C. 4737.05 et
seq.
§ 840.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter:
   (a)   “Junk” means used or salvaged iron, brass, lead, copper and other base
metal and their compounds or combinations, used or salvaged rope, bags, paper,
glass, rubber and similar articles or property, and used motor vehicles or
parts, which are used, owned or possessed for the purpose of wrecking or
salvaging parts therefrom.
   (b)   “Junk collector” means every person who does not maintain or conduct a
junk shop or yard, but who, in his or her own behalf or as an employee or agent
of any junk dealer in the city, buys, sells, exchanges, collects and receives
or handles junk.
   (c)   “Junk dealer” means every person who buys, sells, exchanges, collects,
receives, handles or stores junk and who maintains or conducts a junk yard or
junk shop in the city.
   (d)   “Junk yard” or “junk shop” means any place at which a junk dealer
buys, exchanges, collects, receives, stores, accumulates, sells or otherwise
handles junk. It includes any business, place or area wherein wrecked motor
vehicles, the parts thereof or parts taken therefrom are stored, kept or placed
for more than 60 days.
§ 840.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in business as a junk collector or junk dealer in the
city without first obtaining a license therefor.
§ 840.03 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   Any person desiring a license to do business as a junk collector or junk
dealer shall make an application therefor to the Director of Finance, in
writing, on such form as is provided by the Director, and shall include in the
application his or her name and address, the nature of the business, the
location of the business and such other pertinent information as the Director
requires.
§ 840.04 LICENSE FEES.
   The fees for the license required by §
840.02 shall be as follows:
   (a)   For a junk collector, fifty dollars ($50.00) per year; and
   (b)   For a junk dealer, two hundred dollars ($200.00) per year.
§ 840.05 INSPECTION OF PREMISES.
   The Director of Finance shall refer each application to the Chief of Police,
the Fire Chief and the City Health Commissioner, who shall inspect or cause to
be inspected the premises of the applicant to determine whether or not they
comply with all laws, ordinances, rules or regulations, that all structures
thereon are so situated or constructed that the business of junk dealer or junk
collector may be operated thereon in a sanitary manner, and that such premises
contain no fire hazards and are so arranged that a thorough inspection may be
made at any time by the proper fire, health, building and police authorities.
§ 840.06 LICENSE RENEWAL.
   Any license issued under this chapter shall be for the remainder of the
calendar year in which it is granted, and unless sooner revoked as provided in
this chapter, such license shall expire at 12:00 midnight on December 31.
However, any license may be renewed from year to year upon the same terms and
conditions as are required for the original issuance of the license.
(Ord. 4141, passed 8-1-1950)
§ 840.07 LICENSE TRANSFERABILITY.
   Licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter shall under no
circumstances be transferred to or used by anyone other than the original
grantee thereof, and any attempt to do so shall be grounds for revocation of
the license.
(Ord. 4141, passed 8-1-1950)
§ 840.08 BONDS.
   (a)   Every application for a license to engage in the business of junk
collector or junk dealer shall be accompanied by a bond in the amount set forth
in division (b) hereof, with a surety or collateral security approved by the
Director of Finance, and conditioned on the due observance during the term of
the license of all laws, ordinances, rules or regulations applicable to junk
collectors or junk dealers which are now in force or which may hereafter be
adopted by the duly constituted authorities.
   (b)   The amount of the bond referred to in division (a) above shall be as
follows:
      (1)   Two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for a junk collector; and
      (2)   One thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for a junk dealer.
§ 840.09 LICENSE ISSUANCE.
   If, from information obtained in the application and from the inspection
provided for in this chapter, the Director of Finance finds that the facts
warrant the granting of a license, and if a satisfactory bond has been filed by
the applicant, the Director shall issue a license to the applicant, which
license shall be conditioned upon compliance by the holder thereof with all
terms, conditions and requirements of the laws of the state, this chapter and
other applicable city ordinances.
§ 840.10 DISPLAY OF JUNK COLLECTOR’S LICENSE.
   Every junk collector licensed under this chapter shall carry his or her
license on his or her person at all times while engaged in activities as a junk
collector and shall, upon demand, display such license to any police officer or
person conducting business with such junk collector.
§ 840.11 POSTING OF JUNK DEALER’S LICENSE.
   Every holder of a junk dealer’s license issued under this chapter shall at
all times keep such license posted in a conspicuous place on the premises
described in the application for the license. It shall be grounds for
revocation for any licensee to post his or her license or permit the same to be
posted on any premises other than those set forth in his or her application, or
knowingly to destroy or deface such license.
(Ord. 4141, passed 8-1-1950)
§ 840.12 MOVING PLACE OF BUSINESS.
   Every license issued under this chapter shall designate the place of
business in or from which the licensee is authorized to carry on his or her
business. It shall be grounds for revocation of the license for the licensee to
remove his or her place of business from the place designated in such license
before a written permit for such a move has been received from the city and the
new address has been endorsed upon the license. All licenses required in this
chapter shall be altered to contain the new address.
(Ord. 4141, passed 8-1-1950)
§ 840.13 RECORDS.
   (a)   Junk collectors. Every junk collector shall keep a record of where or
from whom he or she received any article which has a trademark, number or other
means of identification; any motor or other accessory of a motor vehicle, or
machinery or parts or appliances thereof; any appliance or equipment of a
railroad or railroad shop or a gas, water or electric company; copper wires of
any telephone or other such company; and numbers on all batteries, gas, water
and electric meters and any kind of plumbing fixtures or similar articles. The
possession of such articles will be prima facie evidence that they are stolen
property, without proof of purchase. Such record shall, at all reasonable
hours, be open for inspection by any police officer or any person having a
written order from the Chief of Police.
(Adopting Ordinance)
   (b)   Junk dealers.
      (1)   Every junk dealer shall keep a book in which shall be legibly
written in the English language, at the time of purchase, a general description
of every article and the name, residence and other description sufficient to
identify the person from whom such purchase was made. In addition to such
information, the records of such purchases, if made from a junk collector,
shall state the license number of such junk collector and the license number of
any motor vehicle used by any person in delivering any junk or offering any
junk for sale. Each purchase shall be separately recorded in such book and
shall bear a consecutive number, commencing with number one. Such record shall,
at all reasonable times, be open for inspection by any police officer or any
person having a written order from the Chief of Police. Such junk dealer shall
furnish a verified written statement of the record as the Chief may require.
(Ord. 4141, passed 8-1-1950)
      (2)   Every junk dealer shall furnish the Police Department, within 24
hours from the time of purchase, a record of all articles purchased during such
period which have a trademark, number or other means of identification; any
motor or other accessory of a motor vehicle, or machinery or parts or
appliances thereof; any appliance or equipment of a railroad or railroad shop
or a gas, water or electric company; copper wires of any telephone or other
such company; and numbers on all batteries, gas, water and electric meters and
any kind of plumbing fixtures. The possession of such articles will be prima
facie evidence that they are stolen property unless such record is kept and a
report made to the Department as required.
§ 840.14 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No junk collector or junk dealer shall carry on his or her business between
6:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. of the following day on week days, or between 6:00 p.m.
on Saturdays and 7:00 a.m. of the following Monday.
(Ord. 4141, passed 8-1-1950)
§ 840.15 SCAVENGING.
   No junk collector shall take paper from a garbage container, rubbish that is
wrapped or placed in a garbage container, or any junk from any premises unless
given permission to do so by the person occupying or having charge of such
premises.
(Ord. 4141, passed 8-1-1950)
§ 840.16 STORAGE OF JUNK.
   No person shall store any junk in the city unless the same is in a building
or in a yard enclosed by a fence made of wood, metal, plastic or some other
opaque material, fences so constructed that the junk stored therein is not
visible through the fence, and of a minimum height of five feet. Such junk,
whether inside a building or in an enclosed yard, shall be so piled or placed
that adequate passageways are at all times open and so that it is not visible
from outside the enclosure.
(Ord. 4849, passed 5-24-1962)
§ 840.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree and shall be fined not
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisoned not more than 60 days,
or both, for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each
day during or on which a violation or noncompliance occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 850: MOBILE HOME PARKS
Section
850.01   State regulations adopted
850.02   File and distribution copies
850.03   Prohibition; exception
850.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   House Trailers, see P. & Z.
1282.08
   Occupying travel trailers while in motion, see TRAF.
440.08
Statutory reference:
   Manufactured home parks, see Ohio R.C. 3733.01 et seq.
   Tax on manufactured home parks, see Ohio R.C. 4503.06
§ 850.01 STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
   There is hereby adopted by and for the city, for the purpose of regulating
mobile home parks, O.A.C. Chapter 3701-27, as promulgated by the Public Health
Council of the State Department of Health, save and except such portions as may
be hereinafter amended or deleted.
§ 850.02 FILE AND DISTRIBUTION COPIES.
   At least one copy of O.A.C. Chapter 3701-27, as adopted in §
850.01, is on file with the Director of Public Works and Services for
inspection by the public. In addition, the Director has copies available for
distribution to the public, at cost.
§ 850.03 PROHIBITION; EXCEPTION.
   (a)   No person shall place or permit to be placed any mobile home used for
human habitation in the city, except in an authorized mobile home park.
   (b)   Division (a) hereof shall not apply to any mobile home so placed on or
before the effective date of this section.
(Ord. 4764, passed 8-11-1960)
§ 850.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter, including any provision of O.A.C. Chapter 3701-27, as adopted in §
850.01, is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed each day during or on which a violation or noncompliance occurs or
continues.
   (b)   The application of the penalty provided for in division (a) hereof
shall not be deemed to prevent the enforced removal of prohibited conditions or
the application of any other equitable remedy.
CHAPTER 856: PAWNBROKERS
Section
856.01   Pawnbroker defined
856.02   License required
856.03   License application; issuance; transferability; fees; display
856.04   Maximum interest allowed
856.05   Statement to pledgor
856.06   Pawn and purchase forms; inspections; location of items
856.07   Reports to Police Department
856.08   Purchases from minors, intoxicated persons or known thieves
856.09   Redemption or forfeiture of property; loss due to licensee’s
negligence
856.10   Retention period; return of stolen property
856.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Receiving stolen property, see GEN. OFF.
642.22
Statutory reference:
   Pawnbrokers; dealers in precious metals, see Ohio R.C. Ch. 4727
   Power to license, see Ohio R.C. 715.61
   Revocation of licenses of convicts, see Ohio R.C. 2961.03
§ 856.01 PAWNBROKER DEFINED.
   As used in this chapter, “pawnbroker” means a person engaged in the business
of lending money on deposit or pledges of personal property, other than
securities or printed evidence of indebtedness, at a total charge, rate of
interest, discount or other remuneration in excess of eight percent per annum.
(ORC 4727.01)
§ 856.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall act as a pawnbroker, or advertise, transact or solicit
business as a pawnbroker, without first obtaining a license therefor.
§ 856.03 LICENSE APPLICATION; ISSUANCE; TRANSFERABILITY; FEES; DISPLAY.
   (a)   An application for the license required by §
856.02 shall be made to the Director of Finance and shall set forth the
applicant’s name and address, the proposed business location and a statement as
to whether or not the applicant has previously acted as a pawnbroker and, if
so, the location and dates of operation of such pawnbroker business.
   (b)   The application for a pawnbroker’s license shall be filed with the
Director 30 days prior to the desired date of issuance of such license. If,
upon approval of an application, the applicant fails to take out the license
applied for within 30 days from or before the desired date of issuance, a
penalty of 25 percent shall be added to the fee for the license. If the license
is not taken out within 60 days or more from such date, a penalty of 50 percent
shall be added.
   (c)   The Director shall issue a pawnbroker’s license or deny the issuance
within 30 days from the date of the application. A license may be issued to any
person of good character and having experience and fitness in the capacity
involved to engage in the business of pawnbroking as provided in Ohio R.C.
4727.03.
   (d)   Pawnbroker licenses shall not be transferable and shall expire on June
30 of each year.
   (e)   The pawnbroker’s license fee shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00)
per year.
   (f)   Pawnbroker licenses issued shall be displayed in a conspicuous place
in the place of business of the licensee.
§ 856.04 MAXIMUM INTEREST ALLOWED.
   No pawnbroker shall charge, receive or demand interest for any loan in
excess of five percent per month or fraction of a month on the unpaid
principal. In addition to such rate of interest, the licensee may make, as a
total charge for the storage of pledged articles held as security for a loan, a
sum not exceeding two dollars ($2.00) per month or fraction of a month for all
pledged articles held as security for a loan, to be agreed to in writing at the
time the loan is made. In instances where the licensee is to deliver or forward
the pledged article by express or parcel post, the licensee shall be allowed an
additional charge of three dollars ($3.00), plus the actual cost of shipping.
The unearned interest and charges shall not be deducted or paid in advance and
interest shall be computed on the unpaid balance and shall not be compounded.
(ORC 4727.06)
§ 856.05 STATEMENT TO PLEDGOR.
   Every pawnbroker shall give to the pledgor or seller a statement upon which
shall be legibly written in ink, printed or typed the name and address of the
licensee making the loan or purchase, the amount of the loan or purchase price,
the rate of interest, the time and date when the loan is made or goods sold and
the date when payable; and shall also give the pledgor a receipt for each
payment of principal, storage charge or interest. All moneys received for any
loan shall first be applied to any interest and storage charge on a loan, and
any remaining moneys shall then be applied to the amount of unpaid principal of
the loan existing on the date on which the moneys are received. The statement
shall also contain a full and accurate description of the articles pledged or
sold, including any serial and model numbers or identifying marks thereon. In
the case of pawn loans, the statement shall contain a full disclosure of all
charges for storage, and on the back of the receipt shall be printed in type a
copy of §
856.04 or Ohio R.C. 4727.06. Included in the notice on the back of the receipt
shall be a statement disclosing the maximum annual percentage rate allowable by
law. The licensee shall retain for two years from the date of the last entry of
the loan or purchase account a copy of the statement. Every statement shall be
numbered and maintained consecutively, commencing with the number one, but the
licensee may maintain statements in an active and inactive file.
(ORC 4727.07)
§ 856.06 PAWN AND PURCHASE FORMS; INSPECTIONS; LOCATION OF ITEMS.
   (a)   Every person licensed as a pawnbroker shall keep and use separate pawn
forms and purchase forms to be approved by the Superintendent of the Division
of Consumer Finance in the State Department of Commerce, which shall disclose,
at the time each purchase or loan is made, an accurate description of the
goods, articles or things deposited, the time of pledging or selling them, the
amount of money loaned on them or paid for them, the rate of interest and
charges to be paid on such loan, the time within which such pawn is to be
redeemed, with the name, age, place of residence, driver’s or commercial
driver’s license number, Social Security number, or other personal
identification, and a short physical description of the person of the pledgor
or seller. When any item is pledged or sold, he or she shall also write on such
form the name of the maker, the serial and model numbers or other identifying
features; and where jewelry or gold or silver articles of any kind are pledged
or sold, the licensee shall write on the form all identifying letters or marks
inscribed thereon. One copy of the forms shall be kept at all times in
numerical order in an active or inactive file, as appropriate or in bound books
available for inspection by the Division. All numbers shall be accountable.
Such records and forms, at all times, shall be kept at the licensed location
and open to the inspection of the Superintendent of Consumer Finance, the Chief
of Police, a police officer deputed or authorized by the Chief of Police or the
Mayor. Upon demand of any of them, such person so licensed shall produce and
show records, forms and pledges or purchases which are in his or her
possession.
   (b)   The licensee shall keep all pledges and purchases at his or her place
of business unless a pledgor agrees otherwise at the time the pledge is made.
No pledge shall be removed from the place of business for the licensee’s
personal use or gain.
(ORC 4727.08)
§ 856.07 REPORTS TO POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   Each pawnbroker shall, every business day, make available to the Chief of
Police, on forms to be furnished by the Police Department, a description of all
articles received by him or her by pledge or sale on the business day
immediately preceding, together with the number of the ticket issued.
(ORC 4727.09)
§ 856.08 PURCHASES FROM MINORS, INTOXICATED PERSONS OR KNOWN THIEVES.
   No pawnbroker shall receive any pledge or purchase any articles from any
minor or from any person who is at the time intoxicated or under the influence
of a controlled substance or from any person who is known or believed by the
licensee to be a thief or a receiver of stolen property.
(ORC 4727.10)
§ 856.09 REDEMPTION OR FORFEITURE OF PROPERTY; LOSS DUE TO LICENSEE’S
NEGLIGENCE.
   (a)   If any person receiving a loan from a pawnbroker on a pledge of
personal property fails to redeem or pay interest on any article pledged within
two months from the date of the loan or the date on which the last interest
payment is due, the licensee shall notify the pledgor by mail, with proof of
mailing, to the last place of address given by the pledgor, that unless the
pledge or property is redeemed within 30 days from the date the notice is
mailed, it shall be forfeited to the licensee. If the pledgor fails to redeem
the property within the 30-day period specified in the notice, the licensee
shall proceed to take ownership of the pledge or property.
   (b)   If any article or property is redeemed by a person other than the
pledgor, the pledgor shall sign his or her copy of the statement required under
§
856.05 or Ohio R.C. 4727.07, which copy shall be presented by the person to the
licensee. The licensee shall verify the name of the person redeeming the
article or property, and shall record the person’s name, driver’s or commercial
driver’s license number or Social Security number on the licensee’s copy of the
statement, and shall require the person to sign this copy.
   (c)   If any articles or property pledged are lost or rendered inoperable
due to negligence of the licensee, the licensee shall replace the articles or
property with identical articles or property, except that if the licensee
cannot reasonably obtain identical articles or property, the licensee shall
replace the articles or property with like articles or property.
(ORC. 4727.11)
§ 856.10 RETENTION PERIOD; RETURN OF STOLEN PROPERTY.
   (a)   A pawnbroker shall retain any and all goods or articles pledged with
him or her until the expiration of 72 hours after the pledge was made, and
shall retain any goods or articles purchased by him or her until the expiration
of 15 days after the purchase was made. The licensee may dispose of such goods
or articles sooner with the written permission of the Police Department.
   (b)   If the Chief of Police to whom the licensee made available the
information required by §
856.07 has probable cause to believe that the article described therein is
stolen property, he or she shall notify the licensee in writing. Upon receipt
of such a notice, the licensee shall retain the article until the expiration of
30 days after the day on which he or she is first required to make available
the information required by §
856.07, unless the Chief notifies the licensee in writing that he or she is not
required to retain the article until such expiration.
   (c)   (1)   If the Chief receives a report that property has been stolen and
determines the identity of the true owner of the allegedly stolen property that
has been purchased or pawned and is held by a licensee, and informs the
licensee of the true owner’s identity, the licensee shall immediately restore
the allegedly stolen property to the true owner directly.
      (2)   If a licensee fails to restore the allegedly stolen property as
required by this division, the true owner may recover the property from the
licensee in an action at law.
   (d)   If the licensee returns the allegedly stolen property to the true
owner, the licensee may charge the person who pledged or sold the allegedly
stolen property to him or her, and any person who acted in consort with the
pledgor or the seller to defraud the licensee, the amount the licensee paid or
loaned for the allegedly stolen property, plus interest and storage charges
provided for in §
856.04.
(ORC 4727.12)
§ 856.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree and shall be fined not
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisoned not more than 60 days,
or both, for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each
day during or on which a violation or noncompliance occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 860: PEDDLERS
Section
860.01   Definitions
860.02   License required; exceptions
860.03   License application
860.04   License issuance; terms
860.05   License fees; veterans
860.06   Vehicle licenses
860.07   Weights and measures
860.08   Display of license
860.09   Scope of license; transferability
860.10   Additional licenses for employees
860.11   Operation by additional persons
860.12   Uninvited solicitation; declaration of nuisance; exceptions (Repealed)
860.13   Regulation of vendors during special events
860.14   Regulation of street solicitors
860.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Littering, see GEN. OFF.
660.03,
660.16
   Temporary stores, see B.R. & T.
Ch. 880
   Trespassing, see GEN. OFF.
642.12
Statutory reference:
   Charitable solicitations, see Ohio R.C. Ch. 1716
   Frozen desserts, see Ohio R.C. 3717.51 et seq.
   Sale of goods and services within right-of-way of interstate and other state
highways, see Ohio R.C. 5515.07
§ 860.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, “hawker,” “peddler” and “huckster” shall be
considered synonymous and mean a person engaged in the business of making sales
of provisions, goods, wares or merchandise of any description upon the streets,
alleys, public places and ways of the city, whether by personal solicitation or
by supplying a purchaser with the provisions, goods, wares or merchandise
without solicitation. A hawker, peddler or huckster shall be deemed to be such
within the meaning of this chapter when he or she has no established place of
business in the city and carries his or her provisions, goods, wares or
merchandise with him or her for the purpose of selling the same.
(Ord. 4141, passed 8-1-1950)
§ 860.02 LICENSE REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   No person as a hawker, peddler or huckster shall sell or offer to sell,
whether by himself or herself or through others, on any of the streets, alleys,
public places or ways in the city, any provisions, goods, wares or merchandise
of any description without first obtaining a license therefor from the Director
of Finance. However, this chapter shall not apply to persons selling by sample
only, to persons soliciting orders for future delivery, to persons selling
products of their own hands, to the sale of goods imported from other states or
foreign countries and sold in unbroken packages, to the sale of agricultural
products offered or exposed for sale by the producer or to a person selling
provisions, goods, wares or merchandise produced or manufactured in the county.
§ 860.03 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   Each applicant for a license required by this chapter shall file, in
writing, an application for the same on a form to be furnished by the Director
of Finance and shall set forth the name and residence of such applicant and the
articles he or she intends to sell thereunder. If the articles to be sold are
such as are usually sold by weight or measure, the applicant shall file with
this application a certificate of the County Sealer of Weights and Measures
that his or her scales, weights and measures have within 30 days prior to the
filing of such application, been examined, found correct and duly sealed by the
County Sealer. The Director may require any applicant to make an oath or solemn
affirmation to the facts stated in the application.
§ 860.04 LICENSE ISSUANCE; TERMS.
   Upon receipt of an application for a license required by this chapter, and
upon payment of the license fees provided for in this chapter, the Director of
Finance shall issue a license to the hawker, peddler or huckster. Such license
shall date from January 1 or July 1 of each year and shall be issued for a term
of six months from the date thereof. The license shall state upon its face the
articles which the applicant in his or her application has stated he or she
desires to sell. No hawker, peddler or huckster shall sell or offer for sale
articles other than those enumerated upon the face of his or her license.
§ 860.05 LICENSE FEES; VETERANS.
   (a)   The fee for the license required by §
860.02 shall be fifty dollars ($50.00) per license. However, the fee for the
first license issued to any person at a time when the license has three months
or less to run shall be twenty-five dollars ($25.00).
   (b)   Honorably discharged soldiers or sailors from service in the military
or naval service of the United States shall pay the Director of Finance for
such license a fee of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) and shall not be required to
make any other or further payments.
§ 860.06 VEHICLE LICENSES.
   Any licensee operating more than one vehicle shall obtain a separate license
for each vehicle operated by him or her, and shall pay as a fee for such
additional license one-half of the amount prescribed in this chapter as a fee
for an original license.
(Ord. 4141, passed 8-1-1950)
§ 860.07 WEIGHTS AND MEASURES.
   No person operating under any license required by this chapter shall at any
time use any scales, weights or measures which have not been examined and
sealed by the County Sealer of Weights and Measures. The licensee shall, while
operating under such license, conform to all provisions of this chapter and
these Codified Ordinances. Upon conviction of a violation of the provisions of
any law or ordinance regulating the weighing, measuring or selling of any
article or commodity, or upon conviction of a violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter, the Director of Finance may revoke or suspend the
license of any person licensed hereunder.
§ 860.08 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every person licensed under this chapter shall carry such license on his or
her person at all times while conducting business activities regulated by this
chapter. Such person shall display such license upon demand by any police
officer or any other person with whom the licensee is conducting such business.
§ 860.09 SCOPE OF LICENSE; TRANSFERABILITY.
   (a)   Licenses issued pursuant to this chapter shall confer authority only
upon the person to whom the same was issued or transferred, or to an employee
whose name is endorsed thereon as provided in this chapter to operate
thereunder. No person, except the holder of the license or his or her employee
whose name is endorsed upon the license, shall carry or use the license.
   (b)   The Director of Finance may, at his or her discretion, make one
transfer of a license, upon the request of the person to whom the same was
issued or of his or her personal representatives, to some other person. Such
transfer shall be endorsed upon the license, signed by the transferor and
approved by the Director. Such transfer shall be noted upon the original
license.
§ 860.10 ADDITIONAL LICENSES FOR EMPLOYEES.
   Any person to whom a license required by this chapter has been issued may
obtain from the Director of Finance additional copies of such license, upon the
face of which shall be stamped “additional license for use of employee.” Before
any additional license is operated under, the licensee shall apply in writing
to the Director for an endorsement thereon of the name of the employee, and
shall provide the Director with the name, age and residence of such employee
and a statement that such employee is in fact an employee of the licensee. The
Director, if satisfied of the truth of the application, shall make such
endorsement. The person whose name is endorsed upon an additional license shall
be authorized to operate thereunder as an employee but not otherwise. No person
shall operate thereunder except the one whose name is so endorsed thereon. The
endorsement upon any additional license shall be deleted by the Director as
often as requested by the licensee, and upon the filing of a new application as
provided in this section, the name of another employee may be endorsed thereon.
§ 860.11 OPERATION BY ADDITIONAL PERSONS.
   (a)   Not more than one person shall operate as a hawker, peddler or
huckster from or upon any vehicle of any description, unless such additional
person has secured a license, or is operating under an additional license as an
employee as provided for in this chapter.
   (b)   If any licensee is disabled by sickness or from any other cause so
that he or she is unable to operate under his or her license, the Director of
Finance, upon being satisfied that such is the case, and upon written
application of the licensee, shall endorse upon the license a permit for any
member of the family of such licensee, whose name shall be specified, to
operate under such license in the place of the licensee, for a period not
exceeding 30 days.
§ 860.12 UNINVITED SOLICITATION; DECLARATION OF NUISANCE; EXCEPTIONS.
(REPEALED)
   (Editor’s note: Section 860.12 was repealed by Ordinance No. 23-51, passed
August 24, 2023.)
§ 860.13 REGULATION OF VENDORS DURING SPECIAL EVENTS.
   (a)   As used in this section, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:
      (1)   “Hosting organization.” The organization authorized by the Mayor to
put on a special event as defined herein.
      (2)   “Special event.” Any pre-designated event as determined by the
Mayor.
   (b)   During any special event authorized by the Mayor, the authorized
hosting organization for the event shall set the fees for vendors, said fees to
be paid by the vendor to the hosting organization of the event.
   (c)   During such special event, this section shall supersede this chapter
and Chapter 880.
(Ord. 11-43, passed 7-28-2011)
§ 860.14 REGULATION OF STREET SOLICITORS.
   (a)   Anyone taking part in solicitations upon the streets of the city shall
be 18 years of age or older.
   (b)   Such solicitations shall only occur on the first and last Saturdays of
each month between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m.
   (c)   No organization can conduct said solicitations more than two times per
calendar year.
   (d)   The Mayor is hereby authorized to accept or deny any application for
such activity.
   (e)   Applications to conduct said solicitations shall be available at the
Mayor's Office.
   (f)   The Mayor shall not approve any applications for solicitations to
occur simultaneously with any other major event occurring in the city.
   (g)   All soliciting organizations approved for such conduct by the Mayor
must have warning cones placed in the street. Said cones to be available for
pick up and return to the City Street Department.
   (h)   All persons involved in the solicitations for the organization must
sign a waiver of liability form provided by the Mayor before conducting the
solicitation.
(Ord. 11-08, passed 2-24-2011)
§ 860.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree and shall be fined not
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisoned not more than 60 days,
or both, for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each
day during or on which a violation or noncompliance occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 864: SERVICE WORK PROVIDERS
Section
864.01   Definitions
864.02   Licence required
864.03   Written application
864.04   License fee; issuance; effective period
864.05   Constructive knowledge of law
864.06   Enforcement
864.99   Penalty
§ 864.01 DEFINITIONS.
   “Service work provider” means any person, entity, corporation, partnership,
copartnership, limited partnership, or any employee or agent thereof,
permanently or temporarily engaged in the business of providing manual labor or
physical services to the public or members thereof, including, but not limited
to, constructing, painting, building, repairing, contracting, landscaping,
excavating, providing maintenance or janitorial service, delivery service,
security, child or convalescent care.
   “Service work provider” does not include service provided by a charitable,
religious or educational organization/minors, those under the age of 18 or
those professions generally licensed or certified by state or federal agencies,
including but not limited to physicians, accountants, attorneys, officers of
the peace, real estate and insurance agencies, members of the psychiatric
profession, and any other health care provider.
(Ord. 04-08, passed 3-11-2004; Am. Ord. 06-14, passed 2-23-2006)
§ 864.02 LICENCE REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate or conduct business as a service work provider
without first obtaining a license therefor from the Director of Finance, the
fee for which shall be paid to the Director of Finance.
(Ord. 04-08, passed 3-11-2004; Am. Ord. 06-14, passed 2-23-2006)
§ 864.03 WRITTEN APPLICATION.
   A written application for a license to operate as a service work provider
shall be made to the Director of Finance on the form provided by the same.
(Ord. 04-08, passed 3-11-2004; Am. Ord. 06-14, passed 2-23-2006)
§ 864.04 LICENSE FEE; ISSUANCE; EFFECTIVE PERIOD.
   A fee of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) shall be charged for each
service work provider license. The license shall be issued to an adult person
with written application and proof of liability insurance. The license shall
date January 1 - December 31 of the current year and shall be for the remaining
one year term.
(Am. Ord. 12-17, passed 2-9-2012; Am. Ord. 17- 54, passed 12-28-2018)
§ 864.05 CONSTRUCTIVE KNOWLEDGE OF LAW.
   Each person who operates or attempts to operate as a service work provider
is deemed to have constructive knowledge of the requirements and prohibitions
of this chapter.
§ 864.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Finance Director/or any member of the Finance Department and the Ironton
City Code Enforcement Office shall be responsible for the enforcement and
prosecution of violations under the terms set forth in §
864.99.
(Ord. 04-08, passed 3-11-2004; Am. Ord. 06-14, passed 2-23-2006)
§ 864.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree and shall be fined not
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisoned not more than sixty
days, or both, for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed
each day during or on which a violation or noncompliance occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 866: FARMERS MARKET REGULATIONS
Section
866.01   Generally
866.02   Definitions
866.03   Times of operation
866.04   Location
866.05   Operating space
866.06   Responsibility of farmers
866.07   Goods must be locally grown
866.08   Resolution of problems or disputes
§ 866.01 GENERALLY.
   This chapter shall be referred to as the “Farmers Market Chapter.”
(Ord. 09-24, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 866.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The following terms, wherever used or referred to in this chapter, shall
have the following respective meanings, unless a different meaning clearly
appears from the context:
   (a)   “City Council” or “Council.” The governing authority of the City.
   (b)   “Locally grown goods” or “locally produced goods.” Such goods or
products as shall be grown in Lawrence County, or in any county contiguous to
Lawrence County, which goods are sold at the farmers market by those persons or
any member of the family of those persons who are substantially responsible for
growing or producing said goods or products. In no event shall any goods which
have been previously purchased from another source be permitted to be sold at
the Ironton Farmers Market.
   (c)   “Market” or “farmers market.” The City of Ironton Farmers Market as
operated and where located as provided herein.
   (d)   “Market Manager.” Designated individual who is responsible for the
daily operation of the farmers market. This position is appointed by the Board
of Directors of Ironton Alive and approved by the City Council at no cost to
the city.
   (e)   “Vendor.” Any person who participates in the farmers market by the
selling of goods or products therein.
(Ord. 09-24, passed 4-23-2009; Am. Ord. 13-43, passed 7-25-2013)
§ 866.03 TIMES OF OPERATION.
   The farmers market shall operate in the Municipal Lot located on 2nd Street,
Ironton, Ohio. The city shall have no liability for any injury to the person or
property of any vendor, member of a vendor's family, customer, or any other
person, arising from the operation of the farmers market. The place of
operation for the farmers market may be relocated at any time by subsequent
decision of the City Council.
(Ord. 09-24, passed 4-23-2009; Am. Ord. 13-43, passed 7-25-2013)
§ 866.04 LOCATION.
   The farmers market shall operate in the Municipal Lot located on 2nd Street,
Ironton, Ohio (lot closest to Bridge). The city shall have no liability for any
injury to the person or property of any vendor, member of a vendor's family,
customer, or any other person, arising from the operation of the farmers
market. The place of operation for the farmers market may be relocated at any
time by subsequent decision of the City Council.
(Ord. 09-24, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 866.05 OPERATING SPACE.
   Farmers can bring one table no larger than four feet by eight feet or will
be allowed to sell from a truck no larger than three-quarter ton. Each farmer
will be allotted approximately eight feet or 12 feet of space upon
registration. Farmers will be responsible for leaving their allotted space
clean and free of debris.
(Ord. 09-24, passed 4-23-2009; Am. Ord. 13-43, passed 7-25-2013)
§ 866.06 RESPONSIBILITY OF FARMERS.
   Market spaces will be assigned to vendors on a “first come, first serve”
basis. Each vendor shall be responsible for maintaining his or her assigned
market space(s) in a clean and orderly manner and shall leave the assigned
space clean and free of debris during sale hours and prior to departing after
sale hours. Failure to properly maintain a market space may result in
suspension of such vendor's license to do business in the farmers market.
(Ord. 09-24, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 866.07 GOODS MUST BE LOCALLY GROWN.
   The goods and products sold at the farmers market must be locally grown or
locally produced goods or products of high quality. Each participating vendor,
upon making application for a vendor's license shall sign a statement affirming
that all goods or products which such vendor intends to sell are locally grown
or locally produced goods as defined in Section 866.02.
(Ord. 09-24, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 866.08 RESOLUTION OF PROBLEMS OR DISPUTES.
   All questions, problems or disputes concerning the interpretation or
enforcement of this chapter shall be directed to the Market Manager. Final
executable decision on any problems or disputes lies with the Mayor following
receipt of written notice by the individual requesting clarification and/or a
final decision or interpretation.
(Ord. 09-24, passed 4-23-2009; Am. Ord. 13-43, passed 7-25-2013)
CHAPTER 868: RUMMAGE SALES
Section
868.01   Restricted number of sales
868.02   Definition
868.03   Permit fee
868.04   Terms of permit
868.05   Area set aside
868.99   Penalty
§ 868.01 RESTRICTED NUMBER OF SALES.
   No person, organization, corporation or entity of any type shall have more
than six rummage sales (as defined) per year by permit.
(Ord. 90-36, passed 6-25-1990)
§ 868.02 DEFINITION.
   A “rummage sale” is defined as the sale of personal property, utilizing
outdoor porches, steps, walkways, yard space, and the interior of garages for
displaying the personal property, such as to make the same visible to persons
passing the real estate in question.
(Ord. 90-36, passed 6-25-1990)
§ 868.03 PERMIT FEE.
   Any individual, organization, corporation or other entity, desiring to hold
a rummage sale, must first obtain a permit from the City Police Department at a
cost of ten dollars ($10.00).
(Ord. 90-36, passed 6-25-1990; Am. Ord. 94-49, passed 12-22-1994; Am. Ord. 05-
40, passed 4-14-2005; Am. Ord. 17-51, passed 1-11-2018)
§ 868.04 TERMS OF PERMIT.
   A permit for a rummage sale will entitle the permit holder to conduct a
rummage sale over a period of three consecutive days, under the permit. At
least 30 days must pass from the initial date of the permit before another
permit may be issued for the same location or permit holder.
(Ord. 90-36, passed 6-25-1990)
§ 868.05 AREA SET ASIDE.
   The area on Railroad Street between Seventh and Eighth Street shall be set
aside for rummage sales regulated by the Public Works Director.
(Ord. 90-36, passed 6-25-1990)
§ 868.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a minor misdemeanor,
as defined by the Ohio Revised Code, and each day shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. 90-36, passed 6-25-1990)
CHAPTER 872: STREET FAIRS
Section
872.01   License required
872.02   License fee
872.03   Bond
872.04   Sponsorship by city employees
872.05   Gambling
872.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Circuses, see B.R. & T.
Ch. 810
   Tents, see B.R. & T.
Ch. 884
Statutory reference:
   Contests or games at county fairs, see Ohio R.C. 1711.09, 1711.11
   County license for public shows, see Ohio R.C. Ch. 3765
   Power to regulate, see Ohio R.C. 715.48, 715.63, 3765.02
§ 872.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate or conduct any street fair, carnival, medicine show,
outdoor fair for profit or other similar enterprise in the city without first
obtaining a license therefor. Such license shall be issued by the Director of
Finance upon application made in accordance with the requirements of the
Director. No such license shall be granted if, in the opinion of the Director,
it would result in the disturbance of the peace or good order of residents or
other persons lawfully in the vicinity.
§ 872.02 LICENSE FEE.
   The fee for the license required by §
872.01 shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00) per day for each day that the
street fair, carnival, medicine show, outdoor fair for profit or other similar
enterprise is conducted or carried on in the city.
(Ord. 4141, passed 8-1-1950)
§ 872.03 BOND.
   No license shall be issued under this chapter unless and until the applicant
therefor has given a bond in an amount to be determined by the Director of
Finance and in a form approved by the Department of Law, with sureties to the
approval of the Director of Finance, to indemnify and save the city harmless
from all damage to public or private property which may result from the
presence or operation of the licensee.
§ 872.04 SPONSORSHIP BY CITY EMPLOYEES.
   No street fair, carnival, medicine show, outdoor fair for profit or other
similar enterprise shall be sponsored by municipal employees or any
organization of municipal employees.
(Ord. 4141, passed 8-1-1950)
§ 872.05 GAMBLING.
   Gambling or the discovery of gambling devices upon the premises occupied by
a street fair, carnival, medicine show, outdoor fair for profit or other
similar enterprise shall be sufficient evidence for immediate closing of such
show.
(Ord. 4141, passed 8-1-1950)
§ 872.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree and shall be fined not
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisoned not more than 60 days,
or both, for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each
day during or on which a violation or noncompliance occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 876: TAXICABS
Section
876.01   Definitions
876.02   Application of chapter
876.03   License required
876.04   License fee
876.05   License applications
876.06   License issuance; hearings
876.07   Insurance; bond
876.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Commercial driver’s license, see TRAF.
436.01 et seq.,
442.03
   Operation of motor vehicles, see TRAF.
Ch. 432
   Taxicab stands, see TRAF.
452.10
   Vehicle equipment, see TRAF.
Ch. 438
§ 876.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter:
   (a)   “Driver” means any person authorized and assigned to drive a taxicab.
   (b)   “Owner” or “operator” means the owner or his or her agent or employee
responsible for the management, operation or dispatching of taxicabs.
   (c)   “Passenger” means any person who has engaged or ordered a taxicab or
who is being carried in a taxicab, for whose carriage a charge is made.
   (d)   “Taxicab” means any motor vehicle having a seating capacity for fewer
than eight passengers, and used for the individual carriage of passengers for
hire not over fixed routes or between fixed terminals, operated by a driver
other than the passenger and not his or her employees.
(Ord. 4141, passed 8-1-1950)
§ 876.02 APPLICATION OF CHAPTER.
   This chapter shall not apply to taxicabs from other jurisdictions having no
city license, and bringing passengers into the city. However, no operator or
driver of any such taxicab shall solicit or accept any passengers within the
city for any destination within the city.
(Ord. 4141, passed 8-1-1950)
§ 876.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate a taxicab in the city without first obtaining a
license therefor as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 5156, passed 11-10-1965)
§ 876.04 LICENSE FEE.
   The semiannual fee for a taxicab license shall be ten dollars ($10.00) for
the first cab and five dollars ($5.00) for each additional cab.
§ 876.05 LICENSE APPLICATIONS.
   (a)   An application for a license required by §
876.03 shall be made to the Director of Finance. Such application shall, in
addition to the information otherwise required, contain statements of the
seating capacity, the length of previous use and the design, color scheme,
lettering or other distinguishing marks to be used on the vehicle, except that
such latter statement may be referred to and need not be repeated in each
application when identical as to more than one vehicle.
   (b)   The Director may require additional information after the hearing
provided for in §
876.06 as to state license numbers, registration numbers, make, motor power and
other descriptive and identifying data as he or she deems necessary, and may do
so after approving such applications. Approval may be conditioned upon
receiving the information within such time as the Director shall direct.
§ 876.06 LICENSE ISSUANCE; HEARINGS.
   (a)   No original taxicab license shall be issued until at least 20 days
after the filing of the application therefor. Each application shall be
referred to the Director of Finance, immediately upon being made. The Director
shall immediately appoint a date, not sooner than ten days and not later than
15 days thereafter, when he or she will publicly hear such application. The
Director shall cause notice of such hearing to be published in a daily
newspaper to the Director of Finance at least five days in advance of such
hearing. At such hearing, the Director shall hear, from the applicant and from
other persons who may appear, information and argument as to the need or
desirability of issuing such taxicab license, in respect of the public
convenience and necessity. From such information and argument and from such
additional information as he or she may have or obtain, the Director shall
determine whether or not the public convenience and necessity require the
issuance of the license applied for.
   (b)   If the Director determines that the public convenience and necessity
can best be served by only one licensee, then he or she shall authorize the
issuance of an exclusive license to that applicant. An exclusive license shall
be valid for a maximum of five years or for so long as the licensee fully
satisfies the public need and convenience.
§ 876.07 INSURANCE; BOND.
   No license required by §
876.03 shall be issued or remain valid unless the applicant or licensee
deposits with the Director of Finance proof of issuance of a policy of
liability insurance or an indemnity bond with corporate sureties satisfactory
to the Director. Such policy or bond shall, at a minimum, provide coverage for
bodily injury or death in the amounts of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00)
per person and one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) per accident, and for
property damage in the amount of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) per
accident, resulting from the operation or use of any taxicab subject to this
chapter. Such policy or bond must remain in effect at all times that any such
taxicab is operated or used.
§ 876.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree and shall be fined not
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisoned not more than 60 days,
or both, for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each
day during or on which a violation or noncompliance occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 880: TEMPORARY STORES
Section
880.01   Temporary store defined
880.02   License required
880.03   Exceptions
880.04   License applications
880.05   License fee
880.06   Insurance; bond
880.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Going-out-of-business sales, see B.R. & T.
Ch. 830
   Home sales, see B. R. & T.
Ch. 834
   Peddlers, see B. R. & T.
Ch. 860
Statutory reference:
   Power to regulate, see Ohio R.C. 715.64
   Sale of goods and services within right-of-way of interstate and other state
highways, see Ohio R.C. 5515.07
§ 880.01 TEMPORARY STORE DEFINED.
   As used in this chapter, “temporary store” means a store, storeroom, office
or other place open and maintained for the sale of goods, commodities or
merchandise to the public where the seller or owner of such goods, commodities
or merchandise operates such store, storeroom, office or other place for less
than 120 days.
(Ord. 4141, passed 8-1-1950)
§ 880.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate a temporary store in the city without first
obtaining a license therefor.
(Ord. 4141, passed 8-1-1950)
§ 880.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not be construed to require a license of persons selling
by sample only, nor to persons selling agricultural products or articles of
their own manufacture or production, nor to persons selling agricultural
products or articles of their own manufacture or production, nor to sales
pursuant to the order of any court of competent jurisdiction in the state, nor
to any person owning or operating a branch store in the city, provided such
person has been engaged in the same kind of business in the city for more than
120 days prior to the date of opening of such branch store.
(Ord. 4141, passed 8-1-1950)
§ 880.04 LICENSE APPLICATIONS.
   An application for a license required by §
880.02 shall be made to the Director of Finance. Such application shall contain
such information regarding the identity and background of the licensee, the
goods, commodities or merchandise to be sold and the proposed location of the
temporary store as may be required by the Director.
§ 880.05 LICENSE FEE.
   The fee for any license issued under this chapter shall be two hundred
dollars ($200.00), but such sum shall be refunded to such person if the store
proves not in fact to be a temporary store.
(Ord. 4141, passed 8-1-1950)
§ 880.06 INSURANCE; BOND.
   No license required by §
880.02 shall be issued or remain valid unless the applicant or licensee
deposits with the Director of Finance proof of issuance of a policy of
liability insurance or an indemnity bond with corporate sureties satisfactory
to the Director. Such policy or bond shall, at a minimum, provide coverage for
bodily injury or death in the amounts of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00)
per person and one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) per accident
resulting from the operation of any temporary store subject to this chapter.
Such policy or bond must remain in effect at all times that any such temporary
store is in operation.
§ 880.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree and shall be fined not
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisoned not more than 60 days,
or both, for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each
day during or on which a violation or noncompliance occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 884: TENTS
Section
884.01   License required
884.02   License application
884.03   License issuance; revocation
884.04   License fee
884.05   Survey by Fire Chief; remedial measures
884.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Circuses, see B.R. & T.
Ch. 810
   Fire prevention, see F.P.
Ch. 1610
   Safety of crowds attending live entertainment performances, see GEN. OFF.
636.18
   Smoking in places of public assemblage, see GEN. OFF.
660.13
   Street fairs, see B.R. & T.
Ch. 872
§ 884.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall erect, maintain, operate or use a tent exceeding 120 square
feet in area in the city without first obtaining a license therefor.
(Ord. 4141, passed 8-1-1950)
§ 884.02 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   An application for a tent license shall be in a form prescribed by the
Director of Finance and, when deemed necessary by the Fire Chief, such
application shall include plans to scale showing exits, aisles, seating
arrangements, details of structural support, seats, platforms, and the like.
§ 884.03 LICENSE ISSUANCE; REVOCATION.
   A tent license shall not be issued for a period of more than 30 days and
shall be revocable for cause.
(Ord. 4141, passed 8-1-1950)
§ 884.04 LICENSE FEE.
   The fee for the license required by §
884.02 shall be, in the case of tents used as places of assembly with a
capacity of less than 200 persons, fifty dollars ($50.00), and in the case of
those with a capacity of more than 200 persons, one hundred dollars ($100.00).
The license fee shall be in addition to the license fee provided with reference
to circuses and carnivals.
§ 884.05 SURVEY BY FIRE CHIEF; REMEDIAL MEASURES.
   The Fire Chief shall survey or cause to be surveyed each tent for which a
license has been granted after it is erected and, if it is to be used as a
place of assembly, before it is occupied. During such survey, the Fire Chief or
his or her authorized representative shall make sure that such tent is in
compliance with Part Fourteen - the Building and Housing Code, Part Sixteen -
the Fire Prevention Code and any other applicable provision of these Codified
Ordinances. The Fire Chief or his or her authorized representative may require
the licensee to take any and all measures necessary to bring such tent into
compliance with applicable provisions of these Codified Ordinances and other
laws as a condition for the continuing validity of the license.
§ 884.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree and shall be fined not
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisoned not more than 60 days,
or both, for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each
day during or on which a violation or noncompliance occurs or continues.
TITLE FOUR - TAXATION
CHAPTER 890: INCOME TAX
Section
890.01   Authority to levy tax; purposes of tax; rate
890.011   Authority to levy tax
890.012   Purposes of tax; rate
890.013   Allocation of funds
890.014   Statement of procedural history; state mandated changes to municipal
income tax
890.02   Effective date
890.03   Definitions
890.04   Income subject to tax for individuals
890.041   Determining municipal taxable income for individuals
890.042   Domicile
890.043   Exemption for member or employee of general assembly and certain
judges
890.05   Collection at source
890.051   Collection at source; withholding from qualifying wages
890.052   Collection at source; occasional entrant
890.053   Collection at source; casino and VLT
890.06   Income subject to net profit tax
890.061   Determining municipal taxable income for taxpayers who are not
individuals
890.062   Net profit; income subject to net profit tax; alternative
apportionment
890.063   Consolidated federal income tax return
890.064   Tax credit for businesses that foster new jobs in Ohio
890.065   Tax credits to foster job retention
890.07   Declaration of estimated tax
890.08   Credit for tax paid
890.081   Credit for tax paid to another municipality
890.082   Refundable credit for qualifying loss
890.083   Credit for person working in joint economic development district or
zone
890.084   Credit for tax beyond statute for obtaining refund
890.09   Annual return
890.091   Return and payment of tax
890.092   Return and payment of tax; individuals serving in combat zone
890.093   Use of Ohio Business Gateway; types of filings authorized
890.094   Extension of time to file
890.095   Amended returns
890.096   Refunds
890.10   Penalty, interest, fees, and charges
890.11   Audit
890.12   Rounding
890.13   Authority and powers of the Tax Administrator
890.131   Authority of Tax Administrator; administrative powers of the Tax
Administrator
890.132   Authority of Tax Administrator; compromise of claim and payment over
time
890.133   Authority of Tax Administrator; right to examine
890.134   Authority of Tax Administrator; requiring identifying information
890.14   Confidentiality
890.15   Fraud
890.16   Opinion of the Tax Administrator
890.17   Assessment; appeal based on presumption of delivery
890.18   Local Board of Tax Review; appeal to Local Board of Tax Review
890.19   Actions to recover; statute of limitations
890.20   Adoption of rules
890.97   Collection after termination of chapter
890.98   Savings clause
890.99   Violations; penalty
Charter reference:
   Finance generally, see
CHTR. Art. V
Statutory reference:
   Municipal income taxes, see Ohio R.C. Ch. 718
   Payroll deductions, see Ohio R.C. 9.42
   Power to tax, see Ohio Const., Art. XVIII, Sec. 3
§ 890.01 AUTHORITY TO LEVY TAX; PURPOSES OF TAX; RATE
§ 890.011 AUTHORITY TO LEVY TAX.
   (a)   The tax on income and the withholding tax established by this chapter
are authorized by Article XVIII, Section 3 of the Ohio Constitution. The tax on
income and the withholding tax established by this chapter are deemed to be
levied in accordance with, and to be consistent with, the provisions and
limitations of R.C. Chapter 718. This chapter is deemed to incorporate the
provisions of R.C. Chapter 718.
   (b)   The tax is an annual tax levied on the income of every person residing
in or earning or receiving income in the municipal corporation, and shall be
measured by municipal taxable income. The municipality shall tax income at a
uniform rate. The tax is levied on municipal taxable income, as defined herein.
(Ord. 15-40, passed 12-10-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to tax income and withhold tax, see R.C. § 718.04
§ 890.012 PURPOSES OF TAX; RATE.
   (a)   To provide funds for the purpose of general municipal operations and
other municipal purposes of the city, therein is hereby levied a tax upon the
following:
      (1)   On all salaries, wages, commissions, and other compensation earned
on and after February 1, 1969, by resident individuals of the city;
      (2)   On all salaries, wages, commissions and other compensation earned
on and after February 1, 1969, by nonresident individuals for work done or
services performed or rendered in the city;
      (3)   On the net profits attributable to the city, earned on and after
February 1, 1969, of all resident unincorporated business, professions, and
other activities derived from work done, services rendered or performed and
business or other activities conducted in the city;
      (4)   On the portion of the distributive share of the net profits earned
on and after February 1, 1969, of a resident individual, partner, or owner of a
resident unincorporated business entity attributable to the city and not levied
against such unincorporated business entity;
      (5)   On the net profits attributable to the city earned on and after
February 1, 1969, of all nonresident unincorporated businesses, professions, or
other activities, derived from work done, services performed or rendered and
business or other activities conducted in the city;
      (6)   On that portion of the distributive share of the net profits earned
on and after February 1, 1969, of a resident individual, partner, or owner of a
nonresident unincorporated business entity not attributable to the city and not
levied against such unincorporated business entity; and
      (7)   On the net profits earned on and after February 1, 1969, of all
corporations derived from work done, services performed or rendered, and
business or other activities conducted in the city. The portion of the entire
net profits of a taxpayer to be allocated as having been made within and
attributable to the city may, in the absence of actual records or separate
accounting thereof, be determined as follows:
         A.   Multiply the entire net profit by a business allocation
percentage to be determined by:
            1.   Ascertaining the percentage which the average value of the
taxpayer's real and tangible personal property within the city during the
period covered by this report bears to the average value of all the taxpayer's
real and tangible personal property wherever situated during such period. As
used in this division, real property includes property rented or leased by the
taxpayers and the value of such property shall be determined by multiplying the
annual rental thereon by eight.
            2.   Ascertaining the percentage which the gross sales of the
taxpayer within the city, plus the gross credits or charges for the work done
and performed or services rendered in the city, bears to the total gross sales
wherever made, plus the total gross credits or charges for the work done and
performed or services rendered. "Within the city" sales shall be deemed to
include:
               a.   All sales of tangible personal property delivered to
purchasers in the city if shipped or delivered from an office, store,
warehouse, factory, or place of storage located in the city;
               b.   All sales of tangible personal property delivered to
purchasers in the city, even though transported from a point outside the city,
if the taxpayer is regularly engaged through its own employees in the
solicitation or promotion of sales within the city, and if the sale is directly
or indirectly the result of the taxpayer's activities in the city in soliciting
or promoting sales;
               c.   i.    All sales of tangible personal property shipped from
an office, store, warehouse, factory or place of storage in the city to
purchasers in the other cities or villages, if the
taxpayer is not, through its own employees, regularly engaged in the
solicitation or promotion of sales in such other cities or villages, or even if
it is so engaged, if the sales are not directly or indirectly attributable to
such activities.
                  ii.    Gross sales shall be considered to mean gross receipts
from sales in the case of a cash basis taxpayer.
            3.   Ascertaining the percentage which the total wages, salaries,
and other personal service compensation, similarly computed during such period,
of employees in the city, except general executive officers, bears to the total
wages, salaries, and other personal service compensation, similarly computed
during such period of all the taxpayer's employees within and without the city,
except general executive officers; and
            4.   Adding together the percentages determined in accordance with
divisions (a)(7)A.1., 2., and 3. of this section, or such of the aforesaid
percentages as shall be applicable to the particular taxpayer's business, and
dividing the total so obtained by the number of percentage used in deriving the
total.
         B.   If a just and equitable result cannot be obtained by the use of
the factors set forth in division (a)(7)A.1. of this section, the Tax
Administrator may substitute factors calculated to effect a fair and proper
allocation.
   (b)   There is hereby levied a tax upon earnings at the rate of 1% on or
after February 1, 1969.
(Ord. 5365, passed 1-9-1969; Am. Ord. 88-52, passed 1-26-1989; Am. Ord. 15-40,
passed 12-10-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to tax income and withhold tax, see R.C. § 718.04
§ 890.013 ALLOCATION OF FUNDS.
   The funds collected under this chapter shall be deposited in the general
fund income tax account and the funds shall be dispersed each calendar year in
conformity with the approved budget allocations for that year, in the following
order:
   (a)   Such part thereof as shall be necessary to defray all costs of
collecting the taxes and the cost of administrating and enforcing the
provisions thereof;
   (b)   Such part thereof as shall be budgeted each year for special purposes
in any fund of the city; and
   (c)   The balance of funds available to be credited to the general fund.
(Ord. 5365, passed 1-9-1969; Am. Ord. 15-40, passed 12-10-2015)
§ 890.014 STATEMENT OF PROCEDURAL HISTORY; STATE MANDATED CHANGES TO MUNICIPAL
INCOME TAX.
   (a)   Significant and wide-ranging amendments to R.C. Chapter 718 were
enacted by Am Sub H.B. 5, passed by the 130lh General Assembly, and signed by
Governor Kasich on December 19, 2014, and H.B. 5 required municipal
corporations to conform to and adopt the provisions of R.C. Chapter 718 in
order to have the authority to impose, enforce, administer and collect a
municipal income tax.
   (b)   As mandated by H.B. 5, municipal income tax Ordinance 2015-40,
effective January 1, 2016, comprehensively amends Chapter 890 in accordance
with the provisions of R.C. Chapter 718 to allow the municipality to continue
the income tax and withholding tax administration and collection efforts on
behalf of the municipality.
(Ord. 15-40, passed 12-10-2015)
§ 890.02 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (a)   Ordinance 2015-40, effective January 1, 2016, and corresponding
changes to R.C. Chapter 718, apply to municipal taxable years beginning on or
after January 1, 2016. All provisions of this chapter apply to taxable years
beginning 2016 and succeeding taxable years.
   (b)   Ordinance 2015-40 does not repeal the existing sections of Chapter 890
for any taxable year prior to 2016, but rather amends this chapter effective
January 1, 2016. For municipal taxable years beginning before January 1, 2016,
the municipality shall continue to administer, audit, and enforce the income
tax of the municipality under R.C. Chapter 718 and ordinances and resolutions
of the municipality as that chapter and those ordinances and resolutions
existed before January 1, 2016.
(Ord. 15-40, passed 12-10-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see R.C. § 718.04
§ 890.03 DEFINITIONS.
   (a)   Any term used in this chapter that is not otherwise defined in this
chapter has the same meaning as when used in a comparable context in laws of
the United States relating to federal income taxation or in R.C. Title LVII,
unless a different meaning is clearly required. If a term used in this chapter
that is not otherwise defined in this chapter is used in a comparable context
in both the laws of the United States relating to federal income tax and in
R.C. Title LVII and the use is not consistent, then the use of the term in the
laws of the United States relating to federal income tax shall control over the
use of the term in R.C. Title LVII.
   (b)   For purposes of this section, the singular shall include the plural,
and the masculine shall include the feminine and the gender-neutral.
   (c)   As used in this chapter:
      (1)   "Adjusted federal taxable income," for a person required to file as
a C corporation, or for a person that has elected to be taxed as a C
corporation under division (c)(23)D. of this section, means a C corporation's
federal taxable income before net operating losses and special deductions as
determined under the Internal Revenue Code, adjusted as follows:
         A.   Deduct intangible income to the extent included in federal
taxable income. The deduction shall be allowed regardless of whether the
intangible income relates to assets used in a trade or business or assets held
for the production of income.
         B.   Add an amount equal to 5% of intangible income deducted under
division (c)(1)A. of this section, but excluding that portion of intangible
income directly related to the sale, exchange, or other disposition of property
described in section 1221 of the Internal Revenue Code;
         C.   Add any losses allowed as a deduction in the computation of
federal taxable income if the losses directly relate to the sale, exchange, or
other disposition of an asset described in section 1221 or 1231 of the Internal
Revenue Code;
         D.   1.   Except as provided in division (c)(1)D.2. of this section,
deduct income and gain included in federal taxable income to the extent the
income and gain directly relate to the sale, exchange, or other disposition of
an asset described in section 1221 or 1231 of the Internal Revenue Code;
            2.   Division (c)(1)D.1. of this section does not apply to the
extent the income or gain is income or gain described in section 1245 or 1250
of the Internal Revenue Code.
         E.   Add taxes on or measured by net income allowed as a deduction in
the computation of federal taxable income;
         F.   In the case of a real estate investment trust or regulated
investment company, add all amounts with respect to dividends to, distributions
to, or amounts set aside for or credited to the benefit of investors and
allowed as a deduction in the computation of federal taxable income;
         G.   Deduct, to the extent not otherwise deducted or excluded in
computing federal taxable income, any income derived from a transfer agreement
or from the enterprise transferred under that agreement under R.C. § 4313.02;
         H.   1.   Except as limited by divisions (c)(1)H.2., 3., and 4. of
this section, deduct any net operating loss incurred by the person in a taxable
year beginning on or after January 1, 2017.
               The amount of such net operating loss shall be deducted from net
profit that is reduced by exempt income to the extent necessary to reduce
municipal taxable income to zero, with any remaining unused portion of the net
operating loss carried forward to not more than five consecutive taxable years
following the taxable year in which the loss was incurred, but in no case for
more years than necessary for the deduction to be fully utilized.
            2.   No person shall use the deduction allowed by division (c)(1)H.
of this section to offset qualifying wages.
            3.   a.   For taxable years beginning in 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021, or
2022, a person may not deduct, for purposes of an income tax levied by a
municipal corporation that levies an income tax before January 1, 2016, more
than 50% of the amount of the deduction otherwise allowed by division (c)
(1)H.1. of this section.
               b.   For taxable years beginning in 2023 or thereafter, a person
may deduct, for purposes of an income tax levied by a municipal corporation
that levies an income tax before January 1, 2016, the full amount allowed by
division (c)(1)H.1. of this section.
            4.   Any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward deduction that is
available must be utilized before a taxpayer may deduct any amount pursuant to
division (c)(1)H. of this section.
            5.   Nothing in division (c)(1)H.3.a. of this section precludes a
person from carrying forward, for use with respect to any return filed for a
taxable year beginning after 2018, any amount of net operating loss that was
not fully utilized by operation of division (c)(1)H.3.a. of this section. To
the extent that an amount of net operating loss that was not fully utilized in
one or more taxable years by operation of division (c)(1)H.3.a. of this section
is carried forward for use with respect to a return filed for a taxable year
beginning in 2019, 2020, 2021, or 2022, the limitation described in division
(c)(1)H.3.a. of this section shall apply to the amount carried forward.
         I.   Deduct any net profit of a pass-through entity owned directly or
indirectly by the taxpayer and included in the taxpayer's federal taxable
income unless an affiliated group of corporations includes that net profit in
the group's federal taxable income in accordance with §
890.063(e)(3)B.
         J.   Add any loss incurred by a pass-through entity owned directly or
indirectly by the taxpayer and included in the taxpayer's federal taxable
income unless an affiliated group of corporations includes that loss in the
group's federal taxable income in accordance with §
890.063(e)(3)B.
         If the taxpayer is not a C corporation, is not a disregarded entity
that has made the election described in division (c)(47)B. of this section, is
not a publicly traded partnership that has made the election described in
division (c)(23)D. of this section, and is not an individual, the taxpayer
shall compute adjusted federal taxable income under this section as if the
taxpayer were a C corporation, except guaranteed payments and other similar
amounts paid or accrued to a partner, former partner, shareholder, former
shareholder, member, or former member shall not be allowed as a deductible
expense unless such payments are in consideration for the use of capital and
treated as payment of interest under section 469 of the Internal Revenue Code
or United States Treasury Regulations. Amounts paid or accrued to a qualified
self-employed retirement plan with respect to a partner, former partner,
shareholder, former shareholder, member, or former member of the taxpayer,
amounts paid or accrued to or for health insurance for a partner, former
partner, shareholder, former shareholder, member, or former member, and amounts
paid or accrued to or for life insurance for a partner, former partner,
shareholder, former shareholder, member, or former member shall not be allowed
as a deduction. Nothing in division (c)(1) of this section shall be construed
as allowing the taxpayer to add or deduct any amount more than once or shall be
construed as allowing any taxpayer to deduct any amount paid to or accrued for
purposes of federal self-employment tax.
      (2)   A.   "Assessment" means any of the following:
            1.   A written finding by the Tax Administrator that a person has
underpaid municipal income tax, or owes penalty and interest, or any
combination of tax, penalty, or interest, to the municipal corporation;
            2.   A full or partial denial of a refund request issued under §
890.096(b)(2);
            3.   A Tax Administrator's denial of a taxpayer's request for use
of an alternative apportionment method, issued under §
890.062(b)(2); or
            4.   A Tax Administrator's requirement for a taxpayer to use an
alternative apportionment method, issued under §
890.062(b)(3).
            5.   For purposes of division (c)(2)A.1., 2., 3. and 4. of this
section, an assessment shall commence the person's time limitation for making
an appeal to the Local Board of Tax Review pursuant to §
890.18, and shall have "ASSESSMENT" written in all capital letters at the top
of such finding.
         B.   "Assessment" does not include notice(s) denying a request for
refund issued under §
890.096(b)(3), a billing statement notifying a taxpayer of current or past-due
balances owed to the municipal corporation, a Tax Administrator's request for
additional information, a notification to the taxpayer of mathematical errors,
or a Tax Administrator's other written correspondence to a person or taxpayer
that does not meet the criteria prescribed by division (c)(2)A. of this
section.
      (3)   "Audit" means the examination of a person or the inspection of the
books, records, memoranda, or accounts of a person, ordered to appear before
the Tax Administrator, for the purpose of determining liability for a municipal
income tax.
      (4)   "Board of Review" has same meaning as "Local Board of Tax Review".
      (5)   "Calendar quarter" means the three-month period ending on the last
day of March, June, September, or December.
      (6)   "Casino operator" and "casino facility" have the same meanings as
in R.C. § 3772.01.
      (7)   "Certified mail," "express mail," "United States mail,""postal
service," and similar terms include any delivery service authorized pursuant to
R.C. § 5703.056.
      (8)   "Compensation" means any form of remuneration paid to an employee
for personal services.
      (9)   "Disregarded entity" means a single member limited liability
company, a qualifying subchapter S subsidiary, or another entity if the
company, subsidiary, or entity is a disregarded entity for federal income tax
purposes.
      (10)   "Domicile" means the true, fixed and permanent home of the
taxpayer to which, whenever absent, the taxpayer intends to return.
      (11)   "Exempt income" means all of the following:
         A.   The military pay or allowances of members of the armed forces of
the United States or members of their reserve components, including the
national guard of any state;
         B.   1.   Except as provided in division (c)(11)B.2. of this section,
intangible income;
            2.   A municipal corporation that taxed any type of intangible
income on March 29, 1988, pursuant to Section 3 of S.B. 238 of the 116th
General Assembly, may continue to tax that type of income if a majority of the
electors of the municipal
corporation voting on the question of whether to permit the taxation of that
type of intangible income after 1988 voted in favor thereof at an election held
on November 8, 1988.
         C.   Social security benefits, railroad retirement benefits,
unemployment compensation, pensions, retirement benefit payments, payments from
annuities, and similar payments made to an employee or to the beneficiary of an
employee under a retirement program or plan, disability payments received from
private industry or local, state, or federal governments or from charitable,
religious or educational organizations, and the proceeds of sickness, accident,
or liability insurance policies. As used in division (c)(11)C. of this section,
"unemployment compensation" does not include supplemental unemployment
compensation described in section 3402(o)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code.
            1.   Retired and permanently disabled residents with no taxable
income may file a waiver form and therefore not be required to file annual city
income tax, said waiver form to be developed and obtained from the Income Tax
Department.
         D.   The income of religious, fraternal, charitable, scientific,
literary, or educational institutions to the extent such income is derived from
tax-exempt real estate, tax-exempt tangible or intangible property, or tax-
exempt activities.
         E.   Compensation paid under R.C. § 3501.28 or 3501.36 to a person
serving as a precinct election official to the extent that such compensation
does not exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000) for the taxable year. Such
compensation in excess of one thousand dollars ($1,000) for the taxable year
may be subject to taxation by a municipal corporation. A municipal corporation
shall not require the payer of such compensation to withhold any tax from that
compensation.
         F.   Dues, contributions, and similar payments received by charitable,
religious, educational, or literary organizations or labor unions, lodges, and
similar organizations.
         G.   Alimony and child support received.
         H.   Awards for personal injuries or for damages to property from
insurance proceeds or otherwise, excluding compensation paid for lost salaries
or wages or awards for punitive damages.
         I.   Income of a public utility when that public utility is subject to
the tax levied under R.C. § 5727.24 or 5727.30. Division (c)(11)A. of this
section does not apply for purposes of R.C. Chapter 5745.
         J.   Gains from involuntary conversions, interest on federal
obligations, items of income subject to a tax levied by the state and that a
municipal corporation is specifically prohibited by law from taxing, and income
of a decedent's estate during the period of administration except such income
from the operation of a trade or business.
         K.   Compensation or allowances excluded from federal gross income
under section 107 of the Internal Revenue Code.
         L.   Employee compensation that is not qualifying wages as defined in
division (c)(34) of this section.
         M.   Compensation paid to a person employed within the boundaries of a
United States Air Force base under the jurisdiction of the United States Air
Force that is used for the housing of members of the United States Air Force
and is a center for Air Force operations, unless the person is subject to
taxation because of residence or domicile. If the compensation is subject to
taxation because of residence or domicile, tax on such income shall be payable
only to the municipal corporation of residence or domicile.
         N.   An S corporation shareholder's distributive share of net profits
of the S corporation, other than any part of the distributive share of net
profits that represents wages as defined in section 3121(a) of the Internal
Revenue Code or net earnings from self-employment as defined in section 1402(a)
of the Internal Revenue Code.
         O.   All of the municipal taxable income earned by individuals under
18 years of age.
         P.   1.   Except as provided in divisions (c)(11)P.2., 3., and 4. of
this section, qualifying wages described in §
890.052(b)(1) or (e) to the extent the qualifying wages are not subject to
withholding for the municipality under either of those divisions.
            2.   The exemption provided in division (c)(11)P.1. of this section
does not apply with respect to the municipal corporation in which the employee
resided at the time the employee earned the qualifying wages.
            3.   The exemption provided in division (c)(11)P.1. of this section
does not apply to qualifying wages that an employer elects to withhold under §
890.052(d)(2).
            4.   The exemption provided in division (c)(11)P.1. of this section
does not apply to qualifying wages if both of the following conditions apply:
               a.   For qualifying wages described in §
890.052(b)(1), the employee's employer withholds and remits tax on the
qualifying wages to the municipal corporation in which the employee's principal
place of work is situated, or, for qualifying wages described in § 890.052(e),
the employee's employer withholds and remits tax on the qualifying wages to the
municipal corporation in which the employer's fixed location is located;
               b.   The employee receives a refund of the tax described in
division (c)(11)P.4.a. of this section on the basis of the employee not
performing services in that municipal corporation.
         Q.   1.   Except as provided in division (c)(11)Q.2. or 3. of this
section, compensation that is not qualifying wages paid to a nonresident
individual for personal services performed in the municipality on not more than
20 days in a taxable year.
            2.   The exemption provided in division (c)(11)Q.1. of this section
does not apply under either of the following circumstances:
               a.   The individual's base of operation is located in the
municipality.
               b.   The individual is a professional athlete, professional
entertainer, or public figure, and the compensation is paid for the performance
of services in the individual's capacity as a professional athlete,
professional entertainer, or public figure. For purposes of division (c)
(11)Q.2.b. of this section, "professional athlete," "professional entertainer,"
and "public figure" have the same meanings as in §
890.052.
            3.    Compensation to which division (c)(11)Q. of this section
applies shall be treated as earned or received at the individual's base of
operation. If the individual does not have a base of operation, the
compensation shall be treated as earned or received where the individual is
domiciled.
            4.   For purposes of division (c)(11)Q. of this section, "base of
operation" means the location where an individual owns or rents an office,
storefront, or similar facility to which the individual regularly reports and
at which the individual regularly performs personal services for compensation.
         R.   Compensation paid to a person for personal services performed for
a political subdivision on property owned by the political subdivision,
regardless of whether the compensation is received by an employee of the
subdivision or another person performing services for the subdivision under a
contract with the subdivision, if the property on which services are performed
is annexed to a municipal corporation pursuant to R.C. § 709.023 on or after
March 27, 2013, unless the person is subject to such taxation because of
residence. If the compensation is subject to taxation because of residence,
municipal
income tax shall be payable only to the municipal corporation of residence.
         S.   Income the taxation of which is prohibited by the constitution or
laws of the United States.
            Any item of income that is exempt income of a pass-through entity
under division (c)(11) of this section is exempt income of each owner of the
pass-through entity to the extent of that owner's distributive or proportionate
share of that item of the entity's income.
         T.   Employment of duly enrolled full-time students by their school,
college, or university or any public library, and services performed by student
nurses and hospital interns.
         U.   If a resident is a full-time student under the age of 26 years,
the first three thousand dollars ($3,000) of that resident's income shall not
be taxable under the city income tax.
      (12)   "Form 2106" means Internal Revenue Service form 2106 filed by a
taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      (13)   "Generic form" means an electronic or paper form that is not
prescribed by a particular municipal corporation and that is designed for
reporting taxes withheld by an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer,
estimated municipal income taxes, or annual municipal income tax liability,
including a request for refund.
      (14)   "Income" means the following:
         A.   1.   For residents, all income, salaries, qualifying wages,
commissions, and other compensation from whatever source earned or received by
the resident, including the resident's distributive share of the net profit of
pass-through entities owned directly or indirectly by the resident and any net
profit of the resident, except as provided in division (c)(23)D. of this
section.
            2.   For the purposes of division (c)(14)A.1. of this section:
               a.   Any net operating loss of the resident incurred in the
taxable year and the resident's distributive share of any net operating loss
generated in the same taxable year and attributable to the resident's ownership
interest in a pass-through entity shall be allowed as a deduction, for that
taxable year and the following five taxable years, against any other net profit
of the resident or the resident's distributive share of any net profit
attributable to the resident's ownership interest in a pass-through entity
until fully utilized, subject to division (c)(14)A.4. of this section;
               b.   The resident's distributive share of the net profit of each
pass-through entity owned directly or indirectly by the resident shall be
calculated without regard to any net operating loss that is carried forward by
that entity from a prior taxable year and applied to reduce the entity's net
profit for the current taxable year.
            3.   Division (c)(14)A.2. of this section does not apply with
respect to any net profit or net operating loss attributable to an ownership
interest in an S corporation unless shareholders' distributive shares of net
profits from S corporations are subject to tax in the municipal corporation as
provided in division (c)(11)N. or division (c)(14)E. of this section.
            4.   Any amount of a net operating loss used to reduce a taxpayer's
net profit for a taxable year shall reduce the amount of net operating loss
that may be carried forward to any subsequent year for use by that taxpayer. In
no event shall the cumulative deductions for all taxable years with respect to
a taxpayer's net operating loss exceed the original amount of that net
operating loss available to that taxpayer.
         B.   In the case of nonresidents, all income, salaries, qualifying
wages, commissions, and other compensation from whatever source earned or
received by the nonresident for work done, services performed or rendered, or
activities conducted in the municipality, including any net profit of the
nonresident, but excluding the nonresident's distributive share of the net
profit or loss of only pass-through entities owned directly or indirectly by
the nonresident.
         C.   For taxpayers that are not individuals, net profit of the
taxpayer.
         D.   Lottery, sweepstakes, gambling and sports winnings, winnings from
games of chance, and prizes and awards. If the taxpayer is a professional
gambler for federal income tax purposes, the taxpayer may deduct related
wagering losses and expenses to the extent authorized under the Internal
Revenue Code and claimed against such winnings. Credit for tax withheld or paid
to another municipal corporation on such winnings paid to the municipal
corporation where winnings occur is limited to the credit as specified in §
890.081.
         E.   [INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK]
      (15)   "Intangible income" means income of any of the following types:
income yield, interest, capital gains, dividends, or other income arising from
the ownership, sale, exchange, or other disposition of intangible property
including, but not limited to, investments, deposits, money, or credits as
those terms are defined in R.C. Chapter 5701, and patents, copyrights,
trademarks, trade names, investments in real estate investment trusts,
investments in regulated investment companies, and appreciation on deferred
compensation. "Intangible income" does not include prizes, awards, or other
income associated with any lottery winnings, gambling winnings, or other
similar games of chance.
      (16)   "Internal Revenue Code" means the "Internal Revenue Code of 1986,"
100 Sta. 2085, 26 U.S.C.A. 1, as amended.
      (17)   "Limited liability company" means a limited liability company
formed under R.C. Chapter 1705 or under the laws of another state.
      (18)   "Local Board of Tax Review" and "Board of Tax Review" means the
entity created under § 890.18.
      (19)   "Municipal corporation" means, in general terms, a status
conferred upon a local government unit, by state law giving the unit certain
autonomous operating authority such as the power of taxation, power of eminent
domain, police power and regulatory power, and includes a joint economic
development district or joint economic development zone that levies an income
tax under R.C. § 718.691, 715.70, 715.71, or 715.74.
      (20)   A.   "Municipal taxable income" means the following:
            1.   For a person other than an individual, income reduced by
exempt income to the extent otherwise included in income and then, as
applicable, apportioned or sitused to the municipality under § 890.062, and
further reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward available to
the person for the municipality.
            2.   a.   For an individual who is a resident of a municipality
other than a qualified municipal corporation, income reduced by exempt income
to the extent otherwise included in income, then reduced as provided in
division (c)(20)B. of this section, and further reduced by any pre-2017 net
operating loss carryforward available to the individual for the municipality.
               b.   For an individual who is a resident of a qualified
municipal corporation, Ohio adjusted gross income reduced by income exempted,
and increased by deductions excluded, by the qualified municipal corporation
from the qualified municipal corporation's tax on or before December 31, 2013.
If a qualified municipal corporation, on or before December 31, 2013, exempts
income earned by individuals who are not residents of the qualified municipal
corporation and net profit of persons that are not wholly located within the
qualified municipal corporation, such individual or person shall have no
municipal taxable income for the purposes of the tax levied by the qualified
municipal corporation and may be exempted by the qualified municipal
corporation from the requirements of R.C. § 718.03.
            3.   For an individual who is a nonresident of the municipality,
income reduced by exempt income to the extent otherwise included in income and
then, as applicable, apportioned or sitused to the municipality under §
890.062, then reduced as provided in division (c)(20)B. of this section, and
further reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward available to
the individual for the municipality.
         B.   In computing the municipal taxable income of a taxpayer who is an
individual, the taxpayer may subtract, as provided in division (c)(20)A.2.a. or
3. of this section, the amount of the individual's employee business expenses
reported on the individual's form 2106 that the individual deducted for federal
income tax purposes for the taxable year, subject to the limitation imposed by
section 67 of the Internal Revenue Code. For the municipal corporation in which
the taxpayer is a resident, the taxpayer may deduct all such expenses allowed
for federal income tax purposes. For a municipal corporation in which the
taxpayer is not a resident, the taxpayer may deduct such expenses only to the
extent the expenses are related to the taxpayer's performance of personal
services in that nonresident municipal corporation.
      (21)   "Municipality" means the City of Ironton.
      (22)   "Net operating loss" means a loss incurred by a person in the
operation of a trade or business. "Net operating loss" does not include
unutilized losses resulting from basis limitations, at-risk limitations, or
passive activity loss limitations.
      (23)   A.   "Net profit" for a person other than an individual means
adjusted federal taxable income.
         B.   "Net profit" for a person who is an individual means the
individual's net profit required to be reported on schedule C, schedule E, or
schedule F reduced by any net operating loss carried forward.
For the purposes of division (c)(23)A. of this section, the net operating loss
carried forward shall be calculated and deducted in the same manner as provided
in division (c)(1)H. of this section.
         C.   For the purposes of this chapter, and notwithstanding division
(c)(23)A. of this section, net profit of a disregarded entity shall not be
taxable as against that disregarded entity, but shall instead be included in
the net profit of the owner of the disregarded entity.
         D.   1.   For purposes of this chapter, "publicly traded partnership"
means any partnership, an interest in which is regularly traded on an
established securities market. A "publicly traded partnership" may have any
number of partners.
            2.   For the purposes of this chapter, and not withstanding any
other provision of this chapter, the net profit of a publicly traded
partnership that makes the election described in division (c)(23)D. of this
section shall be taxed as if the partnership were a C corporation, and shall
not be treated as the net profit or income of any owner of the partnership.
            3.   A publicly traded partnership that is treated as a partnership
for federal income tax purposes and that is subject to tax on its net profits
in one or more municipal corporations in this state may elect to be treated as
a C corporation for municipal income tax purposes. The publicly traded
partnership shall make the election in every municipal corporation in which the
partnership is subject to taxation on its net profits. The election shall be
made on the annual tax return filed in each such municipal corporation. Once
the election is made, the election is binding for a five-year period beginning
with the first taxable year of the initial election. The election continues to
be binding for each subsequent five-year period unless the taxpayer elects to
discontinue filing municipal income tax returns as a C corporation for
municipal purposes under division (c)(23)D.4. of this section.
            4.   An election to discontinue filing as a C corporation must be
made in the first year following the last year of a five-year election period
in effect under division (c)(23)D.3. of this section. The election to
discontinue filing as a C corporation is binding for a five-year period
beginning with the first taxable year of the election and continues to be
binding for each subsequent five-year period unless the taxpayer elects to
discontinue filing municipal income tax returns as a partnership for municipal
purposes. An election to discontinue filing as a partnership must be made in
the first year following the last year of a five-year election period.
            5.   The publicly traded partnership shall not be required to file
the election with any municipal corporation in which the partnership is not
subject to taxation on its net profits, but division (c)(23)D. of this section
applies to all municipal corporations in which an individual owner of the
partnership resides.
            6.   The individual owners of the partnership not filing as a C
corporation shall be required to file with their municipal corporation of
residence, and report partnership distribution of net profit.
      (24)   "Nonresident" means an individual that is not a resident of the
municipality.
      (25)   "Ohio Business Gateway" means the online computer network system,
created under R.C. § 125.30, that allows persons to electronically file
business reply forms with state agencies and includes any successor electronic
filing and payment system.
      (26)   "Other payer" means any person, other than an individual's
employer or the employer's agent, that pays an individual any amount included
in the federal gross income of the individual. "Other payer" includes casino
operators and video lottery terminal sales agents.
      (27)   "Pass-through entity" means a partnership not treated as an
association taxable as a C corporation for federal income tax purposes, a
limited liability company not treated as an association taxable as a C
corporation for federal income tax purposes, an S corporation, or any other
class of entity from which the income or profits of the entity are given pass-
through treatment for federal income tax purposes. "Pass-through entity" does
not include a trust, estate, grantor of a grantor trust, or disregarded entity.
      (28)   "Pension" means any amount paid to an employee or former employee
that is reported to the recipient on an IRS form 1099-R, or successor form.
Pension does not include deferred compensation, or amounts attributable to
nonqualified deferred compensation plans, reported as FICA/Medicare wages on an
IRS form W-2, Wage and Tax Statement, or successor form.
      (29)   "Person" includes individuals, firms, companies, joint stock
companies, business trusts, estates, trusts, partnerships, limited liability
partnerships, limited liability companies, associations, C corporations, S
corporations, governmental entities, and any other entity.
      (30)   "Postal service" means the United States postal service, or
private delivery service delivering documents and packages within an agreed
upon delivery schedule, or any other carrier service delivering the item.
      (31)   "Postmark date," "date of postmark," and similar terms include the
date recorded and marked by a delivery service and recorded electronically to a
database kept in the regular course of its business and marked on the cover in
which the payment or document is enclosed, the date on which the payment or
document was given to the delivery service for delivery.
      (32)   A.   "Pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward" means any net
operating loss incurred in a taxable year beginning before January 1, 2017, to
the extent such loss was permitted, by a resolution or ordinance of the
municipality that was adopted by the municipality before January 1, 2016, to be
carried forward and utilized to offset income or net profit generated in such
municipality in future taxable years.
         B.   For the purpose of calculating municipal taxable income, any pre-
2017 net operating loss carryforward may be carried forward to any taxable
year, including taxable years beginning in 2017 or thereafter, for the number
of taxable years provided in the resolution or ordinance or until fully
utilized, whichever is earlier.
      (33)   "Qualified municipal corporation" means a municipal corporation
that, by resolution or ordinance adopted on or before December 31, 2011,
adopted Ohio adjusted gross income, as defined by R.C. § 5747.01, as the income
subject to tax for the purposes of imposing a municipal income tax.
      (34)   "Qualifying wages" means wages, as defined in section 3121(a) of
the Internal Revenue Code, without regard to any wage limitations, adjusted as
follows:
         A.   Deduct the following amounts:
            1.   Any amount included in wages if the amount constitutes
compensation attributable to a plan or program described in section 125 of the
Internal Revenue Code.
            2.   Any amount included in wages if the amount constitutes payment
on account of a disability related to sickness or an accident paid by a party
unrelated to the employer, agent of an employer, or other payer.
            3.    [INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK]
            4.   Any amount included in wages if the amount arises from the
sale, exchange, or other disposition of a stock option, the exercise of a stock
option, or the sale, exchange, or other disposition of stock purchased under a
stock option.
            5.   Any amount included in wages that is exempt income.
         B.   Add the following amounts:
            1.   Any amount not included in wages solely because the employee
was employed by the employer before April 1, 1986.
            2.    [INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK]
            3.   Any amount not included in wages if the amount is an amount
described in section 401(k), 403(b), or 457 of the Internal Revenue Code.
Division (c)(34)B.3. of this section applies only to employee contributions and
employee deferrals.
            4.   Any amount that is supplemental unemployment compensation
benefits described in section 3402(o)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code and not
included in wages.
            5.   Any amount received that is treated as self-employment income
for federal tax purposes in accordance with section 1402(a)(8) of the Internal
Revenue Code.
            6.   Any amount not included in wages if all of the following
apply:
               a.   For the taxable year the amount is employee compensation
that is earned outside of the United States and that either is included in the
taxpayer's gross income for federal income tax purposes or would have been
included in the taxpayer's gross income for such purposes if the taxpayer did
not elect to exclude the income under section 911 of the Internal Revenue Code;
               b.   For no preceding taxable year did the amount constitute
wages as defined in section 3121(a) of the Internal Revenue Code;
               c.   For no succeeding taxable year will the amount constitute
wages; and
               d.   For any taxable year the amount has not otherwise been
added to wages pursuant to either division (c)(34)B. of this section or R.C. §
718.03, as that section existed before the effective date of H.B. 5 of the
130th General Assembly, March 23, 2015.
      (35)   "Related entity" means any of the following:
         A.   An individual stockholder, or a member of the stockholder's
family enumerated in section 318 of the Internal Revenue Code, if the
stockholder and the members of the stockholder's family own directly,
indirectly, beneficially, or constructively, in the aggregate, at least 50% of
the value of the taxpayer's outstanding stock;
         B.   A stockholder, or a stockholder's partnership, estate, trust, or
corporation, if the stockholder and the stockholder's partnerships, estates,
trusts, or corporations own directly, indirectly, beneficially, or
constructively, in the aggregate, at least 50% of the value of the taxpayer's
outstanding stock;
         C.   A corporation, or a party related to the corporation in a manner
that would require an attribution of stock from the corporation to the party or
from the party to the corporation under division (c)(35)D. of this section,
provided the taxpayer owns directly, indirectly, beneficially, or
constructively, at least 50% of the value of the corporation's outstanding
stock;
         D.   The attribution rules described in section 318 of the Internal
Revenue Code apply for the purpose of determining whether the ownership
requirements in divisions (c)(35)A. to C. of this section have been met.
      (36)   "Related member" means a person that, with respect to the taxpayer
during all or any portion of the taxable year, is either a related entity, a
component member as defined in section 1563(b) of the Internal Revenue Code, or
a person to or from whom there is attribution of stock ownership in accordance
with section 1563(e) of the Internal Revenue Code except, for purposes of
determining whether a person is a related member under this division, "twenty
per cent" shall be substituted for "5 percent" wherever "5 percent" appears in
section 1563(e) of the Internal Revenue Code.
      (37)   "Resident" means an individual who is domiciled in the
municipality as determined under §
890.042.
      (38)   "S corporation" means a person that has made an election under
subchapter S of Chapter 1 of Subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code for its
taxable year.
      (39)   "Schedule C" means Internal Revenue Service schedule C (form 1040)
filed by a taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      (40)   "Schedule E" means Internal Revenue Service schedule E (form 1040)
filed by a taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      (41)   "Schedule F" means Internal Revenue Service schedule F (form 1040)
filed by a taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      (42)   "Single member limited liability company" means a limited
liability company that has one direct member.
      (43)   "Small employer" means any employer that had total revenue of less
than five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000) during the preceding taxable
year. For purposes of this division, "total revenue" means receipts of any type
or kind, including, but not limited to, sales receipts; payments; rents;
profits; gains, dividends, and other investment income; commissions; premiums;
money; property; grants; contributions; donations; gifts; program service
revenue; patient service revenue; premiums; fees, including premium fees and
service fees; tuition payments; unrelated business revenue; reimbursements; any
type of payment from a governmental unit, including grants and other
allocations; and any other similar receipts reported for federal income tax
purposes or under generally accepted accounting principles. "Small employer"
does not include the federal government; any state government, including any
state agency or instrumentality; any political subdivision; or any entity
treated as a government for financial accounting and reporting purposes.
      (44)   "Tax Administrator" means the individual charged with direct
responsibility for administration of an income tax levied by a municipal
corporation in accordance with this chapter, and also includes the following:
         A.   A municipal corporation acting as the agent of another municipal
corporation;
         B.   A person retained by a municipal corporation to administer a tax
levied by the municipal corporation, but only if the municipal corporation does
not compensate the person in whole or in part on a contingency basis;
         C.   The Central Collection Agency (CCA) or the Regional Income Tax
Agency (RITA) or their successors in interest, or another entity organized to
perform functions similar to those performed by the Central Collection Agency
and the Regional Income Tax Agency.
         D.   The appointed or acting Finance Director of the municipality.
      (45)   "Tax return preparer" means any individual described in section
7701(a)(36) of the Internal Revenue Code and 26 C.F.R. 301.7701-15.
      (46)   "Taxable year" means the corresponding tax reporting period as
prescribed for the taxpayer under the Internal Revenue Code.
      (47)   A.   "Taxpayer" means a person subject to a tax levied on income
by a municipal corporation in accordance with this chapter. "Taxpayer" does not
include a grantor trust or, except as provided in division (c)(47)B.1. of this
section, a disregarded entity.
         B.   1.   A single member limited liability company that is a
disregarded entity for federal tax purposes may be a separate taxpayer from its
single member in all Ohio municipal corporations in which it either filed as a
separate taxpayer or did not file for its taxable year ending in 2003, if all
of the following conditions are met:
               a.   The limited liability company's single member is also a
limited liability company.
               b.   The limited liability company and its single member were
formed and doing business in one or more Ohio municipal corporations for at
least five years before January 1, 2004.
               c.   Not later than December 31, 2004, the limited liability
company and its single member each made an election to be treated as a separate
taxpayer under division (L) of R.C. § 718.01 as this section existed on
December 31, 2004.
               d.   The limited liability company was not formed for the
purpose of evading or reducing Ohio municipal corporation income tax liability
of the limited liability company or its single member.
               e.   The Ohio municipal corporation that was the primary place
of business of the sole member of the limited liability company consented to
the election.
            2.   For purposes of division (c)(47)B.1.e. of this section, a
municipal corporation was the primary place of business of a limited liability
company if, for the limited liability company's taxable year ending in 2003,
its income tax liability was greater in that municipal corporation than in any
other municipal corporation in Ohio, and that tax liability to that municipal
corporation for its taxable year -ending in 2003 was at least four hundred
thousand dollars ($400,000).
      (48)   "Taxpayers' rights and responsibilities" means the rights provided
to taxpayers in R.C. §§ 718.11, 718.12, 718.19, 718.23, 718.36, 718.37, 718.38,
5717.011, and 5717.03 and any corresponding ordinances of the municipality, and
the responsibilities of taxpayers to file, report, withhold, remit, and pay
municipal income tax and otherwise comply with R.C. Chapter 718 and
resolutions, ordinances, and rules adopted by a municipal corporation for the
imposition and administration of a municipal income tax.
      (49)   "Video lottery terminal" has the same meaning as in R.C. §
3770.21.
      (50)   "Video lottery terminal sales agent" means a lottery sales agent
licensed under R.C. Chapter 3770 to conduct video lottery terminals on behalf
of the state pursuant to R.C. § 3770.21.
(Ord. 15-40, passed 12-10-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related definitions, see R.C. § 718.01
§ 890.04 INCOME SUBJECT TO TAX FOR INDIVIDUALS
§ 890.041 DETERMINING MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME FOR INDIVIDUALS.
   (a)   Municipal taxable income for a resident of the municipality is
calculated as follows:
      (1)   Income reduced by exempt income to the extent such exempt income is
otherwise included in income, reduced by allowable employee business expense
deduction as found in § 890.03(c)(20)B., further reduced by any pre-2017 net
operating loss carryforward equals municipal taxable income.
         A.   "Income" is defined in §
890.03(c)(14).
            1.   "Qualifying wages" is defined in §
890.03(c)(34).
            2.   "Net profit" is included in "income", and is defined in §
890.03(c)(23). This section also provides that the net operating loss
carryforward shall be calculated and deducted in the same manner as provided in
§
890.03(c)(1)H. Treatment of net profits received by an individual taxpayer from
rental real estate is provided in §
890.062(e).
            3.   Section
890.03(c)(14) provides the following: offsetting and net operating loss
carryforward treatment in §
890.03(c)(14)A.2.a.; resident's distributive share of net profit from pass
through entity treatment in §
890.03(c)(14)A.2.b.; treatment of S corporation distributive share of net
profit in the hands of the shareholder in §
890.03(c)(14)A.3.; restriction of amount of loss permitted to be carried
forward for use by taxpayer in a subsequent taxable year in §
890.03(c)(14)A.4.
            4.   "Pass through entity" is defined in §
890.03(c)(27).
         B.   "Exempt income" is defined in §
890.03(c)(11).
         C.   Allowable employee business expense deduction is described in §
890.03(c)(20)B., and is subject to the limitations provided in that section.
         D.   "Pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward" is defined in §
890.03(c)(32).
   (b)   Municipal taxable income for a nonresident of the municipality is
calculated as follows:
      (1)   Income reduced by exempt income to the extent such exempt income is
otherwise included in income, as applicable, apportioned or sitused to the
municipality as provided in §
890.062, reduced by allowable employee business expense deduction as found in §
890.03(c)(20)B., further reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss
carryforward equals municipal taxable income.
         A.   "Income" is defined in §
890.03(c)(14).
            1.   "Qualifying wages" is defined in §
890.03(c)(34).
            2.   "Net profit" is included in "income", and is defined in §
890.03(c)(23). This section also provides that the net operating loss
carryforward shall be calculated and deducted in the same manner as provided in
§
890.03(c)(1)H. "Net profit" for a nonresident individual includes any net
profit of the nonresident, but excludes the distributive share of net profit or
loss of only pass through entity owned directly or indirectly by the
nonresident.
            3.   "Pass through entity" is defined in §
890.03(c)(27).
         B.   "Exempt income" is defined in §
890.03(c)(11).
         C.   "Apportioned or sitused to the municipality as provided in §
890.062 of this chapter" includes the apportionment of net profit income
attributable to work done or services performed in the municipality. Treatment
of net profits received by an individual taxpayer from rental real estate is
provided in §
890.062(e).
         D.   "Allowable employee business expense deduction" as described in §
890.03(c)(20)B., is subject to the limitations provided in that section. For a
nonresident of the municipality, the deduction is limited to the extent the
expenses are related to the performance of personal services by the nonresident
in the municipality.
         E.   "Pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward" is defined in §
890.03(c)(32).
(Ord. 15-40, passed 12-10-2015)
§ 890.042 DOMICILE.
   (a)   As used in this section:
      (1)   "Domicile" means the true, fixed and permanent home of the taxpayer
to which whenever absent, the taxpayer intends to return.
      (2)   An individual is presumed to be domiciled in the municipality for
all or part of a taxable year if the individual was domiciled in the
municipality on the last day of the immediately preceding taxable year or if
the Tax Administrator reasonably concludes that the individual is domiciled in
the municipality for all or part of the taxable year.
      (3)   An individual may rebut the presumption of domicile described in
division (a)(1) of this section if the individual establishes by a
preponderance of the evidence that the individual was not domiciled in the
municipality for all or part of the taxable year.
   (b)   For the purpose of determining whether an individual is domiciled in
the municipality for all or part of a taxable year, factors that may be
considered include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   The individual's domicile in other taxable years;
      (2)   The location at which the individual is registered to vote;
      (3)   The address on the individual's driver's license;
      (4)   The location of real estate for which the individual claimed a
property tax exemption or reduction allowed on the basis of the individual's
residence or domicile;
      (5)   The location and value of abodes owned or leased by the individual;
      (6)   Declarations, written or oral, made by the individual regarding the
individual's residency;
      (7)   The primary location at which the individual is employed;
      (8)   The location of educational institutions attended by the
individual's dependents as defined in section 152 of the Internal Revenue Code,
to the extent that tuition paid to such educational institution is based on the
residency of the individual or the individual's spouse in the municipal
corporation or state where the educational institution is located;
      (9)   The number of contact periods the individual has with the
municipality. For the purposes of this division, an individual has one "contact
period" with the municipality if the individual is away overnight from the
individual's abode located outside of the municipality and while away overnight
from that abode spends at least some portion, however minimal, of each of two
consecutive days in the municipality. For purposes of this section, the state's
contact period test or bright-line test and resulting determination have no
bearing on municipal residency or domicile.
   (c)   All applicable factors are provided in R.C. § 718.012.
(Ord. 15-40, passed 12-10-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Domicile, see R.C. § 718.012
§ 890.043 EXEMPTION FOR MEMBER OR EMPLOYEE OF GENERAL ASSEMBLY AND CERTAIN
JUDGES.
   (a)   Only the municipal corporation of residence shall be permitted to levy
a tax on the income of any member or employee of the Ohio General Assembly,
including the Lieutenant Governor, whose income is received as a result of
services rendered as such member or employee and is paid from appropriated
funds of this state.
   (b)   Only the municipal corporation of residence and the City of Columbus
shall levy a tax on the income of the Chief Justice or a justice of the Supreme
Court received as a result of services rendered as the Chief Justice or
justice. Only the municipal corporation of residence shall levy a tax on the
income of a judge sitting by assignment of the Chief Justice or on the income
of a district court of appeals judge sitting in multiple locations within the
district, received as a result of services rendered as a judge.
(Ord. 15-40, passed 12-10-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Exclusion of General Assembly employee or member and certain judges from
tax, see R.C. § 718.50
§ 890.05 COLLECTION AT SOURCE
§ 890.051 COLLECTION AT SOURCE; WITHHOLDING FROM QUALIFYING WAGES.
   (a)   (1)   Each employer, agent of an employer, or other payer located or
doing business in the municipality shall withhold from each employee an amount
equal to the qualifying wages of the employee earned by the employee in the
municipality multiplied by the applicable rate of the municipality's income
tax, except for qualifying wages for which withholding is not required under §
890.052 or division (d) or (f) of this section. An employer, agent of an
employer, or other payer shall deduct and withhold the tax from qualifying
wages on the date that the employer, agent, or other payer directly,
indirectly, or constructively pays the qualifying wages to, or credits the
qualifying wages to the benefit of, the employee.
      (2)   In addition to withholding the amounts required under division (a)
(1) of this section, an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer may also
deduct and withhold, on the request of an employee, taxes for the municipal
corporation in which the employee is a resident.
   (b)   (1)   An employer, agent of an employer, or other payer shall remit to
the Tax Administrator of the municipality the greater of the income taxes
deducted and withheld or the income taxes required to be deducted and withheld
by the employer, agent, or other payer, along with any report required by the
Tax Administrator to accompany such payment, according to the following
schedule:
         A.   Any employer, agent of an employer, or other payer not required
to make payments under division (b)(1)B. or (b)(1)C. of this section of taxes
required to be deducted and withheld shall make quarterly payments to the Tax
Administrator not later than the fifteenth day of the month following the end
of each calendar quarter.
         B.   Taxes required to be deducted and withheld shall be remitted
monthly to the Tax Administrator if the total taxes deducted and withheld or
required to be deducted and withheld by the employer, agent, or other payer on
behalf of the municipal corporation in the preceding calendar year exceeded two
thousand three hundred ninety-nine dollars ($2,399), or if the total amount of
taxes deducted and withheld or required to be deducted and withheld on behalf
of the municipality in any month of the preceding calendar quarter exceeded two
hundred dollars ($200.00). Payment under division (b)(1)B. of this section
shall be made so that the payment is received by the Tax Administrator not
later than 15 days after the last day of each month.
   (c)   An employer, agent of an employer, or other payer shall make and file
a return showing the amount of tax withheld by the employer, agent, or other
payer from the qualifying wages of each employee and remitted to the Tax
Administrator. A return filed by an employer, agent, or other payer under this
division shall be accepted by the municipality as the return required of an
employee whose sole income subject to the tax under this chapter is the
qualifying wages reported by the employee's employer, agent of an employer, or
other payer, unless the municipality requires all resident individual taxpayers
to file a tax return under §
890.091.
   (d)   An employer, agent of an employer, or other payer is not required to
withhold municipal income tax with respect to an individual's disqualifying
disposition of an incentive stock option if, at the time of the disqualifying
disposition, the individual is not an employee of either the corporation with
respect to whose stock the option has been issued or of such corporation's
successor entity.
   (e)   (1)   An employee is not relieved from liability for a tax by the
failure of the employer, agent of an employer, or other payer to withhold the
tax as required under this chapter or by the employer's, agent's, or other
payer's exemption from the requirement to withhold the tax.
      (2)   The failure of an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer to
remit to the municipality the tax withheld relieves the employee from liability
for that tax unless the employee colluded with the employer, agent, or other
payer in connection with the failure to remit the tax withheld.
   (f)   Compensation deferred before June 26, 2003, is not subject to any
municipal corporation income tax or municipal income tax withholding
requirement to the extent the deferred compensation does not constitute
qualifying wages at the time the deferred compensation is paid or distributed.
   (g)   Each employer, agent of an employer, or other payer required to
withhold taxes is liable for the payment of that amount required to be
withheld, whether or not such taxes have been withheld, and such amount shall
be deemed to be held in trust for the municipality until such time as the
withheld amount is remitted to the Tax Administrator.
   (h)   On or before the last day of February of each year, an employer shall
file a withholding reconciliation return with the Tax Administrator listing the
names, addresses, and social security numbers of all employees from whose
qualifying wages tax was withheld or should have been withheld for the
municipality during the preceding calendar year, the amount of tax withheld, if
any, from each such employee's qualifying wage, the total amount of qualifying
wages paid to such employee during the preceding calendar year, the name of
every other municipal corporation for which tax was withheld or should have
been withheld from such employee during the preceding calendar year, any other
information required for federal income tax reporting purposes on Internal
Revenue Service form W-2 or its equivalent form with respect to such employee,
and other information as may be required by the Tax Administrator.
   (i)   The officer or the employee of the employer, agent of an employer, or
other payer with control or direct supervision of or charged with the
responsibility for withholding the tax or filing the reports and making
payments as required by this section, shall be personally liable for a failure
to file a report or pay the tax due as required by this section. The
dissolution of an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer does not
discharge the officer's or employee's liability for a failure of the employer,
agent of an employer, or other payer to file returns or pay any tax due.
   (j)   An employer is required to deduct and withhold municipal income tax on
tips and gratuities received by the employer's employees and constituting
qualifying wages only to the extent that the tips and gratuities are under the
employer's control. For the purposes of this division, a tip or gratuity is
under the employer's control if the tip or gratuity is paid by the customer to
the employer for subsequent remittance to the employee, or if the customer pays
the tip or gratuity by credit card, debit card, or other electronic means.
   (k)   A Tax Administrator shall consider any tax withheld by an employer at
the request of an employee when such tax is not otherwise required to be
withheld by this chapter to be tax required to be withheld and remitted for the
purposes of this section.
(Ord. 15-40, passed 12-10-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Withholding from qualifying wages, see R.C. § 718.03
§ 890.052 COLLECTION AT SOURCE; OCCASIONAL ENTRANT.
   (a)   The following terms as used in this section:
      (1)   "Employer" includes a person that is a related member to or of an
employer.
      (2)   "Professional athlete" means an athlete who performs services in a
professional athletic event for wages or other remuneration.
      (3)   "Professional entertainer" means a person who performs services in
the professional performing arts for wages or other remuneration on a per-event
basis.
      (4)   "Public figure" means a person of prominence who performs services
at discrete events, such as speeches, public appearances, or similar events,
for wages or other remuneration on a per-event basis.
      (5)   "Fixed location" means a permanent place of doing business in this
state, such as an office, warehouse, storefront, or similar location owned or
controlled by an employer.
      (6)   "Worksite location" means a construction site or other temporary
worksite in this state at which the employer provides services for more than 20
days during the calendar year. "Worksite location" does not include the home of
an employee.
      (7)   "Principal place of work" means the fixed location to which an
employee is required to report for employment duties on a regular and ordinary
basis. If the employee is not required to report for employment duties on a
regular and ordinary basis to a fixed location, "principal place of work" means
the worksite location in this state to which the employee is required to report
for employment duties on a regular and ordinary basis. If the employee is not
required to report for employment duties on a regular and ordinary basis to a
fixed location or worksite location, "principal place of work" means the
location in this state at which the employee spends the greatest number of days
in a calendar year performing services for or on behalf of the employee's
employer.
         If there is not a single municipal corporation in which the employee
spent the "greatest number of days in a calendar year" performing services for
or on behalf of the employer, but instead there are two or more municipal
corporations in which the employee spent an identical number of days that is
greater than the number of days the employee spent in any other municipal
corporation, the employer shall allocate any of the employee's qualifying wages
subject to division (b)(1)A. of this section among those two or more municipal
corporations. The allocation shall be made using any fair and reasonable
method, including, but not limited to, an equal allocation among such municipal
corporations or an allocation based upon the time spent or sales made by the
employee in each such municipal corporation. A municipal corporation to which
qualifying wages are allocated under this division shall be the employee's
"principal place of work" with respect to those qualifying wages for the
purposes of this section.
         For the purposes of this division, the location at which an employee
spends a particular day shall be deemed in accordance with division (b)(2) of
this section, except that "location" shall be substituted for "municipal
corporation" wherever "municipal corporation" appears in that division.
   (b)   (1)   Subject to divisions (c), (e), (f), and (g) of this section, an
employer is not required to withhold municipal income tax on qualifying wages
paid to an employee for the performance of personal services in a municipal
corporation that imposes such a tax if the employee performed such services in
the municipal corporation on 20 or fewer days in a calendar year, unless one of
the following conditions applies:
         A.   The employee's principal place of work is located in the
municipality.
         B.   The employee performed services at one or more presumed worksite
locations in the municipality. For the purposes of this division, "presumed
worksite location" means a construction site or other temporary worksite in
this state at which the employer provides services that can reasonably be
expected by the employer to last more than 20 days in a calendar year. Services
can "reasonably be expected by the employer to last more than 20 days" if
either of the following applies at the time the services commence:
            1.   The nature of the services are such that it will require more
than 20 days of actual services to complete the services;
            2.   The agreement between the employer and its customer to perform
services at a location requires the employer to perform actual services at the
location for more than 20 days.
         C.   The employee is a resident of the municipality and has requested
that the employer withhold tax from the employee's qualifying wages as provided
in § 890.051.
         D.   The employee is a professional athlete, professional entertainer,
or public figure, and the qualifying wages are paid for the performance of
services in the employee's capacity as a professional athlete, professional
entertainer, or public figure within the municipality.
      (2)   For the purposes of division (b)(1) of this section, an employee
shall be considered to have spent a day performing services in a municipal
corporation only if the employee spent more time performing services for or on
behalf of the employer in that municipal corporation than in any other
municipal corporation on that day. For the purposes of determining the amount
of time an employee spent in a particular location, the time spent performing
one or more of the following activities shall be considered to have been spent
at the employee's principal place of work:
         A.   Traveling to the location at which the employee will first
perform services for the employer for the day;
         B.   Traveling from a location at which the employee was performing
services for the employer to any other location;
         C.   Traveling from any location to another location in order to pick
up or load, for the purpose of transportation or delivery, property that has
been purchased, sold, assembled, fabricated, repaired, refurbished, processed,
remanufactured, or improved by the employee's employer;
         D.   Transporting or delivering property described in division (b)
(2)C. of this section, provided that, upon delivery of the property, the
employee does not temporarily or permanently affix the property to real estate
owned, used, or controlled by a person other than the employee's employer;
         E.   Traveling from the location at which the employee makes the
employee's final delivery or pick-up for the day to either the employee's
principal place of work or a location at which the employee will not perform
services for the employer.
   (c)   If the principal place of work of an employee is located in a
municipal corporation that imposes an income tax in accordance with this
chapter, the exception from withholding requirements described in division (b)
(1) of this section shall apply only if, with respect to the employee's
qualifying wages described in that division, the employer withholds and remits
tax on such qualifying wages to the municipal corporation in which the
employee's principal place of work is located.
   (d)   (1)   Except as provided in division (d)(2) of this section, if,
during a calendar year, the number of days an employee spends performing
personal services in a municipal corporation exceeds the 20-day threshold
described in division (b)(1) of this section, the employer shall withhold and
remit tax to that municipal corporation for any subsequent days in that
calendar year on which the employer pays qualifying wages to the employee for
personal services performed in that municipal corporation.
      (2)   An employer required to begin withholding tax for a municipal
corporation under division (d)(1) of this section may elect to withhold tax for
that municipal corporation for the first 20 days on which the employer paid
qualifying wages to the employee for personal services performed in that
municipal corporation.
      (3)   If an employer makes the election described in division (d)(2) of
this section, the taxes withheld and paid by such an employer during those
first 20 days to the municipal corporation in which the employee's principal
place of work is located are refundable to the employee.
   (e)   Without regard to the number of days in a calendar year on which an
employee performs personal services in any municipal corporation, an employer
shall withhold municipal income tax on all of the employee's qualifying wages
for a taxable year and remit that tax only to the municipal corporation in
which the employer's fixed location is located if the employer qualifies as a
small employer as defined in §
890.03. To determine whether an employer qualifies as a small employer for a
taxable year, a Tax Administrator may require the employer to provide the Tax
Administrator with the employer's federal income tax return for the preceding
taxable year.
   (f)   Divisions (b)(1) and (d) of this section shall not apply to the extent
that a Tax Administrator and an employer enter into an agreement regarding the
manner in which the employer shall comply with the requirements of § 890.051.
   (g)   In the case of a person performing personal services at a petroleum
refinery located in a municipal corporation that imposes a tax on income, an
employer is not required to withhold municipal income tax on the qualifying
wages of such a person if the person performs those services on 12 or fewer
days in a calendar year, unless the principal place of work of the employer is
located in another municipal corporation in this state that imposes a tax
applying to compensation paid to the person for services performed on those
days and the person is not liable to that other municipal corporation for tax
on the compensation paid for such services. For the purposes of this division,
a petroleum refinery is a facility with a standard industrial classification
code facility classification of 2911, petroleum refining.
      Notwithstanding division (d) of this section, if, during a calendar year,
the number of days an individual performs personal services at a petroleum
refinery exceeds 12, the employer shall withhold tax for the municipal
corporation for the first 12 days for which the employer paid qualifying wages
to the individual and for all subsequent days in the calendar year on which the
individual performed services at the refinery.
(Ord. 15-40, passed 12-10-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Definitions, see R.C. § 718.01
   Occasional entrant, personal services; withholding, see R.C. § 718.011
§ 890.053 COLLECTION AT SOURCE; CASINO AND VLT.
   (a)   The municipality shall require a casino facility or a casino operator,
as defined in Section 6(C)(9) of Article XV, Ohio Constitution, and R.C. §
3772.01, respectively, or a lottery sales agent conducting video lottery
terminals sales on behalf of the state to withhold and remit municipal income
tax with respect to amounts other than qualifying wages as provided in this
section.
   (b)   If a person's winnings at a casino facility are an amount for which
reporting to the Internal Revenue Service of the amount is required by section
6041 of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, the casino operator shall deduct
and withhold municipal income tax from the person's winnings at the rate of the
tax imposed by the municipal corporation in which the casino facility is
located.
   (c)   Amounts deducted and withheld by a casino operator are held in trust
for the benefit of the municipal corporation to which the tax is owed.
      (1)   On or before the tenth day of each month, the casino operator shall
file a return electronically with the Tax Administrator of the municipality,
providing the name, address, and social security number of the person from
whose winnings amounts were deducted and withheld, the amount of each such
deduction and withholding during the preceding calendar month, the amount of
the winnings from which each such amount was withheld, the type of casino
gaming that resulted in such winnings, and any other information required by
the Tax Administrator. With this return, the casino operator shall remit
electronically to the municipality all amounts deducted and withheld during the
preceding month.
      (2)   Annually, on or before the 31st day of January, a casino operator
shall file an annual return electronically with the Tax Administrator of the
municipal corporation in which the casino facility is located, indicating the
total amount deducted and withheld during the preceding calendar year. The
casino operator shall remit electronically with the annual return any amount
that was deducted and withheld and that was not previously remitted. If the
name, address, or social security number of a person or the amount deducted and
withheld with respect to that person was omitted on a monthly return for that
reporting period, that information shall be indicated on the annual return.
      (3)   Annually, on or before the 31st day of January, a casino operator
shall issue an information return to each person with respect to whom an amount
has been deducted and withheld during the preceding calendar year. The
information return shall show the total amount of municipal income tax deducted
from the person's winnings during the preceding year. The casino operator shall
provide to the Tax Administrator a copy of each information return issued under
this division. The administrator may require that such copies be transmitted
electronically.
      (4)   A casino operator that fails to file a return and remit the amounts
deducted and withheld shall be personally liable for the amount withheld and
not remitted. Such personal liability extends to any penalty and interest
imposed for the late filing of a return or the late payment of tax deducted and
withheld.
      (5)   If a casino operator sells the casino facility or otherwise quits
the casino business, the amounts deducted and withheld along with any penalties
and interest thereon are immediately due and payable. The successor shall
withhold an amount of the purchase money that is sufficient to cover the
amounts deducted and withheld along with any penalties and interest thereon
until the predecessor casino operator produces either of the following:
         A.   A receipt from the Tax Administrator showing that the amounts
deducted and withheld and penalties and interest thereon have been paid;
         B.   A certificate from the Tax Administrator indicating that no
amounts are due.
            If the successor fails to withhold purchase money, the successor is
personally liable for the payment of the amounts deducted and withheld and
penalties and interest thereon.
      (6)   The failure of a casino operator to deduct and withhold the
required amount from a person's winnings does not relieve that person from
liability for the municipal income tax with respect to those winnings.
   (d)   If a person's prize award from a video lottery terminal is an amount
for which reporting to the Internal Revenue Service is required by section 6041
of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, the video lottery sales agent shall
deduct and withhold municipal income tax from the person's prize award at the
rate of the tax imposed by the municipal corporation in which the video lottery
terminal facility is located.
   (e)   Amounts deducted and withheld by a video lottery sales agent are held
in trust for the benefit of the municipal corporation to which the tax is owed.
      (1)   The video lottery sales agent shall issue to a person from whose
prize award an amount has been deducted and withheld a receipt for the amount
deducted and withheld, and shall obtain from the person receiving a prize award
the person's name, address, and social security number in order to facilitate
the preparation of returns required by this section.
      (2)   On or before the tenth day of each month, the video lottery sales
agent shall file a return electronically with the Tax Administrator of the
municipality providing the names, addresses, and social security numbers of the
persons from whose prize awards amounts were deducted and withheld, the amount
of each such deduction and withholding during the preceding calendar month, the
amount of the prize award from which each such amount was withheld, and any
other information required by the Tax Administrator. With the return, the video
lottery sales agent shall remit electronically to the Tax Administrator all
amounts deducted and withheld during the preceding month.
      (3)   A video lottery sales agent shall maintain a record of all receipts
issued under division (e) of this section and shall make those records
available to the Tax Administrator upon request. Such records shall be
maintained in accordance with R.C. § 5747.17 and any rules adopted pursuant
thereto.
      (4)   Annually, on or before the 31st day of January, each video lottery
terminal sales agent shall file an annual return electronically with the Tax
Administrator of the municipal corporation in which the facility is located
indicating the total amount deducted and withheld during the preceding calendar
year. The video lottery sales agent shall remit electronically with the annual
return any amount that was deducted and withheld and that was not previously
remitted. If the name, address, or social security number of a person or the
amount deducted and withheld with respect to that person was omitted on a
monthly return for that reporting period, that information shall be indicated
on the annual return.
      (5)   Annually, on or before the 31st day of January, a video lottery
sales agent shall issue an information return to each person with respect to
whom an amount has been deducted and withheld during the preceding calendar
year. The information return shall show the total amount of municipal income
tax deducted and withheld from the person's prize award by the video lottery
sales agent during the preceding year. A video lottery sales agent shall
provide to the Tax Administrator of the municipal corporation a copy of each
information return issued under this division. The Tax Administrator may
require that such copies be transmitted electronically.
      (6)   A video lottery sales agent who fails to file a return and remit
the amounts deducted and withheld is personally liable for the amount deducted
and withheld and not remitted. Such personal liability extends to any penalty
and interest imposed for the late filing of a return or the late payment of tax
deducted and withheld.
   (f)   If a video lottery sales agent ceases to operate video lottery
terminals, the amounts deducted and withheld along with any penalties and
interest thereon are immediately due and payable. The successor of the video
lottery sales agent that purchases the video lottery terminals from the agent
shall withhold an amount from the purchase money that is sufficient to cover
the amounts deducted and withheld and any penalties and interest thereon until
the predecessor video lottery sales agent operator produces either of the
following:
      (1)   A receipt from the Tax Administrator showing that the amounts
deducted and withheld and penalties and interest thereon have been paid;
      (2)   A certificate from the Tax Administrator indicating that no amounts
are due.
         If the successor fails to withhold purchase money, the successor is
personally liable for the payment of the amounts deducted and withheld and
penalties and interest thereon.
   (g)   The failure of a video lottery sales agent to deduct and withhold the
required amount from a person's prize award does not relieve that person from
liability for the municipal income tax with respect to that prize award.
   (h)   If a casino operator or lottery sales agent files a return late, fails
to file a return, remits amounts deducted and withheld late, or fails to remit
amounts deducted and withheld as required under this section, the Tax
Administrator of a municipal corporation may impose the following applicable
penalty:
      (1)   For the late remittance of, or failure to remit, tax deducted and
withheld under this section, a penalty equal to 50% of the tax deducted and
withheld;
      (2)   For the failure to file, or the late filing of, a monthly or annual
return, a penalty of five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each return not filed
or filed late. Interest shall accrue on past due amounts deducted and withheld
at the rate prescribed in R.C. § 5703.47.
   (i)   Amounts deducted and withheld on behalf of a municipal corporation
shall be allowed as a credit against payment of the tax imposed by the
municipal corporation and shall be treated as taxes paid for purposes of §
890.07. This division applies only to the person for whom the amount is
deducted and withheld.
   (j)   The Tax Administrator shall prescribe the forms of the receipts and
returns required under this section.
(Ord. 15-40, passed 12-10-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Withholding by casinos and lottery sales agents, see R.C. § 718.031
§ 890.06 INCOME SUBJECT TO NET PROFIT TAX
§ 890.061 DETERMINING MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME FOR TAXPAYERS WHO ARE NOT
INDIVIDUALS.
   Municipal taxable income for a taxpayer who is not an individual for the
municipality is calculated as follows:
   (a)   Income reduced by exempt income to the extent otherwise included in
income, multiplied by apportionment, further reduced by any pre-2017 net
operating loss carryforward equals municipal taxable income.
      (1)   Income for a taxpayer that is not an individual means the net
profit of the taxpayer.
         A.   "Net profit" for a person other than an individual is defined in
§
890.03(c)(23).
         B.   "Adjusted federal taxable income" is defined in §
890.03(c)(1).
      (2)   "Exempt income" is defined in §
890.03(c)(11).
      (3)   "Apportionment" means the apportionment as determined by §
890.062.
      (4)   "Pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward" is defined in §
890.03(c)(32).
(Ord. 15-40, passed 12-10-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Definitions, see R.C. § 718.01
§ 890.062 NET PROFIT; INCOME SUBJECT TO NET PROFIT TAX; ALTERNATIVE
APPORTIONMENT.
   This section applies to any taxpayer engaged in a business or profession in
the municipality unless the taxpayer is an individual who resides in the
municipality or the taxpayer is an electric company, combined company, or
telephone company that is subject to and required to file reports under R.C.
Chapter 5745.
   (a)   Net profit from a business or profession conducted both within and
without the boundaries of the municipality shall be considered as having a
taxable situs in the municipality for purposes of municipal income taxation in
the same proportion as the average ratio of the following:
      (1)   The average original cost of the real property and tangible
personal property owned or used by the taxpayer in the business or profession
in the municipality during the taxable period to the average original cost of
all of the real and tangible personal property owned or used by the taxpayer in
the business or profession during the same period, wherever situated.
         As used in the preceding paragraph, tangible personal or real property
shall include property rented or leased by the taxpayer and the value of such
property shall be determined by multiplying the annual rental thereon by eight;
      (2)   Wages, salaries, and other compensation paid during the taxable
period to individuals employed in the business or profession for services
performed in the municipality to wages, salaries, and other compensation paid
during the same period to individuals employed in the business or profession,
wherever the individual's services are performed, excluding compensation from
which taxes are not required to be withheld under § 890.052.
      (3)   Total gross receipts of the business or profession from sales and
rentals made and services performed during the taxable period in the
municipality to total gross receipts of the business or profession during the
same period from sales, rentals, and services, wherever made or performed.
   (b)   (1)   If the apportionment factors described in division (a) of this
section do not fairly represent the extent of a taxpayer's business activity in
the municipality, the taxpayer may request, or the Tax Administrator of the
municipality may require, that the taxpayer use, with respect to all or any
portion of the income of the taxpayer, an alternative apportionment method
involving one or more of the following:
         A.   Separate accounting;
         B.   The exclusion of one or more of the factors;
         C.   The inclusion of one or more additional factors that would
provide for a more fair apportionment of the income of the taxpayer to the
municipality;
         D.   A modification of one or more of the factors.
      (2)   A taxpayer request to use an alternative apportionment method shall
be in writing and shall accompany a tax return, timely filed appeal of an
assessment, or timely filed amended tax return. The taxpayer may use the
requested alternative method unless the Tax Administrator denies the request in
an assessment issued within the period prescribed by §
890.19(a).
      (3)   A Tax Administrator may require a taxpayer to use an alternative
apportionment method as described in division (b)(1) of this section only by
issuing an assessment to the taxpayer within the period prescribed by §
890.19(a).
      (4)   Nothing in division (b) of this section nullifies or otherwise
affects any alternative apportionment arrangement approved by a Tax
Administrator or otherwise agreed upon by both the Tax Administrator and
taxpayer before January 1, 2016.
   (c)   As used in division (a)(2) of this section, "wages, salaries, and
other compensation" includes only wages, salaries, or other compensation paid
to an employee for services performed at any of the following locations:
      (1)   A location that is owned, controlled, or used by, rented to, or
under the possession of one of the following:
         A.   The employer;
         B.   A vendor, customer, client, or patient of the employer, or a
related member of such a vendor, customer, client, or patient;
         C.   A vendor, customer, client, or patient of a person described in
division (c)(1)B. of this section, or a related member of such a vendor,
customer, client, or patient.
      (2)   Any location at which a trial, appeal, hearing, investigation,
inquiry, review, court-martial, or similar administrative, judicial, or
legislative matter or proceeding is being conducted, provided that the
compensation is paid for services performed for, or on behalf of, the employer
or that the employee's presence at the location directly or indirectly benefits
the employer;
      (3)   Any other location, if the Tax Administrator determines that the
employer directed the employee to perform the services at the other location in
lieu of a location described in division (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this section
solely in order to avoid or reduce the employer's municipal income tax
liability. If a Tax Administrator makes such a determination, the employer may
dispute the determination by establishing, by a preponderance of the evidence,
that the Tax Administrator's determination was unreasonable.
   (d)   For the purposes of division (a)(3) of this section, receipts from
sales and rentals made and services performed shall be sitused to a municipal
corporation as follows:
      (1)   Gross receipts from the sale of tangible personal property shall be
sitused to the municipal corporation in which the sale originated. For the
purposes of this division, a sale of property originates in a municipal
corporation if, regardless of where title passes, the property meets any of the
following criteria:
         A.   The property is shipped to or delivered within the municipal
corporation from a stock of goods located within the municipal corporation.
         B.   The property is delivered within the municipal corporation from a
location outside the municipal corporation, provided the taxpayer is regularly
engaged through its own employees in the solicitation or promotion of sales
within such municipal corporation and the sales result from such solicitation
or promotion.
         C.   The property is shipped from a place within the municipal
corporation to purchasers outside the municipal corporation, provided that the
taxpayer is not, through its own employees, regularly engaged in the
solicitation or promotion of sales at the place where delivery is made.
      (2)   Gross receipts from the sale of services shall be sitused to the
municipal corporation to the extent that such services are performed in the
municipal corporation.
      (3)   To the extent included in income, gross receipts from the sale of
real property located in the municipal corporation shall be sitused to the
municipal corporation.
      (4)   To the extent included in income, gross receipts from rents and
royalties from real property located in the municipal corporation shall be
sitused to the municipal corporation.
      (5)   Gross receipts from rents and royalties from tangible personal
property shall be sitused to the municipal corporation based upon the extent to
which the tangible personal property is used in the municipal corporation.
   (e)   The net profit received by an individual taxpayer from the rental of
real estate owned directly by the individual or by a disregarded entity owned
by the individual shall be subject to tax only by the municipal corporation in
which the property generating the net profit is located and the municipal
corporation in which the individual taxpayer that receives the net profit
resides.
      A municipal corporation shall allow such taxpayers to elect to use
separate accounting for the purpose of calculating net profit sitused under
this division to the municipal corporation in which the property is located.
   (f)   (1)   Except as provided in division (f)(2) of this section,
commissions received by a real estate agent or broker relating to the sale,
purchase, or lease of real estate shall be sitused to the municipal corporation
in which the real estate is located. Net profit reported by the real estate
agent or broker shall be allocated to a municipal corporation based upon the
ratio of the commissions the agent or broker received from the sale, purchase,
or lease of real estate located in the municipal corporation to the commissions
received from the sale, purchase, or lease of real estate everywhere in the
taxable year.
      (2)   An individual who is a resident of a municipal corporation that
imposes a municipal income tax shall report the individual's net profit from
all real estate activity on the individual's annual tax return for that
municipal corporation. The individual may claim a credit for taxes the
individual paid on such net profit to another municipal corporation to the
extent that such credit is allowed under § 890.081.
   (g)   If, in computing a taxpayer's adjusted federal taxable income, the
taxpayer deducted any amount with respect to a stock option granted to an
employee, and if the employee is not required to include in the employee's
income any such amount or a portion thereof because it is exempted from
taxation under §
890.03(c)(11)L. and (c)(34)A.4., by a municipal corporation to which the
taxpayer has apportioned a portion of its net profit, the taxpayer shall add
the amount that is exempt from taxation to the taxpayer's net profit that was
apportioned to that municipal corporation. In no case shall a taxpayer be
required to add to its net profit that was apportioned to that municipal
corporation any amount other than the amount upon which the employee would be
required to pay tax were the amount related to the stock option not exempted
from taxation.
      This division applies solely for the purpose of making an adjustment to
the amount of a taxpayer's net profit that was apportioned to a municipal
corporation under this section.
   (h)   When calculating the ratios described in division (a) of this section
for the purposes of that division or division (b) of this section, the owner of
a disregarded entity shall include in the owner's ratios
the property, payroll, and gross receipts of such disregarded entity.
(Ord. 15-40, passed 12-10-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Income subject to tax, see R.C. § 718.02
§ 890.063 CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL INCOME TAX RETURN.
   (a)   As used in this section:
      (1)   "Affiliated group of corporations" means an affiliated group as
defined in section 1504 of the Internal Revenue Code, except that, if such a
group includes at least one incumbent local exchange carrier that is primarily
engaged in the business of providing local exchange telephone service in this
state, the affiliated group shall not include any incumbent local exchange
carrier that would otherwise be included in the group.
      (2)   "Consolidated federal income tax return" means a consolidated
return filed for federal income tax purposes pursuant to section 1501 of the
Internal Revenue Code.
      (3)   "Consolidated federal taxable income" means the consolidated
taxable income of an affiliated group of corporations, as computed for the
purposes of filing a consolidated federal income tax return, before
consideration of net operating losses or special deductions. "Consolidated
federal taxable income" does not include income or loss of an incumbent local
exchange carrier that is excluded from the affiliated group under division (a)
(1) of this section.
      (4)   "Incumbent local exchange carrier" has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 4927.01.
      (5)   "Local exchange telephone service" has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 5727.01.
   (b)   (1)   For taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2016, a
taxpayer that is a member of an affiliated group of corporations may elect to
file a consolidated municipal income tax return for a taxable year if at least
one member of the affiliated group of corporations is subject to the municipal
income tax in that taxable year and if the affiliated group of corporations
filed a consolidated federal income tax return with respect to that taxable
year.
         A.   The election is binding for a five-year period beginning with the
first taxable year of the initial election unless a change in the reporting
method is required under federal law.
         B.   The election continues to be binding for each subsequent five-
year period unless the taxpayer elects to discontinue filing consolidated
municipal income tax returns under division (b)(2) of this section; or
         C.   A taxpayer receives permission from the Tax Administrator. The
Tax Administrator shall approve such a request for good cause shown.
      (2)   An election to discontinue filing consolidated municipal income tax
returns under this section must be made in the first year following the last
year of a five-year consolidated municipal income tax return election period in
effect under division (b)(1) of this section. The election to discontinue
filing a consolidated municipal income tax return is binding for a five-year
period beginning with the first taxable year of the election.
      (3)   An election made under division (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section is
binding on all members of the affiliated group of corporations subject to a
municipal income tax.
   (c)   A taxpayer that is a member of an affiliated group of corporations
that filed a consolidated federal income tax return for a taxable year shall
file a consolidated municipal income tax return for that taxable year if the
Tax Administrator determines, by a preponderance of the evidence, that
intercompany transactions have not been conducted at arm's length and that
there has been a distortive shifting of income or expenses with regard to
allocation of net profits to the municipal corporation. A taxpayer that is
required to file a consolidated municipal income tax return for a taxable year
shall file a consolidated municipal income tax return for all subsequent
taxable years unless the taxpayer requests and receives written permission from
the Tax Administrator to file a separate return or a taxpayer has experienced a
change in circumstances.
   (d)   A taxpayer shall prepare a consolidated municipal income tax return in
the same manner as is required under the United States Department of Treasury
regulations that prescribe procedures for the preparation of the consolidated
federal income tax return required to be filed by the common parent of the
affiliated group of which the taxpayer is a member.
   (e)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (e)(2), (e)(3), and
(e)(4) of this section, corporations that file a consolidated municipal income
tax return shall compute adjusted federal taxable income, as defined in §
890.03(c)(1), by substituting "consolidated federal taxable income" for
"federal taxable income" wherever "federal taxable income" appears in that
division and by substituting "an affiliated group of corporation's" for "a C
corporation's" wherever "a C corporation's" appears in that division.
      (2)   No corporation filing a consolidated municipal income tax return
shall make any adjustment otherwise required under §
890.03(c)(1) to the extent that the item of income or deduction otherwise
subject to the adjustment has been eliminated or consolidated in the
computation of consolidated federal taxable income.
      (3)   If the net profit or loss of a pass-through entity having at least
80% of the value of its ownership interest owned or controlled, directly or
indirectly, by an affiliated group of corporations is included in that
affiliated group's consolidated federal taxable income for a taxable year, the
corporation filing a consolidated municipal income tax return shall do one of
the following with respect to that pass-through entity's net profit or loss for
that taxable year:
         A.   Exclude the pass-through entity's net profit or loss from the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purpose of making the computations required in §
890.062, exclude the property, payroll, and gross receipts of the pass-through
entity in the computation of the affiliated group's net profit sitused to a
municipal corporation. If the entity's net profit or loss is so excluded, the
entity shall be subject to taxation as a separate taxpayer on the basis of the
entity's net profits that would otherwise be included in the consolidated
federal taxable income of the affiliated group.
         B.   Include the pass-through entity's net profit or loss in the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purpose of making the computations required in §
890.062, include the property, payroll, and gross receipts of the pass-through
entity in the computation of the affiliated group's net profit sitused to a
municipal corporation. If the entity's net profit or loss is so included, the
entity shall not be subject to taxation as a separate taxpayer on the basis of
the entity's net profits that are included in the consolidated federal taxable
income of the affiliated group.
      (4)   If the net profit or loss of a pass-through entity having less than
80% of the value of its ownership interest owned or controlled, directly or
indirectly, by an affiliated group of corporations is included in that
affiliated group's consolidated federal taxable income for a taxable year, all
of the following shall apply:
         A.   The corporation filing the consolidated municipal income tax
return shall exclude the pass-through entity's net profit or loss from the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purposes of making the computations required in §
890.062, exclude the property, payroll, and gross receipts of the pass-through
entity in the computation of the affiliated group's net profit sitused to a
municipal corporation;
         B.   The pass-through entity shall be subject to municipal income
taxation as a separate taxpayer in accordance with this chapter on the basis of
the entity's net profits that would otherwise be included in the consolidated
federal taxable income of the affiliated group.
   (f)   Corporations filing a consolidated municipal income tax return shall
make the computations required under §
890.062 by substituting "consolidated federal taxable income attributable to"
for "net profit from" wherever "net profit from" appears in that section and by
substituting "affiliated group of corporations" for "taxpayer" wherever
"taxpayer" appears in that section.
   (g)   Each corporation filing a consolidated municipal income tax return is
jointly and severally liable for any tax, interest, penalties, fines, charges,
or other amounts imposed by a municipal corporation in accordance with this
chapter on the corporation, an affiliated group of which the corporation is a
member for any portion of the taxable year, or any one or more members of such
an affiliated group.
   (h)   Corporations and their affiliates that made an election or entered
into an agreement with a municipal corporation before January 1, 2016, to file
a consolidated or combined tax return with such municipal corporation may
continue to file consolidated or combined tax returns in accordance with such
election or agreement for taxable years beginning on and after January 1, 2016.
(Ord. 15-40, passed 12-10-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Consolidated municipal tax return, see R.C. § 718.06
§ 890.064 TAX CREDIT FOR BUSINESSES THAT FOSTER NEW JOBS IN OHIO.
   The municipality, by ordinance, may grant a refundable or nonrefundable
credit against its tax on income to a taxpayer to foster job creation in the
municipality. If a credit is granted under this section, it shall be measured
as a percentage of the new income tax revenue the municipality derives from new
employees of the taxpayer and shall be for a term not exceeding 15 years.
Before the municipality passes an ordinance granting a credit, the municipality
and the taxpayer shall enter into an agreement specifying all the conditions of
the credit.
(Ord. 15-40, passed 12-10-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Fostering new jobs; tax credits, see R.C. § 718.15
§ 890.065 TAX CREDITS TO FOSTER JOB RETENTION.
   The municipality, by ordinance, may grant a refundable or nonrefundable
credit against its tax on income to a taxpayer for the purpose of fostering job
retention in the municipality. If a credit is granted under this section, it
shall be measured as a percentage of the income tax revenue the municipality
derives from the retained employees of the taxpayer, and shall be for a term
not exceeding 15 years. Before the municipality passes an ordinance allowing
such a credit, the municipality and the taxpayer shall enter into an agreement
specifying all the conditions of the credit.
(Ord. 15-40, passed 12-10-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Fostering job retention; tax credits, see R.C. § 718.151
§ 890.07 DECLARATION OF ESTIMATED TAX.
   (a)   As used in this section:
      (1)   "Estimated taxes" means the amount that the taxpayer reasonably
estimates to be the taxpayer's tax liability for a municipal corporation's
income tax for the current taxable year.
      (2)   "Tax liability" means the total taxes due to a municipal
corporation for the taxable year, after allowing any credit to which the
taxpayer is entitled, and after applying any estimated tax payment, withholding
payment, or credit from another taxable year.
   (b)   (1)   Every taxpayer shall make a declaration of estimated taxes for
the current taxable year, on the form prescribed by the Tax Administrator, if
the amount payable as estimated taxes is at least two hundred dollars
($200.00). For the purposes of this section:
         A.   Taxes withheld from qualifying wages shall be considered as paid
to the municipal corporation for which the taxes were withheld in equal amounts
on each payment date. If the taxpayer establishes the dates on which all
amounts were actually withheld, the amounts withheld shall be considered as
paid on the dates on which the amounts were actually withheld.
         B.   An overpayment of tax applied as a credit to a subsequent taxable
year is deemed to be paid on the date of the postmark stamped on the cover in
which the payment is mailed or, if the payment is made by electronic funds
transfer, the date the payment is submitted. As used in this division, "date of
the postmark" means, in the event there is more than one date on the cover, the
earliest date imprinted on the cover by the postal service.
         C.   A taxpayer having a taxable year of less than 12 months shall
make a declaration under rules prescribed by the Tax Administrator.
         D.   Taxes withheld by a casino operator or by a lottery sales agent
under R.C. § 718.031 are deemed to be paid to the municipal corporation for
which the taxes were withheld on the date the taxes are withheld from the
taxpayer's winnings.
      (2)   Taxpayers filing joint returns shall file joint declarations of
estimated taxes.
      (3)   The declaration of estimated taxes shall be filed on or before the
date prescribed for the filing of municipal income tax returns under § 890.091
(g) or on or before the 15th day of the fourth month of the first taxable year
after the taxpayer becomes subject to tax for the first time.
      (4)   Taxpayers reporting on a fiscal year basis shall file a declaration
on or before the 15th day of the fourth month after the beginning of each
fiscal year or period.
      (5)   The original declaration or any subsequent amendment may be
increased or decreased on or before any subsequent quarterly payment day as
provided in this section.
   (c)   (1)   The required portion of the tax liability for the taxable year
that shall be paid through estimated taxes made payable to the municipality or
Tax Administrator, including the application of tax refunds to estimated taxes
and withholding on or before the applicable payment date, shall be as follows:
         A.   On or before the 15th day of the fourth month after the beginning
of the taxable year, 22.5% of the tax liability for the taxable year;
         B.   On or before the 15th day of the sixth month after the beginning
of the taxable year, 45% of the tax liability for the taxable year;
         C.   On or before the 15th day of the ninth month after the beginning
of the taxable year, 67.5% of the tax liability for the taxable year;
         D.   On or before the 15th day of the 12th month of the taxable year,
90% of the tax liability for the taxable year.
      (2)   A taxpayer may amend a declaration under rules prescribed by the
Tax Administrator. When an amended declaration has been filed, the unpaid
balance shown due on the amended declaration shall be paid in equal
installments on or before the remaining payment dates. The amended declaration
must be filed on the next applicable due date as outlined in division (c)(1)A.
through D. of this section.
      (3)   On or before the 15th day of the fourth month of the year following
that for which the declaration or amended declaration was filed, an annual
return shall be filed and any balance which may be due shall be paid with the
return in accordance with §
890.091.
         A.   For taxpayers who are individuals, or who are not individuals and
are reporting and filing on a calendar year basis, the annual tax return is due
on the same date as the filing of the federal tax return, unless extended
pursuant to division (G) of R.C. § 5747.08.
         B.   For taxpayers who are not individuals, and are reporting and
filing on a fiscal year basis or any period other than a calendar year, the
annual return is due on the 15th day of the fourth month following the end of
the taxable year or period.
      (4)   An amended declaration is required whenever the taxpayer's
estimated tax liability changes during the taxable year. A change in estimated
tax liability may either increase or decrease the estimated tax liability for
the taxable year.
   (d)   (1)   In the case of any underpayment of any portion of a tax
liability, penalty and interest may be imposed pursuant to §
890.10 upon the amount of underpayment for the period of underpayment, unless
the underpayment is due to reasonable cause as described in division (e) of
this section. The amount of the underpayment shall be determined as follows:
         A.   For the first payment of estimated taxes each year, 22.5% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment;
         B.   For the second payment of estimated taxes each year, 45% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment;
         C.   For the third payment of estimated taxes each year, 67.5% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment;
         D.   For the fourth payment of estimated taxes each year, 90% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment.
      (2)   The period of the underpayment shall run from the day the estimated
payment was required to be made to the date on which the payment is made. For
purposes of this section, a payment of estimated taxes on or before any payment
date shall be considered a payment of any previous underpayment only to the
extent the payment of estimated taxes exceeds the amount of the payment
presently required to be paid to avoid any penalty.
   (e)   An underpayment of any portion of tax liability determined under
division (d) of this section shall be due to reasonable cause and the penalty
imposed by this section shall not be added to the taxes for the taxable year if
any of the following apply:
      (1)   The amount of estimated taxes that were paid equals at least 90% of
the tax liability for the current taxable year, determined by annualizing the
income received during the year up to the end of the month immediately
preceding the month in which the payment is due.
      (2)   The amount of estimated taxes that were paid equals at least 100%
of the tax liability shown on the return of the taxpayer for the preceding
taxable year, provided that the immediately preceding taxable year reflected a
period of 12 months and the taxpayer filed a return with the municipal
corporation under §
890.091 for that year.
      (3)   The taxpayer is an individual who resides in the municipality but
was not domiciled there on the first day of January of the calendar year that
includes the first day of the taxable year.
   (f)   A Tax Administrator may waive the requirement for filing a declaration
of estimated taxes for any class of taxpayers after finding that the waiver is
reasonable and proper in view of administrative costs and other factors.
(Ord. 15-40, passed 12-10-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Estimated taxes, see R.C. § 718.08
§ 890.08 CREDIT FOR TAX PAID
§ 890.081 CREDIT FOR TAX PAID TO ANOTHER MUNICIPALITY.
   (a)   Where any portion of the city tax due has been paid by or on behalf of
the taxpayer, credit for the amount so paid shall be deducted from the amount
due.
   (b)   Reciprocity. Every individual taxpayer who resides in the city but who
received net profits, salaries, wages, commissions, or other personal service
compensation for work done, or services performed or rendered outside of the
city, if it be made to appear that he or she has paid a municipal income tax on
such net profits, salaries, wage, commissions, or other compensation to another
municipality, shall not be allowed a credit against the tax imposed by this
chapter of the amounts so paid by him or her or in his behalf to such
municipality, and that all taxpayers with eligible income shall render 1% of
taxpayer's tax liability owed to the city under this chapter.
(Ord. 5365, passed 1-1-1969; Am. Ord. 04-72, passed 9-9-2004; Am. Ord. 12-13,
passed 2-27-2012; Am. Ord. 15-40, passed 12-10-2015)
§ 890.082 REFUNDABLE CREDIT FOR QUALIFYING LOSS.
   (a)   As used in this section;
      (1)   "Nonqualified deferred compensation plan" means a compensation plan
described in section 3121(v)(2)(C) of the Internal Revenue Code.
      (2)   A.   Except as provided in division (a)(2)B. of this section,
"qualifying loss" means the excess, if any, of the total amount of compensation
the payment of which is deferred pursuant to a nonqualified deferred
compensation plan over the total amount of income the taxpayer has recognized
for federal income tax purposes for all taxable years on a cumulative basis as
compensation with respect to the taxpayer's receipt of money and property
attributable to distributions in connection with the nonqualified deferred
compensation plan.
         B.   If, for one or more taxable years, the taxpayer has not paid to
one or more municipal corporations income tax imposed on the entire amount of
compensation the payment of which is deferred pursuant to a nonqualified
deferred compensation plan, then the "qualifying loss" is the product of the
amount resulting from the calculation described in division (a)(2)A. of this
section computed without regard to division (a)(2)B. of this section and a
fraction the numerator of which is the portion of such compensation on which
the taxpayer has paid income tax to one or more municipal corporations and the
denominator of which is the total amount of compensation the payment of which
is deferred pursuant to a nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
         C.   With respect to a nonqualified deferred compensation plan, the
taxpayer sustains a qualifying loss only in the taxable year in which the
taxpayer receives the final distribution of money and property pursuant to that
nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
      (3)   "Qualifying tax rate" means the applicable tax rate for the taxable
year for which the taxpayer paid income tax to a municipal corporation with
respect to any portion of the total amount of compensation the payment of which
is deferred pursuant to a nonqualified deferred compensation plan. If different
tax rates applied for different taxable years, then the "qualifying tax rate"
is a weighted average of those different tax rates. The weighted average shall
be based upon the tax paid to the municipal corporation each year with respect
to the nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
   (b)   (1)   Except as provided in division (d) of this section, a refundable
credit shall be allowed against the income tax imposed by a municipal
corporation for each qualifying loss sustained by a taxpayer during the taxable
year. The amount of the credit shall be equal to the product of the qualifying
loss and the qualifying tax rate.
      (2)   A taxpayer shall claim the credit allowed under this section from
each municipal corporation to which the taxpayer paid municipal income tax with
respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation plan in one or more taxable
years.
      (3)   If a taxpayer has paid tax to more than one municipal corporation
with respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation plan, the amount of the
credit that a taxpayer may claim from each municipal corporation shall be
calculated on the basis of each municipal corporation's proportionate share of
the total municipal corporation income tax paid by the taxpayer to all
municipal corporations with respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation
plan.
      (4)   In no case shall the amount of the credit allowed under this
section exceed the cumulative income tax that a taxpayer has paid to a
municipal corporation for all taxable years with respect to the nonqualified
deferred compensation plan.
   (c)   (1)   For purposes of this section, municipal corporation income tax
that has been withheld with respect to a nonqualified deferred compensation
plan shall be considered to have been paid by the taxpayer with respect to the
nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
      (2)   Any municipal income tax that has been refunded or otherwise
credited for the benefit of the taxpayer with respect to a nonqualified
deferred compensation plan shall not be considered to have been paid to the
municipal corporation by the taxpayer.
   (d)   The credit allowed under this section is allowed only to the extent
the taxpayer's qualifying loss is attributable to:
      (1)   The insolvency or bankruptcy of the employer who had established
the nonqualified deferred compensation plan; or
      (2)   The employee's failure or inability to satisfy all of the
employer's terms and conditions necessary to receive the nonqualified deferred
compensation.
(Ord. 15-40, passed 12-10-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Qualifying loss; refundable credit, see R.C. § 718.021
§ 890.083 CREDIT FOR PERSON WORKING IN JOINT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT OR
ZONE.
   A municipality shall grant a credit against its tax on income to a resident
of the municipality who works in a joint economic development zone created
under R.C. § 715.691 or a joint economic development district created under
R.C. § 715.70, 715.71, or 715.72 to the same extent that it grants a credit
against its tax on income to its residents who are employed in another
municipal corporation, pursuant to §
890.081.
(Ord. 15-40, passed 12-10-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Worker in joint economic development zone or district, see R.C. § 718.16
§ 890.084 CREDIT FOR TAX BEYOND STATUTE FOR OBTAINING REFUND.
   (a)   Income tax that has been deposited or paid to the municipality, but
should have been deposited or paid to another municipal corporation, is
allowable by the municipality as a refund, but is subject to the three-year
limitation on refunds as provided in §
890.096.
   (b)   Income tax that should have been deposited or paid to the
municipality, but was deposited or paid to another municipal corporation, shall
be subject to collection and recovery by the municipality. To the extent a
refund of such tax or withholding is barred by the limitation on refunds as
provided in §
890.096, the municipality will allow a non-refundable credit equal to the tax
or withholding paid to the other municipality against the income tax the
municipality claims is due. If the municipality's tax rate is higher, the tax
representing the net difference of the tax rates is also subject to collection
by the municipality, along with any penalty and interest accruing during the
period of nonpayment.
   (c)   No carryforward of credit will be permitted when the overpayment is
beyond the three-year limitation for refunding of same as provided in §
890.096.
   (d)   Nothing in this section requires a municipality to allow credit for
tax paid to another municipal corporation if the municipality has reduced
credit for tax paid to another municipal corporation. Section 890.081 regarding
any limitation on credit shall prevail.
(Ord. 15-40, passed 12-10-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Second municipality imposing tax after time period for refund, see R.C. §
718.121
§ 890.09 ANNUAL RETURN
§ 890.091 RETURN AND PAYMENT OF TAX.
   (a)   (1)   An annual return with respect to the income tax levied on
municipal taxable income by the municipality shall be completed and filed by
every taxpayer for any taxable year for which the taxpayer is subject to the
tax, regardless of whether or not income tax is due.
      (2)   The Tax Administrator shall accept on behalf of all nonresident
individual taxpayers a return filed by an employer, agent of an employer, or
other payer located in the municipality under §
890.051(c) when the nonresident individual taxpayer's sole income subject to
the tax is the qualifying wages reported by the employer, agent of an employer,
or other payer, and no additional tax is due to the municipality.
      (3)   All resident individual taxpayers, 18 years of age and older, shall
file an annual municipal income tax return with the municipality, regardless of
income or liability.
   (b)   If an individual is deceased, any return or notice required of that
individual shall be completed and filed by that decedent's executor,
administrator, or other person charged with the property of that decedent.
   (c)   If an individual is unable to complete and file a return or notice
required by the municipality in accordance with this chapter, the return or
notice required of that individual shall be completed and filed by the
individual's duly authorized agent, guardian, conservator, fiduciary, or other
person charged with the care of the person or property of that individual. Such
duly authorized agent, guardian, conservator, fiduciary, or other person
charged with the care of the person or property of that individual shall
provide, with the filing of the return, appropriate documentation to support
that they are authorized to file a return or notice on behalf of the taxpayer.
This notice shall include any legally binding authorizations, and contact
information including name, address, and phone number of the duly authorized
agent, guardian, conservator, fiduciary, or other person.
   (d)   Returns or notices required of an estate or a trust shall be completed
and filed by the fiduciary of the estate or trust. Such fiduciary shall
provide, with the filing of the return, appropriate documentation to support
that they are authorized to file a return or notice on behalf of the taxpayer.
This notice shall include any legally binding authorizations, and contact
information including name, address, and phone number of the fiduciary.
   (e)   No municipal corporation shall deny spouses the ability to file a
joint return.
   (f)   (1)   Each return required to be filed under this section shall
contain the signature of the taxpayer or the taxpayer's duly authorized agent
and of the person who prepared the return for the taxpayer, and shall include
the taxpayer's social security number or taxpayer identification number. Each
return shall be verified by a declaration under penalty of perjury.
      (2)   A taxpayer who is an individual is required to include, with each
annual return, amended return, or request for refund required under this
section, copies of only the following documents: all of the taxpayer's Internal
Revenue Service form W-2, "Wage and Tax Statements," including all information
reported on the taxpayer's federal W-2, as well as taxable wages reported or
withheld for any municipal corporation; the taxpayer's Internal Revenue Service
form 1040 or, in the case of a return or request required by a qualified
municipal corporation, Ohio IT 1040; and, with respect to an amended tax return
or refund request, any other documentation necessary to support the refund
request or the adjustments made in the amended return. An individual taxpayer
who files the annual return required by this section electronically is not
required to provide paper copies of any of the foregoing to the Tax
Administrator unless the Tax Administrator requests such copies after the
return has been filed.
      (3)   A taxpayer that is not an individual is required to include, with
each annual net profit return, amended net profit return, or request for refund
required under this section, copies of only the following documents: the
taxpayer's Internal Revenue Service form 1041, form 1065, form 1120, form 1120-
REIT, form 1120F, or form 1120S, and, with respect to an amended tax return or
refund request, any other documentation necessary to support the refund request
or the adjustments made in the amended return.
      (4)   A taxpayer that is not an individual and that files an annual net
profit return electronically through the Ohio Business Gateway or in some other
manner shall either mail the documents required under this division to the Tax
Administrator at the time of filing or, if electronic submission is available,
submit the documents electronically through the Ohio Business Gateway or a
portal provided by municipality. The Department of Taxation shall publish a
method of electronically submitting the documents required under this division
through the Ohio Business Gateway on or before January 1, 2016. The Department
shall transmit all documents submitted electronically under this division to
the appropriate Tax Administrator.
      (5)   After a taxpayer files a tax return, the Tax Administrator shall
request, and the taxpayer shall provide, any information, statements, or
documents required by the municipality to determine and verify the taxpayer's
municipal income tax liability. The requirements imposed under division (f) of
this section apply regardless of whether the taxpayer files on a generic form
or on a form prescribed by the Tax Administrator.
      (6)   Any other documentation, including schedules, other municipal
income tax returns, or other supporting documentation necessary to verify
credits, income, losses, or other pertinent factors on the return shall also be
included to avoid delay in processing, or disallowance by the Tax Administrator
of undocumented credits or losses.
   (g)   (1)   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, each
individual income tax return required to be filed under this section shall be
completed and filed as required by the Tax Administrator on or before the date
prescribed for the filing of state individual income tax returns under division
(G) of R.C. § 5747.08. The taxpayer shall complete and file the return or
notice on forms prescribed by the Tax Administrator or on generic forms,
together with remittance made payable to the municipality or Tax Administrator.
         B.   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, each annual net
profit income tax return required to be filed under this section by a taxpayer
that is not an individual shall be completed and filed as required by the Tax
Administrator on or before the 15th day of the fourth month following the end
of the taxpayer's taxable year or period. The taxpayer shall complete and file
the return or notice on forms prescribed by the Tax Administrator or on generic
forms, together with remittance made payable to the municipality or Tax
Administrator.
         C.   In the case of individual income tax return required to be filed
by an individual, and net profit income tax return required to be filed by a
taxpayer who is not an individual, no remittance is required if the amount
shown to be due is ten dollars ($10.00) or less.
      (2)   If the Tax Administrator considers it necessary in order to ensure
the payment of the tax imposed by the municipality in accordance with this
chapter, the Tax Administrator may require taxpayers to file returns and make
payments otherwise than as provided in this section, including taxpayers not
otherwise required to file annual returns.
      (3)   With respect to taxpayers to whom § 890.092 applies, to the extent
that any provision in this division conflicts with any provision in § 890.092,
the provision in § 890.092 prevails.
   (h)   (1)   For taxable years beginning after 2015, the municipality shall
not require a taxpayer to remit tax with respect to net profits if the amount
due is ten dollars ($10.00) or less.
      (2)   Any taxpayer not required to remit tax to the municipality for a
taxable year pursuant to division (h)(1) of this section shall file with the
municipality an annual net profit return under division (f)(3) and (f)(4) of
this section.
   (i)   This division shall not apply to payments required to be made under §
890.051(b)(1)B. or C.
      (1)   If any report, claim, statement, or other document required to be
filed, or any payment required to be made, within a prescribed period or on or
before a prescribed date under this chapter is delivered after that period or
that to the Tax Administrator or other municipal official with which the
report, claim, statement, or other document is required to be filed, or to
which the payment is required to be made, the date of the postmark stamped on
the cover in which the report, claim, statement, or other document, or payment
is mailed shall be deemed to be the date of delivery or the date of payment.
"The date of postmark" means, in the event there is more than one date on the
cover, the earliest date imprinted on the cover by the postal service.
      (2)   If a payment is required to be made by electronic funds transfer,
the payment is considered to be made when the payment is credited to an account
designated by the Tax Administrator for the receipt of tax payments, except
that, when a payment made by electronic funds transfer is delayed due to
circumstances not under the control of the taxpayer, the payment is considered
to be made when the taxpayer submitted the payment. For purposes of this
section, "submitted the payment" means the date which the taxpayer has
designated for the delivery of payment, which may or may not be the same date
as the date the payment was initiated by the taxpayer.
   (j)   The amounts withheld for the municipality by an employer, the agent of
an employer, or other payer as described in § 890.051 shall be allowed to the
recipient of the compensation as credits against payment of the tax imposed on
the recipient unless the amounts withheld were not remitted to the municipality
and the recipient colluded with the employer, agent, or other payer in
connection with the failure to remit the amounts withheld.
   (k)   Each return required by the municipality to be filed in accordance
with this section shall include a box that the taxpayer may check to authorize
another person, including a tax return preparer who prepared the return, to
communicate with the Tax Administrator about matters pertaining to the return.
The return or instructions accompanying the return shall indicate that by
checking the box the taxpayer authorizes the Tax Administrator to contact the
preparer or other person concerning questions that arise during the examination
or other review of the return and authorizes the preparer or other person only
to provide the Tax Administrator with information that is missing from the
return, to contact the Tax Administrator for information about the examination
or other review of the return or the status of the taxpayer's refund or
payments, and to respond to notices about mathematical errors, offsets, or
return preparation that the taxpayer has received from the Tax Administrator
and has shown to the preparer or other person. Authorization by the taxpayer of
another person to communicate with the Tax Administrator about matters
pertaining to the return does not preclude the Tax Administrator from
contacting the taxpayer regarding such matters.
   (l)   The Tax Administrator of the municipality shall accept for filing a
generic form of any income tax return, report, or document required by the
municipality in accordance with this chapter, provided that the generic form,
once completed and filed, contains all of the information required by
ordinances, resolutions, or rules adopted by the municipality or Tax
Administrator, and provided that the taxpayer or tax return preparer filing the
generic form otherwise complies with the provisions of this chapter and of the
municipality's ordinance or resolution governing the filing of returns,
reports, or documents.
   (m)   When income tax returns, reports, or other documents require the
signature of a tax return preparer, the Tax Administrator shall accept a
facsimile of such a signature in lieu of a manual signature.
   (n)   (1)   As used in this division, "worksite location" has the same
meaning as in §
890.052.
      (2)   A person may notify a tax administrator that the person does not
expect to be a taxpayer with respect to the municipal corporation for a taxable
year if both of the following conditions apply:
         A.   The person was required to file a tax return with the municipal
corporation for the immediately preceding taxable year because the person
performed services, at a worksite location within the municipal corporation,
and the person has filed all appropriate and required returns and remitted all
applicable income tax and withholding payments as provided by this chapter. The
Tax Administrator is not required to accept an affidavit from a taxpayer who
has not complied with the provisions of this chapter.
         B.   The person no longer provides services in the municipal
corporation, and does not expect to be subject to the municipal corporation's
income tax for the taxable year.
            The person shall provide the notice in a signed affidavit that
briefly explains the person's circumstances, including the location of the
previous worksite location and the last date on which the person performed
services or made any sales within the municipal corporation. The affidavit also
shall include the following statement: "The affiant has no plans to perform any
services within the municipal corporation, make any sales in the municipal
corporation, or otherwise become subject to the tax levied by the municipal
corporation during the taxable year. If the affiant does become subject to the
tax levied by the municipal corporation for the taxable year, the affiant
agrees to be considered a taxpayer and to properly register as a taxpayer with
the municipal corporation, if such a registration is required by the municipal
corporation's resolutions, ordinances, or rules." The person shall sign the
affidavit under penalty of perjury.
         C.   If a person submits an affidavit described in division (n)(2) of
this section, the Tax Administrator shall not require the person to file any
tax return for the taxable year unless the Tax Administrator possesses
information that conflicts with the affidavit or if the circumstances described
in the affidavit change, or the taxpayer has engaged in activity which results
in work being performed, services provided, sales made, or other activity that
results in municipal taxable income reportable to the municipality in the
taxable year. It shall be the responsibility of the taxpayer to comply with the
provisions of this chapter relating to the reporting and filing of municipal
taxable income on an annual municipal income tax return, even if an affidavit
has been filed with the Tax Administrator for the taxable year. Nothing in
division (n) of this section prohibits the Tax Administrator from performing an
audit of the person.
(Ord. 15-40, passed 12-10-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Annual return; filing; extensions, see R.C. § 718.05
§ 890.092 RETURN AND PAYMENT OF TAX; INDIVIDUALS SERVING IN COMBAT ZONE.
   (a)   Each member of the national guard of any state and each member of a
reserve component of the armed forces of the United States called to active
duty pursuant to an executive order issued by the President of the United
States or an act of the Congress of the United States, and each civilian
serving as support personnel in a combat zone or contingency operation in
support of the armed forces, may apply to the Tax Administrator of the
municipality for both an extension of time for filing of the return and an
extension of time for payment of taxes required by the municipality in
accordance with this chapter during the period of the member's or civilian's
duty service and for 180 days thereafter. The application shall be filed on or
before the 180th day after the member's or civilian's duty terminates. An
applicant shall provide such evidence as the Tax Administrator considers
necessary to demonstrate eligibility for the extension.
   (b)   (1)   If the Tax Administrator ascertains that an applicant is
qualified for an extension under this section, the Tax Administrator shall
enter into a contract with the applicant for the payment of the tax in
installments that begin on the 181st day after the applicant's active duty or
service terminates. Except as provided in division (b)(3) of this section, the
Tax Administrator may prescribe such contract terms as the Tax Administrator
considers appropriate.
      (2)   If the Tax Administrator ascertains that an applicant is qualified
for an extension under this section, the applicant shall neither be required to
file any return, report, or other tax document nor be required to pay any tax
otherwise due to the municipality before the 181st day after the applicant's
active duty or service terminates.
      (3)   Taxes paid pursuant to a contract entered into under division (b)
(1) of this section are not delinquent. The Tax Administrator shall not require
any payments of penalties or interest in connection with those taxes for the
extension period.
   (c)   (1)   Nothing in this division denies to any person described in this
division the application of divisions (a) and (b) of this section.
      (2)   A.   A qualifying taxpayer who is eligible for an extension under
the Internal Revenue Code shall receive both an extension of time in which to
file any return, report, or other tax document and an extension of time in
which to make any payment of taxes required by the municipality in accordance
with this chapter. The length of any extension granted under division (c)(2)A.
of this section shall be equal to the length of the corresponding extension
that the taxpayer receives under the Internal Revenue Code. As used in this
section, "qualifying taxpayer" means a member of the national guard or a member
of a reserve component of the armed forces of the United States called to
active duty pursuant to either an executive order issued by the President of
the United States or an act of the Congress of the United States, or a civilian
serving as support personnel in a combat zone or contingency operation in
support of the armed forces.
         B.   Taxes the payment of which is extended in accordance with
division (c)(2)A. of this section are not delinquent during the extension
period. Such taxes become delinquent on the first day after the expiration of
the extension period if the taxes are not paid prior to that date. The Tax
Administrator shall not require any payment of penalties or interest in
connection with those taxes for the extension period. The Tax Administrator
shall not include any period of extension granted under division (c)(2)A. of
this section in calculating the penalty or interest due on any unpaid tax.
   (d)   For each taxable year to which division (a), (b), or (c) of this
section applies to a taxpayer, the provisions of divisions (b)(2) and (b)(3) or
(c) of this section, as applicable, apply to the spouse of that taxpayer if the
filing status of the spouse and the taxpayer is married filing jointly for that
year.
(Ord. 15-40, passed 12-10-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Filing extension for certain armed forces service, see R.C. § 718.052
§ 890.093 USE OF OHIO BUSINESS GATEWAY; TYPES OF FILINGS AUTHORIZED.
   (a)   Any taxpayer subject to municipal income taxation with respect to the
taxpayer's net profit from a business or profession may file any municipal
income tax return or, estimated municipal income tax return, or extension for
filing a municipal income tax return, and may make payment of amounts shown to
be due on such returns, by using the Ohio Business Gateway.
   (b)   Any employer, agent of an employer, or other payer may report the
amount of municipal income tax withheld from qualifying wages, and may make
remittance of such amounts, by using the Ohio Business Gateway.
   (c)   Nothing in this section affects the due dates for filing employer
withholding tax returns or deposit of any required tax.
   (d)   The use of the Ohio Business Gateway by municipal corporations,
taxpayers, or other persons does not affect the legal rights of municipalities
or taxpayers as otherwise permitted by law. The State of Ohio shall not be a
party to the administration of municipal income taxes or to an appeal of a
municipal income tax matter, except as otherwise specifically provided by law.
   (e)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as limiting or removing the
authority of any municipal corporation to administer, audit, and enforce the
provisions of its municipal income tax.
(Ord. 15-40, passed 12-10-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Use of Ohio Business Gateway, see R.C. § 718.051
§ 890.094 EXTENSION OF TIME TO FILE.
   (a)   Any taxpayer that has duly requested an automatic six-month extension
for filing the taxpayer's federal income tax return shall automatically receive
an extension for the filing of a municipal income tax return. The extended due
date of the municipal income tax return shall be the 15th day of the tenth
month after the last day of the taxable year to which the return relates.
   (b)   Any taxpayer that qualifies for an automatic federal extension for a
period other than six-months for filing the taxpayer's federal income tax
return shall automatically receive an extension for the filing of a municipal
income tax return. The extended due date of the municipal income tax return
shall be the same as that of the extended federal income tax return.
   (c)   A taxpayer that has not requested or received a six-month extension
for filing the taxpayer's federal income tax return may request that the Tax
Administrator grant the taxpayer a six-month extension of the date for filing
the taxpayer's municipal income tax return. If the request is received by the
Tax Administrator on or before the date the municipal income tax return is due,
the Tax Administrator shall grant the taxpayer's requested extension.
   (d)   An extension of time to file under this chapter is not an extension of
the time to pay any tax due unless the Tax Administrator grants an extension of
that date.
   (e)   If the State Tax Commissioner extends for all taxpayers the date for
filing state income tax returns under division (G) of R.C. § 5747.08, a
taxpayer shall automatically receive an extension for the filing of a municipal
income tax return. The extended due date of the municipal income tax return
shall be the same as the extended due date of the state income tax return.
(Ord. 15-40, passed 12-10-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Annual return; filing; extensions, see R.C. § 718.05
§ 890.095 AMENDED RETURNS.
   (a)   (1)   A taxpayer shall file an amended return with the Tax
Administrator in such form as the Tax Administrator requires if any of the
facts, figures, computations, or attachments required in the taxpayer's annual
return to determine the tax due levied by the municipality in accordance with
this chapter must be altered.
      (2)   Within 60 days after the final determination of any federal or
state tax liability affecting the taxpayer's municipal tax liability, that
taxpayer shall make and file an amended municipal return showing income subject
to the municipal income tax based upon such final determination of federal or
state tax liability, and pay any additional municipal income tax shown due
thereon or make a claim for refund of any overpayment, unless the tax or
overpayment is ten dollars ($10.00) or less.
      (3)   If a taxpayer intends to file an amended consolidated municipal
income tax return, or to amend its type of return from a separate return to a
consolidated return, based on the taxpayer's consolidated federal income tax
return, the taxpayer shall notify the Tax Administrator before filing the
amended return.
   (b)   (1)   In the case of an underpayment, the amended return shall be
accompanied by payment of any combined additional tax due together with any
penalty and interest thereon. If the combined tax shown to be due is ten
dollars ($10.00) or less, such amount need not accompany the amended return.
Except as provided under division (b)(2) of this section, the amended return
shall not reopen those facts, figures, computations, or attachments from a
previously filed return that are not affected, either directly or indirectly,
by the adjustment to the taxpayer's federal or state income tax return unless
the applicable statute of limitations for civil actions or prosecutions under §
890.19 has not expired for a previously filed return.
      (2)   The additional tax to be paid shall not exceed the amount of tax
that would be due if all facts, figures, computations, and attachments were
reopened.
   (c)   (1)   In the case of an overpayment, a request for refund may be filed
under this division within the period prescribed by § 890.19(e) for filing the
amended return even if it is filed beyond the period prescribed in that
division if it otherwise conforms to the requirements of that division. If the
amount of the refund is ten dollars ($10.00) or less, no refund need be paid by
the municipality to the taxpayer. Except as set forth in division (c)(2) of
this section, a request filed under this division shall claim refund of
overpayments resulting from alterations to only those facts, figures,
computations, or attachments required in the taxpayer's annual return that are
affected, either directly or indirectly, by the adjustment to the taxpayer's
federal or state income tax return unless it is also filed within the time
prescribed in § 890.096. Except as set forth in division (c)(2) of this
section, the request shall not reopen those facts, figures, computations, or
attachments that are not affected, either directly or indirectly, by the
adjustment to the taxpayer's federal or state income tax return.
      (2)   The amount to be refunded shall not exceed the amount of refund
that would be due if all facts, figures, computations, and attachments were
reopened.
(Ord. 15-40, passed 12-10-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Limitations, see R.C. § 718.12
   Amended returns, see R.C. § 718.41
§ 890.096 REFUNDS.
   (a)   Upon receipt of a request for a refund, the Tax Administrator of the
municipality, in accordance with this section, shall refund to employers,
agents of employers, other payers, or taxpayers, with respect to any income or
withholding tax levied by the municipality:
      (1)   Overpayments of more than ten dollars ($10.00);
      (2)   Amounts paid erroneously if the refund requested exceeds ten
dollars ($10.00).
   (b)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, returns setting
forth are quest for refund shall be filed with the Tax Administrator, within
three years after the tax was due or paid, whichever is later. Any
documentation that substantiates the taxpayer's claim for a refund must be
included with the return filing. Failure to remit all documentation, including
schedules, other municipal income tax returns, or other supporting
documentation necessary to verify credits, income, losses or other pertinent
factors on the return will cause delay in processing, and/or disallowance of
undocumented credits or losses.
      (2)   On filing of the refund request, the Tax Administrator shall
determine the amount of refund due and certify such amount to the appropriate
municipal corporation official for payment. Except as provided in division (b)
(3) of this section, the Administrator shall issue an assessment to any
taxpayer whose request for refund is fully or partially denied. The assessment
shall state the amount of the refund that was denied, the reasons for the
denial, and instructions for appealing the assessment.
      (3)   If a Tax Administrator denies in whole or in part a refund request
included within the taxpayer's originally filed annual income tax return, the
Tax Administrator shall notify the taxpayer, in writing, of the amount of the
refund that was denied, the reasons for the denial, and instructions for
requesting an assessment that may be appealed under § 890.18.
   (c)   A request for a refund that is received after the last day for filing
specified in division (b) of this section shall be considered to have been
filed in a timely manner if any of the following situations exist:
      (1)   The request is delivered by the postal service, and the earliest
postal service postmark on the cover in which the request is enclosed is not
later than the last day for filing the request.
      (2)   The request is delivered by the postal service, the only postmark
on the cover in which the request is enclosed was affixed by a private postal
meter, the date of that postmark is not later than the last day for filing the
request, and the request is received within seven days of such last day.
      (3)   The request is delivered by the postal service, no postmark date
was affixed to the cover in which the request is enclosed or the date of the
postmark so affixed is not legible, and the request is received within seven
days of the last day for making the request.
   (d)   Interest shall be allowed and paid on any overpayment by a taxpayer of
any municipal income tax obligation from the date of the overpayment until the
date of the refund of the overpayment, except that if any overpayment is
refunded within 90 days after the final filing date of the annual return or 90
days after the completed return is filed, whichever is later, no interest shall
be allowed on the refund. For the purpose of computing the payment of interest
on amounts overpaid, no amount of tax for any taxable year shall be considered
to have been paid before the date on which the return on which the tax is
reported is due, without regard to any extension of time for filing that
return. Interest shall be paid at the interest rate described in § 890.10(a)
(4).
   (e)   As used in this section, "withholding tax" has the same meaning as in
§
890.10.
(Ord. 15-40, passed 12-10-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Requests for refunds, see R.C. § 718.19
§ 890.10 PENALTY, INTEREST, FEES, AND CHARGES.
   (a)   As used in this section:
      (1)   "Applicable law" means this chapter, the resolutions, ordinances,
codes, directives,
instructions, and rules adopted by the municipality provided such resolutions,
ordinances, codes, directives, instructions, and rules impose or directly or
indirectly address the levy, payment, remittance, or filing requirements of a
municipal income tax.
      (2)   "Federal short-term rate" means the rate of the average market
yield on outstanding marketable obligations of the United States with remaining
periods to maturity of three years or less, as determined under section 1274 of
the Internal Revenue Code, for July of the current year.
      (3)   "Income tax," "estimated income tax," and "withholding tax" mean
any income tax, estimated income tax, and withholding tax imposed by a
municipal corporation pursuant to applicable law, including at any time before
January 1, 2016.
      (4)   "Interest rate as described in division (a) of this section" means
the federal short-term rate, rounded to the nearest whole number percent, plus
5%. The rate shall apply for the calendar year next following the July of the
year in which the federal short-term rate is determined in accordance with
division (a)(2) of this section.
      (5)   "Return" includes any tax return, report, reconciliation, schedule,
and other document required to be filed with a Tax Administrator or municipal
corporation by a taxpayer, employer, any agent of the employer, or any other
payer pursuant to applicable law, including at any time before January 1, 2016.
      (6)   "Unpaid estimated income tax" means estimated income tax due but
not paid by the date the tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      (7)   "Unpaid income tax" means income tax due but not paid by the date
the income tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      (8)   "Unpaid withholding tax" means withholding tax due but not paid by
the date the withholding tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      (9)   "Withholding tax" includes amounts an employer, any agent of an
employer, or any other payer did not withhold in whole or in part from an
employee's qualifying wages, but that, under applicable law, the employer,
agent, or other payer is required to withhold from an employee's qualifying
wages.
   (b)   (1)   This section shall apply to the following:
         A.   Any return required to be filed under applicable law for taxable
years beginning on or after January 1, 2016;
         B.   Income tax, estimated income tax, and withholding tax required to
be paid or remitted to the municipality on or after January 1, 2016 for taxable
years beginning on or after January 1, 2016.
      (2)   This section does not apply to returns required to be filed or
payments required to be made before January 1, 2016, regardless of the filing
or payment date. Returns required to be filed or payments required to be made
before January 1, 2016, but filed or paid after that date shall be subject to
the ordinances or rules, as adopted from time to time before January 1, 2016 of
this municipality.
   (c)   The municipality shall impose on a taxpayer, employer, any agent of
the employer, and any other payer, and will attempt to collect, the interest
amounts and penalties prescribed in this section when the taxpayer, employer,
any agent of the employer, or any other payer for any reason fails, in whole or
in part, to make to the municipality timely and full payment or remittance of
income tax, estimated income tax, or withholding tax or to file timely with the
municipality any return required to be filed.
      (1)   Interest shall be imposed at the rate defined as "interest rate as
described in division (a) of this section", per annum, on all unpaid income
tax, unpaid estimated income tax, and unpaid withholding tax. This imposition
of interest shall be assessed per month, or fraction of a month.
      (2)   With respect to unpaid income tax and unpaid estimated income tax,
a penalty equal to 15% of the amount not timely paid shall be imposed.
      (3)   With respect to any unpaid withholding tax, a penalty equal to 50%
of the amount not timely paid shall be imposed.
      (4)   With respect to returns other than estimated income tax returns,
the municipality shall impose a monthly penalty of twenty-five dollars ($25.00)
for each failure to timely file each return, regardless of the liability shown
thereon for each month, or any fraction thereof, during which the return
remains unfiled regardless of the liability shown thereon. The penalty shall
not exceed a total of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) in assessed penalty
for each failure to timely file a return.
   (d)   With respect to income taxes, estimated income taxes, withholding
taxes, and returns, the municipality shall not impose, seek to collect, or
collect any penalty, amount of interest, charges or additional fees not
described in this section.
   (e)   With respect to income taxes, estimated income taxes, withholding
taxes, and returns, the municipality shall not refund or credit any penalty,
amount of interest, charges, or additional fees that were properly imposed or
collected before January 1, 2016.
   (f)   The Tax Administrator may, in the Tax Administrator's sole discretion,
abate or partially abate penalties or interest imposed under this section when
the Tax Administrator deems such abatement or partial abatement to be
appropriate. Such abatement or partial abatement shall be properly documented
and maintained on the record of the taxpayer who received benefit of such
abatement or partial abatement.
   (g)   The municipality may impose on the taxpayer, employer, any agent of
the employer, or any other payer the municipality's post-judgment collection
costs and fees, including attorney's fees.
(Ord. 15-40, passed 12-10-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Interest and penalties, see R.C. § 718.27
§ 890.11 AUDIT.
   (a)   At or before the commencement of an audit, as defined in §
890.03(c)(3), the Tax Administrator shall provide to the taxpayer a written
description of the roles of the Tax Administrator and of the taxpayer during an
audit and a statement of the taxpayer's rights, including any right to obtain a
refund of an overpayment of tax. At or before the commencement of an audit, the
Tax Administrator shall inform the taxpayer when the audit is considered to
have commenced.
   (b)   Except in cases involving suspected criminal activity, the Tax
Administrator shall conduct an audit of a taxpayer during regular business
hours and after providing reasonable notice to the taxpayer. A taxpayer who is
unable to comply with a proposed time for an audit on the grounds that the
proposed time would cause inconvenience or hardship must offer reasonable
alternative dates for the audit.
   (c)   At all stages of an audit by the Tax Administrator, a taxpayer is
entitled to be assisted or represented by an attorney, accountant, bookkeeper,
or other tax practitioner. The Tax Administrator shall prescribe a form by
which a taxpayer may designate such a person to assist or represent the
taxpayer in the conduct of any proceedings resulting from actions by the Tax
Administrator. If a taxpayer has not submitted such a form, the Tax
Administrator may accept other evidence, as the Tax Administrator considers
appropriate, that a person is the authorized representative of a taxpayer.
      A taxpayer may refuse to answer any questions asked by the person
conducting an audit until the taxpayer has an opportunity to consult with the
taxpayer's attorney, accountant, bookkeeper, or other tax practitioner. This
division does not authorize the practice of law by a person who is not an
attorney.
   (d)   A taxpayer may record, electronically or otherwise, the audit
examination.
   (e)   The failure of the Tax Administrator to comply with a provision of
this section shall neither excuse a taxpayer from payment of any taxes owed by
the taxpayer nor cure any procedural defect in a taxpayer's case.
   (f)   If the Tax Administrator fails to substantially comply with the
provisions of this section, the Tax Administrator, upon application by the
taxpayer, shall excuse the taxpayer from penalties and interest arising from
the audit.
   (g)   The City Finance Director or any of his or her authorized employees,
or the Mayor, or the Vice Mayor, are hereby authorized to examine the books,
papers, and records of any employer, or any taxpayer or person subject to the
tax, for the purpose of verifying the accuracy of any return made, or, if no
return was made, to ascertain the tax due. Every such employer, supposed
employer, taxpayer or supposed taxpayer is hereby directed and required to
furnish to the Finance Director, his or her duly authorized agent or employee,
the Mayor, or the Vice Mayor the means, facilities and opportunity for making
such examinations and investigations as are hereby authorized.
(Ord. 15-40, passed 12-10-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Audits, see R.C. § 718.36
§ 890.12 ROUNDING.
   A person may round to the nearest whole dollar all amounts the person is
required to enter on any return, report, voucher, or other document required
under this chapter. Any fractional part of a dollar that equals or exceeds
fifty cents ($.50) shall be rounded to the next whole dollar, and any
fractional part of a dollar that is less than fifty cents ($.50) shall be
dropped, rounding down to the nearest whole dollar. If a person chooses to
round amounts entered on a document, the person shall round all amounts entered
on the document.
(Ord. 15-40, passed 12-10-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Rounding of amounts, see R.C. § 718.25
§ 890.13 AUTHORITY AND POWERS OF THE TAX ADMINISTRATOR
§ 890.131 AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR; ADMINISTRATIVE POWERS OF THE TAX
ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Tax Administrator has the authority to perform all duties and functions
necessary and appropriate to implement the provisions of this chapter,
including without limitation:
   (a)   Exercise all powers whatsoever of an inquisitorial nature as provided
by law, including, the right to inspect books, accounts, records, memorandums,
and federal and state income tax returns, to examine persons under oath, to
issue orders or subpoenas for the production of books, accounts, papers,
records, documents, and testimony, to take depositions, to apply to a court for
attachment proceedings as for contempt, to approve vouchers for the fees of
officers and witnesses, and to administer oaths; provided that the powers
referred to in this division of this section shall be exercised by the Tax
Administrator only in connection with the performance of the duties
respectively assigned to the Tax Administrator under a municipal corporation
income tax ordinance or resolution adopted in accordance with this chapter;
   (b)   Appoint agents and prescribe their powers and duties;
   (c)   Confer and meet with officers of other municipal corporations and
states and officers of the United States on any matters pertaining to their
respective official duties as provided by law;
   (d)   Exercise the authority provided by law, including orders from
bankruptcy courts, relative to remitting or refunding taxes, including
penalties and interest thereon, illegally or erroneously imposed or collected,
or for any other reason overpaid, and, in addition, the Tax Administrator may
investigate any claim of overpayment and make a written statement of the Tax
Administrator's findings, and, if the Tax Administrator finds that there has
been an overpayment, approve and issue a refund payable to the taxpayer, the
taxpayer's assigns, or legal representative as provided in this chapter;
   (e)   Exercise the authority provided by law relative to consenting to the
compromise and settlement of tax claims;
   (f)   Exercise the authority provided by law relative to the use of
alternative apportionment methods by taxpayers in accordance with §
890.062;
   (g)   Make all tax findings, determinations, computations, assessments and
orders the Tax Administrator is by law authorized and required to make and,
pursuant to time limitations provided by law, on the Tax Administrator's own
motion, review, redetermine, or correct any tax findings, determinations,
computations, assessments or orders the Tax Administrator has made, but the Tax
Administrator shall not review, redetermine, or correct any tax finding,
determination, computation, assessment or order which the Tax Administrator has
made for which an appeal has been filed with the Local Board of Tax Review or
other appropriate tribunal, unless such appeal or application is withdrawn by
the appellant or applicant, is dismissed, or is otherwise final;
   (h)   Destroy any or all returns or other tax documents in the manner
authorized by law;
   (i)   Enter into an agreement with a taxpayer to simplify the withholding
obligations described in §
890.051.
(Ord. 15-40, passed 12-10-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of Tax Administrator, see R.C. § 718.24
§ 890.132 AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR; COMPROMISE OF CLAIM AND PAYMENT OVER
TIME.
   (a)   As used in this section, "claim" means a claim for an amount payable
to the municipality that arises pursuant to the municipal income tax imposed in
accordance with this chapter.
   (b)   The Tax Administrator may do either of the following if such action is
in the best interests of the municipality:
      (1)   Compromise a claim;
      (2)   Extend for a reasonable period the time for payment of a claim by
agreeing to accept monthly or other periodic payments, upon such terms and
conditions as the Tax Administrator may require.
   (c)   The Tax Administrator's rejection of a compromise or payment-over-time
agreement proposed by a person with respect to a claim shall not be appealable.
   (d)   A compromise or payment-over-time agreement with respect to a claim
shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of only the parties to the
compromise or agreement, and shall not extinguish or otherwise affect the
liability of any other person.
   (e)   (1)   A compromise or payment-over-time agreement with respect to a
claim shall be void if the taxpayer defaults under the compromise or agreement
or if the compromise or agreement was obtained by fraud or by misrepresentation
of a material fact. Any amount that was due before the compromise or agreement
and that is unpaid shall remain due, and any penalties or interest that would
have accrued in the absence of the compromise or agreement shall continue to
accrue and be due.
      (2)   The Tax Administrator shall have sole discretion to determine
whether or not penalty, interest, charges or applicable fees will be assessed
through the duration of any compromise or payment-over-time agreement.
   (f)   The Tax Administrator may require that the taxpayer provide detailed
financial documentation and information, in order to determine whether or not a
payment-over-time agreement will be authorized. The taxpayer's failure to
provide the necessary and required information by the Tax Administrator shall
preclude consideration of a payment-over-time agreement.
(Ord. 15-40, passed 12-10-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Administration of claims, see R.C. § 718.28
§ 890.133 AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR; RIGHT TO EXAMINE.
   (a)   The Tax Administrator, or any authorized agent or employee thereof may
examine the books, papers, records, and federal and state income tax returns of
any employer, taxpayer, or other person that is subject to, or that the Tax
Administrator believes is subject to, the provisions of this chapter for the
purpose of verifying the accuracy of any return made or, if no return was
filed, to ascertain the tax due under this chapter. Upon written request by the
Tax Administrator or a duly authorized agent or employee thereof, every
employer, taxpayer, or other person subject to this section is required to
furnish the opportunity for the Tax Administrator, authorized agent, or
employee to investigate and examine such books, papers, records, and federal
and state income tax returns at a reasonable time and place designated in the
request.
   (b)   The records and other documents of any taxpayer, employer, or other
person that is subject to, or that a Tax Administrator believes is subject to,
the provisions of this chapter shall be open to the Tax Administrator's
inspection during business hours and shall be preserved for a period of six
years following the end of the taxable year to which the records or documents
relate, unless the Tax Administrator, in writing, consents to their destruction
within that period, or by order requires that they be kept longer. The Tax
Administrator of a municipal corporation may require any person, by notice
served on that person, to keep such records as the Tax Administrator determines
necessary to show whether or not that person is liable, and the extent of such
liability, for the income tax levied by the municipality or for the withholding
of such tax.
   (c)   The Tax Administrator may examine under oath any person that the Tax
Administrator reasonably believes has knowledge concerning any income that was
or would have been returned for taxation or any transaction tending to affect
such income. The Tax Administrator may, for this purpose, compel any such
person to attend a hearing or examination and to produce any books, papers,
records, and federal and state income tax returns in such person's possession
or control. The person may be assisted or represented by an attorney,
accountant, bookkeeper, or other tax practitioner at any such hearing or
examination. This division does not authorize the practice of law by a person
who is not an attorney.
   (d)   No person issued written notice by the Tax Administrator compelling
attendance at a hearing or examination or the production of books, papers,
records, or federal and state income tax returns under this section shall fail
to comply.
(Ord. 15-40, passed 12-10-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Accuracy of returns; verification, see R.C. § 718.23
§ 890.134 AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR; REQUIRING IDENTIFYING INFORMATION.
   (a)   The Tax Administrator may require any person filing a tax document
with the Tax Administrator to provide identifying information, which may
include the person's social security number, federal employer identification
number, or other identification number requested by the Tax Administrator. A
person required by the Tax Administrator to provide identifying information
that has experienced any change with respect to that information shall notify
the Tax Administrator of the change before, or upon, filing the next tax
document requiring the identifying information.
   (b)   (1)   If the Tax Administrator makes a request for identifying
information and the Tax Administrator does not receive valid identifying
information within 30 days of making the request, nothing in this chapter
prohibits the Tax Administrator from imposing a penalty upon the person to whom
the request was directed pursuant to §
890.10, in addition to any applicable penalty described in §
890.99.
      (2)   If a person required by the Tax Administrator to provide
identifying information does not notify the Tax Administrator of a change with
respect to that information as required under division (a) of this section
within 30 days after filing the next tax document requiring such identifying
information, nothing in this chapter prohibits the Tax Administrator from
imposing a penalty pursuant to §
890.10.
      (3)   The penalties provided for under divisions (b)(1) and (b)(2) of
this section may be billed and imposed in the same manner as the tax or fee
with respect to which the identifying information is sought and are in addition
to any applicable criminal penalties described in §
890.99 for a violation of §
890.15 and any other penalties that may be imposed by the Tax Administrator by
law.
(Ord. 15-40, passed 12-10-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Identification information, see R.C. § 718.26
§ 890.14 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   (a)   Any information gained as a result of returns, investigations,
hearings, or verifications required or authorized by R.C. Chapter 718 or by the
charter or ordinance of the municipality is confidential, and no person shall
access or disclose such information except in accordance with a proper judicial
order or in connection with the performance of that person's official duties or
the official business of the municipality as authorized by R.C. Chapter 718 or
the charter or ordinance authorizing the levy. The Tax Administrator of the
municipality or a designee thereof may furnish copies of returns filed or
otherwise received under this chapter and other related tax information to the
Internal Revenue Service, the State Tax Commissioner, and Tax Administrators of
other municipal corporations.
   (b)   This section does not prohibit the municipality from publishing or
disclosing statistics in a form that does not disclose information with respect
to particular taxpayers.
(Ord. 15-40, passed 12-10-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Tax information confidential, see R.C. § 718.13
§ 890.15 FRAUD.
   No person shall knowingly make, present, aid, or assist in the preparation
or presentation of a false or fraudulent report, return, schedule, statement,
claim, or document authorized or required by municipal corporation ordinance or
state law to be filed with the Tax Administrator, or knowingly procure,
counsel, or advise the preparation or presentation of such report, return,
schedule, statement, claim, or document, or knowingly change, alter, or amend,
or knowingly procure, counsel or advise such change, alteration, or amendment
of the records upon which such report, return, schedule, statement, claim, or
document is based with intent to defraud the municipality or the Tax
Administrator.
(Ord. 15-40, passed 12-10-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Fraud, see R.C. § 718.35
§ 890.16 OPINION OF THE TAX ADMINISTRATOR.
   (a)   An "opinion of the Tax Administrator" means an opinion issued under
this section with respect to prospective municipal income tax liability. It
does not include ordinary correspondence of the Tax Administrator.
   (b)   A taxpayer may submit a written request for an opinion of the Tax
Administrator as to whether or how certain income, source of income, or a
certain activity or transaction will be taxed. The written response of the Tax
Administrator shall be an "opinion of the Tax Administrator" and shall bind the
Tax Administrator, in accordance with divisions (c), (g), and (h) of this
section, provided all of the following conditions are satisfied:
      (1)   The taxpayer's request fully and accurately describes the specific
facts or circumstances relevant to a determination of the taxability of the
income, source of income, activity, or transaction, and, if an activity or
transaction, all parties involved in the activity or transaction are clearly
identified by name, location, or other pertinent facts.
      (2)   The request relates to a tax imposed by the municipality in
accordance with this chapter.
      (3)   The Tax Administrator's response is signed by the Tax Administrator
and designated as an "opinion of the Tax Administrator."
   (c)   An opinion of the Tax Administrator shall remain in effect and shall
protect the taxpayer for whom the opinion was prepared and who reasonably
relies on it from liability for any taxes, penalty, or interest otherwise
chargeable on the activity or transaction specifically held by the Tax
Administrator's opinion to be taxable in a particular manner or not to be
subject to taxation for any taxable years that may be specified in the opinion,
or until the earliest of the following dates:
      (1)   The effective date of a written revocation by the Tax Administrator
sent to the taxpayer by certified mail, return receipt requested. The effective
date of the revocation shall be the taxpayer's date of receipt or one year
after the issuance of the opinion, whichever is later;
      (2)   The effective date of any amendment or enactment of a relevant
section of the Ohio Revised Code, uncodified state law, or the municipality's
income tax ordinance that would substantially change the analysis and
conclusion of the opinion of the Tax Administrator;
      (3)   The date on which a court issues an opinion establishing or
changing relevant case law with respect to the Ohio Revised Code, uncodified
state law, or the municipality's income tax ordinance;
      (4)   If the opinion of the Tax Administrator was based on the
interpretation of federal law, the effective date of any change in the relevant
federal statutes or regulations, or the date on which a court issues an opinion
establishing or changing relevant case law with respect to federal statutes or
regulations;
      (5)   The effective date of any change in the taxpayer's material facts
or circumstances;
      (6)   The effective date of the expiration of the opinion, if specified
in the opinion.
   (d)   (1)   A taxpayer is not relieved of tax liability for any activity or
transaction related to a request for an opinion that contained any
misrepresentation or omission of one or more material facts.
      (2)   If the taxpayer knowingly has misrepresented the pertinent facts or
omitted material facts with intent to defraud the municipality in order to
obtain a more favorable opinion, the taxpayer may be in violation of § 890.15.
   (e)   If a Tax Administrator provides written advice under this section, the
opinion shall include a statement that:
      (1)   The tax consequences stated in the opinion may be subject to change
for any of the reasons stated in division (c) of this section;
      (2)   It is the duty of the taxpayer to be aware of such changes.
   (f)   A Tax Administrator may refuse to offer an opinion on any request
received under this section.
   (g)   This section binds a Tax Administrator only with respect to opinions
of the Tax Administrator issued on or after January 1, 2016.
   (h)   An opinion of a Tax Administrator binds that Tax Administrator only
with respect to the taxpayer for whom the opinion was prepared and does not
bind the Tax Administrator of any other municipal corporation.
   (i)   A Tax Administrator shall make available the text of all opinions
issued under this section, except those opinions prepared for a taxpayer who
has requested that the text of the opinion remain confidential. In no event
shall the text of an opinion be made available until the Tax Administrator has
removed all information that identifies the taxpayer and any other parties
involved in the activity or transaction.
   (j)   An opinion of the Tax Administrator issued under this section or a
refusal to offer an opinion under division (f) of this section may not be
appealed.
(Ord. 15-40, passed 12-10-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Opinion of Tax Commissioner; request, see R.C. § 718.38
§ 890.17 ASSESSMENT; APPEAL BASED ON PRESUMPTION OF DELIVERY.
   (a)   (1)   The Tax Administrator shall serve an assessment either by
personal service, by certified mail, or by a delivery service authorized under
R.C. § 5703.056.
      (2)   The Tax Administrator may deliver the assessment through
alternative means as provided in this section, including, but not limited to,
delivery by secure electronic mail. Such alternative delivery method must be
authorized by the person subject to the assessment.
      (3)   Once service of the assessment has been made by the Tax
Administrator or other municipal official, or the designee of either, the
person to whom the assessment is directed may protest the ruling of that
assessment by filing an appeal with the Local Board of Tax Review within 60
days after the receipt of service. The delivery of an assessment of the Tax
Administrator as prescribed in R.C. § 718.18 is prima facie evidence that
delivery is complete and that the assessment is served.
   (b)   (1)   A person may challenge the presumption of delivery and service
as set forth in this division. A person disputing the presumption of delivery
and service under this section bears the burden of proving by a preponderance
of the evidence that the address to which the assessment was sent was not an
address with which the person was associated at the time the Tax Administrator
originally mailed the assessment by certified mail. For the purposes of this
section, a person is associated with an address at the time the Tax
Administrator originally mailed the assessment if, at that time, the person was
residing, receiving legal documents, or conducting business at the address; or
if, before that time, the person had conducted business at the address and,
when the assessment was mailed, the person's agent or the person's affiliate
was conducting business at the address. For the purposes of this section, a
person's affiliate is any other person that, at the time the assessment was
mailed, owned or controlled at least 20%, as determined by voting rights, of
the addressee's business.
      (2)   If a person elects to appeal an assessment on the basis described
in division (b)(1) of this section, and if that assessment is subject to
collection and is not otherwise appealable, the person must do so within 60
days after the initial contact by the Tax Administrator or other municipal
official, or the designee of either, with the person. Nothing in this division
prevents the Tax Administrator or other official from entering into a
compromise with the person if the person does not actually file such an appeal
with the Local Board of Tax Review.
(Ord. 15-40, passed 12-10-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Service of assessment; presumption, see R.C. § 718.18
§ 890.18 LOCAL BOARD OF TAX REVIEW; APPEAL TO LOCAL BOARD OF TAX REVIEW.
   (a)   (1)   The legislative authority of the municipality shall maintain a
Local Board of Tax Review to hear appeals as provided in R.C. Chapter 718.
      (2)   The Local Board of Tax Review shall consist of three members.
         Two members shall be appointed by the legislative authority of the
municipality, and may not be employees, elected officials, or contractors with
the municipality at any time during their term or in the five years immediately
preceding the date of appointment. One member shall be appointed by the top
administrative official of the municipality. This member may be an employee of
the municipality, but may not be the director of finance or equivalent officer,
or the Tax Administrator or other similar official or an employee directly
involved in municipal tax matters, or any direct subordinate thereof.
      (3)   The term for members of the Local Board of Tax Review appointed by
the legislative authority of the municipality shall be two years. There is no
limit on the number of terms that a member may serve should the member be
reappointed by the legislative authority. The board member appointed by the top
administrative official of the municipality shall serve at the discretion of
the administrative official.
      (4)   Members of the Board of Tax Review appointed by the legislative
authority may be removed by the legislative authority as set forth in R.C. §
718.11(A)(4).
      (5)   A member of the board who, for any reason, ceases to meet the
qualifications for the position prescribed by this section shall resign
immediately by operation of law.
      (6)   A vacancy in an unexpired term shall be filled in the same manner
as the original appointment within 60 days of when the vacancy was created. Any
member appointed to fill a vacancy occurring prior to the expiration of the
term for which the member's predecessor was appointed shall hold office for the
remainder of such term. No vacancy on the board shall impair the power and
authority of the remaining members to exercise all the powers of the board.
      (7)   If a member is temporarily unable to serve on the board due to a
conflict of interest, illness, absence, or similar reason, the legislative
authority or top administrative official that appointed the member shall
appoint another individual to temporarily serve on the board in the member's
place. This appointment shall be subject to the same requirements and
limitations as are applicable to the appointment of the member temporarily
unable to serve.
      (8)   No member of the Local Board of Tax Review shall receive
compensation, fee, or reimbursement of expenses for service on the board.
      (9)   A member of a Local Board of Tax Review shall not be appointed to
or serve on another such board simultaneously.
   (b)   Whenever a Tax Administrator issues an assessment, the Tax
Administrator shall notify the taxpayer in writing at the same time of the
taxpayer's right to appeal the assessment, the manner in which the taxpayer may
appeal the assessment, and the address to which the appeal should be directed,
and to whom the appeal should be directed.
   (c)   Any person who has been issued an assessment may appeal the assessment
to the board by filing a request with the board. The request shall be in
writing, shall specify the reason or reasons why the assessment should be
deemed incorrect or unlawful, and shall be filed within 60 days after the
taxpayer receives the assessment.
   (d)   The Local Board of Tax Review shall schedule a hearing to be held
within 60 days after receiving an appeal of an assessment under division (c) of
this section, unless the taxpayer requests additional time to prepare or waives
a hearing. If the taxpayer does not waive the hearing, the taxpayer may appear
before the board and/or may be represented by an attorney at law, certified
public accountant, or other representative. The board may allow a hearing to be
continued as jointly agreed to by the parties. In such a case, the hearing must
be completed within 120 days after the first day of the hearing unless the
parties agree otherwise.
   (e)   The board may affirm, reverse, or modify the Tax Administrator's
assessment or any part of that assessment. The board shall issue a final
determination on the appeal within 90 days after the board's final hearing on
the appeal, and send a copy of its final determination by ordinary mail to all
of the parties to the appeal within 15 days after issuing the final
determination. The taxpayer or the Tax Administrator may appeal the board's
final determination as provided in R.C. § 5717.011.
   (f)   The Local Board of Tax Review created pursuant to this section shall
adopt rules governing its procedures, including a schedule of related costs,
and shall keep a record of its transactions. The rules governing the Local
Board of Tax Review procedures shall be in writing, and may be amended as
needed by the Local Board of Tax Review. Such records are not public records
available for inspection under R.C. § 149.43. For this reason, any
documentation, copies of returns or reports, final determinations, or working
papers for each case must be maintained in a secure location under the control
of the Tax Administrator. No member of the Local Board of Tax Review may remove
such documentation, copies of returns or reports, final determinations, or
working papers from the hearing. Hearings requested by a taxpayer before a
Local Board of Tax Review created pursuant to this section are not meetings of
a public body subject to R.C. § 121.22. For this reason, such hearings shall
not be open to the public, and only those parties to the case may be present
during the hearing.
(Ord. 15-40, passed 12-10-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Local Board of Tax Review, see R.C. § 718.11
§ 890.19 ACTIONS TO RECOVER; STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.
   (a)   (1)   A.   Civil actions to recover municipal income taxes and
penalties and interest on municipal income taxes shall be brought within the
latter of:
            1.   Three years after the tax was due or the return was filed,
whichever is later; or
            2.   One year after the conclusion of the qualifying deferral
period, if any.
         B.   The time limit described in division (a)(1)A. of this section may
be extended at any time if both the Tax Administrator and the employer, agent
of the employer, other payer, or taxpayer consent in writing to the extension.
Any extension shall also extend for the same period of time the time limit
described in division (c) of this section.
      (2)   As used in this section, "qualifying deferral period" means a
period of time beginning and ending as follows:
         A.   Beginning on the date a person who is aggrieved by an assessment
files with a Local Board of Tax Review the request described in § 890.18. That
date shall not be affected by any subsequent decision, finding, or holding by
any administrative body or court that the Local Board of Tax Review with which
the aggrieved person filed the request did not have jurisdiction to affirm,
reverse, or modify the assessment or any part of that assessment.
         B.   Ending the later of the 60th day after the date on which the
final determination of the Local Board of Tax Review becomes final or, if any
party appeals from the determination of the Local Board of Tax Review, the 60th
day after the date on which the final determination of the Local Board of Tax
Review is either ultimately affirmed in whole or in part or ultimately reversed
and no further appeal of either that affirmation, in whole or in part, or that
reversal is available or taken.
   (b)   Prosecutions for an offense made punishable under a resolution or
ordinance imposing an income tax shall be commenced within three years after
the commission of the offense, provided that in the case of fraud, failure to
file a return, or the omission of 25% or more of income required to be
reported, prosecutions may be commenced within six years after the commission
of the offense.
   (c)   A claim for a refund of municipal income taxes shall be brought within
the time limitation provided in §
890.096.
   (d)   (1)   Notwithstanding the fact that an appeal is pending, the
petitioner may pay all or a portion of the assessment that is the subject of
the appeal. The acceptance of a payment by the municipality does not prejudice
any claim for refund upon final determination of the appeal.
      (2)   If upon final determination of the appeal an error in the
assessment is corrected by the Tax Administrator, upon an appeal so filed or
pursuant to a final determination of the Local Board of Tax Review created
under §
890.18, of the Ohio Board of Tax Appeals, or any court to which the decision of
the Ohio Board of Tax Appeals has been appealed, so that the amount due from
the party assessed under the corrected assessment is less than the amount paid,
there shall be issued to the appellant or to the appellant's assigns or legal
representative a refund in the amount of the overpayment as provided by §
890.096, with interest on that amount as provided by division (d) of this
section.
   (e)   No civil action to recover municipal income tax or related penalties
or interest shall be brought during either of the following time periods:
      (1)   The period during which a taxpayer has a right to appeal the
imposition of that tax or interest or those penalties;
      (2)   The period during which an appeal related to the imposition of that
tax or interest or those penalties is pending.
(Ord. 15-40, passed 12-10-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Statute of limitations, see R.C. § 718.12
§ 890.20 ADOPTION OF RULES.
   (a)   Pursuant to R.C. § 718.30, the municipality, pursuant to this chapter,
grants authority to the Tax Administrator, to adopt rules to administer the
income tax imposed by the municipality.
   (b)   All rules adopted under this section shall be published and posted on
the internet.
(Ord. 15-40, passed 12-10-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of rules, see R.C. § 718.30
§ 890.97 COLLECTION AFTER TERMINATION OF CHAPTER.
   (a)   This chapter shall continue in full force and effect insofar as the
levy of taxes is concerned until repealed, and insofar as the collection of
taxes levied hereunder and actions and proceedings for collecting any tax so
levied or enforcing any provisions of this chapter are concerned, it shall
continue in full force and effect until all of the taxes levied in the
aforesaid period are fully paid and any and all suits and prosecutions for the
collection of taxes or for the punishment of violations of this chapter have
been fully terminated, subject to the limitations contained in §
890.19.
   (b)   Annual returns due for all or any part of the last effective year of
this chapter shall be due on the date provided in §
890.091 as though the same were continuing.
(Ord. 15-40, passed 12-10-2015)
§ 890.98 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   If any sentence, clause, section or part of this chapter, or any tax imposed
against, or exemption from tax granted to, any taxpayer or forms of income
specified herein is found to be unconstitutional, illegal or invalid, such
unconstitutionality, illegality, or invalidity shall affect only such clause,
sentence, section or part of this chapter so found and shall not affect or
impair any of the remaining provisions, sentences, clauses, sections or other
parts of this chapter. It is hereby declared to be the intention of the
legislative authority of the municipality that this chapter would have been
adopted had such unconstitutional, illegal or invalid sentence, clause, section
or part thereof not been included in this chapter.
(Ord. 15-40, passed 12-10-2015)
§ 890.99 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   (a)   Except as provided in division (b) of this section, whoever violates
§§
890.051,
890.14(a) or
890.15 by failing to remit municipal income taxes deducted and withheld from an
employee, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be
subject to a fine of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000) or
imprisonment for a term of up to six months, or both. In addition, the
violation is punishable by dismissal from office or discharge from employment,
or both.
   (b)   Any person who discloses information received from the Internal
Revenue Service in violation of section 7213(a), 7213A, or 7431 of the Internal
Revenue Code shall be guilty of a felony of the fifth degree and shall be
subject to a fine of not more than five thousand dollars ($5,000) plus the
costs of prosecution, or imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years, or
both. In addition, the violation is punishable by dismissal from office or
discharge from employment, or both.
   (c)   Each instance of access or disclosure in violation of §
890.14(a) constitutes a separate offense.
   (d)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which violation no
penalty is otherwise provided, is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree
on a first offense; on a second offense within one year after the first
offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree; on each
subsequent offense within one year after the first offense, the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. By way of an illustrative
enumeration, violations of this chapter shall include but not be limited to the
following acts, conduct, and/or omissions:
      (1)   Fail, neglect or refuse to make any return or declaration required
by this chapter;
      (2)   Knowingly make any incomplete return;
      (3)   Willfully fail, neglect, or refuse to pay the tax, penalties, and
interest, or any combination thereof, imposed by this chapter;
      (4)   Cause to not be remitted the city income tax withheld from
qualifying wages of employees to the municipality as required by §
890.051;
      (5)   Neglect or refuse to withhold or remit municipal income tax from
employees;
      (6)   Refuse to permit the Tax Administrator or any duly authorized agent
or employee to examine his or her books, records, papers, federal and state
income tax returns, or any documentation relating to the income or net profits
of a taxpayer;
      (7)   Fail to appear before the Tax Administrator and to produce his or
her books, records, papers, federal and state income tax returns, or any
documentation relating to the income or net profits of a taxpayer upon order or
subpoena of the Tax Administrator;
      (8)   Refuse to disclose to the Tax Administrator any information with
respect to such person's income or net profits, or in the case of a person
responsible for maintaining information relating to his or her employers'
income or net profits, such person's employer's income or net profits;
      (9)   Fail to comply with the provisions of this chapter or any order or
subpoena of the Tax Administrator;
      (10)   To avoid imposition or collection of municipal income tax,
willfully give to an employer or prospective employer false information as to
his or her true name, correct social security number and residence address, or
willfully fail to promptly notify an employer or a prospective employer of any
change in residence address and date thereof;
      (11)   Fail, as an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer, to
maintain proper records of employees residence addresses, total qualifying
wages paid and municipal tax withheld, or to knowingly give the Tax
Administrator false information;
      (12)   Willfully fail, neglect, or refuse to make any payment of
estimated municipal income tax for any taxable year or any part of any taxable
year in accordance with this chapter; or
      (13)   Attempt to do anything whatsoever to avoid the payment of the
whole or any part of the tax, penalties or interest imposed by this chapter.
      (14)   For purposes of this section, any violation that does not specify
a culpable mental state or intent, shall be one of strict liability and no
culpable mental state or intent shall be required for a person to be guilty of
that violation.
      (15)   For purposes of this section, the term "person" shall, in addition
to the meaning prescribed in §
890.03, include in the case of a corporation, association, pass-through entity
or unincorporated business entity not having any resident owner or officer
within the city, any employee or agent of such corporation, association, pass-
through entity or unincorporated business entity who has control or supervision
over or is charged with the responsibility of filing the municipal income tax
returns and making the payments of the municipal income tax as required by this
chapter.
(Ord. 15-40, passed 12-10-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Violations; penalties, see R.C. § 718.99
CHAPTER 892: MOTOR VEHICLE LICENSE TAX
Section
892.01   Levy of tax
Cross-reference:
   Display and obstruction of license plates, see TRAF.
436.09
   Use of illegal license plates, see TRAF.
436.10
Statutory reference:
   Licensing of motor vehicles, see Ohio R.C. Ch. 4503
   Motor Vehicle License Tax, see Ohio R.C. 4504.06, 4504.172
§ 892.01 LEVY OF TAX.
   In accordance with Ohio R.C. 4504.06 there is levied an annual license tax,
in addition to the tax levied by Ohio R.C. 4503.02, 4503.07 and 4503.18, upon
the operation of motor vehicles on the public roads and highways. Such tax
shall be at the annual rate of five dollars ($5.00) per motor vehicle on all
motor vehicles the district of registration of which, as defined in Ohio R.C.
4503.10, is in the City of Ironton, Ohio, and which are not subject to a county
motor vehicle license tax previously levied by a resolution adopted pursuant to
Ohio R.C. 4504.02. Such tax shall be in addition to the taxes at the rates
specified in Ohio R.C. 4503.04 and 4503.16, subject to reductions in the manner
provided in Ohio R.C. 4503.11 and the exemptions provided in Ohio R.C. 4503.16,
4503.17, 4503.171, 4503.173, 4503.41, 4503.43 and 4503.46.
   (b)   The funds from the tax shall be used for any of the purposes set forth
in Ohio R.C. 4504.06.
(Ord. 77-13, passed 3-24-1977; Am. Ord. 02-31, passed 6-27-2002)
CHAPTER 894: COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT AREAS
Section
   Editor’s note:  The city has established Community Reinvestment Areas
pursuant to Ohio R.C. 3735.65 et seq. to encourage housing maintenance and
economic and community development. The following legislation established such
areas:
   Resolution 82-62, passed December 9, 1982
   Resolution 82-66, passed December 23, 1982
   Resolution 83-60, passed October 27, 1983
   Resolution 83-61, passed October 27, 1983
   Resolution 92-21, passed March 26, 1992
   Copies of such resolutions may be obtained, at cost, from the Mayor’s
office.
   There are no sections in Chapter 894. This chapter has been established to
provide a place for cross-references and any future legislation.
Cross-reference:
   Department of Community Development, see ADM.
Ch. 242
   Urban renewal, see P. & Z. Chs.
1290 et seq.
Statutory reference:
   Community improvement corporations, see Ohio R.C. Ch. 1724
   Community reinvestment areas, see Ohio R.C. 3735.65 et seq.
   Community urban redevelopment corporations, see Ohio R.C. Ch. 1728
CHAPTER 896: SHORT-TERM RENTAL/AIR BNB TAX
Section
896.01   Levy of tax
§ 896.01 LEVY OF TAX.
   (a)   Definition. "Short-term rental/Air BNB" shall mean the providing of a
room or space that is suitable or intended for occupancy for dwelling,
sleeping, or lodging purposes for a period of less than 30 consecutive days, in
exchange for a charge for said occupancy, sleeping, or lodging purposes.
   (b)   Levy of tax. A 6% excise tax is hereby levied on all transactions by
which lodging by a short-term rental/Air BNB is or is to be furnished to
transient guests on all short-term rentals/Air BNBs situated in the municipal
corporation limits of the City of Ironton.
   (c)   Collection of tax. Said tax is to be collected by the short-term
rental/Air BNB and paid to the Ironton Finance Department by the tenth day of
each month for the preceding month's transactions.
   (d)   Tax placement in funds. The funds collected from said tax shall be
divided by placing 50% into Fund Thirty (Community Development Improvement) and
50% into Fund Thirty-Two (Economic Development).
(Ord. 22-56, passed 11-21-2022; Am. Ord. 23-54, passed 6-22-2023)
PART TEN - STREETS, UTILITIES AND PUBLIC SERVICES CODE
      TITLE TWO - Street and Sidewalk Areas
         
Chap. 1020.   Excavations.
         
Chap. 1022.   Sidewalk Areas and Curbs.
      TITLE FOUR - Utilities
         
Chap. 1040.   Utility Poles, Anchors and Underground Lines.
         
Chap. 1042.   Sewers Generally.
         
Chap. 1044.   Sewer Service Charges.
         
Chap. 1045.   Storm Water.
         
Chap. 1046.   Water.
         
Chap. 1048.   Electricity.
         
Chap. 1050.   Gas.
         
Chap. 1052.   Small Cell Technology in the Right-of-Way.
      TITLE SIX - Other Public Services
         
Chap. 1060.   Garbage and Rubbish Collection and Disposal.
         
Chap. 1062.   Parks and Recreation Areas.
TITLE TWO - STREET AND SIDEWALK AREAS
CHAPTER 1020: EXCAVATIONS
Section
1020.01   Permit required
1020.02   Permit application; inspection fee; issuance or denial
1020.03   Bond
1020.04   Restoration of pavement and damaged sidewalks
1020.05   Warning lights
1020.06   Street obstructions; building permits; bond
1020.07   Failure to complete work
1020.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Driving upon streets closed for repair, see TRAF.
432.24
Statutory reference:
   Digging, excavating and piling earth on streets, see Ohio R.C. 5589.10
   Liability for damage, see Ohio R.C. 723.49 et seq.
   Openings by the municipality, see Ohio R.C. 723.02
   Power to establish and care for streets, see Ohio R.C. 715.19, 717.01,
723.01
   Surface treatment, see Ohio R.C. 723.23, 723.31
§ 1020.01 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall make any excavation in any street, alley, sidewalk, tree
lawn or other municipal realty without first obtaining a permit therefor as
provided in this chapter.
§ 1020.02 PERMIT APPLICATION; INSPECTION FEE; ISSUANCE OR DENIAL.
   An application for a permit required by §
1020.01 shall be made to the Public Services Coordinator. An inspection fee of
fifty dollars ($50.00) shall accompany the application. If the application is
approved, a permit shall be issued. If such application is not approved, the
applicant shall be so notified and the fee returned. The cumulative excavation
permit fees for any single applicant shall not exceed three thousand dollars
($3,000.00) per calendar year.
(Am. Ord. 99-33, passed 7-8-1999)
§ 1020.03 BOND.
   A performance bond of five hundred dollars ($500.00) or a property bond
shall be posted with the city prior to the issuance of the permit required in §
1020.01. However, unless the Public Services Coordinator has reason to believe
that such work would result in an excessive nuisance to the public, the Public
Services Coordinator may waive the bond requirement for sidewalks and driveway
aprons. Upon the completion of restoration, pursuant to §
1020.04(d), the city shall return the performance bond. Failure to complete the
restoration to the city’s satisfaction shall be just cause for the forfeiture
of the bond to the city.
§ 1020.04 RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT AND DAMAGED SIDEWALKS.
   (a)   No person shall fail or neglect to replace or restore a street or
alley to as good a condition as existed before the street or alley was
disturbed.
(Ord. 5035, passed 2-13-1964)
   (b)   Streets and alleys shall be restored to their original condition using
the same specific type of material found in such streets and alleys before the
excavation. Restoration shall be done to the satisfaction of the Public
Services Coordinator.
   (c)   Sidewalks that are damaged due to improvements made in the interests
of the city residents shall be restored to their original condition from
contraction joint to contraction joint. Restoration shall meet the
specifications of §
1022.03(g) and shall be done to the satisfaction of the Public Services
Coordinator.
   (d)   All work shall be done in a manner coordinated between the contractor
and the Public Services Coordinator. Upon completion of the restoration, an
inspection will be made by the Public Services Coordinator. If, in the opinion
of the Public Services Coordinator, the quality and workmanship of the restored
street, alley or sidewalk does not meet the standards of the city, the city may
order the contractor to remove the street, alley or sidewalk and to replace it
according to city specifications. If, after notification and a waiting period
of 15 days, the work is not corrected, the city may correct the work and charge
the contractor and/or property owner for the work.
(Ord. 76-4, passed 2-17-1976)
§ 1020.05 WARNING LIGHTS.
   No person placing or having any building, structure or material, or digging
or having dug any trench or excavation, in any street, alley or public place
shall fail to display thereat during the night a red light or pot torch placed
so conspicuously as to warn all approaching persons. No person shall take away,
turn over or in any way interfere with such light.
(Ord. 4141, passed 8-1-1950)
§ 1020.06 STREET OBSTRUCTIONS; BUILDING PERMITS; BOND.
   On application, stating the kind, estimated cost, proposed location and time
for completion of a projected building, the Public Services Coordinator may
grant a building permit to a person wishing to construct or repair a house or
structure, to occupy such portion or part of the adjacent street, alley and
sidewalk as may be necessary, not to exceed one-half the width of the street
and one-half the width of the sidewalk. Persons using such permit shall cause
the material put upon such street, alley or sidewalk to be piled in a
workmanlike manner and the gutter to be kept unobstructed. Applications shall
be accompanied by a bond for faithful compliance with this section, in an
amount to be fixed by the Public Services Coordinator.
§ 1020.07 FAILURE TO COMPLETE WORK.
   If any person fails to complete the restoration of any street, alley,
sidewalk, treelawn or other municipal realty by the established completion
date, the Public Services Coordinator is hereby authorized to complete such
work and recover the city’s costs in doing so from the person failing to
complete such work, provided that the Public Services Coordinator shall give
such person 30 days notice of his or her intent to complete such work. If the
work is not completed by the person receiving such notice within 30 days of
receipt thereof, the Public Services Coordinator may proceed to complete such
work.
§ 1020.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed each day during or on which a violation or noncompliance occurs or
continues.
CHAPTER 1022: SIDEWALK AREAS AND CURBS
Section
1022.01   Basement and other openings
1022.02   Encroachments; permit required
1022.03   Construction and repair of sidewalks and driveways
1022.04   Curb cutting; permit required; fee
1022.05   Treelawns
1022.06   Unpaved driveway aprons
1022.07   Awnings, marquees and canopies over sidewalks
1022.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Bicycles upon sidewalks, see TRAF.
474.06
   Driving upon sidewalks and curbs, see TRAF.
432.22
   Maintenance of sidewalks, see GEN. OFF.
660.05
   Restoration of damaged sidewalks, see S.U. & P.S.
1020.04
   Sidewalk obstructions, see GEN. OFF.
660.10; B & H.
1440.02(m)
Statutory reference:
   Notice to construct or repair sidewalks, see Ohio R.C. 729.03 et seq.
   Sidewalk construction or repair at owner’s expense, see Ohio R.C. 729.01 et
seq.
§ 1022.01 BASEMENT AND OTHER OPENINGS.
   No person owning or in charge of any cellar or basement opening upon a
sidewalk or public place shall fail to guard the passageway thereto by a
railing or other protection. No person shall permit the door of such passageway
to remain open at night without a light therein to warn pedestrians.
(Ord. 4141, passed 8-1-1950)
§ 1022.02 ENCROACHMENTS; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (a)   No person shall erect or maintain any step, cellarway or cellar door
on any sidewalk or public place, extending more than three feet from the inside
line of the sidewalk or public place, or construct or maintain any jut, window,
porch or waterspout thereon which projects beyond the inside line thereof,
without first obtaining a permit therefor from the Director of Public Works and
Services. However, waterspouts may pass under or at a distance of not less than
eight feet above the sidewalk to the line of the gutter.
   (b)   No person shall construct or maintain any steps, stairs or means of
descent from any upper story of any building, projecting beyond the inside line
of the sidewalk or public ground, without first obtaining a permit therefor
from the Director.
§ 1022.03 CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR OF SIDEWALKS AND DRIVEWAYS.
   (a)   Rules. The Director of Public Works and Services is hereby authorized
to regulate and prescribe reasonable rules for the construction, reconstruction
or repair of sidewalks in the city as to width, location, materials and manner
of construction. Such rules shall be on file in the Director’s office.
   (b)   Responsibility. Every sidewalk in the city shall be kept in repair by
the owner of the property abutting thereon by the constructing, repairing or
relaying of the same as may be required by the city.
   (c)   Plans; specifications; materials; supervision. Every sidewalk in the
city shall conform to and be in accordance with the plans and specifications,
and shall be constructed in the manner and of the materials, as provided by
this chapter or other ordinances of the city, and upon the established grades
and under the supervision of the Director.
   (d)   Notice to repair. The owners of the lots in front of which sidewalks
are to be repaired are hereby ordered to have such work done within 90 days
from the service of notice thereon.
   (e)   Repairs by city; costs; lien. Upon the failure of the owner of any
property to cause the sidewalk to be repaired within the time specified in
division (d) hereof, the Director is hereby authorized and directed to cause
such sidewalks to be repaired and to assess the entire cost of the same against
such property and cause the same to become a lien thereon and to be collected
in such manner as may be provided by law.
   (f)   Permit fee. A fee of five cents ($0.05) per square foot shall be
charged by the city for a sidewalk or driveway construction or repair permit.
Such permit shall be issued by the Director for all jobs over 30 square feet
when, in his or her judgment, the construction or repair does not damage or
interfere with the best interests of the residents of the city.
   (g)   Specifications.
      (1)   The base material for all sidewalks and driveways shall meet the
approval of the Director. The base shall be tamped and compacted to the
satisfaction of the Director.
      (2)   Forms shall be set true to the line and grade established by the
Director. Upon completion of the setting of the forms, an inspection will be
made by the Director before permission to pour is given.
      (3)   Concrete shall meet the requirements of the State of Ohio,
Department of Transportation, Construction and Material Specifications Manual,
§ 499, as amended.
      (4)   Sidewalks must be of a minimum thickness of four inches of
concrete, and driveways must be of a minimum thickness of five inches of
concrete and be paved from the curb line to the property line.
      (5)   Contraction joints shall be cut one-fourth the thickness of the
sidewalk or driveway. The joints shall be either sawed or struck. The location
of these joints shall be at the discretion of the Director. Full depth one-half
inch expansion material shall be placed not less than 20 feet nor more than 30
feet in all sidewalks. The location of these expansion joints shall be at the
discretion of the Director. Expansion material shall be placed between all new
and existing concrete. The wearing surface shall be bull floated and troweled
once or twice at the discretion of the Director.
      (6)   A.   All work shall be done in a manner coordinated between the
contractor and the Director.
         B.   Upon completion of the construction, an inspection will be made
by the Director. If, in the opinion of the Director, the quality and
workmanship of the completed sidewalk or driveway does not meet the standards
of the city, the city may order the contractor to remove the sidewalk and to
replace it according to city specifications. If, after notification and a
waiting period of 90 days, the work is not corrected, the city may correct the
work and charge the contractor and/or property owner for the work.
§ 1022.04 CURB CUTTING; PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE.
   (a)   A fee of ten dollars ($10.00) shall be charged by the city for a curb
cutting permit. No curb shall be cut or altered until such sum is paid and a
permit issued. The permit shall be issued by the Director of Public Works and
Services when, in his or her judgment, such cutting or altering does not damage
or interfere with the best interests of the residents of the city.
   (b)   (1)   The type of material and the compaction of such material in the
base shall meet the approval of the Director.
      (2)   Forms shall be set true to the line and grade established by the
Director. Upon completion of the setting of the forms, an inspection will be
made by the Director before permission to pour is given.
      (3)   Concrete curbs shall have struck joints at ten-foot intervals and
full depth one-half inch expansion joints at not less than 30 feet nor more
than 40 feet. One-half inch expansion material shall be placed between new and
existing concrete.
      (4)   Concrete shall meet the requirements of the State of Ohio,
Department of Transportation, Construction and Material Specifications Manual,
§ 499, as amended.
      (5)   Two types of curb or curb and gutter shall be permitted. See the
following sketch for details. The type to be used shall be at the discretion of
the Director.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/803373d1ea2e795248aea6f027aa41f2618616a3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-26.jpg]
 
   (c)   (1)   All curb cutting or altering shall be done at the discretion of
the Director. Where the curb is cut for a driveway, the driveway must be paved
with concrete from curb to property line. Construction of the driveway shall
meet the specifications of §
1022.03(g).
      (2)   The contractor or person doing the construction shall secure a
permit from the Mayor’s designee for a fee of ten dollars ($10.00).
      (3)   All work shall be done in a manner coordinated between the
contractor and the Director.
      (4)   Upon completion of the construction an inspection will be made by
the Director. If, in the opinion of the Director, the quality and workmanship
of the completed curb and/or gutter does not meet the standards of the city,
the city may order the contractor to remove the curb and/or gutter and replace
it according to city specifications. If, after notification and a waiting
period of 15 days, the work is not corrected, the city may correct the work and
charge the contractor and/or property owner for the work.
§ 1022.05 TREELAWNS.
   (a)   Treelawns are the responsibility of the owner of the property abutting
thereon and shall be kept in repair and maintained.
   (b)   Responsibility includes the trimming and removal of trees and mowing
grass in the treelawns.
   (c)   The maintenance shall be done to the satisfaction of the Director of
Public Works.
   (d)   No tree shall be removed without first obtaining permission from the
Director.
   (e)   The city shall give written notice to each property owner whose
treelawn is in need of maintenance or repair and are hereby ordered to have
such work done within 30 days from notice.
   (f)   Upon failure of the owner to do such repairs within the time
specified, the Director is hereby authorized and directed to cause such repairs
to be made and to assess the entire cost of the same against such property and
cause the same to become a lien thereon and to be collected in such a manner as
may be provided by the law.
(Ord. 93-65, passed 1-27-1994)
§ 1022.06 UNPAVED DRIVEWAY APRONS.
   (a)   No person shall maintain an unpaved driveway apron in the city.
Unpaved driveway aprons are hereby declared to be a nuisance.
   (b)   The city shall give written notice to each property owner whose
driveway apron does not conform to divisions (d) and (e) hereof. The property
owner shall then have 180 days to obtain a permit from the Director of Public
Works and Services to construct a paved driveway apron. No person shall fail to
obtain such permit and construct the paved driveway apron.
   (c)   The Director shall require that the driveway apron be paved with a
minimum thickness of five inches of concrete. The Director shall determine the
width of the driveway apron on an individual basis. All driveway aprons shall
be paved from the public street to the property line or sidewalk, at the
discretion of the Director. All work shall conform to §
1022.03 and shall be done to the complete satisfaction of the Director. If, in
the opinion of the Director, the quality and workmanship of the completed
driveway apron does not meet the standards of the city, the city may correct
the work and charge the contractor and/or property owner for such work.
   (d)   Paved driveway aprons shall only be required where a paved street
exists. “Paved street,” for purposes of this division means a street consisting
of permanent pavement of at least six inches of brick, concrete or asphalt, or
a combination of any of these materials, including curbs and gutters.
   (e)   This section shall not apply to driveway aprons paved with asphalt,
brick or similar permanent substances on the effective date of Ordinance 77-28,
passed May 12, 1977.
(Ord. 81-80, passed 10-8-1981)
§ 1022.07 AWNINGS, MARQUEES AND CANOPIES OVER SIDEWALKS.
   (a)   No person shall erect an awning, marquee or canopy over a city
sidewalk without first obtaining a permit therefor from the office of the
Director of Public Works and Services.
   (b)   (1)   Such permit shall be issued to any person applying therefor,
provided that the application indicates that the awning, marquee or canopy will
be at least eight feet in height at all locations, that the structure will not
be built any closer than five feet from the curbing or street line and that a
state building permit has been obtained for such construction.
      (2)   The Director or his or her employees shall reject any such
application that does not provide the necessary information to ensure that such
awning, marquee or canopy has sufficient structural soundness to ensure the
safety of pedestrians using the sidewalk and that the design of the awning,
marquee or sidewalk is in conformity with the surrounding structures as
recommended for uniformity in the downtown area.
   (c)   The city will charge no fee for the permit.
   (d)   The rejection of an application by the Director may be appealed to a
committee of residents composed of a retail merchant, a landlord and a building
contractor. Such committee shall be appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by
Council, and members shall serve for terms of four years.
(Ord. 84-01, passed 2-9-1984)
§ 1022.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed each day during or on which a violation or noncompliance occurs or
continues.
TITLE FOUR - UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1040: UTILITY POLES, ANCHORS AND UNDERGROUND LINES
Section
1040.01   Permit required
1040.02   Permit issuance
1040.03   Location; materials; construction
1040.04   Stop work orders
1040.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Tampering with and theft of utilities, see GEN. OFF.
642.26
   Utilities in urban renewal areas, see P. & Z.
1294.05
   Utility rates, see ADM.
222.02
Statutory reference:
   Right of eminent domain, see Ohio R.C. 719.01 et seq., 743.37 et seq.
§ 1040.01 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall excavate for, construct or set a utility pole, anchor or
underground line without first obtaining a permit therefor from the Director of
Public Works and Services.
§ 1040.02 PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   The permit required by §
1040.01 shall be issued by the Director of Public Works and Services when, in
his or her judgment, the excavation, construction or setting of utility poles,
anchors and underground utility lines does not damage or interfere with the
best interests of the residents of the city.
§ 1040.03 LOCATION; MATERIALS; CONSTRUCTION.
   (a)   The location of proposed poles, anchors and underground lines will be
staked by the utility company and inspected by the Director of Public Works and
Services. Such location will be described in feet from the nearest street,
alley or lot line.
   (b)   The location, type of material, type of construction and all phases of
the project must meet the approval of the Director, and all work shall be done
in a manner coordinated between the utility company and the Director.
§ 1040.04 STOP WORK ORDERS.
   Work on a project may be halted at any time if, in the judgment of the
Director of Public Works and Services, the standards and specifications of the
city are not being met.
§ 1040.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed each day during or on which a violation or noncompliance occurs or
continues.
CHAPTER 1042: SEWERS GENERALLY
Section
1042.01   Purposes
1042.02   Definitions
1042.03   Unlawful deposits
1042.04   Unlawful discharges
1042.05   Private disposal systems
1042.06   Toilet facilities and connections required; nuisances
1042.07   Connections; permit required
1042.08   Independent connections required; exception
1042.09   Inspections; notice
1042.10   Control manholes
1042.11   Flow equalization facilities
1042.12   Special meters
1042.13   Cleaning clogged sewers
1042.14   Discharge of storm, surface and unpolluted drainage
1042.15   General discharge prohibitions
1042.16   Limitations on wastewater strength
1042.17   Discharge of radioactive wastes
1042.18   Dilution
1042.19   Review of extraordinary discharges
1042.20   Pretreatment requirements
1042.21   Accidental discharges and operating upsets
1042.22   Reports
1042.23   Records retention
1042.24   Availability and confidentiality of information
1042.25   Right of entry for inspections
1042.26   Emergency suspension of service
1042.27   Termination of service
1042.28   Interpretations; appeals
1042.29   Falsifying information; tampering with meters
1042.30   Publication of enforcement actions
1042.31   Tests and analyses
1042.32   Special agreements
1042.33   Tampering with sewage works
1042.34   Review of regulations
1042.35   Notice of violations of chapter; compliance required; civil liability
1042.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Sewerage rates, see S.U. & P.S.
Ch. 1044
   Tampering with and theft of utilities, see GEN. OFF.
642.26
   Utilities in urban renewal areas, see P. & Z.
1294.05
   Water, see S.U. & P.S.
Ch. 1046
Statutory reference:
   Compulsory sewer connections, see Ohio R.C. 729.06
   Interference with sewage flow, see Ohio R.C. 4933.24
   Management and control of sewerage system, see Ohio R.C. 729.50 et seq.
   Sewers, see Ohio R.C. 729.31 et seq.
   Sewerage rates, see Ohio R.C. 729.49, 729.52
   Untreated sewage, see Ohio R.C. 3701.59
§ 1042.01 PURPOSES.
   (a)   This chapter establishes uniform requirements for users of the sewage
works and enables the city to protect the public health in conformity with all
applicable laws.
   (b)   The objectives of this chapter are to:
      (1)   Prevent the introduction of pollutants into the sewage works which
will interfere with the operation of the works or contaminate the resulting
sludge;
      (2)   Prevent the introduction of pollutants into the sewage works which
do not receive adequate treatment or which will otherwise be incompatible with
the works, and which will pass through the works into receiving waters or the
atmosphere;
      (3)   Improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewater and
sludge from the works; and
      (4)   Identify the minimum standards for construction and maintenance of
building sewer connections.
   (c)   Discharges into the sewage works shall be regulated by enforcing the
administrative provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 86-32, passed 6-23-1986)
§ 1042.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, as used in this
chapter:
   “Biochemical oxygen demand” (BOD) means the quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter (mg/l), as determined
by Standard Methods.
   “Building drain” means that part of the lowest horizontal piping of a
drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other
drainage pipes inside the walls of a building and conveys it to the building
sewer.
   “Building sewer” means the extension from the building drain to the public
sewer or other place of disposal.
   “Categorical pretreatment standards” means national pretreatment standards
promulgated by USEPA specifying quantities or concentrations of pollutants or
pollutant properties which may be discharged or introduced to the sewage works
by specific industrial users.
   “Combined sewer” means a sewer which is designed to carry a combination of
sanitary sewage and surface or storm water, with or without industrial wastes.
   “Cooling water” means the water discharged from any system of condensation,
air conditioning, cooling or refrigeration. It shall be free from odor and oil
and shall contain no polluting substances.
   “Director” means the Director of Public Works and Services.
   “Federal Act” or “Act” means the Federal Water Pollution Control Act
Amendments of 1972, as amended by the Clean Water Act of 1977 (Pub. L. No. 95-
217) 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., as well as any guidelines, limitations and
standards promulgated by USEPA pursuant to the Act.
   “Garbage” means solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation,
cooking and dispensing of food or from the handling storage and sales of
produce.
   “Holding tank waste” means any waste from holding tanks, including vessels,
chemical toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks and vacuum/pump tank trucks.
   “Industrial user” means any nonresidential user who discharges wastes into
the sewage works by means of pipes, conduits, pumping stations, force mains,
constructed drainage ditches, intercepting ditches and constructed devices and
appliances appurtenant thereto.
   “Industrial wastes” means the solid, liquid or gaseous waste resulting from
any industrial, manufacturing, trade or business process, or from the
development, recovery or processing of natural resources, as distinct from
sanitary sewage.
   “Interference” means the inhibition of the sewerage system, treatment
processes or operations contributing to a violation of any requirement of the
NPDES permit.
   “May” is permissive.
   “Mg/l” means milligrams per liter.
   “Natural outlet” means any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or
other body of surface or ground water.
   “Normal sewage” means sewage having an average daily suspended solids
concentration of not more than 220 mg/l, and an average daily BOD of not more
than 220 mg/l.
   “NPDES permit” means a National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
permit issued by the OEPA.
   “Nuisance” means anything which is so injurious to health, is so indecent or
offensive to the senses or is such an obstruction to the free use of property
as to interfere with the comfort or enjoyment of life or property, or which
affects, at the same time, an entire community or neighborhood or any
considerable number of persons, although the extent of the annoyance or damage
inflicted upon individuals may be unequal.
   “OEPA” means the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency.
   “Person” means any individual, firm, company, association, society,
corporation or group. In the case of a corporation, “person” means and includes
a company officer directly in charge of wastewater discharges.
   “pH” means the logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the weight of
hydrogen ions in grams per liter of solution. (Low values, 0 - 6.9, indicate
the presence of acids or acid forming salts. High values, 7.1 - 14.0, indicate
the presence of alkaline material. A pH of 7.0 is considered neutral.)
   “Premises” means any parcel of real estate or portion of real estate,
including any improvements, determined by the Director to be a single user for
purposes of receiving, using and paying for services.
   “Pretreatment” means reduction in the amount of pollutants, the elimination
of pollutants or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater to a less harmful state, prior to or in lieu of discharging
pollutants to the sewage works.
   “Private sewer” means a sewer which is not subject to the jurisdiction of
the city, in which sewer all owners of abutting properties do not have equal
rights.
   “Properly shredded garbage” means wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers.
   “Public sewer” means a sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction of
the city, in which sewer all owners of abutting properties have equal rights.
   “Sanitary sewage” means a combination of the water-carried wastes from
residences, business buildings, institutions or commercial, industrial and
manufacturing establishments, contributed by reason of human occupancy.
   “Sanitary sewer” means a sewer which carries sanitary sewage and industrial
wastes, and into which storm, surface and ground waters or unpolluted
wastewaters are not intentionally admitted.
   “Sewage” means a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together
with any ground, surface and storm water that may be present.
   “Sewage works” means all facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and
disposing of sanitary sewage and industrial waste.
   “Sewer” means any pipe, conduit, ditch or other device used to collect and
transport sewage or storm water.
   “Shall” is mandatory.
   “Slugload” means any discharge which exceeds, for longer than 15 minutes,
more than five times the average 24 hour flow during normal operation, or more
than five times the 24 hour allowable concentration of materials for which
limits are specified.
   “Standard Methods” means the laboratory procedures specified in the latest
edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,
prepared and published jointly by the American Public Health Association, the
American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution Control Federation.
   “Storm sewer” means a sewer which carries storm and surface waters, but
which excludes sanitary sewage and industrial wastes, other than unpolluted
cooling water and unpolluted wastewater.
   “Suspended solids” (SS) means the total suspended matter that floats on the
surface of or is suspended in water, wastewater, sewage or other liquids, and
which is removable by laboratory filtering, expressed in mg/l, as determined by
standard methods.
   “Unpolluted wastewater” means water of quality equal to or better than the
effluent criteria in effect, or water that would not cause a violation of
receiving water quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to
the city’s sanitary sewers and wastewater treatment plant. Such water shall not
contain free or emulsified grease or oil, acid or alkali, phenols or other
substances which impart taste and odor, toxic or poisonous substances and
noxious or odorous gases. Such water shall not contain more than 10,000 mg/
l dissolved solids, of which not more than 2,500 mg/l shall be chlorides, ten
mg/l BOD, ten mg/l suspended solids and 50 mg/l color.
   “USEPA” means the United States Environmental Protection Agency.
   “User” means any person who discharges or causes or permits the discharge of
wastewater into a public sewer.
   “Wastes” means sewage and all other substances (liquid, solid, gaseous or
radioactive) associated with human habitation or of human or animal origin; or
from any producing, manufacturing or processing operation of any nature,
including substances placed within containers of any nature prior to and for
purposes of disposal.
   “Wastewater” means industrial waste, sanitary sewage or any other waste,
including that which may be combined with any ground water, surface water or
storm water, that may be discharged to the sewage works.
   “Wastewater treatment plant” means any arrangement of devices and structures
used for treating sewage.
   “Watercourse” means a channel in which a flow of water occurs, either
continuously or intermittently.
   “Water of the state” means any water, surface or underground, including
saline waters, within the boundaries of the state.
(Ord. 86-32, passed 6-23-1986)
§ 1042.03 UNLAWFUL DEPOSITS.
   No person shall place, deposit or permit to be deposited in an unsanitary
manner upon public or private property in the city, or in any area under the
jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal excrement, garbage or other
objectionable waste. Persons violating this section shall be subject to a
penalty for each offense.
(Ord. 86-32, passed 6-23-1986)
§ 1042.04 UNLAWFUL DISCHARGES.
   No person shall discharge into any natural outlet in the city, or in any
area under the jurisdiction of the city, any sanitary sewage, industrial waste
or other polluted water, except where suitable treatment has been provided
according to this chapter. All discharges to natural outlets shall be subject
to regulation by NPDES permits.
(Ord. 86-32, passed 6-23-1986)
§ 1042.05 PRIVATE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.
   (a)   Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall construct or maintain
any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended or
used for the private disposal of sewage.
   (b)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not accessible to a premises, the
building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal system according
to the following provision.
      (1)   The type, capabilities, location and layout of a private sewage
disposal system shall comply with all requirements of the local health
authority and all recommendations of the OEPA. No permit shall be issued for
any private sewage disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption
facilities where the area of the lot is less than 15,000 square feet in cases
where an approved public water supply is available, and 31,500 square feet in
cases where the water supply must be obtained from a well on the same lot. No
holding tank waste shall be permitted to discharge into any natural outlet.
      (2)   No person shall directly or indirectly discharge holding tank waste
into a public sewer unless a permit therefor is secured from the Director of
Public Works and Services. Unless allowed by the terms and conditions of the
permit, a separate permit shall be secured for each separate discharge. Such
permit shall specify the location of the discharge, the time of the day the
discharge is to occur, the volume of the discharge and its constituents. If a
permit is granted for the discharge of wastes into a public sewer, the user
shall pay the applicable user charges and fees and shall meet any other
conditions required by the Director.
      (3)   The owner shall, at his or her expense, operate and maintain the
private sewage disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times.
   (c)   Where it is necessary to install a private sewage disposal system to
serve a premises and a public sewer becomes available to that premises by means
of main or lateral sewers, the premises shall, as soon as practical, be
connected to the public sewer. Any septic tanks, cesspools or similar private
sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable
materials.
(Ord. 86-32, passed 6-23-1986)
§ 1042.06 TOILET FACILITIES AND CONNECTIONS REQUIRED; NUISANCES.
   The owner of any house, building or property used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes situated in the city and abutting on
any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is or may be located a public
sanitary or combined sewer of the city shall, at his or her expense, install
suitable toilet facilities and connect these facilities directly with the
proper public sewer in accordance with this chapter. All outside toilets are
declared to be unsanitary and dangerous to public health and are, therefore, a
nuisance.
(Ord. 86-32, passed 6-23-1986)
§ 1042.07 CONNECTIONS; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connection with or opening
into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance without first
obtaining a permit therefor from the Director of Public Works and Services. The
Director shall not permit new connections to existing sewers, which connections
will result in flows in excess of the sewer’s capacity or the capacity of the
sewage works.
(Ord. 86-32, passed 6-23-1986)
§ 1042.08 INDEPENDENT CONNECTIONS REQUIRED; EXCEPTION.
   (a)   The drainage and plumbing system of each new building or new work
installed in any existing building shall be entirely separate and independent
of that of any other building. Wherever available, every building on the same
premises shall have an independent connection to the main or branch sewer.
   (b)   Where one building exists or is erected in the area of another on an
interior lot, and no private sewer or public sewer is available or possible, or
can be made so for the rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard,
driveway or easement, the building sewer from the front building may, by
special permission of the Director of Public Works and Services, be extended to
the rear building, and the whole shall be considered one building sewer.
(Ord. 86-32, passed 6-23-1986)
§ 1042.09 INSPECTIONS; NOTICE.
   The owner or his or her duly authorized representative shall notify the
Director of Public Works and Services in advance as to when any work will be
ready for final inspection. All work shall be left uncovered and open for
examination until inspected and approved by the Director or his or her duly
authorized inspector. All notifications shall specify the permit number and
street location. The Director or his or her duly authorized assistants shall
have access and permission at all times to inspect the work being done or the
materials or fixtures used.
(Ord. 86-32, passed 6-23-1986)
§ 1042.10 CONTROL MANHOLES.
   (a)   The owner of any premises served by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall construct and maintain one or more control manholes in
the building sewer to facilitate the observation, inspection, flow measurement
and sampling of wastes. Control manholes and related equipment shall be
accessibly and safely located and shall be constructed in a manner acceptable
to the Director of Public Works and Services. If measuring devices are to be
permanently installed, they shall be of a type acceptable to the Director.
   (b)   Control manholes and related equipment shall be installed by the
person discharging the waste, at his or her expense, and shall be maintained by
him or her in a safe and accessible condition at all times. Plans for the
installation of control manholes and related equipment shall be approved by the
Director prior to the beginning of construction.
(Ord. 86-32, passed 6-23-1986)
§ 1042.11 FLOW EQUALIZATION FACILITIES.
   Any person discharging more than 100,000 gallons of waste per day into the
public sewers shall construct and maintain, at his or her expense, a suitable
storage and flow control facility to ensure equalization of discharge over a 24
hour period. Such facility shall have a capacity of at least 50 percent of the
total normal volume of a 24 hour production period. The outlet to the sewer
shall be equipped with a rate-discharge controller or other device acceptable
to the Director of Public Works and Services.
(Ord. 86-32, passed 6-23-1986)
§ 1042.12 SPECIAL METERS.
   (a)   Devices for measuring the volume of waste discharged from a premises
may be required by the Director of Public Works and Services if the volume
cannot otherwise be determined from the metered consumption records. Metering
devices for determining the volume of waste shall be installed, owned and
maintained by the person. Following approval and installation, such meters
shall not be removed without the consent of the Director.
   (b)   If any person discharging industrial waste into a public sewer
procures any or all of his or her water from sources other than the city, any
or all of which water is discharged into the public sewer, the person shall
install and maintain, at his or her expense, water meters of a type approved by
the Director to measure the volume of water obtained from such other sources.
(Ord. 86-32, passed 6-23-1986)
§ 1042.13 CLEANING CLOGGED SEWERS.
   (a)   The city shall be responsible for cleaning all public sanitary sewers
up to the property line.
   (b)   In cases of emergency, the city may clean the clogged building sewer
and charge the costs to the property owner.
   (c)   Whenever a plumber employed by a property owner finds that a clog
exists in the sewer outside the property line, such plumber shall immediately
obtain confirmation from the Director of Public Works and Services, who shall
then certify the plumber’s charge to the Director of Finance for payment.
   (d)   When a discharge of waste causes an obstruction, damage or other
impairment to city facilities, the Director of Public Works and Services may
assess a charge against the person for the work required to clean or repair the
facility and add such charge to the person’s user charges and fees.
(Ord. 86-32, passed 6-23-1986)
§ 1042.14 DISCHARGE OF STORM, SURFACE AND UNPOLLUTED DRAINAGE.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water, surface
water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling water or
unpolluted wastewater to any sanitary sewer. Storm water and all other
unpolluted drainage shall be discharged into sewers specifically designated as
combined sewers or storm sewers, or into a natural outlet approved by the
Director of Public Works and Services.
(Ord. 86-32, passed 6-23-1986)
§ 1042.15 GENERAL DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS.
   Except as provided in this chapter, no person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged to any public sewer, ditch, drain or culvert any of the following.
   (a)   Any water, waste or vapor containing heat in amounts which will
accelerate the biodegradation of wastes, cause the formation of excessive
amounts of hydrogen sulfide in the sewage works or inhibit biological activity
in the wastewater treatment plant. In no case shall heated discharges cause the
temperature in the public sewer to exceed 65°C (150°F), or the temperature of
the influent at the treatment plant to exceed 40°C (104°F).
   (b)   Any water or waste containing substances that will solidify or become
discernibly viscous at temperatures between 30°F and 150°F, including, but not
limited to, ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal or metal
hydroxide slurries, glass, rags, feathers, tar, asphalt or asphaltic materials,
plastics, wood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings, entrails, beer or distillery
spent grains, chemical residues, paint residues, cannery wastes, bulk solids or
other solid or viscous substances capable of causing obstruction to the flow in
sewers or other interference with the operation of the sewage works.
   (c)   Any water or waste containing fat, oil or grease exceeding 100 mg/l.
   (d)   Any water or waste containing nonbiodegradable grease or oils of
mineral or petroleum origin. Industrial cooling water which may be polluted
with insoluble oils, grease or suspended solids shall be pretreated to remove
the pollutants and the resultant wastewater shall be discharged according to §
1042.14.
   (e)   Any water or waste which will create a fire or explosion hazard,
including but not limited to, gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other
flammable or explosive liquid, solid or gas.
   (f)   Any water or waste containing more than ten mg/l of hydrogen sulfide,
sulfur dioxide or nitrous oxide.
   (g)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded.
   (h)   Any water or waste containing phenolic compounds in excess of 1.0 mg/
l. This limit may be modified if the aggregate of contributions throughout the
service area creates treatment difficulties or produces a prohibitive effluent
discharge to receiving waters.
   (i)   Any water or waste, acid or alkaline in reaction, having corrosive
properties cable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment and
personnel. Free acids or alkalies of such wastes must be neutralized at all
times within the permissible range of pH 5.5 to 9.5.
   (j)   Any water or waste containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or
gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, which injure or interfere with any wastewater treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, prevent
entry into the sewers for maintenance and repair, cause the treatment plant
effluent, residues, sludges or scums to be unsuitable for reclamation and re-
use, or interfere with the reclamation process.
   (k)   Any water or waste containing suspended or dissolved solids of such
character and quantity that unusual provisions, attention or expenses are
required to handle these solids at the wastewater treatment plant.
   (l)   Any slugload of any pollutant, including oxygen demanding pollutants,
released in a single extraordinary discharge episode of such volume or strength
as to cause interference in the sewage works.
   (m)   Any water or waste containing in excess of 0.02 mg/l total
identifiable chlorinated hydrocarbons.
   (n)   Any water or waste which causes a detrimental environmental impact or
nuisance in the waters for the state, or which causes the quality of the
wastewater treatment plant effluent to violate the NPDES permit limitations or
applicable water quality standards.
(Ord. 86-32, passed 6-23-1986)
§ 1042.16 LIMITATIONS ON WASTEWATER STRENGTH.
   (a)   No person shall discharge wastewater containing in excess of:
Substance             Concentration in mg/l
Arsenic               0.05
Cadmium               0.01
Chromium (hexavalent) 0.05
Copper                1.0
Lead                  0.05
Mercury               0.0002
Nickel                1.0
Silver                0.05
Zinc                  0.30
Cyanide               0.025
 
   (b)   Wastewater from individual establishments shall be subject to volume
and concentration controls by the Director of Public Works and Services.
Discharge limitations promulgated by the USEPA pursuant to the Federal Act
shall apply where they are more stringent than those specified in this chapter.
(Ord. 86-32, passed 6-23-1986)
§ 1042.17 DISCHARGE OF RADIOACTIVE WASTES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any radioactive waste
into a public sewer, except when the person is authorized to use radioactive
materials by the Ohio Department of Health or other governmental agency
authorized to regulate the use of radioactive material.
(Ord. 86-32, passed 6-23-1986)
§ 1042.18 DILUTION.
   No person shall in any way increase the use of potable or process water, or
mix separate waste streams, for the purpose of diluting a discharge as a
partial or complete substitute for adequate treatment to comply with this
chapter.
(Ord. 86-32, passed 6-23-1986)
§ 1042.19 REVIEW OF EXTRAORDINARY DISCHARGES.
   (a)   Any water or waste which, by interaction with other water or waste in
the sewage works, releases obnoxious gases, develops color of undesirable
intensity, forms suspended solids in objectionable concentrations or creates
any other condition deleterious to the sewage works shall be subject to control
or shall be debarred from the sewage works by the Director of Public Works and
Services.
   (b)   Concentrated dye wastes, spent tanning solutions or other wastes which
are highly colored, or liquid wastes which have a strength or concentration
greater than normal sewage, shall be subject to special review by the Director
for:
      (1)   Approval or rejection of admission to the public sewers;
      (2)   Modification at the point of origin to permit admission to the
public sewers; or
      (3)   Pretreatment by the person to permit admission to the public
sewers.
   (c)   Persons whose average daily flow is greater than two percent of the
city’s average daily sewage flow shall be subject to the review and approval of
the Director prior to admission to the public sewer.
(Ord. 86-32, passed 6-23-1986)
§ 1042.20 PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   The city may reject wastes for any reason the Director of Public Works
and Services deems appropriate. Wastewater shall meet the minimum requirements
established in this chapter before being discharged into any public sewer. The
Director may issue orders to require compliance with any requirement or this
chapter, including applicable categorical pretreatment standards, other
discharge limits and reporting requirements. Any violation of such orders shall
be considered a violation of this chapter and shall subject the user to the
penalty provisions contained herein. If the Director determines that an
existing or proposed discharge could cause damage to, impose an unreasonable
burden upon or be inadequately treated by the sewage works, he or she shall
require the user, at his or expense, to:
      (1)   Reduce or modify the objectionable characteristics of the wastes to
meet limits or conditions specified in this chapter prior to discharging these
wastes to a public sewer;
      (2)   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of the wastes over a
24-hour day and seven-day week; or
      (3)   Dispose of the wastes and prevent them from entering the sewage
works.
   (b)   Plans, specifications, operating procedures, compliance schedules and
other pertinent information relating to proposed pretreatment or control
facilities shall be submitted to the Director for approval. Construction of
such facilities shall not begin until written approval is obtained from the
Director. The review of such plans and procedures shall in no way relieve the
person from the responsibility of modifying the facilities as required to
produce an effluent meeting the requirements of this chapter. Any subsequent
change in the pretreatment facilities or operating procedures shall be
submitted to and approved by the Director before the change is implemented.
   (c)   All pretreatment facilities shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation by the person, at his or her expense,
subject to periodic inspection by the Director. Such person shall maintain
operating records and shall submit, at the request of the Director, a summary
report of the character of the influent and effluent, showing the performance
of the pretreatment facilities.
   (d)   National categorical pretreatment standards promulgated by the USEPA
pursuant to the Federal Act shall be met by all dischargers of the regulated
industrial categories. Where these national categorical pretreatment standards
are more stringent than those specified in this chapter, this chapter shall be
amended to adopt the more stringent standards within nine months of the
promulgation of a national categorical pretreatment standard, to require
compliance by dischargers subject to such standard within the time frame
specified by the same. All national categorical pretreatment standards adopted
after the effective date of this chapter (Ordinance 86-32, passed June 23,
1986) shall be adopted by the city as part of this chapter. All persons
regulated by the more stringent categorical pretreatment standards shall be
notified of any proposed change prior to such effective date, and shall comply
with the applicable standards by such effective date. Any change or new
provision in this chapter shall include a reasonable time schedule for
compliance.
   (e)   Where a person subject to a national categorical pretreatment standard
has not submitted a discharge report as required in §
1042.22, he or she shall file a completed report within six months after the
promulgation of the applicable national categorical pretreatment standard.
Where a person has submitted an acceptable discharge report, he or she shall
submit to the Director any additional information required by the national
categorical pretreatment standard within six months after such promulgation.
   (f)   Where the wastewater treatment plant achieves substantial and
consistent pollutant removal, revisions of the national categorical
pretreatment standards shall be considered by the Director upon the written
request of a regulated person, according to the criteria and provisions of §
403.7 of the General Pretreatment Regulations. In any case, the Director shall
require that the person’s discharge shall not cause the wastewater treatment
plant effluent to violate applicable water quality standards and effluent
limitations specified in the city’s NPDES permit.
(Ord. 86-32, passed 6-23-1986)
§ 1042.21 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES AND OPERATING UPSETS.
   (a)   A person shall notify the city immediately upon the occurrence of a
slugload or accidental discharge of wastes prohibited by this chapter. The
notification shall include the location of the discharge, date and time, type
of waste, concentration and volume, and corrective actions. A person who
discharges any prohibited liquid or solid waste into a public sewer or natural
outlet shall be liable for any expense, loss or damage to the sewage works. In
addition, he or she shall be liable for any fines imposed on the city under
state or federal law as a result of such discharge.
   (b)   Any person who experiences an upset in operations and is
unintentionally and temporarily in a state of noncompliance with this chapter
due to factors beyond his or her reasonable control shall inform the city
immediately after commencement of the operating upset. Where information is
given orally, the person shall file a written follow-up report with the city
within five days. The report shall:
      (1)   Describe the incident, its cause and its impact on the person’s
compliance status;
      (2)   Give the duration of noncompliance, including exact dates and times
of noncompliance, and if the noncompliance continues, the time by which
compliance is reasonably expected to occur; and
      (3)   All steps taken or to be taken to reduce, eliminate and prevent a
recurrence of the conditions of noncompliance. A documented and verified
operation upset shall be an affirmative defense to any enforcement action
brought by the city against a discharger for noncompliance with this chapter.
   (c)   Signs shall be permanently posted in conspicuous places on the
person’s premises advising employees whom to call in the event of a slugload,
accidental discharge or operating upset. Any employee who may cause or discover
such a discharge shall be given instruction in emergency notification
procedures.
(Ord. 86-32, passed 6-23-1986)
§ 1042.22 REPORTS.
   Each industrial user discharging or proposing to discharge other than normal
sewage either directly or indirectly to the sewage works shall comply with this
chapter and shall complete and file the following reports within the time
specified by the Director of Public Works and Services.
   (a)   Discharge report. The information on the discharge report shall be
current, and whenever the user’s process changes, the information shall be
revised. The information on the discharge report shall include:
      (1)   The facility name, address, mailing address, sewer account number
and SIC number;
      (2)   The wastewater constituents, characteristics and concentration of
any discharge pollutants or substances prohibited or limited by this chapter,
as determined by bona fide chemical and biological analyses acceptable to the
Director;
      (3)   The time and duration of discharges;
      (4)   The average daily wastewater flow rate, including the method of
determination and an explanation of all surges of strength and flow rates;
      (5)   The facility site plan, showing size, elevation and location of all
connections to public sanitary sewers, control manholes or sampling access
locations and pretreatment equipment;
      (6)   A description of the facilities, manufacturing processes or service
activities on the premises;
      (7)   A.   A statement detailing whether pretreament or additional
operation and maintenance procedures are required to comply with this chapter.
If such procedures are required to achieve compliance, a schedule for
completion of pretreatment equipment or additional operation and maintenance
procedures shall be submitted to the Director. The schedule shall contain
milestone dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to
the construction and operation of additional pretreatment facilities required
for the person to comply with this chapter, including, but not limited to,
dates relating to hiring an engineer, completing preliminary plans, executing
contracts for major components, commencing construction, completing
construction and other acts necessary to achieve compliance with this chapter.
The Director shall not permit a time increment for any single step directed
toward compliance to exceed nine months. Any violation of this compliance
schedule shall be considered a violation of this chapter;
         B.   The discharger shall submit a progress report to the Director not
later than 14 days after each scheduled milestone date and after the final
completion date. Each report shall include, at a minimum, a statement detailing
whether the person has complied with the increment of progress represented by
the milestone date and, if not, the date on which he or she expects to comply
with such increment of progress, the reason for the delay and the steps taken
to return to the approved schedule. The Director shall not permit the time
increment between progress reports to exceed nine months;
      (8)   Products manufactured or services rendered by type, amount, process
and rate of production; and
      (9)   A.   The type and amount of raw materials used.
         B.   The completed report shall be signed and sent to the Director. If
the Director’s evaluation requires additional information, he or she shall
request the necessary information from the user and shall notify the user in
writing when the report is acceptable.
   (b)   Strength analysis report.
      (1)   The information to be submitted on each strength analysis report
shall be as follows:
         A.   The user’s name, address and sewer account number;
         B.   The date and time the sample was collected; and
         C.   The results of laboratory analysis in mg/l of the strength of BOD
and suspended solids in the user’s discharge to sanitary sewers. The analysis
shall be in accordance with methods approved by the Director.
      (2)   One sample shall be collected and analyzed at least once every six
months. If the strength of the discharge is inconsistent, additional tests
shall be required.
      (3)   The sampling procedures used shall ensure that the sample is a
representative sample of the flow.
      (4)   The average strengths, in mg/l, of BOD and suspended solids for
each strength surcharge billing period shall be determined from the information
submitted in the strength analysis reports for samples collected during the
billing period.
      (5)   The city shall periodically collect and test samples of the
discharge. If the information is substantially different from that on the
strength analysis reports, the values obtained from such city collected samples
may be used to determine surcharge strengths in place of the values in the
strength analysis reports.
   (c)   Compliance report. Within 90 days following the date for final
compliance by dischargers subject to a categorical pretreatment standard or any
pretreatment provision of this chapter, or 90 days following commencement of
the introduction of wastewater into the sewage works by a new discharger, any
user subject to a national categorical pretreatment standard or any
pretreatment provision of this chapter shall submit a report to the Director
indicating the average discharge flow and the nature and concentration of all
prohibited or regulated substances contained in his or her discharge. The
report shall state whether or not applicable pretreatment standards are being
met on a consistent basis, and if not, what measures are necessary to achieve
compliance with these standards. The report shall be signed by the chief
executive officer of the facility.
   (d)   Periodic compliance report. Any user subject to a national categorical
pretreatment standard or any pretreatment provision of this chapter shall
submit a semiannual report to the Director indicating the nature and
concentration of prohibited or regulated substances in his or her discharge.
Such report shall include a record of all measured average and maximum flows
during the reporting period, the results of discharge sampling and analyses and
any other information required by the Director.
   (e)   Analyses methods. All analyses shall be performed by methods approved
by the Director.
   (f)   Private water supply. Any person who discharges to a public sewer and
who obtains his or water supply from sources other than city water mains shall
report this fact to the Director by filling out forms to be supplied for him or
her for such purpose. No person shall fail to file such report.
(Ord. 86-32, passed 6-23-1986)
§ 1042.23 RECORDS RETENTION.
   All persons subject to this chapter shall retain and preserve, for not less
than three years, any records, books, documents, memoranda, reports,
correspondence and summaries relating to monitoring, sampling and chemical
analyses made by or on his or her behalf in connection with his or her
discharge.
(Ord. 86-32, passed 6-23-1986)
§ 1042.24 AVAILABILITY AND CONFIDENTIALITY OF INFORMATION.
   (a)   All information and data contained in a person’s reports,
applications, monitoring programs and inspections shall be available to the
general public or any governmental agency without restriction, unless the
person specifically requests and demonstrates to the satisfaction of the
Director of Public Works and Services that the release of this information
would divulge information, processes or methods which would be detrimental to
his or her competitive position. Wastewater constituents and characteristics
shall not be considered confidential information.
   (b)   Any information accepted by the Director as confidential shall not be
transmitted to the general public or any governmental agency without prior and
adequate notification and permission of the person, but shall be made available
upon written request to governmental agencies for uses related to this chapter,
the NPDES permit, a state disposal system permit and/or the pretreatment
program. However, the confidential portions of a report shall be available for
use by the state agency for judicial review or enforcement proceedings
involving the person who submitted the report.
(Ord. 86-32, passed 6-23-1986)
§ 1042.25 RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR INSPECTIONS.
   The Director of Public Works and Services and other duly authorized
personnel of the city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter all premises without advance notice to conduct inspections,
sampling, compliance monitoring and metering operations to ensure compliance
with this chapter. While performing these activities, city personnel shall
observe all safety rules established by the person.
(Ord. 86-32, passed 6-23-1986)
§ 1042.26 EMERGENCY SUSPENSION OF SERVICE.
   (a)   The Director of Public Works and Services may suspend wastewater
treatment service to any person if an actual or threatened discharge presents a
substantial danger to the public health or the environment, if it interferes
with the operation of the sewer works or if it violates any of the provisions
of this chapter.
   (b)   Any person notified of the suspension of service shall cease all
discharges within a period of time specified by the Director. If a person fails
to comply with the suspension order within the specified time, the Director may
immediately commence judicial proceedings to ensure compliance with the order.
The city shall reinstate service and terminate judicial proceedings upon proof
by the person that the noncomplying discharge has been eliminated.
(Ord. 86-32, passed 6-23-1986)
§ 1042.27 TERMINATION OF SERVICE.
   (a)   The Director of Public Works and Services shall terminate the
wastewater treatment service to any person who fails to:
      (1)   Factually report the wastewater constituents and characteristics of
his or her discharge;
      (2)   Report significant changes in wastewater constituents or
characteristics;
      (3)   Permit reasonable access to his or her premises by city personnel
for the purpose of inspection or monitoring;
      (4)   Comply with this chapter; or
      (5)   Comply with the conditions of any judicial order entered with
respect to this chapter.
   (b)   Prior to termination of service, the Director shall notify the person
in writing that service is intended to be terminated. The notice shall advise
the person of the violation and the necessary action to be taken. The person
shall respond in writing within a time specified by the Director advising him
or her of the person’s position concerning remedial measures. A hearing shall
be scheduled prior to termination of service for the person to appeal the
termination order and show cause why the termination order should not be
executed. The person shall be granted a period of time, determined by the
Director, to correct the violation or affect remedial measures. Thereafter, the
person shall be on notice that a further violation shall immediately be subject
to the prescribed penalties.
   (c)   This provision is in addition to other statutes, rules or regulations
authorizing termination of service for delinquency in payment.
(Ord. 86-32, passed 6-23-1986)
§ 1042.28 INTERPRETATIONS; APPEALS.
   (a)   Any person may request, in writing, an interpretation or ruling by the
Director of Public Works and Services on any provision of this chapter and
shall be entitled to a prompt written reply. If the inquiry deals with the
imposition of civil penalties or termination of service proceedings resulting
from a violation of this chapter, receipt of the person’s request shall suspend
all such proceedings pending receipt of the Director’s written reply.
   (b)   If the findings, orders or decisions of the Director pursuant to this
chapter are not acceptable to any person, such person may appeal as provided in
this division. Two professional engineers shall be chosen, one by the person
and the other by the Director. Neither engineer shall be a regular employee of
either principal. The engineers, acting as referees, shall be provided with a
certified copy of the complaint and the decision of the Director. The engineers
shall investigate the complaint, affirm or reject the findings of the Director
and, within a reasonable time, file a report of their decision with the
Director. If the engineers are unable to agree, they shall choose a third
professional engineer and the decision or recommendation of the majority shall
be reported to the Director. The Director’s decision shall be final and shall
be reported to the principals. The fees and expenses of the engineer appointed
by the person shall be paid by such person. The fees and expenses of the
engineer appointed by the Director shall be paid from funds appropriated by the
city. The fees and expenses of the third engineer shall be equally divided
between such person and the city.
   (c)   Any final order issued pursuant to this chapter may be appealed in
accordance with local and state law.
(Ord. 86-32, passed 6-23-1986)
§ 1042.29 FALSIFYING INFORMATION; TAMPERING WITH METERS.
   No person shall knowingly make any false statement or representation on any
record, report, plan or other document filed with the city, or falsify, tamper
with or knowingly render inaccurate any monitoring device or method required by
this chapter.
(Ord. 86-32, passed 6-23-1986)
§ 1042.30 PUBLICATION OF ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS.
   Once each year, the Director of Public Works and Services shall prepare a
list summarizing the enforcement actions taken during the previous 12 months.
The list shall be published in the largest daily newspaper in the city and
shall include all persons whose violations remained uncorrected 45 or more days
after notification of noncompliance, who exhibited a pattern of noncompliance
or who failed to accurately report noncompliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 86-32, passed 6-23-1986)
§ 1042.31 TESTS AND ANALYSES.
   (a)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes shall be in accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods
and shall be determined at the control manhole or upon suitable samples
collected at the control manhole. However, alternate methods for certain
analyses of industrial wastes may be used, subject to mutual agreement between
the Director of Public Works and Services and the person. If no special manhole
has been required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest
downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer
is connected.
   (b)   Determination of the character and concentration of the industrial
wastes shall be made by a laboratory approved by the Director. The person whose
wastes are being analyzed shall promptly reimburse the city for collecting
samples at the rate of thirty dollars ($30.00) for each day or part thereof
that such samples are collected. The laboratory approved by the Director to
analyze the samples shall submit invoices for the costs of such analyses
directly to the person. Such invoices shall be promptly paid directly to the
designated laboratory.
(Ord. 86-32, passed 6-23-1986)
§ 1042.32 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the city and any person whereby a
waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by the city for
treatment, subject to payment by the person. Such payment shall be relative to
the extra cost of treating the waste. However, any special agreement shall not
be permitted for any waste in excess of federal regulations or limitations.
(Ord. 86-32, passed 6-23-1986)
§ 1042.33 TAMPERING WITH SEWAGE WORKS.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this
provision shall be subject to immediate arrest.
(Ord. 86-32, passed 6-23-1986)
§ 1042.34 REVIEW OF REGULATIONS.
   This chapter shall be reviewed periodically by the Director of Public Works
and Services. If, in his or her opinion, changes or additions are required to
ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations, he or she shall submit
them to Council for approval. Upon approval, the changes or additions shall be
ratified as part of these Codified Ordinances.
(Ord. 86-32, passed 6-23-1986)
§ 1042.35 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS OF CHAPTER; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED; CIVIL
LIABILITY.
   (a)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter, except §§
1042.22(f) and
1042.33, shall be served with notice by the Director of Public Works and
Services stating the nature of the violation and the necessary action to be
taken. The person shall be granted a reasonable time limit, determined by the
Director, in which to correct and permanently cease all violations. Thereafter,
such person shall be subject to the penalty provided in §
1042.99.
   (b)   In addition to the penalty provided in §
1042.99, whoever violates this chapter shall become liable to the city for any
expense, loss or damage occasioned by the city by reason of such violation.
(Ord. 86-32, passed 6-23-1986)
§ 1042.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter, for which no penalty is otherwise provided, shall be fined not more
than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each offense. A separate offense
shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a violation or
noncompliance occurs or continues.
   (b)   Whoever violates §
1042.22(f) shall be fined fifty dollars ($50.00) for each month or fraction
thereof that the report is not made.
(Ord. 86-32, passed 6-23-1986)
CHAPTER 1044: SEWER SERVICE CHARGES
Section
1044.01   Purposes
1044.02   Definitions
1044.03   Wastewater system funds
1044.04   Determination of charges
1044.05   Measurement of wastewater volume and strength
1044.06   Extra strength surcharge
1044.07   Schedule of charges and fees
1044.08   Review of charges and fees; notice
1044.09   Rate increases
1044.10   Payment of charges
1044.11   Use of interest from deposits and investments
1044.12   Septic hauler rates
Cross-reference:
   Sewers, see S.U. & P.S.
Ch. 1042
   Tampering with and theft of utilities, see GEN. OFF.
642.26
   Utilities in urban renewal areas, see P. & Z.
1294.05
Statutory reference:
   Compulsory sewer connections, see Ohio R.C. 729.06
   Interference with sewage flow, see Ohio R.C. 4933.24
   Management and control of sewerage system, see Ohio R.C. 729.50 et seq.
   Sewerage rates, see Ohio R.C. 729.49, 729.52
   Sewers, see Ohio R.C. 729.31 et seq.
   Untreated sewage, see Ohio R.C. 3701.59
   Weekly deposit of sewer rentals collected, see Ohio R.C. 729.52
§ 1044.01 PURPOSES.
   It is declared necessary and conducive to the protection of the public
health, safety and welfare of the city to levy and collect service charges and
fees on all occupied premises served by, connected with or having access to the
wastewater system of the city. The proceeds from such service charges and fees
shall be used for no other purpose than the operation, maintenance, replacement
and payment of debt services of the wastewater system of the city.
(Ord. 86-32, passed 6-23-1986)
§ 1044.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (a)   As used in this chapter, unless the context specifically indicates
otherwise.
      “Debt service” means the amount of money necessary annually to pay the
interest on outstanding debt, to pay the principal of maturing bonded debt not
payable from a sinking fund or to pay the semiannual payments on loans from
current and sinking funds.
      “Operation and maintenance” means activities required to ensure the
dependable and economical function of wastewater facilities, specifically:
         A.   “Operation” refers to the control of the unit processes and
equipment which make up the wastewater system. This includes financial and
personnel management, records, laboratory control, process control, safety and
emergency operation planning.
         B.   “Maintenance” refers to the preservation of the functional
integrity and efficiency of equipment and structures. This includes preventive
maintenance, corrective maintenance and replacement of equipment.
      “Replacement” means expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
wastewater system to maintain the capacity and performance for which such
system was designed and constructed.
      “User charge” means a charge levied on users of the wastewater facilities
for the user’s proportionate share of the cost of operation, maintenance,
replacement and debt service of such facilities.
      “User classes” include the following:
         A.   “Domestic/commercial class” includes all customers that are not
required to be included in the industrial class.
         B.   “Industrial class” includes all customers who discharge liquid
wastes resulting from the processes employed in industry or manufacturing, or
from development of any natural resource, and any user whose average wastewater
strength exceeds 1.5 times the normal domestic wastewater strengths listed
under §
1044.04(b)(2).
   (b)   All other terms and phrases in this chapter shall have the meanings
set forth in §
1042.02.
(Ord. 86-32, passed 6-23-1986)
§ 1044.03 WASTEWATER SYSTEM FUNDS.
   (a)   In general. All revenues collected in accordance with the schedule of
charges and fees set forth in §
1044.07 shall be deposited in accordance with the amounts shown on such
schedule into the several wastewater system funds hereinafter defined, except
as otherwise provided for in this chapter. Revenues not collected in accordance
with such schedule, but which are collected through legitimate charges for
services rendered related to the city’s wastewater system, shall be deposited
into the Wastewater System Revenue Fund. The moneys in each wastewater system
fund shall be used in the manner prescribed for each fund.
   (b)   Wastewater System Revenue Fund. The moneys collected into the
Wastewater System Revenue Fund shall be used for the costs and expenses of
administration, management, operation and maintenance of the wastewater
facilities; for payment of acquisition of necessary easements or purchase of
land; for payment of principal and interest for bonds issued and outstanding;
for the semiannual payments in excess of the payment portion provided by the
Wastewater System Sinking Fund in accordance with the terms of the cooperative
agreements with the Ohio Water Development Authority entered into on August 15,
1985 and October 10, 1985; and for payment of remaining obligations required to
meet federal requirements for the construction of the wastewater system
improvements. Moneys for the replacement of equipment, accessories and
appurtenances of the wastewater system are provided for in the separate funds
hereinafter described.
   (c)   Wastewater System Sinking Fund.
      (1)   The moneys deposited into the Wastewater System Sinking Fund shall
be used for no other purpose than to assist in the semiannual payments due from
the Wastewater System Revenue Fund on loans in accordance with the terms of the
cooperative agreements with the Ohio Water Development Authority entered into
on August 15, 1985 and October 10, 1985.
      (2)   The moneys in the Wastewater System Sinking Fund shall be invested
in a manner to ensure the maximum return on investments. However, money shall
be made available in the amounts required to assist with the semiannual
payments when due.
      (3)   The Director of Finance shall make semiannual determinations of the
portion of such Fund that can be used to assist in the semiannual payments
based on the moneys available in such Fund, the interest that can be earned and
the remaining number of payments due on the loans.
   (d)   Wastewater Equipment Replacement Funds.
      (1)   Two equipment replacement funds shall be established to provide
funds for the cost and expenses to furnish and install replacement equipment,
accessories or appurtenances necessary to maintain the capacity and performance
of the wastewater system as required by federal regulations. These replacement
funds shall be named for the purpose for which the moneys deposited therein are
to be used, namely:
         A.   Wastewater Treatment Plant Equipment Replacement Fund; and
         B.   Sanitary Sewer Equipment Replacement Fund.
      (2)   The moneys in such funds shall be invested in a manner to ensure a
maximum return on investments. However, when needed, such moneys shall be made
available in the amounts required for the purpose for which such funds have
been established.
(Ord. 86-32, passed 6-23-1986)
§ 1044.04 DETERMINATION OF CHARGES.
   (a)   For the purposes provided in §
1044.01, a sewer service charge shall be levied and assessed on each lot,
parcel of land, building or premises connected with or having access to the
wastewater system of the city or otherwise discharging sewage, industrial
waste, water or other liquids, either directly or indirectly, into the city’s
wastewater system.
   (b)   The sewer service charge shall consist of the minimum charge, volume
charge, strength surcharge and industrial waste surveillance charge, as
follows:
      (1)   Minimum charge. The minimum charge is assessed to each account for
the billing period and covers the first 1,000 gallons of wastewater discharged
by customers.
      (2)   Volume charge. The volume charge, based on the volume of standard
strength wastewater in excess of the first 1,000 gallons of wastewater per
month, is assessed to all accounts in addition to the minimum charge. Standard
strength wastewater shall include maximum strengths as follows: BOD (five-day)
at 220 mg/l, COD at 500 mg/l and suspended solids at 220 mg/l.
      (3)   Strength surcharge. The strength surcharge is based on the pounds
of chemical oxygen demand, biochemical oxygen demand and suspended solids in
excess of the amount in standard strength wastewater and is charged to all
industrial accounts in addition to all other charges. The strength surcharge is
based on the cost of treating the excess quantities of waste measured in 100-
pound units.
      (4)   Industrial waste surveillance charge.  The industrial waste
surveillance charge is a fee charged to each industrial class account when
sampling and/or tests have been performed.
   (c)   A separate account shall be established for each meter used to
establish volumes of wastewater flow.
   (d)   All accounts shall be monthly accounts.
(Ord. 86-32, passed 6-23-1986; Am. Ord. 89-20, passed 6-22-1989)
§ 1044.05 MEASUREMENT OF WASTEWATER VOLUME AND STRENGTH.
   (a)   Methods for determination of volume of discharged waste. In order to
determine the volume and concentration of waste discharged by any person for
the purpose of determining the applicable sewer service charge, the city may
use one of the following methods to calculate the number of gallons of
wastewater discharged into the wastewater system:
      (1)   The amount of water supplied to the premises, as measured by a
water meter acceptable to the Director of Public Works and Services;
      (2)   The number of gallons of wastewater discharged into the wastewater,
as determined by measurements taken by a wastewater meter at a control manhole,
all installed by the user, at the user’s expense;
      (3)   A figure determined by any combination of the foregoing; or
      (4)   Any reasonable method determined by the Director in certain unusual
circumstances where the use of meters is not practical.
   (b)   Analysis of discharge.
      (1)   In order to determine the proper industrial waste charges, the city
shall request all users classified as industrial waste dischargers to submit an
analysis of their discharge, showing a determination of the concentration of
wastes contained in such discharge. Such analysis shall include all information
requested on forms provided therefor by the city.
      (2)   After the initial determination by the city, the city may from time
to time request a repeat analysis from any industrial waste discharger in order
to ensure the accuracy of the industrial waste charges.
   (c)   Validation of analysis by city. The city may make its own analysis of
the user’s discharge in order to validate the analysis submitted by such user.
Such analytical data and samples shall be made available to the user. The cost
of monitoring, analysis and validating a user’s discharge shall be reimbursed
to the city by the user in accordance with the schedule of charges and fees set
forth in §
1044.07.
   (d)   Special charges. The city may impose special charges over and above
the industrial waste rate if a particular waste causes additional expense to
the city in its handling and treatment. To determine acceptability of such
waste and the discharge for treatment thereof, the city shall require persons
wishing to discharge such wastes to submit a written analysis of the
characteristics of the wastes. Such analysis may be validated by the city as
provided in division (c) hereof.
(Ord. 86-32, passed 6-23-1986)
§ 1044.06 EXTRA STRENGTH SURCHARGE.
   (a)   The standard strengths for biochemical oxygen demand and suspended
solids, as shown in §
1044.04, shall be subtracted from the average strengths, as determined in the
manner described in division (b) hereof, to determine the extra strengths of
each industrial class user for each strength surcharge billing period. The
extra strengths and the volume of wastewater charged for the billing period
shall then be used to determine the weight in pounds of biochemical oxygen
demand (BOD) and suspended solids (SS) to be charged for the strength
surcharge. The BOD surcharge shall be based on pounds of BOD or 0.5 times the
pounds of chemical oxygen demand (COD), whichever is greater.
   (b)   To determine the BOD, COD and SS concentrations, an average shall be
used which will be established from a minimum of two tests per month taken on
composite samples.
   (c)   The charges for handling those wastes exceeding the limits set forth
in divisions (a) and (b) hereof shall be based on the following formula:
Surcharge = C x B x V x 8.345
 
C     = unit cost per pound
B     = concentration exceeding base 220 mg/l
V     = total volume of flow in millions of gallons
8.345 = constant of proportionality
 
   (d)   The charges calculated from the rate structure for any billing period,
plus the surcharge as calculated in division (c) hereof, shall be the charge
made to the customer for the billing period.
   (e)   Industrial waste testing shall be performed as described in §
1042.31.
(Ord. 86-32, passed 6-23-1986)
§ 1044.07 SCHEDULE OF CHARGES AND FEES.
                                                                                      Operation
                                                                              Current Maintenance Capital Total
Service Charge Type                                                           Rate    and         Costs   Rate
                                                                                      Replacement
                                                                                      Costs
(a) Domestic/commercial class - monthly
    (1)   Minimum charge (includes first 1,000 gallons)                    $8.49   $1.333      $0.917  $10.74
    (2)   Volume charge per 1,000 gallons                                  5.50    1.333       0.917   5.50
(b) Industrial class - monthly
    (1)   Minimum charge (includes first 1,000 gallons)                    5.50    1.333       0.917   5.50
    (2)   Volume charge per 1,000 gallons                                  5.50    1.333       0.917   5.50
(c) Strength surcharge for industrial users (per100 pounds)
    (1)   Biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) or 0.5 x chemical oxygen demand  37.60   20.489      17.111  37.60
    (COD),whichever is greater
    (2)   Suspended solids                                                 28.65   16.858      11.792  28.65
(d) Industrial waste surveillance charge at actual cost.
 
 
Notes on the Distribution of Revenue Collected to the Several Wastewater
System Revenue Funds
All revenues collected shall be deposited into the Wastewater System Revenue
Fund, except for the amounts to be deposited into the Equipment Replacement
Funds, as follows:
A. Wastewater Treatment Plant Equipment Replacement Fund $3,783.00/month
B. Sewer Equipment Replacement Fund                      $2,500.00/month
 
(Ord. 86-32, passed 6-23-1986; Am. Ord. 89-20, passed 6-22-1989; Am. Ord. 92-
48, passed 12-21-1998; Am. Ord. 94-30, passed 9-8-1994; Am. Ord. 96-64, passed
9-12-1996; Am. Ord. 00-62, passed 12-28-2000; Am. Ord. 01-10, passed 4-26-2001;
Am. Ord. 04-93, passed 11-22-2004; Am. Ord. 17-05, passed 3-23-2017; Am. Ord.
18-80, passed 12-15-2018)
§ 1044.08 REVIEW OF CHARGES AND FEES; NOTICE.
   By October 1 of every year, the Director of Public Works and Services shall
prepare an updated user charge analysis and a recommended schedule of service
charges. The Director shall submit the schedule at the first regular Council
meeting thereafter for ratification and incorporation into these Codified
Ordinances. The schedule shall be in accordance with the following
requirements.
   (a)   The schedule shall result in the distribution of the costs of
operation and maintenance of the wastewater system within the city’s
jurisdiction to each user class in proportion to the user’s contribution to the
total wastewater loading of the wastewater system. Factors such as strength,
volume and delivered flow rate characteristics shall be considered and included
as the basis for the user’s contribution to ensure a proportional distribution
of operation, maintenance, replacement and debt service costs to each user’s
class.
   (b)   The factors in the schedule shall be reviewed biennially and revised
as necessary to reflect actual wastewater system operation and maintenance
costs. The schedule shall generate sufficient revenue to offset the cost of all
wastewater system operation, maintenance and replacement of equipment and debt
services.
   (c)   (1)   The schedule shall be published annually, in the first quarter
of each calendar year, by one of the following methods:
         A.   Published twice in a daily newspaper of general circulation in
the sewer service area; or
         B.   Mailed to all wastewater system users in conjunction with a
regular utility bill.
      (2)   The published schedule shall state separately the operation and
maintenance costs and the capital costs related to wastewater services.
(Ord. 86-32, passed 6-23-1986)
§ 1044.09 RATE INCREASES.
   Sewer service rates have been established as minimum rates, not maximum
rates, and the city reserves the right to increase the same at any time if
revenues prove insufficient to pay operating and maintenance expenses and the
debt charges provided by the ordinances authorizing the issuance of sewer
revenue bonds and/or the borrowing of moneys.
(Ord. 86-32, passed 6-23-1986)
§ 1044.10 PAYMENT OF CHARGES.
   (a)   Payment with water bill. Since sewer service rates are based on water
consumption, the city will not accept payment of any water bill without payment
also of the sewer bill. If any bill remains unpaid for 30 days, the city may
terminate the water supply to the customer until the sewer bill is paid.
   (b)   Due date. All charges for sewer service shall become due and payable
ten days after billing. If such charges are not paid when due, the delinquent
charges shall be certified to the County Auditor to be collected in the same
manner as other city taxes under Ohio R.C. 729.49.
   (c)   Penalty for late payment. If any sewer bill is not paid within ten
days after the beginning of the billing period, a ten percent penalty shall be
added to the bill.
   (d)   Liability for charges. The owner of private property served by the
sewage works, as well as the lessee of the premises, shall be liable to the
city for all services rendered to the premises.
(Ord. 86-32, passed 6-23-1986)
§ 1044.11 USE OF INTEREST FROM DEPOSITS AND INVESTMENTS.
   The Director of Finance shall place all moneys collected from interest on
deposits and investments made with moneys from the wastewater system funds
described in §
1044.03, and the Water Fund, into these funds, and the moneys so collected
shall be used for no other purposes than those purposes for which such funds
were established.
(Ord. 87-64, passed 12-21-1987)
§ 1044.12 SEPTIC HAULER RATES.
   (a)   Residential septic haulers shall pay the following rates: $25.00 for
each 1,000 gallons, or part thereof.
   (b)   Non-residential septic haulers shall pay the following rate: $50.00
for each 1,000 gallons, or part thereof.
   (c)   “Residential septic haulers” shall be defined as a hauler that has a
minimum of eight full-time employees and pays income tax to the City of
Ironton.
All others shall be considered nonresidential septic haulers.
(Ord. 06-46, passed 7-13-2006; Am. Ord. 08-100, passed 12-11-2008; Am. Ord. 18-
51, passed 11-8-2018)
CHAPTER 1045: STORM WATER
Section
General Provisions
1045.01   Storm Water Management Code adopted by reference
Storm Water Management Erosion  and Sediment Control
1045.10   Definitions
1045.11   Erosion and sediment control; construction and post-construction
storm water control
1045.12   Illicit discharge and connection elimination
1045.13   Enforcement of this subchapter
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 1045.01 STORM WATER MANAGEMENT CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Storm Water Utility Management Code, copies of which are on file in the
Mayor’s office, is adopted and incorporated as part of this Code of Ordinances
as fully as if set out at length therein.
(Ord. 05-54, passed 5-12-2005; Am. Ord. 06-27, passed 4-27-2006; Am. Ord. 20-
32, passed 5-14-2020)
STORM WATER MANAGEMENT EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
§ 1045.10 DEFINITIONS.
   For purpose of this subchapter, the following terms shall have the meaning
herein indicated:
   (a)   “Acre.” A measurement of area equaling 43,560 square feet.
   (b)   “Authorized enforcement agency.” Employees or designees of the
director of the municipal agency designated to enforce this subchapter.
   (c)   “Best management practices (BMPs).” Schedule of activities,
prohibitions of practices, maintenance procedures, and other management
practices (both structural and non-structural) to minimize soil erosion and
sedimentation and to prevent or reduce the pollution of water resources and
wetlands, BMPs also include treatment requirements, operating procedures, and
practices to control facility and/or construction site runoff, spillage, or
leaks; sludge or waste disposal; or drainage from raw material storage.
   (d)   “Clean Water Act.” The federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C.
1251 et seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
   (e)   “Community.” City of Ironton and its designated representatives,
boards, or commissions.
   (f)   “Construction activity.” NPDES storm water permits are required for
construction projects resulting in land disturbance of one acre or more. Such
activities include but are not limited to clearing and grubbing, grading,
excavating, and demolition. All construction activities must conform to the
most current OEPA regulations for construction activity.
   (g)   “Disturbed area.” An area of land subject to erosion due to the
removal of vegetative cover and/or soil-disturbing activities.
   (h)   “Erosion.” The process by which the land surface is worn away by the
action of wind, water, ice, gravity, or any combination of those forces.
   (i)   “Erosion and sediment control.” The control of soil, both mineral and
organic, to minimize the removal of soil from the land surface and to prevent
its transport from a disturbed area by means of wind, water, ice, gravity, or
any combination of those forces.
   (j)   Hazardous materials.” Any material, including any substance, waste, or
combination thereof, which because of its quantity, concentration, or physical,
chemical, or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety,
property, or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported,
disposed of, or otherwise managed.
   (k)   Illegal discharge.” Any direct or indirect non-storm water discharge
to the storm drain system, except as exempted in this subchapter.
   (l)   “Illicit connections.” Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface
or subsurface, which allows an illegal discharge to enter the storm drain
system, including but not limited to any conveyances which allow any non-storm
water discharge, including sewage, process wastewater, and wash water to enter
the storm drain system, and any connections to the storm drain system from
indoor drains and sinks, regardless of whether said drain or connection had
been previously allowed, permitted, or approved by an authorized enforcement
agency; or any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial
land use to the storm drain system which has not been documented in plans,
maps, or equivalent records and approved by an authorized enforcement agency.
   (m)   “Industrial activity.” Activities subject to NPDES Industrial Permits
as defined in 40 CFR, Section 122.26 (b)(14).
   (n)   “Larger common plan of development or sale.” A contiguous area where
multiple separate and distinct construction activities may be taking place at
different times on different schedules under one plan.
   (o)   “MS4 (Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System).” Publicly-owned
facilities by which storm water is collected and/or conveyed, including but not
limited to any roads with drainage systems, municipal streets, gutters, curbs,
inlets, piped storm drains, pumping facilities, retention and detention basins,
ditches, natural and human-made or altered drainage channels, reservoirs, and
other drainage structures.
   (p)   “National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Storm Water
Discharge Permit.” A permit issued by EPA (or by a state under authority
delegated pursuant to 33 USC 1342(b)) that authorizes the discharge of
pollutants to waters of the United States, whether the permit is applicable on
an individual, group, or general area-wide basis.
   (q)   “Non-storm water discharge.” Any discharge to the storm drain system
that is not composed entirely of storm water.
   (r)   “NPDES.” National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System. A regulatory
program in the Federal Clean Water Act that prohibits the discharge of
pollutants into surface waters of the United States without a permit.
   (s)   “Ohio EPA NPDES general construction permit.” A permit issued by the
Ohio Environmental Protection Agency to an applicant for the discharge of storm
water from sites where construction activity is being conducted with discharges
to subsequent receiving waters.
   (t)   “Person.” Any individual, association, organization, partnership,
firm, corporation or other entity recognized by law and acting as either the
owner or as the owner's agent.
   (u)   “Pollutant.” Anything which causes or contributes to pollution.
“Pollutants” may include, but are not limited to: paints, varnishes, and
solvents; oil and other automotive fluids; non-hazardous liquid and solid
wastes and yard wastes; refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter, or other discarded or
abandoned objects, ordinances, and accumulations, so that same may cause or
contribute to pollution; floatables; pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers;
hazardous substances and wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens;
dissolved and particulate metals; animal wastes; wastes and residues that
result from constructing a building or structure; and noxious or offensive
matter of any kind.
   (v)   “Premises.” Any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land
whether improved or unimproved, including adjacent sidewalks and parking
strips.
   (w)   “Rainwater and Land Development Manual (RWLD).” Issued by Ohio
Department of Natural Resources. The RWLD Manual contains Ohio's minimum
technical standards for post construction storm water quality and erosion and
sediment control standards. The most current edition of these standards shall
be applicable with this chapter.
   (x)   “Runoff.” The portion of rainfall, melted snow, or irrigation water
that flows across the ground surface and is eventually conveyed to water
resources or wetlands.
   (y)   “Sediment.” The soils or other surface materials that are transported
or deposited by the action of wind, water, ice, gravity, or any combination of
those forces, as a product of erosion.
   (z)   “Sedimentation.” The deposition or settling of sediment.
   (aa)   “Setback.” A designated transition area around water resources or
wetlands that is left in a natural, usually vegetated, state so as to protect
the water resources or wetlands from runoff pollution. Soil-disturbing
activities in this area are restricted by this subchapter.
   (bb)   “Soil-disturbing activity.” Clearing, grubbing, grading, excavating,
filling, or other alteration of the earth's surface where natural or human made
ground cover is destroyed and that may result in, or contribute to, erosion and
sediment pollution.
   (cc)   “Soil erodibility.” The susceptibility of soil to erosion and the
amount and rate of runoff, as measured under the standard unit plot condition.
“Soil erodibility” factors are available in the County Soil Survey.
   (dd)   “Stream.” A surface water course with a well defined bed and bank,
either natural or artificial, which confines and conducts continuous or
periodical flowing water in such a way that terrestrial vegetation cannot
establish roots within the channel.
   (ee)   “Storm water.” Any surface flow, runoff, and drainage consisting
entirely of water from any form of natural precipitation, and resulting from
such precipitation.
   (ff)   “Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan.” A document which describes
the best management practices and activities to be implemented by a person or
business to identify sources of pollution or contamination at a site and the
actions to eliminate or reduce pollutant discharges to storm water, storm water
conveyance systems, and/or receiving waters to the maximum extent practicable.
   (gg)   “Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan Checklist.” Details the
minimum requirements of a SWP3 this document is available from the authorized
agency or Ohio EPA.
   (hh)   “Wastewater.” Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated
storm water, discharged from a facility.
   (ii)   “Water resource.” Any public or private body of water, including
lakes and ponds, as well as any brook, creek, river, or stream having banks, a
defined bed, and a definite direction of flow, either continuously or
intermittently flowing.
   (jj)   “Wetland.” Those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or
ground water at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under
normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted
for life in saturated soil conditions, including swamps, marshes, bogs, and
similar areas (33 C.F.R. part 328, as amended).
   (kk)   “Wetland professional.” An individual with training and experience in
wetland delineation acceptable to the U.S. Army Corp of Engineers.
(Ord. 08-111, passed 9-22-2008)
§ 1045.11 EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL; CONSTRUCTION AND POST- CONSTRUCTION
STORM WATER CONTROL.
   (a)   Purpose and scope.
      (1)   The purpose of this §
1045.11 is to establish technically feasible and economically reasonable
standards to achieve a level of erosion and sediment control that will minimize
damage to property and degradation of water resources and wetlands, and will
promote and maintain the health and safety of the citizens of Ironton.
      (2)   This section will:
         A.   Allow development while minimizing increases in erosion and
sedimentation.
         B.   Reduce water quality impacts to receiving water resources and
wetlands that may be caused by new development or redevelopment activities.
   (b)   Regulated activities. Section
1045.11 applies to all regulated discharges outlined in the eligibility section
of the most recent version of the Ohio EPA General Construction Storm Water
Permit.
   (c)   Application procedures.
      (1)   Applicants must submit the following documentation to the
permitting authority prior to construction:
         A.   An Ohio EPA General Construction Storm Water Permit notice of
intent form.
         B.   Site location map.
         C.   Two copies of a Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWP3). One
copy of the approved SWP3 will be returned to the applicant.
      (2)   Criteria for the listed documentation must be the same as outlined
in the most current Ohio Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) National
Pollution Discharge Elimination (NPDES) General Storm Water Permit for
Construction Activities. Within 30 calendar days of the receipt of all
documentation, the permitting authority shall approve or disapprove the
application for a sediment erosion control permit. A statement of disapproval
shall include the reason therefore and shall identify the deficiencies in the
documentation and shall state the procedures for filing a revised plan. Upon
receipt of revised documentation, the plan reviewer shall respond with approval
or disapproval within 30 calendar days. Once final approval has been made and a
permit issued, any subsequent changes shall be approved in writing by the
authorized agency.
      (3)   The permittee must also obtain coverage under the Ohio EPA General
Construction Storm Water Permit before earth disturbance begins. A copy of the
Ohio EPA coverage letter shall be mailed to the MS4 permitting authority as
evidence of coverage. If the operator of a project fails to obtain Ohio EPA
General Construction Storm Water Permit coverage the project will be considered
an illicit discharge.
   (d)   Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan. The applicant shall submit a
Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWP3) consistent with the requirements
set forth in the most recent Ohio EPA NPDES General Construction Permit. For
specific requirements of an SWP3, the designer shall refer to SWP3 check list.
The SWP3 must address erosion and sediment control during construction as well
as post- construction practices. Post-construction practices must meet the
requirements of the most recent Ohio EPA General Construction Storm Water
Permit. The SWP3 shall incorporate measures as recommended by the most current
edition of Rainwater and Land Development Manual as published by the Ohio
Department of Natural Resources.
      (1)   Non-structural post-construction water quality practices. Non-
structural post-construction best management practices include preservation,
planning, or procedures that direct development away from water resources or
limit creation of impervious surfaces. Practices such as conservation
easements, riparian and wetland setbacks, and conservation subdivision design
are all non-structural controls.
         A.   All non-structural water quality practices must be protected from
disturbance through the construction phase of the project.
         B.   All non-structural water quality practices must be protected in
perpetuity through the use of appropriate legal tools. All easement or
conservation areas must be clearly shown and described on the current deed for
the subject property and recorded in the Lawrence County, Ohio Recorder's
office and be disclosed to potential buyers.
      (2)   Structural water quality practices.  Structural post-construction
best management practices are permanent features constructed to provide
treatment of storm water runoff either through storage, filtration, or
infiltration.
         A.   All structural water quality practices must be established prior
to the completion of the project. Structural water quality practices should be
made functional once the disturbed areas on site are stabilized. If detention/
retention facilities were used for sediment control during development
sediments must be removed prior to the basin being used for post construction
storm water quality.
         B.   Maintenance. The post- construction water quality practice must
be maintained in perpetuity by those parties identified in the SWP3 or the
Storm Water Management Maintenance Agreement.
   (e)   Compliance with local, state, and federal regulations. All submittals
are required to show proof of compliance with all state and federal
regulations. Approvals issued in accordance with this subchapter do not relieve
the applicant of responsibility for obtaining all other necessary permits and/
or approvals from the Ohio EPA, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and other
federal, state, and/or county agencies, if requirements vary, the most
restrictive requirement shall prevail. These permits may include, but are not
limited to, those listed below:
      (1)   Section 401 of the Clean Water Act. Proof of compliance shall be a
copy of the Ohio EPA Water Quality Certification application tracking number,
public notice, or approval letter..
      (2)   Ohio EPA Isolated Wetland Permit. Proof of compliance shall be a
copy of Ohio EPA's Isolated Wetland Permit application tracking number, public
notice, or a project approval letter. Isolated wetlands shall be delineated by
protocols accepted by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.
      (3)   Section 404 of the Clean Water Act. Proof of compliance shall be a
copy of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Individual Permit application, a copy
of the applicable Nationwide Permit, public notice, or project approval letter.
      (4)   Ohio Dam Safety Law. Proof of compliance shall be a copy of the
Ohio Department of Natural Resources, Division of Water permit application
tracking number, a copy of the project approval letter from the Ohio Department
of Natural Resources Division of Water.
      (5)   Ohio EPA NPDES Permits authorizing storm water discharges
associated with construction activity or the most current version thereof.
Proof of compliance with these requirements shall be the applicant's copy of
the Ohio EPA Director's Authorization Letter for the NPDES Permit, or a letter
from the site owner certifying and explaining why the NPDES Permit is not
applicable.
   (f)   Fees.
      (1)   All plan submittals required in this §
1045.11 shall be accompanied by a fee payable in cash or by check to the city
according to the following schedule at the time of initial submittal:
         A.   For developments involving one but less than five acres shall be
two hundred dollars ($200.00).
         B.   For developments involving five or more acres, shall be two
hundred dollars ($200.00) plus twenty dollars ($20.00) per acre over five
acres.
      (2)   In addition to the fees set forth above, the plan reviewer, before
issuing such a permit may charge and collect a penalty in every case where work
or development otherwise covered by this subchapter has actually commenced
prior to the issuance of a permit according to the following schedule:
         A.   For developments involving one but less than five acres, the
penalty shall be two hundred dollars ($200.00).
         B.   For developments involving five or more acres the penalty shall
be two hundred dollars ($200.00) plus twenty dollars ($20.00) per acre over
five acres.
(Ord. 08-111, passed 9-22-2008)
§ 1045.12 ILLICIT DISCHARGE AND CONNECTION ELIMINATION.
   (a)   Purpose/intent. The purpose of this §
1045.12 is to provide for the health, safety, and general welfare of the
citizens of the city through the regulation of non-storm water discharges to
the storm drainage system to the maximum extent practicable as required by
federal, state and local law. This section establishes methods for controlling
the introduction of pollutants into the municipal separate storm sewer system
(MS4) in order to comply with requirements of the National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System (NPDES) permit process. The objectives of this section are:
      (1)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the (MS4) by storm
water discharges by any user.
      (2)   To prohibit illicit connections and discharges to the MS4.
      (3)   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection,
surveillance and monitoring procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this
section.
   (b)   Applicability. This section shall apply to all water entering the MS4
generated on any developed and undeveloped lands unless explicitly exempted by
an authorized enforcement agency.
   (c)   Discharge prohibitions.
      (1)   Prohibition of illegal discharges. No person shall discharge or
cause to be discharged into the municipal storm drain system or watercourses
any materials, including but not limited to pollutants or waters containing any
pollutants that cause or contribute to a violation of applicable water quality
standards, other than storm water. The commencement, conduct or continuance of
any illegal discharge to the storm drain system is prohibited except as
described as follows:
         A.   Waterline flushing; landscape irrigation; diverted stream flows;
rising ground waters; uncontaminated ground water infiltration (“infiltration”
is defined as water other than wastewater that enters a sewer system, including
sewer service connections and foundation drains, from the ground, through such
means as defective pipes, pipe joints, connections, or manholes. “Infiltration”
does not include, and is distinguished from, inflow.); uncontaminated pumped
ground water; discharges from potable water sources; foundation drains; air
conditioning condensate; irrigation water; springs; water from crawl space
pumps; footing drains; lawn watering; individual residential car washing; flows
from riparian habitats and wetlands; dechlorinated swimming pool discharges;
street wash water; and discharges or flows from fire fighting activities.
Discharges specified in writing by the authorized enforcement agency as being
necessary to protect public health and safety. Dye testing is an allowable
discharge, but requires a verbal notification to the authorized enforcement
agency prior to the time of the test. The prohibition shall not apply to any
non-storm water discharge permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver, or waste
discharge order issued to the discharger and administered under the authority
of the Federal Environmental Protection Agency, provided that the discharger is
in full compliance with all requirements of the permit, waiver, or order and
other applicable laws and regulations, and provided that written approval has
been granted for any discharge to the storm drain system.
      (2)   Prohibition of illicit connections.
         A.   The construction, use, maintenance or continued existence of
illicit connections to the storm drain system is prohibited.
         B.   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection.
         C.   A person is considered to be in violation of this section if the
person connects a line conveying sewage to the MS4, or allows such a connection
to continue.
   (d)   Suspension of MS4 access.
      (1)   Suspension due to illicit discharges in emergency situations. The
city may, without prior notice, suspend MS4 discharge access to a person when
such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge which
presents or may present imminent and substantial danger to the environment, or
to the health or welfare of persons, or to the MS4 or waters of the state. If
the violator fails to comply with a suspension order issued in an emergency,
the authorized enforcement agency may take such steps as deemed necessary to
prevent or minimize damage to the MS4 or waters of the state, or to minimize
danger to persons.
      (2)   Suspension due to the detection of illicit discharge. Any person
discharging to the MS4 in violation of this section may have his or her MS4
access terminated if such termination would abate or reduce an illicit
discharge. The authorized enforcement agency will notify a violator of the
proposed termination of its MS4 access. The violator may petition the
authorized enforcement agency for a reconsideration and hearing.
      (3)   A person commits an offense if the person reinstates MS4 access to
premises terminated pursuant to this section, without the prior approval of the
authorized enforcement agency.
   (e)   Industrial or construction activity discharges. Any person subject to
an industrial or construction activity NPDES storm water discharge permit shall
comply with all provisions of such permit. Proof of compliance with said permit
may be required in a form acceptable to the city prior to the allowing of
discharges to the MS4.
   (f)   Requirement to prevent, control, and reduce storm water pollutants by
the use of best management practices. The city will require best management
practices for any activity, operation, or facility which may cause or
contribute to pollution or contamination of storm water, the MS4, or waters of
the state. The owner or operator of a commercial or industrial establishment
shall provide, at his or her own expense, reasonable protection from accidental
discharge of prohibited materials or other wastes into the MS4 or watercourses
through the use of these structural and non-structural BMPs. Further, any
person responsible for a property or premises, which is, or may be, the source
of an illicit discharge, may be required to implement, at said person's
expense, additional structural and non-structural BMPs to prevent the further
discharge of pollutants to the MS4. Compliance with all terms and conditions of
a valid NPDES permit authorizing the discharge of storm water associated with
this §
1045.12, to the extent practicable, shall be deemed compliance with the
provisions of this section. These BMPs shall be part of a storm water pollution
prevention plan (SWPPP) as necessary for compliance with requirements of the
NPDES permit.
   (g)   Watercourse protection. Every person owning property through which a
watercourse passes, or such person's lessee, shall keep and maintain that part
of the watercourse within the property free of trash, debris, and other
obstacles that would pollute and contaminate. In addition, the owner or lessee
shall maintain existing privately owned structures within or adjacent to a
watercourse, so that such structures will not become a hazard to the use,
function, or physical integrity of the watercourse.
   (h)   Notification of spills. Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as
soon as any person responsible for a facility or operation, or responsible for
emergency response for a facility or operation has information of any known or
suspected release of materials which are resulting or may result in illegal
discharges or pollutants discharging into storm water, the storm drain system,
or water of the state, said person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the
discovery, containment, and cleanup of such release. In the event of such a
release of hazardous materials said person shall immediately notify emergency
response agencies of the occurrence via emergency dispatch services. In the
event of a release of non- hazardous materials, said person shall notify the
authorized enforcement agency in person or by phone or facsimile no later than
the next business day. Notifications in person or by phone shall be confirmed
by written notice addressed and mailed to the city within three business days
of the phone notice. If the discharge of prohibited materials emanates from a
commercial or industrial establishment, the owner or operator of such
establishment shall also retain an on- site written record of the discharge and
the actions taken to prevent its recurrence. Such records shall be retained for
at least three years.
(Ord. 08-111, passed 9-22-2008)
§ 1045.13 ENFORCEMENT OF THIS SUBCHAPTER.
   (a)   Notice of violation.  
      (1)   Whenever the city finds that a person has violated a prohibition or
failed to meet a requirement of any part of this subchapter, the city may order
compliance by written notice of violation to the responsible person. Such
notice may include but is not be limited to the following:
         A.   The performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting;
         B.   The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
         C.   The elimination of causes of violations pertaining to the
requirements set forth in the Ohio EPA General Construction Storm Water Permit.
         D.   The elimination of causes of violations pertaining to the
requirements set forth for the MS4 operator in the Ohio EPA Municipal Storm
Sewer System Permit, also known as the (MS4) General Permit.
         E.   That violating discharges, practices, or operations shall cease
and desist;
         F.   The abatement or remediation of storm water pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property; and
         G.   Payment of a fine to cover administrative and remediation costs;
and
         H.   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
      (2)   No person shall violate or cause or knowingly permit to be violated
any of the provisions of any section of
Chapter 1045, or fail to comply with any of such provisions or with any lawful
requirements of any public authority made pursuant to this ordinance, or
knowingly use or cause or permit the use of any lands in violation of this
subchapter or in violation of any permit granted under this subchapter.
      (3)   Upon finding a violation of this subchapter, the permitting
authority may issue a notice of violation, stop order, or corrective order to
any person causing or permitting the violation.
   (b)   Appeal of notice of violation. Any person receiving a Notice of
Violation may appeal the determination of the authorized enforcement agency.
The notice of appeal must be received within 30 days from the date of the
Notice of Violation. Hearing on the appeal before the appropriate authority or
his or her designee shall take place within 30 days from the date of receipt of
the notice of appeal. The decision of the municipal authority or their designee
shall be final.
   (c)   Enforcement measures after appeal. If the violation has not been
corrected pursuant to the requirements set forth in the Notice of Violation,
or, in the event of an appeal, within 30 days of the decision of the municipal
authority upholding the decision of the authorized enforcement agency, then
representatives of the authorized enforcement agency shall enter upon the
subject private property and are authorized to take any and all measures
necessary to abate the violation and/or restore the property. It shall be
unlawful for any owner agent or person in possession of any premises to refuse
to allow the government agency or designated contractor to enter upon the
premises for the purposes set forth above.
   (d)   Access to facilities.
      (1)   The city may enter a site at any time during normal business hours,
and at other reasonable times, to inspect, investigate, or monitor activities
subject to this section. If the person in charge of the site does not consent
to any entry by the city, the Mayor must obtain an administrative search
warrant from a court with jurisdiction by showing that reasonable
administrative standards for inspecting the site have been met.
      (2)   The city shall be permitted to enter and inspect facilities subject
to regulation under this subchapter as often as may be necessary to determine
compliance with this subchapter. If a discharger has security measures in force
which require proper identification and clearance before entry into its
premises, the discharger shall make the necessary arrangements to allow access
to representatives of the authorized enforcement agency.
      (3)   Facility operators shall allow the city ready access to all parts
of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, examination and
copying of records that must be kept under the conditions of an NPDES permit to
discharge storm water, and the performance of any additional duties as defined
by state and federal law.
      (4)   The city shall have the right to set up on any permitted facility
such devices as are necessary in the opinion of the authorized enforcement
agency to conduct monitoring and/or sampling of the facility's storm water or
illicit discharge.
      (5)   The city has the right to require the discharger to install
monitoring equipment as necessary. The facility's sampling and monitoring
equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating
condition by the discharger at its own expense. All devices used to measure
storm water flow and quality shall be calibrated to ensure their accuracy.
      (6)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
operator at the written or oral request of the city and shall not be replaced.
The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the operator.
      (7)   If the city has been refused access to any part of the premises
from which storm water is discharged, and he or she is able to demonstrate
probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this subchapter, or
that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection
and sampling program designed to verify compliance with this subchapter or any
order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety, and
welfare of the community, then the authorized enforcement agency may seek
issuance of a search warrant from any court of competent jurisdiction.
   (e)   Penalties. Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the
provisions of the rules and regulations in this subchapter shall be required to
take the remedial actions and be subject to civil penalties as follows:
      (1)   The city shall have the right to recover the lesser of four hundred
fifty dollars ($450.00) per day for each day that the violation exists or all
damages proximately caused by the violation to the municipality, which may
include any reasonable expenses incurred in investigating violations, expenses
involved in rectifying any damages, costs and attorney fees incurred by the
authorized agency as the result of enforcing violations of this subchapter.
      (2)   In addition to the above remedial measures, any person, firm or
corporation guilty of violating any of the provisions of this subchapter shall
be subject to a fine of up to fifty dollars ($50.00) per day for each day the
violation exists, beginning the first day of the violation and continuing each
day thereafter until the violation is corrected. Each day that a violation of
this subchapter exists shall constitute a separate offense.
      (3)   In addition to the remedies and civil penalties set forth above,
the city may bring legal action to enjoin the continuing violation of this
subchapter, and the existence of any other remedy, at law or equity, shall be
no defense to any such actions.
      (4)   The remedies and penalties set forth in this section shall be
cumulative, not exclusive, and it shall not be a defense to any action, civil
or criminal, that one or more of the remedies set forth herein has been sought
or granted. If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected property
is required, the notice shall set forth a deadline within which such
remediation or restoration must be completed. Said notice shall further advise
that, if the violator fails to remediate or restore within the established
deadline, the work will be done by a designated governmental agency or a
contractor and the expense thereof shall be charged to the violator through
means designated by the permitting authority.
   (f)   Cost of abatement of the violation.  
      (1)   Within 30 days after abatement of the violation, the owner of the
property will be notified of the cost of abatement, including administrative
costs. The property owner may file a written protest objecting to the amount of
the assessment within 30 days. If the amount due is not paid within a timely
manner as determined by the decision of the municipal authority or by the
expiration of the time in which to file an appeal, the charges shall become a
special assessment against the property and shall constitute a lien on the
property for the amount of the assessment.
      (2)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this subchapter shall
become liable to the municipality by reason of such violation. The liability
shall be paid in not more than 12 equal monthly payments. Interest at the rate
of 18 percent per annum shall be assessed on the balance beginning on the
thirtieth day following discovery of the violation.
   (g)   Injunctive relief. It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any
provision or fail to comply with any of the requirements of this subchapter. If
a person has violated or continues to violate the provisions of this
subchapter, the authorized enforcement agency may petition for a preliminary or
permanent injunction restraining the person from activities which would create
further violations or compelling the person to perform abatement or remediation
of the violation.
   (h)   Compensatory action. In lieu of enforcement proceedings, penalties,
and remedies authorized by this subchapter, the authorized enforcement agency
may impose upon a violator alternative compensatory actions, such as storm
drain stenciling, attendance at compliance workshops, creek cleanup, and the
like.
   (i)   Violations deemed a public nuisance. In addition to the enforcement
processes and penalties provided, any condition caused or permitted to exist in
violation of any of the provisions of this subchapter is a threat to public
health, safety, and welfare, and is declared and deemed a nuisance, and may be
summarily abated or restored at the violator's expense, and/or a civil action
to abate, enjoin, or otherwise compel the cessation of such nuisance may be
taken.
   (j)   Disclaimer of liability. Compliance with the provisions of this
subchapter shall not relieve any person from responsibility for damage to any
person otherwise imposed by law. The provisions of this subchapter are
promulgated to promote the health, safety, and welfare of the public and are
not designed for the benefit of any individual or for the benefit of any
particular parcel of property.
   (k)   Conflicts, severability, nuisances and responsibility.
      (1)   Where any part of this subchapter is in conflict with other
provisions of law, regulation, or ordinance, the most restrictive provisions
shall prevail.
      (2)   If any clause, section, or provision of any part of this subchapter
is declared invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction,
the validity of the remainder shall not be affected thereby.
      (3)   No part of this subchapter shall not be construed as authorizing
any person to maintain a private or public nuisance on their property, and
compliance with the provisions of this subchapter shall not be a defense in any
action to abate such a nuisance.
      (4)   Failure of city to observe or recognize hazardous or unsightly
conditions or to recommend corrective measures shall not relieve the site owner
from the responsibility for the condition or damage resulting therefrom, and
shall not result in the city, its officers, employees, or agents being
responsible for any condition or damage resulting therefrom.
      (5)   The city shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of
this subchapter. Any powers granted or duties imposed upon the authorized
enforcement agency may be delegated in writing by the Mayor of the authorized
enforcement agency to persons or entities acting in the beneficial interest of
or in the employ of the agency.
      (6)   The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this
subchapter are minimum standards; therefore this subchapter does not intend nor
imply that compliance by any person will ensure that there will be no
contamination, pollution, nor unauthorized discharge of pollutants.
   (l)   Remedies not exclusive. The remedies listed in this subchapter are not
exclusive of any other remedies available under any applicable federal, state
or local law and it is within the discretion of the authorized enforcement
agency to seek cumulative remedies.
(Ord. 08-111, passed 9-22-2008)
CHAPTER 1046: WATER
Section
1046.01   Definitions
1046.02   Application for service
1046.03   Water usage fees
1046.04   On/off fees
1046.05   Tap fees
1046.06   Relocation charges
1046.07   Water meter test fees
1046.08   Security deposit
1046.09   Hydrant meter
1046.10   Manner of billing for service
1046.11   Penalties and interest
1046.12   Utility shutoff
1046.13   Bad check fee
1046.14   Adjustments
1046.15   Delinquency
1046.16   Refusal of service
1046.17   Service and supply lines
1046.18   Water service termination policy
1046.19   Notice procedures
1046.20   Emergencies and repairs
1046.21   Voluntary termination of service
1046.22   Disconnection procedures
1046.23   Hearing procedures
1046.24   Non-discrimination against consumers
1046.25   Cross connection control - general policy
1046.26   Cross connection prohibited
1046.27   Survey and investigation
1046.28   Where protection is required
1046.29   Type of protection required
1046.30   Backflow prevention assemblies
1046.31   Installation
1046.32   Inspection and maintenance
1046.33   Booster pumps
1046.34   Violations
1046.35   Rates for the sale of water for customers of tanker trucks
Cross-reference:
   Sewers, see S.U. & P.S.
Ch. 1042
   Tampering with and theft of utilities, see GEN. OFF.
642.26
   Utility rates, see ADM.
222.02
   Utilities in urban renewal areas, see P. & Z.
1294.05
   Water for circuses, see B.R. & T.
810.06
   Water pollution, see GEN. OFF.
660.04
Statutory reference:
   Compulsory water connections, see Ohio R.C. 729.06, 743.23
   Power to provide and regulate water system, see Ohio R.C. 715.08, 717.01,
743.01
   Tampering with water hydrants, pipes or meters; unauthorized connections,
see Ohio R.C. 4933.22
   Water pollution, see Ohio R.C. 715.08, 743.24 et seq.
§ 1046.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions apply whenever said terms appear in this chapter.
   BILLING ADDRESS. The address at which the customer is contractually liable
for utility services furnished to a service address receives billings from the
City of Ironton. Billing addresses may, but need not, be the address at which
said services are received.
   CONSUMER. Any person who is the ultimate residential user of water utility
services provided by the City of Ironton.
   CONSUMER HOUSEHOLD. Any service address in which the customer contractually
liable for utility services furnished that address does not reside.
   CUSTOMER. Any person who enters into a contractual agreement with the City
of Ironton to receive or to pay for residential utility services provided by
the City of Ironton. Customers may, but need not, be consumers of the services
provided under such a contractual agreement.
   CUSTOMER HOUSEHOLD. Any service address in which the customer contractually
liable for utility services furnished that address resides.
   SERVICE ADDRESS. Any individual residential address at which water utility
services are furnished a consumer of customer household. The singular may
include the plural. Most service addresses will be individually metered.
However, in apartment buildings, apartment complexes, duplex apartments, etc.,
one meter may supply more than one household. In such circumstances, each
individual apartment is a separate service address as that term is used herein.
(Ord. 19-09, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 1046.02 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   (a)   Home owner application for service. Each person applying for a new
water service or changes in an existing service or for service through existing
service connections will be required to fill out and sign the application form
agreeing to abide by all rules and regulations of the City of Ironton and to
pay any and all required deposits and charges, plus payment of any delinquent
charges in the applicant's name. Applicants and their spouse shall be required
to provide without limitation, a valid picture ID and social security card.
   (b)   Renter application for service. Each renter applying for a new water
service or changes in an existing service or for service through existing
service connections will be required to fill out and sign the application form
agreeing to abide by all rules and regulations of the City of Ironton and to
pay any and all required deposits and charges, plus payment of any delinquent
charges in the applicant's name. Applicants and their spouse shall be required
to provide without limitation, a valid picture ID and social security card, in
addition to a signed letter and or lease agreement from the landlord showing
proof that the renter is the official tenant of said property needing water
service.
(Ord. 19-09, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 1046.03 WATER USAGE FEES.
 
       2021   2022   2023   2024   2025  2026  2027    2028    2029    2030
Sale                               $     $
of     $ 8.76 $ 9.20 $ 9.47 $ 9.76 10.05 10.35 $ 10.66 $ 10.98 $ 11.31 $ 11.65
Water
Water  2.58   2.65   2.73   2.81   2.90  2.99  3.07    3.17    3.26    3.36
Admin.
      11.34  11.85  2.20   12.57  12.95 13.34 13.73   14.15   14.57   15.01
 
(Ord. 19-09, passed 3-14-2019; Am. Ord. 21-35, passed 7-22-2021)
§ 1046.04 ON/OFF FEES.
   (a)   Turn off.
      (1)   To turn water off, as requested, (except for emergencies and/or
authenticated repairs) and/or for non payment of bills: During regular work
hours Monday through Friday, except holidays = $30.00
      (2)   After regular work hours or on weekends or holidays additional
charges = $100.00
   (b)   Turn on.
      (1)   To turn water on during regular work hours Monday through Friday,
except holidays and/or for nonpayment of bills = $30.00
      (2)   After regular work hours or on weekends or holidays additional
charges = $100.00
(Ord. 19-09, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 1046.05 TAP FEES.
   (a)   In order that new customers share in system development costs already
borne by existing customers it is established that the minimum rates and
charges payable in advance for water taps be as follow
 
Meter Size  Tap Fees
5/8" x 3/4" $1,200
1"          $1,500
over 1"     $1,500 plus material & labor
 
   (b)   The above tap fees which are separate from any connection charges may
be paid in advance or paid in 13 equal payments equivalent to 1/12 of the total
tap charge which shall be added to the utility bill during the first 13 months
of service. This payment plan shall apply only to single-family residential
structures existing or under construction by January 1, 2019.
(Ord. 19-09, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 1046.06 RELOCATION CHARGES.
   (a)   The minimum rates and charges payable in advance for actual water
service requested relocations, which shall be separate charges from tap fees
shall be as follows:
 
METER SIZE RELOCATION FEES
Meter size  Relocation fees
5/8" x 3/4" $500
1"          $500
Over 1"     $1,000
 
   (b)   If the actual cost of such water service installation exceeds the
minimum charges fixed above, the City of Ironton reserves the right to charge
the actual costs of labor and fringes, materials and equipment.
(Ord. 19-09, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 1046.07 WATER METER TEST FEES.
   (a)   For meters up to and including one inch: forty dollars ($40.00). Fee
will be refunded if meter is determined to be inaccurate and overstating
consumption.
   (b)   For meters over one inch: seventy-five dollars ($75.00) plus costs
incurred for outside testing. Fee will be refunded if meter is determined to be
inaccurate and overstating consumption.
(Ord. 19-09, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 1046.08 SECURITY DEPOSIT.
   (a)   Rental units (discuss chuck ordinance). A security deposit fee of two
hundred dollars ($200.00) shall be required of all customers using of rental
units (tenant). The deposit, without interest, will be returned, upon request,
when termination of water service is requested and the customer has not been
delinquent on any payments due to the fault of the customer.
   (b)   Homeowner. The security deposit charge for single-family residential
units, which are occupied by the homeowner, shall be one hundred twenty-five
dollars ($125.00). After 12 months of service, and current on all utility
payments, the homeowner can request the deposit to be returned by making
application with the water office.
(Ord. 19-09, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 1046.09 HYDRANT METER.
   The City of Ironton may authorize a meter for temporary installation on a
fire hydrant. Any individual requesting and using such meter shall pay the
applicable user charges, turn-on and turn-off fees, and shall provide a three
hundred fifty dollar ($350.00) deposit subject to all other conditions.
(Ord. 19-09, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 1046.10 MANNER OF BILLING FOR SERVICE.
   (a)   Included on utility bill. The applicable fee for water service shall
be billed as a separate item on the regular billing for public utilities by the
City of Ironton and said charge shall be payable at the collections office in
the same manner and within the same penalty-free period as required for payment
of charges for all services and fee's.
   (b)   Customer accountability. The utility customer and his or her spouse in
whose name the water meter account is carried shall be jointly and severally
liable for said utility charges in full amount of the utility service billed
(no partial payment unless approved by the Mayor or his/her designee).
   (c)   Payments credited pro-rata. All utility payments are credited pro-rata
to water, and sewer.
   (d)   Proper authority. The city may demand proof of proper authorization to
renters by the property owner regarding provision of all services, fees and
charges.
(Ord. 19-09, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 1046.11 PENALTIES AND INTEREST.
   All water charges remaining unpaid after they become due shall be charged a
penalty of 10%. The due date shall be on or before the tenth of the month in
which the bill was rendered. Bills shall be payable at the Office of City Water
Works.
(Ord. 19-09, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 1046.12 UTILITY SHUTOFF.
   If charges for water service are not paid within 30 days after the due date
thereof, such water service shall be discontinued. In addition to the 10%
penalty, those disconnect and reconnect charges appearing in §§
1046.03 through
1046.09 shall be paid before water is reconnected. If a check used for payment
following a shut-off notice is returned for insufficient funds, that service
shall be shut-off immediately without further notice.
(Ord. 19-09, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 1046.13 BAD CHECK FEE.
   (a)   A fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) will be charged for all checks
returned from the customer's bank for any reason. If a check used for payment
following a shut-off notice is returned for insufficient funds, that service
shall be shut-off immediately without further notice. Customers will be given
three business days to pick up the check at the office after being notified
that the check has been returned. If the returned check is not picked up within
the allotted time, service will be discontinued with further notice. Additional
charges for turning the service off and back on, according to the current rate,
will also be imposed. Customers who have their service discontinued due to a
returned check will not be permitted to write checks to the city for a period
of one year following receipt of the returned check.
   (b)   Should the city receive two returned checks in a two year period, the
City Water Department will not accept checks from the customer for a period of
two years following the most recent returned check. Customers who provide proof
of overdraft protection on their checking account may have their check writing
privilege restored. A customer whose check writing privilege is restored,
either by overdraft protection or the passage of the two year period, and who
is responsible for another returned check will have his check writing privilege
revoked forever.
   (c)   When check writing privileges have been revoked, payment of water
bills must be by certified check, money order or cash.
   (d)   The city reserves the right to refuse to accept checks from any person
for reasons other than the aforementioned.
(Ord. 19-09, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 1046.14 ADJUSTMENTS.
   (a)   Payment plan. 
      (1)   Customers may enter into a payment plan to pay delinquent utility
bills. They will be asked to make a "reasonable down payment" and "reasonable
instalments", and be required to sign a payment agreement. Do not sign it
unless you agree to the terms. If customers do not pay the payment as agreed,
the City of Ironton Water Department will shut off service to delinquent
account. If customers do not pay the delinquent utility bills the City of
Ironton Water Department does not have to negotiate an agreement before it
shuts off your service.
      (2)   If you and the utility cannot agree on an instalment plan, you can
file a dispute with the Public Service Director (PSD). While the PSD
investigates and attempts to resolve your dispute, your service should not be
shut off. However, you must pay all bills not in dispute.
      (3)   The Mayor or his or her designee is authorized to establish a
payment plan in special circumstances when needed and is further authorized to
cease such plan for any delinquency or non-payment. Generally, such payment
plan shall be in writing.
   (b)   Unusual circumstances. The Mayor or his or her designee is authorized
under unusual and/or special circumstances, nonrecurring and rare in nature, to
provide reasonable adjustments based upon such mitigating conditions which
appear to require such adjustment to a utility bill. The burden of proof shall
rest with the customer and there is absolutely no obligation on the city to
provide any such adjustment. The Mayor or his or her designee shall maintain a
file of any such adjustments granted under this policy for review by the
Ironton City Council.
   (c)   High usage adjustments.
      (1)   All leaks in the consumers water system, whether detected by the
party to whom the bill is sent or a representative of the city shall be
repaired within 72 hours of its detection. If the leak is detected by a city
representative and the leak is not repaired within the required time, is
creating a hazard, may cause damage to other property or, in the opinion of the
city representative is causing a significant loss of water, water service shall
be discontinued until the leak has been repaired. In the event of an
underground leak in the consumers water system that is not the result of any
negligence on the part of the consumer or owner of the property, the consumer's
largest bill for the billing period during which the leak occurred will be
adjusted upon request by the customer and submission of a copy of the plumber's
bill for the repair work to the Office. The adjustment will be based upon the
following formula:
   A = Water consumption in billing period during which the teak occurred.
   B = Water consumption for normal water used the current year.
   C = 0.5
   D = Amount of consumption for which customer will be billed.
   D= (A-B) x C + B
      (2)   Only one bill adjustment will be made per consumer for any given 12
month period. If the adjustment involves rental property, the adjustment shall
be recorded against the rental unit for the 12 month period rather than the
landlord's name. At the same time, the renter's name shall be listed as a
customer of record who received an adjustment under this policy requires the
approval of the Mayor or his or her appointee.
(Ord. 19-09, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 1046.15 DELINQUENCY.
   (a)   On or after February 14, 2019, if any charges for utility services
provided by the city remain unpaid for 30 days beyond the due date, the city
shall refuse new service to the delinquent applicant until all charges are paid
in full. The delinquency shall be deemed to exist whether the outstanding
delinquency is in the name of the applicant or their spouse.
   (b)   A payment plan option can be requested in an effort to continue water
services.
(Ord. 19-09, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 1046.16 REFUSAL OF SERVICE.
   (a)   If any charges for utility bill remain unpaid for 30 days beyond the
date due, the city shall refuse new service for the same persons and his or her
spouse at the same or any other location until all charges are paid in full.
   (b)   A payment plan option can be requested in an effort to continue water
services.
(Ord. 19-09, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 1046.17 SERVICE AND SUPPLY LINES.
   (a)   Only metered water service supply lines will be permitted, except such
branches as are installed for fire protection and which are subject to special
rules and regulations. That portion of the water service supply line within the
city right-of-way limits of the streets, easement, roads and alleys, from the
main to the curb line of the street, or to the property line of the alley, will
be installed by the city.
   (b)   Exception: In cases where the meter is located or exists on private
property that portion installed by the city shall be to the nearest shut-off
valve or curb stop within the city right- of-way.
   (c)   The approval of the Superintendent of Water shall be obtained in all
cases where a water service branch larger than one inch in diameter or an
additional branch is applied for.
   (d)   Water service supply line branches shall not be placed in the same
trench with sewer connections. A trench separate and distinct from the sewer
shall be made for the water service supply line from the main pipe in the
street to the meter.
   (e)   When premises are supplied through two or more water supply lines,
each water supply line shall be equipped with a check valve after the meter set
so that the water can flow into the premises, but no water can flow out. Also,
each water supply line shall be equipped with a separate meter.
   (f)   Each dwelling unit shall be provided with an accessible main shutoff
valve near the entrance of the water service. The valve shall be of a full-way
type having minimal restriction to flow, with provision for drainage such as a
bleed orifice or installation of a separate drain valve. Additionally, the
water service shall be valved at the curb or property line in accordance with
local requirements.
   (g)   Notice of leaks and necessary repairs shall be left on the premises.
   (h)   Failure to receive said notice shall not relieve the accountable
customer of the premises of the responsibility of making repairs, or the
payment of the charges made by the Water Department. Accountable customers of
premises no longer desiring the use of water through a water service supply
line may make application to have the same withdrawn.
   (i)   Charges for opening streets for the installation or the withdrawal of
water service supply lines, including excavation, back filling and street
restoration, shall be the cost to the city of materials, labor and equipment
and be the responsibility of the accountable customer.
   (j)   Plumbers, when completing the installation of water service supply
lines, shall leave the curb cock closed. Only an authorized employee of the
city shall turn on the water to the supply line. No water supply shall be
turned on, established or re-established until approval is present that the
premises conforms to applicable building codes.
   (k)   It shall be unlawful for any person to tap into the pipes of the Water
Works or in any manner attach any fixture to any service pipe connected with
the Water Works distribution system. Also, it shall be unlawful to change,
alter, tamper, vandalize, replace or remove any fixture or service supply line
connected with the Water Works Distribution System without first having a
permit therefore signed by the Superintendent of Water or his authorized
representative. Any person receiving a permit shall, in all respects, conform
to the Rules and Regulations of the Water Department of the City of Ironton,
Ohio as they now exist, or may hereafter be amended or changed and all
applicable building codes lawfully adopted by the city.
   (l)   The city does not guarantee any fixed pressure or a continuous supply
of water, these being subject to the conditions which may arise in the
operation and maintenance of the Water Works.
   (m)   In the case of breaks in mains, services, pumps and auxiliary
machinery, reservoirs or other Water Works [text missing from ordinance]
health, safety and welfare of the citizens), without notice, and no claim will
be considered for damages to service branches, plumbing fixtures, or other
losses arising there from. Whenever practical, a notice that water is to be
shut off will be given, either at the premises or through the media.
(Ord. 19-09, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 1046.18 WATER SERVICE TERMINATION POLICY.
   (a)   Water service to customer or consumer households may be disconnected
or terminated (hereinafter "disconnection") by the city only for the following
reasons:
      (1)   Non-payment;
      (2)   Emergencies and repairs;
      (3)   At customer request, provided that the approval of both the
customer and consumer of services for that service address is necessary if any
service address affected by the request is a consumer household.
   (b)   Disconnection other than those with approval of both the customer and
consumer of service may not occur without proper notice and adequate
opportunity for a hearing prior to termination. These rules shall be complied
with by all Water Department employees.
   (c)   No disconnection of service shall occur except after compliance with
these rules.
(Ord. 19-09, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 1045.19 NOTICE PROCEDURES.
   (a)   Written notice of proposed disconnection of service, for any reason
other than voluntary disconnection as described herein, must be sent by the
city at least seven days, and no more than ten days, prior to the date proposed
for disconnection. Notices may be mailed with first class postage prepaid or
delivered to the service address by a city employee to reasonably assure
delivery within that time. The date of the notice shall be the date of mailing
or delivered, and a dated copy of any notice sent shall be retained by the city
in the business file relating to each service address referred to in the
notice.
   (b)   Notices shall clearly and conspicuously advise any recipient of each
of the facts:
      (1)   Identifying information, including the service address to be
affected, the account number, the customer's name and address, and the identity
of the city Water Department and its address;
      (2)   The date proposed for disconnection if the account is not paid, or
hearing requested, or a separate account established;
      (3)   The reason for the proposed disconnection, including (if
applicable) the amount claimed to be due; the location and hours at which
payment in person can be made; and the minimum payment which, tendered at or
before disconnection, is necessary to avoid disconnection;
      (4)   A notice that a consumer of water services may avoid disconnection
by paying current charges and assuming responsibility for payment of future
charges, if the consumer does not owe a delinquent water bill or if that bill
is now paid in full;
      (5)   A notice that a customer or consumer of water services has the
right to a hearing to contest the reasons for the proposed disconnection, and
that if a hearing is requested, the disconnection will not take place until the
hearing process is completed;
      (6)   The name, title, address, telephone number, and hours during which
the Service Representative may be contacted to request a hearing, explore
payment alternatives or special consideration in hardship cases, or to assume
responsibility for future utility charges.
   (c)   This information will appear in all capital letters at the bottom of
the notice, after the words "FINAL NOTICE — IF YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS OR
DISPUTE ABOUT THIS BILL CALL 532-3353." The notice attached to Ordinance No.
19-09 as Exhibit 2 satisfies these requirements.
   (d)   In the event any service address that would be affected by
disconnection is a consumer household, notice of disconnection of service, in
this form and manner, must be delivered to each service address so affected, in
addition to delivery to the customer household.
(Ord. 19-09, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 1046.20 EMERGENCIES AND REPAIRS.
   (a)   Disconnection of service may occur without prior notice if emergency
circumstances involve imminent danger to persons or property, including a break
in a water service line. Prior notice shall be given by the Clerk where water
service shall be lost for more than eight hours as the result of routine or
scheduled maintenance, so that consumers of water service may plan accordingly.
If the loss of water service results from a water line break or other emergency
circumstances, and is expected to, or does, last for more than eight hours, the
city shall give notice to service addresses affected by such loss of service by
asking the local radio media to publicize the loss of service, the reason for
it, and the expected date and time by which the city expects to restore
service.
   (b)   If a service address must be temporarily disconnected on a non-
emergency basis for the purpose of repairs within the service address, a
disconnection request in the form attached to Ordinance No. 19-09 as Exhibit 1
must be completed in writing by the customer contractually obligated to pay for
service at the address.
   (c)   If any service address that would be affected by disconnection is a
consumer household, disconnection for repair shall not be processed unless the
request is also approved by an adult consumer residing at each service that
would be affected by disconnection. A copy of the disconnection request shall
be retained in the city's business records relating to any service address so
affected. The city shall reconnect service disconnected for purpose of non-
emergency repair upon demand of the customer or of an adult consumer residing
at any service address so affected.
(Ord. 19-09, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 1046.21 VOLUNTARY TERMINATION OF SERVICE.
   (a)   Requests for voluntary disconnection of water service shall be made at
the City Water Department office; shall be made in writing in the form attached
to Ordinance No. 19-09 as Exhibit 1 by the customer contractually obligated to
pay charges incurred at each service address affected by the disconnection; and
shall also be approved in writing by an adult consumer actually residing at
each affected service address if any service address comprised of a consumer
household will be affected by the disconnection.
   (b)   Upon receiving a request for voluntary disconnection, if the city's
records reveal that the service address is different than the billing address
for that account, or if there is other reason to believe disconnection may
affect a service address comprised of a household other than, or in addition
to, the customer's household, no voluntary disconnection will be processed:
      (1)   Until a disconnection request form is signed by any adult consumer
actually residing in each service address that will be affected by
disconnection; or
      (2)   Until a service department employee personally visits each service
address that will be affected by disconnection and verifies it is unoccupied.
   (c)   Service Department employees performing such verification shall make
reasonable efforts to determine whether the service address is occupied or
unoccupied, including but not necessarily limited to, checking with neighbors
and other utility providers. Service employees performing such verification
shall note in writing his or her identity; the date and time of the visit; the
efforts utilized to determine the occupancy status of the premises; and his or
her conclusions as to occupancy. This investigation may occur during the same
visit at which the service employee will comply with the disconnection
procedures of §
1046.22, if the employee reasonably concludes the address is unoccupied.
   (d)   Service employee notations as to this investigation, and all request
forms executed under this provision, shall be retained in the business file
kept by the city relating to any service address so affected. The city will
reconnect service upon demand of any adult consumer of water service at any
service address so affected, if this voluntary disconnection provision was not
complied with, or if the city's verification of no occupancy was in error.
(Ord. 19-09, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 1046.22 DISCONNECTION PROCEDURES.
   (a)   Except for emergency disconnection pursuant to §
1046.20, disconnection of water service shall not occur after 12:30 p.m. on any
day which precedes a holiday or weekend, or any other day on which all services
necessary to reconnect service are not available. All disconnections of service
shall be documented by a written service order recording the date, time and
identity of the service employee effectuating disconnection; such documentation
shall be retained in the business file kept by the city relating to any service
address so affected.
   (b)   Service employees dispatched to disconnect service shall not
disconnect service until he or she make reasonable efforts to personally
contact the occupants, if any, of each service address affected by
disconnection to: (1) advise of the disconnection; and (2) verify the propriety
of the disconnection. Reasonable efforts shall include, but not necessarily be
limited to, knocking at the entry to each individual service address, or
otherwise attempting to gain the attention of any occupants. If the service
employee makes personal contact with the occupants of any such service address,
and then is able to verify the propriety of the disconnection (which includes
but is not limited to verifying the receipt of notice, as required by §
1046.19, the service employee shall then deliver to the occupants a turnoff
notice which shall clearly and conspicuously advise the occupant(s) of:
      (1)   The date and time of the termination;
      (2)   The reason for termination;
      (3)   If the termination is for non-payment, the amount which must be
paid, including any reconnection fee, to have service re-established;
      (4)   The location and hours of the office at which payment can be made
to obtain reconnection;
      (5)   The name, title, address, telephone number, and hours during which
a service representative may be contacted to discuss reconnection;
      (6)   A consumer's ability to obtain utility service in their own
account, if service was terminated due to non-payment of utility charges if the
consumer does not owe a delinquent water bill or the bill is now paid in full;
and
      (7)   A consumer or customer's right to a hearing to contest
disconnection or a refusal to reconnect service, although that request will not
now postpone disconnection unless it can be established that prior notice of
proposed disconnection was not given.
   (c)   The notice attached to Ordinance No. 19-09 as Exhibit 3 satisfies
these requirements.
   (d)   If a service employee's efforts to make personal contact with the
occupants of any such service address immediately prior to disconnection are
not successful, the service employee shall post the turnoff notice in a
prominent place at the entry to each service address affected by disconnection.
The service employee shall document on the service order the efforts made to
personally contact the occupants prior to disconnection and the delivery of the
turn-off notice, including the date and time such acts were performed and his/
her identity.
(Ord. 19-09, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 1046.23 HEARING PROCEDURES.
   (a)   The service representative shall be the Superintendent of Water. If
the Superintendent of Water was involved in the original decision at issue, the
Mayor shall be the service representative for that issue. The service
representative shall be empowered and required (when good cause is shown) to
compromise and adjust billings; negotiate, defer and compromise disputed as to
Service Department requirements or payment demands; and to cancel disconnection
and/or order reconnection. The service representative shall strive to arrange
reasonable alternate methods of payment, or reasonable security for payment, in
order to preserve utility service, and shall maintain residential utility
service without discrimination. The service representative shall be familiar
with, and able to advise utility customers and consumers of agencies,
resources, and [text missing from ordinance] locally available to assist in the
payment of utility bills. The service representative shall preside at hearings
[text missing from ordinance]
   (b)   Customers or consumers of utility service who wish to contest a water
utility services decision, billing, or a proposed disconnection of utility
services (hereafter "the person") shall be afforded a due process opportunity
to contest the city's action or inaction prior to termination of service. Due
process shall include the right to a face-to-face meeting with the service
representative, at which the person may (1) have the assistance of a
representative; and (2) may present documentary and/or oral information for the
service representative's consideration. These persons shall be entitled to
reasonable access to city business records concerning the affected service
address in order to prepare for the meeting, which right of access includes the
right to obtain copies of documents found therein upon payment of the actual
cost of copying. The service representative shall make a written decision after
the hearing and the reasons for the decision. A copy of the decision shall be
delivered to the person; a copy retained in the business files kept by the city
relating to any service address affected by the hearing.
   (c)   Due process hearings shall be held within a reasonable time after a
verbal or written hearing request has been made, but will not be held so
quickly as to deny the person an adequate opportunity to seek assistance or to
prepare for the hearing, in light of the person's circumstances. Five business
days shall generally constitute a reasonable time. The hearing decision shall
be delivered to the person within a reasonable time after the hearing. If a
hearing is requested prior to actual disconnection of service, no disconnection
may occur until seven days after the hearing decision has been delivered to the
person who requested the hearing.
(Ord. 19-09, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 1046.24 NON-DISCRIMINATION AGAINST CONSUMERS.
   (a)   If service is disconnected, or if disconnection is proposed, due to a
customer's non-payment of service charges for a consumer benefited unit, and
adult consumer of water services in said benefited unit shall have the right to
avoid disconnection, or obtain reconnection, if the consumer pays the current
months charges, the standard residential deposit required to initiate future
charges and assumes responsibility for timely payments of for service provided
the benefitted unit at the water service, service address. If the consumer
demonstrates that they are indigent (i.e., unable to pay the entire amount of
the deposit and the current month's charges without substantial hardship), the
deposit may be made through instalment payments over a period not to exceed 120
days. Consume assumption does not relieve the customer of contractual liability
for charges incurred. The assumption obligation shall terminate upon the
delivery to the city of a written notice cancelling that assumption signed by
the consumer who assumed the obligation and by the customer. If the outstanding
charges which caused the proposed termination are still outstanding, the city
may proceed to terminate service without further notice.
   (b)   This section does not apply to any customer concerning any service
address in which resided the customer obligated for payment of the account for
that service address. However, in circumstances in which one meter serves more
than one service address, consumer benefitted units will not be penalized in
any way, or denied the benefit of this provision, because the defaulting
customer's benefitted unit might also benefit from a continuation or
restoration of service.
(Ord. 19-09, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 1046.25 CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL - GENERAL POLICY.
   (a)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is:
      (1)   To protect the city potable water supply from contamination or
pollution by isolating within the consumer's water system contaminants or
pollutants which could backflow through the service connection into the city
potable water system.
      (2)   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross
connections, actual or potential, between the city or consumer's potable water
system and non-potable water systems, plumbing fixtures and sources or systems
containing process fluids.
      (3)   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross
connection control which will systematically and effectively prevent the
contamination or pollution of the city and consumer's potable water systems.
   (b)   Application. This chapter shall apply to all premises served by the
city potable water system.
   (c)   Policy. The Superintendent of Water shall be responsible for
protection of the city potable water system from contamination due to backflow
of contaminants through the water service connection. If, in the judgment of
the Superintendent of Water, or his or her authorized representative, a cross-
connection or backflow situation is possible the consumer shall be given notice
to install such approved backflow prevention assembly at each service
connection to the premises. The consumer shall immediately install such
approved assembly or assemblies at his or her own expense, and failure, refusal
or inability on the part of the consumer to install such assembly or assemblies
immediately shall constitute grounds for discontinuing water service to the
premises until such assembly or assemblies have been installed.
(Ord. 19-09, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 1046.26 CROSS CONNECTION PROHIBITED.
   (a)   No water service connection shall be installed or maintained to any
premises where actual or potential cross connections to the city potable or
consumer's water system may exist unless such actual or potential cross
connections are abated or controlled to the satisfaction of the Superintendent
of Water.
   (b)   No connection shall be installed or maintained whereby an auxiliary
water supply may enter the city potable or consumer's water system unless such
auxiliary water supply and the method of connection and use of such supply
shall have been approved by the Superintendent of Water as required by R.C. §
6111.15 and #3745-95 of the Ohio Administrative Code.
(Ord. 19-09, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 1046.27 SURVEY AND INVESTIGATION.
   (a)   The consumer's premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the
Superintendent of Water, or his or her authorized representative for the
conduction of surveys and investigations of water use practices within the
consumer's premises to determine whether there are actual or potential cross
connections to the consumer's water system through which contaminants or
pollutants could backflow into the city potable water system.
   (b)   On request by the Superintendent of Water, or his or her authorized
representative, the consumer shall furnish information on water use practices
within his or her premises.
   (c)   It shall be the responsibility of the water consumer to conduct
periodic surveys of water use practices on his or her premises to determine
whether there are actual or potential cross connections to his or her water
system through which contaminants or pollutants could backflow into his or her
or the city potable water system.
(Ord. 19-09, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 1046.28 WHERE PROTECTION IS REQUIRED.
   An approved backflow prevention assembly shall be installed on each service
line to a consumer's water system serving premises where the following
conditions exist:
   (a)   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless such auxiliary
supply is accepted as an additional source by the Superintendent of Water, or
his or her authorized representative and the source is approved by the OEPA.
   (b)   Premises on which any substance is handled in such a fashion as to
create an actual or potential hazard to the city potable water system. This
shall include premises having sources or systems containing process fluids or
waters originating from the city potable water system which are no longer under
the sanitary control of the Superintendent of Water.
   (c)   Premises having internal cross connections that, in the judgment of
the Superintendent of Water, or his or her authorized representative, are not
correctable or intricate plumbing arrangements which made it impractical to
determine whether or not cross connections exist.
   (d)   Premises where, because of security requirements or other prohibitions
or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make a complete cross
connection survey.
   (e)   Premises having a repeated history of cross connections being
established or reestablished.
   (f)   Others specified by the Superintendent of Water, or his or her
authorized representative.
   (g)   An approved backflow prevention assembly shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer's water system service, but not necessarily limited
to the following types of facilities, unless the Superintendent of Water or his
or her authorized representative determines that no actual or potential hazard
to the city potable water [text missing from ordinance]
      (1)   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics, nursing homes;
      (2)   Laboratories;
      (3)   Piers, docks, waterfront facilities;
      (4)   Sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping station or storm water
pumping station;
      (5)   Food or beverage processing plants;
      (6)   Chemical plants;
      (7)   Metal plating industries;
      (8)   Petroleum processing or storage plants;
      (9)   Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear reactors;
      (10)   Carwash;
      (11)   A11 water services that are not a residential one family dwelling,
two family dwelling or three family dwelling shall install an approved backflow
prevention assembly.
   (h)   An approved backflow prevention assembly shall be installed at any
point of connection between the city potable or consumer's water system and an
auxiliary water supply, unless such auxiliary supply is accepted as an
additional source by the Superintendent of Water, or his or her authorized
representative and the source is approved by the OEPA.
   (i)   Backflow prevention is required on all fire lines. Each fire line and/
or fire prevention system will be considered separately for the purposes of
determining what backflow prevention assembly is required.
   (j)   An approved backflow prevention assembly shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer's water system serving premises where, in the
judgment of the Superintendent of Water, or his or her authorized
representative, actual or potential hazards to the city potable water system
exist.
(Ord. 19-09, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 1046.29 TYPE OF PROTECTION REQUIRED.
   (a)   The type of protection required under §
1046.28(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g) and (j) shall depend on the degree of
hazard which exists as follows:
      (1)   An approved air gap separation shall be installed where the city
potable water system may be contaminated with substances that could cause a
severe health hazard.
      (2)   An approved air gap separation or an approved reduced pressure
principle backflow prevention assembly shall be installed where the city
potable water system may be contaminated with a substance that could cause a
system or health hazard.
   (b)   The type of protection required under §
1046.28(h) shall be an approved air gap.
   (c)   Where an auxiliary water supply is used as a secondary source of water
for a fire protection system, the provisions of division (b) of this section
for an approved air gap separation or an approved interchangeable connection
may not be required providing.
      (1)   At premises where the auxiliary water supply may be contaminated
with substances that could cause a system or health hazard, the city or
consumer's potable water system shall be protected against backflow by
installation of an approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention
assembly.
      (2)   At all other premises, the city or consumer's potable water system
shall be protected against backflow by installation of either an approved
reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assembly or an approved double
check valve assembly.
      (3)   The city or consumer's potable water system shall be the primary
source of water for the fire protection system.
      (4)   The fire protection system shall be normally filled with water from
the city or consumer's potable water system.
      (5)   The water in the fire protection system shall be used for fire
protection only with no regular use of water from the fire protection system
downstream from the approved backflow prevention assembly.
      (6)   The water in the fire protection system shall contain no additives.
   (d)   Protection required on fire lines is as follows:
      (1)   The minimum requirement for a fire line is an approved double check
detector check valve assembly with approved bypass meter.
      (2)   All fire lines with or without an auxiliary supply (ponds, wells,
any water supply other than from the city water system) or additives included
in the fire line will require a reduced pressure back flow prevention assembly.
      (3)   If at any time it is found that a fire line has been altered to
include any of the above conditions or if a fire line has been connected to for
purposes other than fire protection, an approved back flow prevention assembly
will be required to be installed immediately. Water service shall be
discontinued at the time such alteration is discovered and [text missing from
ordinance]
      (4)   If a single tap is supplying both fire suppression and domestic
water to a building or facility, the fire line and domestic line will be
considered separate for the purpose of determining the necessity of backflow
prevention assemblies. Under all circumstances both lines will require a back
flow prevention assembly.
(Ord. 19-09, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 1046.30 BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLIES.
   Any backflow prevention assembly required by this chapter shall be of a
model or construction approved by the Superintendent of Water or his or her
authorized representative and shall comply with the following:
   (a)   A double check valve assembly or a reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention assembly shall appear on the current "list of approved backflow
prevention assemblies" of the OEPA. A current list is available at the
Superintendent of Water, or his or her authorized representative.
   (b)   To be approved by Superintendent of Water or his or her authorized
representative:
      (1)   An air gap separation shall be at least twice the diameter of the
supply pipe, measured vertically above the top rim of the vessel, but in no
case less than one inch.
      (2)   An interchangeable connection shall be a four-way valve of the
lubricated plug type that operates through a mechanism which unseats the plug,
turns it 90 degrees and reseats the plug. Four-way valves shall not be used as
stop valves but must have separate stop valves on each pipe connected to the
valve. The tell-tale port on the four-way valve shall have no piping connected
and the threads or flange on this port shall be destroyed so that a connection
cannot be made. Any interchangeable connection shall have an approved backflow
prevention assembly on each line.
   (c)   Existing backflow prevention assemblies approved by the Superintendent
of Water, or his or her authorized representative or the OEPA at the time of
installation and properly maintained shall, except for inspection and
maintenance requirements, be excluded from the requirement of divisions (a),
(b), and (c) of this section providing the Superintendent of Water, or his or
her authorized representative are assured that they will satisfactorily protect
the city potable water system. Whenever the existing assembly is moved from the
present location or requires more than minimum maintenance or when the
Superintendent of Water or his or her authorized representative finds that the
maintenance of the assembly constitutes a hazard to health, the assembly shall
be replaced by a backflow prevention assembly meeting the requirements of these
regulations.
(Ord. 19-09, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 1046.31 INSTALLATION.
   (a)   Backflow prevention assemblies required by this chapter shall be
installed at a location and in a manner approved by the Superintendent of
Water, or his or her authorized representative and shall be installed by and at
the expense of the water consumer. In addition, any backflow prevention
assembly required by §
1046.28(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), and (g) shall be installed at a location
and in a manner approved by the Superintendent of Water, or his or her
authorized representative as required by R.C. § 6111.15 and #3745-95 of the
Ohio Administrative Code.
   (b)   Backflow prevention assemblies installed on the service line to a
consumer's water system shall be located on the consumer's side of the water
meter, as close to the meter as is reasonably practical, and prior to any other
connection.
   (c)   Pits or vaults will generally not be approved for the installation of
any backflow prevention assembly. However, retrofit of an existing fire
suppression system with double check detector check backflow prevention
assembly may be allowed in a pit or vault if the pit or vault already exists
and the pit or vault meets all the following requirements:
      (1)   Pits or vaults shall be of water-tight construction, be so located
and constructed as to prevent flooding and shall be maintained free from
standing water by means of either a sump pump or a suitable drain. Such sump
pump or drain shall not connect to a sanitary sewer nor permit flooding of the
pit or vault by reverse flow from its point of discharge. An access ladder and
adequate natural or artificial lighting shall be provided to permit maintenance
inspection and testing of the backflow prevention assembly.
      (2)   If a pit or vault is approved, it shall be understood that when a
major system renovation is undertaken these double check detector check
backflow prevention assemblies will be moved out of the pit or vault to a
suitable location approved by the Superintendent of Water, or his or her
authorized representative.
(Ord. 19-09, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 1046.32 INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (a)   It shall be the duty of the property owner at any premises on which
backflow prevention assemblies required by these regulations are installed to
have inspection, tests and overhaul made in accordance with the following
schedule or more often where inspections indicate a need.
      (1)   Air separation shall be inspected at time of installation and at
least every 12 months thereafter.
      (2)   Double check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested for
tightness at time of installation and at least every 12 months thereafter.
         A.   They shall be dismantled, inspected internally, cleaned and
repaired whenever needed and at least every 30 months.
      (3)   Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assemblies shall be
inspected and tested for tightness at time of installation and at least every
12 months thereafter.
         A.   They shall be dismantled, inspected internally, cleaned and
repaired whenever needed and at least every five years.
      (4)   An interchangeable connection shall be inspected at time of
installation and at least every 12 months thereafter.
   (b)   Inspections, tests and overhaul of backflow prevention assemblies
shall be made at the expense of the property owner and shall be performed by a
person approved by the Superintendent of Water, or his or her authorized
representative as qualified to inspect, test and overhaul backflow prevention
assemblies.
   (c)   The property owner must maintain a complete record of each backflow
prevention assembly from purchase to retirement. This shall include a
comprehensive listing that includes a record of all tests, inspections and
repairs. A copy of the records of inspections, tests, repairs and overhaul
shall be submitted to the Superintendent of Water, or his or her authorized
representative.
   (d)   Whenever backflow prevention assemblies required by these regulations
are found to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced at the expense of
the property owner without delay and copies of the repairs or replacements must
be submitted to the Superintendent of Water, or his or her authorized
representative.
   (e)   Backflow prevention assemblies shall not be bypassed, made
inoperative, removed or otherwise made ineffective without specific
authorization by the Superintendent of Water, or his or her authorized
representative.
(Ord. 19-09, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 1046.33 BOOSTER PUMPS.
   (a)   Where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to or
within any premises, such pump shall be equipped with a low pressure cut-off
device designed to shut off the booster pump when the pressure in the service
line on the suction side of the pump drops to ten pounds per square inch gauge
or less.
   (b)   It shall be the duty of the property owner to maintain the low
pressure cut-off device in proper working order and to certify to the
Superintendent of Water, or his or her authorized representative, at least once
every 12 months, that the device is operable.
(Ord. 19-09, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 1046.34 VIOLATIONS.
   (a)   The Public Service Director, or his or her authorized representative
shall deny or discontinue, after reasonable notice to the occupants thereof,
the water service to any premises wherein any backflow prevention assembly
required by these regulations is not installed, tested and maintained in a
manner acceptable to the Superintendent of Water, or his or her authorized
representative, if it is found that the backflow prevention assembly has been
removed or by-passed, or if an unprotected cross connection exists on the
premises, or if a low pressure cut-off required by these regulations is not
installed and maintained in working order.
   (b)   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
property owner has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in
conformance with these regulations and to the satisfaction of the
Superintendent of Water, or his or her authorized representative.
(Ord. 19-09, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 1046.35 RATES FOR THE SALE OF WATER FOR CUSTOMERS OF TANKER TRUCKS.
   (a)   Each customer purchasing water for a tanker truck shall pay a one-time
service charge of ten dollars ($10.00) to set up an account with the city.
   (b)   Two dollars fifty cents ($2.50) of the service charge is hereby
earmarked for the city’s administrative fee and seven dollars fifty cents
($7.50) is hereby earmarked for the maintenance of the station site where
tanker trucks are loaded.
   (c)   Customers shall pay the rate of ten dollars ($10.00) per 1,000 gallons
of water sold to the customer of a tanker truck, or portion thereof.
   (d)   The ten dollar ($10.00) per gallon cost shall increase annually on
January 1 of each year at a rate of 1.5% or the Consumer Price Index increase
of the previous year, whichever is greater.
(Ord. 20-31, passed 5-4-2020)
CHAPTER 1048: ELECTRICITY
Editor’s note:  The city contracts with Ohio Power Company for electric
service. Copies of the latest relevant legislation and contract may be
obtained, at cost, from the Mayor’s office.
There are no sections in Chapter 1048. This chapter has been established to
provide a place for cross references and any future legislation.
Cross-reference:
   Electric fences, see GEN. OFF.
660.12
   Electrical permit fees, see B. & H.
1440.02(g)
   National Electrical Code, see B. & H.
Ch. 1424
   Tampering with and theft of utilities, see GEN. OFF.
642.26
   Utility poles, anchors and underground lines, see S.U. & P.S.
Ch. 1040
   Utility rates, see ADM.
222.02
   Utilities in urban renewal areas, see P. & Z.
1294.05
Statutory reference:
   Appropriation of property by electric companies, see Ohio R.C. 4933.15
   Contracts with municipal corporation for light, see Ohio R.C. 4933.04
   Gas or electric companies may manufacture and supply both electricity and
gas, see Ohio R.C. 4933.02
   Powers of electric light and power companies, see Ohio R.C. 4933.13
CHAPTER 1050: GAS
Editor’s note: The city contracts with Columbia Gas of Ohio, Inc., for natural
gas service. Copies of the latest relevant legislation and contract may be
obtained, at cost, from the Mayor’s office.
There are no sections in Chapter 1050. This chapter has been established to
provide a place for cross references and any future legislation.
Cross-reference:
   Tampering with and theft of utilities, see GEN. OFF.
642.26
   Utilities in urban renewal areas, see P. & Z.
1294.05
   Utility poles, anchors and underground lines, see S.U. & P.S.
Ch. 1040
   Utility rates, see ADM.
222.02
Statutory reference:
   Gas company may extend mains beyond city, see Ohio R.C. 4933.05
   Gas or electric companies may manufacture and supply both electricity and
gas, see Ohio R.C. 4933.02
   Gas meters, see Ohio R.C. 4933.08 et seq.
CHAPTER 1052: SMALL CELL TECHNOLOGY IN THE RIGHT-OF-WAY
Section
1052.01   Definitions
1052.02   General requirements
1052.03   Application and approval process
1052.04   Design guidelines
1052.05   Safety requirements
1052.06   Installation and inspection
1052.07   General provisions
1052.08   Annual collocation fee
1052.09   Liability and signal interference
1052.10   Requirements for removal, replacement, maintenance and repair
1052.11   Rule making authority
1052.12   Effect of partial invalidity
 
1052.99   Penalty
§ 1052.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (a)   General use of terms.
      (1)   The terms, phrases, words, and their derivations used in this
chapter shall have the meanings given in this section.
      (2)   Words not defined shall be given their common and ordinary meaning.
   (b)   Defined terms.
      (1)   “Abandoned” means any small cell facilities or wireless support
structures that are unused for a period of 365 days without the operator
otherwise notifying the city and receiving the city's approval.
      (2)   “Antenna” means communications equipment that transmits or receives
radio frequency signals in the provision of wireless service.
      (3)   “Applicant” means any person applying for a small cell permit
hereunder.
      (4)   “City” means the City of Ironton.
      (5)   “Collocation” or “Collocate” means to install, mount, maintain,
modify, operate, or replace wireless facilities on a wireless support
structure.
      (6)   “Decorative pole” means a pole, arch, or structure other than a
street light pole placed in the right-of-way to specifically designed and
placed for aesthetic purposes and on which no appurtenances or attachments have
been placed except for any of the following:
         A.   Electric lighting;
         B.   Specially designed informational or directional signage;
         C.   Temporary holiday or special event attachments.
      (7)   “Design guidelines” means those detailed design guidelines,
specifications and examples adopted by the City Council pursuant to § 1054.04
for the design and installation of small cell facilities and wireless support
structures, which are effective insofar as they do not conflict with federal
and state law, rule and regulations.
      (8)   “Operator” means a wireless service provider, cable operator, or a
video service provider that operates a small cell facility and provides
wireless service. “Operator” includes a wireless service provider, cable
operator, or a video service provider that provides information services as
defined in the “Telecommunications Act of 1996" 110 Stat. 59, 47 U.S.C. 153(2),
and services that are fixed in nature or use unlicensed spectrum.
      (9)   “Permittee” means the owner and/or operator issued a small cell
permit pursuant to these chapter and the design guidelines.
      (10)   “Person” means any natural person or any association, firm,
partnership, joint venture, corporation, or other legally recognized entity,
whether for-profit or not-for profit.
      (11)   “Right-of-way” means the surface of, and the space within,
through, on, across, above, or below, any public street, public road, public
highway, public freeway, public lane, public path, public alley, public court,
public sidewalk, public boulevard, public parkway, public drive, public
easement, and any other land dedicated or otherwise designated for a compatible
public use, which is owned or controlled by the City of Ironton.
      (12)   “Small cell facility” means a wireless facility that meets both of
the following requirements:
         A.   Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of not more than six
cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed elements,
the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within an enclosure of
not more than six cubic feet in volume.
         B.   All other wireless equipment associated with the facility is
cumulatively not more than 29 cubic feet in volume. The calculation of
equipment volume shall not include electric meters, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation boxes, grounding equipment, power transfer
switches, cut-off switches, and vertical cable runs for the connection of power
and other services.
      (13)   “Small cell permit” means the non-exclusive grant of authority
issued by the City of Ironton to install a small cell facility and/or a
wireless support structure in a portion of the right-of-way in accordance with
these guidelines.
      (14)   “Utility pole” means a structure that is designed for, or used for
the purpose of, carrying lines, cables, or wires for electric or
telecommunications service. “Utility pole” excludes street signs and decorative
poles.
      (15)   “Wireless facility” means equipment at a fixed location that
enables wireless communications between user equipment and a communications
network, including all of the following:
         A.   Equipment associated with wireless communications;
         B.   Radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable,
regular and backup power supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of
technological configuration.
         C.   The term does not include any of the following:
            1.   The structure or improvements on, under, or within which the
equipment is collocated;
            2.   Coaxial or fiber-optic cable that is between wireless support
structures or utility poles or that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or
directly associated with a particular antenna.
      (16)   “Wireless support structure” means a pole, such as a monopole,
either guyed or self-supporting, street light pole, traffic signal pole, a 15-
foot or taller sign pole, or utility pole capable of supporting small cell
facilities. “Wireless support structure” excludes:
         A.   A utility pole or other facility owned or operated by a municipal
electric utility; and
         B.   A utility pole or other facility used to supply traction power to
public transit systems, including railways, trams, streetcars and trolley
buses.
      (17)   “Wireline backhaul facility” means a facility used for the
transport of communications service or any other electronic communications by
coaxial, fiber-optic cable, or any other wire.
(Ord. 20-39, passed 7-9-2020)
§ 1052.02 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   General requirements. The following requirements shall apply to all
small cell facilities and wireless support structures proposed within the
right-of-way.
      (1)   No person shall occupy or use the right-of-way except in accordance
with law.
      (2)   In occupying or using the right-of-way, no person shall
unreasonably compromise the public health, safety, and welfare.
   (b)   The permitting procedures and authorizations set forth herein in this
chapter shall apply only to small cell facilities and wireless support
structures in the right-of-way.
   (c)   Nothing in this chapter precludes the city from applying its generally
applicable health, safety, and welfare regulations when granting consent for a
small cell facility or wireless support structure in the city’s right-of-way.
(Ord. 20-39, passed 7-9-2020)
§ 1052.03 APPLICATION AND APPROVAL PROCESS.
   (a)   Application required. Prior to installation, modification, relocation,
or removal of a small cell facility, relocation or removal of an existing
wireless support structure, installation of a new wireless support structure,
or collocation on an existing wireless support structure in the right-of-way,
the operator shall apply to the city and receive approval from the city.
   (b)   Required application materials. Unless otherwise required by state or
federal law, the application shall be submitted to the Public Service
Department with the applicable fee and all required materials and information
in accordance with the requirements of this chapter and the design guidelines
in order for the application to be considered complete.
   (c)   Application processing fee. For processing an application for consent,
the city may charge a fee for each small cell facility and wireless support
structure requested as prescribed under R.C. § 4939.0316 and as listed on the
associated application forms which shall be made available by the Public
Service Department. The city may adjust this fee 10% every five years, rounded
to the nearest five dollars ($5.00).
(Ord. 20-39, passed 7-9-2020)
§ 1052.04 DESIGN GUIDELINES.
   (a)   City Council shall adopt by resolution detailed design guidelines with
objective, technically feasible criteria applied in a non-discriminatory manner
that reasonably match the aesthetics and character of the immediate area
regarding all of the following, which the city shall consider in reviewing an
application:
      (1)   The location of any ground-mounted small cell facilities;
      (2)   The location of a small cell facility on a wireless support
structure;
      (3)   The appearance and concealment of small cell facilities, including
those relating to materials used for arranging, screening, and landscaping;
      (4)   The design and appearance of a wireless support structure.
   (b)   The provisions in this section shall not limit or prohibit the
discretion of the city to promulgate and make publicly available other
information, materials, forms, or requirements in addition to, and separate
from, the design guidelines so long as the information, materials, forms, or
requirements do not conflict with this chapter or other applicable state or
federal law.
   (c)   Waiver of guidelines. In the event that strict compliance with any
provision in these guidelines, as applied to a specific proposed small cell
facility, would effectively prohibit the provision of personal wireless
services, the City Manager may grant a limited, onetime exemption from strict
compliance.
(Ord. 20-39, passed 7-9-2020)
§ 1052.05 SAFETY REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   Prevention of failures and accidents. Any person who owns a small cell
facility and/or wireless support structure sited in the right-of-way shall at
all times employ ordinary and reasonable care and install and maintain in use
industry standard technology for preventing failures and accidents which are
likely to cause damage, injury, or nuisance to the public.
   (b)   Compliance with fire safety and FCC regulations. Small cell
facilities, wires, cables, fixtures, and other equipment shall be installed and
maintained in substantial compliance with the requirements of the national
electric code, all FCC, state, and local regulations, and in such manner that
will not interfere with the use of other property.
   (c)   Changes in state or federal standards and regulations. If state or
federal standards and regulations are amended, the owners of the small cell
facilities and/or wireless support structures governed by this chapter shall
bring any facilities and/or structures into compliance with the revised
standards and regulations within six months of the effective date of the
standards and regulations, unless a different compliance schedule is mandated
by the regulating agency. Failure to bring small cell facilities and/or
wireless support structures into compliance with any revised standards and
regulations shall constitute grounds for removal at the owner’s expense.
   (d)   Indemnification. Any operator who owns or operates small cell
facilities or wireless support structures in the right-of-way shall indemnify,
protect, defend, and hold the city and its elected officials, officers,
employees, agents, and volunteers harmless against any and all claims,
lawsuits, judgments, costs, liens, losses, expenses, fees to include reasonable
attorney fees and costs of defense, proceedings, actions, demands, causes of
action, liability and suits of any kind and nature, including personal or
bodily injury or death, property damage or other harm for which recovery of
damages is sought, to the extent that it is caused by the negligence of the
operator who owns or operates small cell facilities and wireless service in the
right-of-way, any agent, officer, director, representative, employee,
affiliate, or subcontractor of the operator, or their respective officers,
agents, employees, directors, or representatives while installing, repairing,
or maintaining facilities in the right-of-way.
(Ord. 20-39, passed 7-9-2020)
§ 1052.06 INSTALLATION AND INSPECTION.
   Completion within 180 days. The collocation or new wireless support
structure for which a small cell permit is granted shall be completed within
180 days after issuance of the small cell permit unless the city and the
applicant agree to extend this period. The city will agree to an extension if
the delay is caused by make-ready work for a city-owned wireless support
structure, or the lack of commercial power or backhaul availability at the
site, provided that the operator has made a timely request within 60 days after
the issuance of the small cell permit for commercial power or backhaul
services. The additional time to complete installation may not exceed a total
of 360 days after the issuance of the small cell permit.
(Ord. 20-39, passed 7-9-2020)
§ 1052.07 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (a)   As-built maps and records.
      (1)   Operator shall maintain accurate maps and other appropriate
records, including an inventory, of its small cell facilities and wireless
support structures as they are actually constructed in the right-of-way or any
other city-owned property. The inventory shall include GIS coordinates, date of
installation, type of wireless support structure used for installation,
wireless support structure owner and description/type of installation for each
small cell facility and wireless support structure.
      (2)   Upon city’s written request, operator shall provide a cumulative
inventory within 30 days of city’s request. Concerning small cell facilities
and wireless support structures that become inactive, the inventory shall
include the same information as active installations in addition to the date
the small cell facility and/or wireless support structure was deactivated and
the date the small cell facility and/or wireless support structure was removed
from the right-of-way. The city may compare the inventory to its records to
identify any discrepancies.
   (b)   Generally applicable health and safety regulations. All small cell
facilities and wireless support structures shall be designed, constructed,
operated and maintained in compliance with all generally applicable federal,
state, and local health and safety regulations, including without limitation
all applicable regulations for human exposure to RF emissions.
(Ord. 20-39, passed 7-9-2020)
§ 1052.08 ANNUAL COLLOCATION FEE.
   For each attachment of a small cell facilities to a wireless support
structures owned or operated by the city and located in the right-of-way, the
city may charge the operator an annual fee as prescribed in R.C. § 4939.02 and
as listed on associated application forms which shall be made available by the
Public Service Department. The City may adjust this fee 10% every five years,
rounded to the nearest five dollars ($5.00).
(Ord. 20-39, passed 7-9-2020)
§ 1052.09 LIABILITY AND SIGNAL INTERFERENCE.
   (a)   No liability. The city shall not be liable to the operator by reason
of inconvenience, annoyance or injury to the small cell facilities, wireless
support structures, and related ground or pole-mounted equipment or activities
conducted by the operator therefrom, arising from the necessity of repairing
any portion of the right-of-way, or from the making of any necessary alteration
or improvements, in or to, any portion of the right-of-way, or in, or to,
city's fixtures, appurtenances or equipment.
   (b)   Signal interference prohibited. In the event that an operator’s small
cell facility interferes with the public safety radio system, or the city’s or
State of Ohio’s traffic signal system, then the operator shall, at its cost,
immediately cooperate with the city to either rule out operator as the
interference source or eliminate the interference. Cooperation with the city
may include, but shall not be limited to, temporarily switching the
transmission equipment on and off for testing.
(Ord. 20-39, passed 7-9-2020)
§ 1052.10 REQUIREMENTS FOR REMOVAL, REPLACEMENT, MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR.
   (a)   Replacement of municipal-owned wireless support structure.
      (1)   When necessary to accommodate small cell facility. The city may
require, in response to an application to collocate a small cell facility on a
city-owned wireless support structure, the replacement or modification of the
wireless support structure at the operator's cost if the city determines that
replacement or modification is necessary for compliance with construction and
safety standards. Such replacement or modification shall conform to these
design guidelines. The city may retain ownership of the replacement or modified
wireless support structure.
      (2)   Accommodation of reservation of space for future public safety or
transportation uses. If the city has reserved space for future public safety or
transportation uses on the city-owned wireless support structure, the
replacement or modification must accommodate the future use.
   (b)   Removal or relocation required for city project.
      (1)   Operator shall remove and relocate the permitted small cell
facility and/or wireless support structure at the operator's sole expense to
accommodate construction of a public improvement project by the city.
      (2)   If operator fails to remove or relocate the small cell facility
and/or wireless support structure or portion thereof as requested by the city
within 120 days of the city’s notice, then the city shall be entitled to remove
the small cell facility and/or wireless support structure, or portion thereof
at operator’s sole cost and expense, without further notice to operator.
      (3)   Operator shall, within 30 days following issuance of invoice for
the same, reimburse the city for its reasonable expenses incurred in the
removal (including, without limitation, overhead and storage expenses) of the
small cell facilities and/or wireless support structure, or portion thereof.
   (c)   Removal required by city for safety and imminent danger reasons.
      (1)   Operator shall, at its sole cost and expense, promptly disconnect,
remove, or relocate the applicable small cell facility and/or wireless support
structure within the time frame and in the manner required by the city if the
city reasonably determines that the disconnection, removal, or relocation of
any part of a small cell facility and/or wireless support structure is
necessary to protect the public health, safety, welfare, or city property, or
operator fails to obtain all applicable licenses, permits, and certifications
required by law for its small cell facility and/or wireless support structure.
      (2)   If the city reasonably determines that there is imminent danger to
the public, then the city may immediately disconnect, remove, or relocate the
applicable small cell facility and/or wireless support structure at the
operator’s sole cost and expense.
   (d)   Removal/abandonment of facilities.
      (1)   Operator shall remove small cell facilities and/or wireless support
structures when such facilities are abandoned regardless of whether or not it
receives notice from the city. Unless the city sends notice that removal must
be completed immediately to ensure public health, safety, and welfare, the
removal must be completed within the earlier of 60 days of the small cell
facility and/or wireless support structure being abandoned, or within 60 days
of receipt of written notice from the city. When operator abandons permanent
structures in the right-of-way, the operator shall notify the city in writing
of such abandonment and shall file with the city the location and description
of each small cell facility and/or wireless support structure abandoned. Prior
to removal, operator must make application to the city and receive approval for
such removal. Operator must obtain a right-of-way work permit for the removal.
The city may require the operator to complete additional remedial measures
necessary for public safety and the integrity of the right-of-way.
      (2)   The city may, at its option, allow a wireless support structure to
remain in the right-of-way and coordinate with the owner to transfer ownership
of such wireless support structure to the city, instead of requiring the owner
and/or operator to remove such wireless support structure.
   (e)   Restoration. Operator shall repair any damage to the right-of-way, any
facilities located within the right-of-way, and/or the property of any third
party resulting from operator’s removal or relocation activities (or any other
of operator’s activities hereunder) within ten calendar days following the date
of such removal or relocation, at operator’s sole cost and expense. Restoration
of the right-of-way and such property must be to substantially the same
condition as it was immediately before the date operator was granted a small
cell permit for the applicable location, or did the work at such location (even
if operator did not first obtain a small cell permit). This includes
restoration or replacement of any damaged trees, shrubs, or other vegetation.
Such repair, restoration and replacement shall be subject to the sole,
reasonable approval of the city.
(Ord. 20-39, passed 7-9-2020)
§ 1052.11 RULE MAKING AUTHORITY.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized to promulgate additional rules and
regulations, including but not limited to the adoption of forms and application
submittal requirements, to carry out the purpose and intent of this chapter in
order to protect the public health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. 20-39, passed 7-9-2020)
§ 1052.12 EFFECT OF PARTIAL INVALIDITY.
   The provisions of this chapter are hereby declared to be severable, and if
any section, subsection, or clause of this chapter is held by a court of
competent jurisdiction to be unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, such a
ruling shall not affect the other parts of this chapter that can be given
effect.
(Ord. 20-39, passed 7-9-2020)
§ 1052.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   For failure to comply with any provision of this chapter or the design
guidelines, the penalty shall be a civil forfeiture, payable to the city, in
the amount of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) per day for each day the
violation continues.
   (b)   In addition to the civil forfeiture in division (a) above, the city
may also pursue the remedies of revocation of the small cell permit or specific
performance of the violated provision.
(Ord. 20-39, passed 7-9-2020)
TITLE SIX - OTHER PUBLIC SERVICES
CHAPTER 1060: GARBAGE AND RUBBISH COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
Section
1060.01   Collection points; containers; trees and brush
1060.02   Service charges
1060.03   Sanitation Fund and Garbage Equipment Reserve Fund
1060.04   Placement of dumpsters
1060.05   Lawrence/Scioto County Joint Solid Waste Management District Plan
1060.06   Rules and regulations for disposal of material at Municipal Garage
and landfill
1060.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Filthy accumulations, see GEN. OFF.
660.04
   Littering, see GEN. OFF.
660.03,
660.16
   Littering from motor vehicles, see TRAF.
432.40
   Junk collectors and dealers, see B.R. & T.
Ch. 840
Statutory reference:
   Collection and disposal of garbage, see Ohio R.C. 715.43, 717.01
   Employment of scavengers, see Ohio R.C. 3707.39
§ 1060.01 COLLECTION POINTS; CONTAINERS; TREES AND BRUSH.
   The city shall collect garbage, litter and trash throughout the city subject
to the following regulations.
   (a)   Garbage, litter and trash shall be placed in such areas as the
Director of Public Works and Services shall designate as collection points.
Garbage, litter and trash in other than such collection points will not be
picked up.
   (b)   Within the Downtown Business District, garbage, litter and trash shall
only be placed in such collection points from 8:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m. of the
day the trash is collected. Garbage, litter and trash left at the collection
points after pick-up by the city shall be removed by the depositor.
   (c)   The Director shall designate the type of container to be used for the
collection of garbage, litter and trash, and its condition, size, weight and
number.
   (d)   Garbage, litter and trash shall not be defined to include, by way of
example only, furniture, bedding, appliances, auto parts, concrete and building
materials, such as wood, pipe, shingles and tin roofing.
   (e)   Tree and brush limbs shall not be in excess of three inches in
diameter or more than four feet in length, and must be tied, bundled, boxed or
wrapped together for pick-up.
   (f)   The Director shall designate the time of collection of garbage and
trash throughout the city.
§ 1060.02 SERVICE CHARGES.
   (a)   The city shall impose a monthly garbage collection service charge as
follows.
 
Once a Week Service Fee (per month)
January 2010        $11.00
January 2011        $11.50
 
Commercial Accounts Fee (per month)
Commercial Accounts                                             Fee (per month)
Bag - Level 1 (less than 10 bags - 1 time per week)             $22.00
Bag - Level 2 (less than 20 bags - 1 time per week or 10 bags - $50.00
2 times per week)
Bag - Level 3 (less than 20 bags - 2 times per week or less     $80.00
than 10 bags - 5 times per week)
Bag - Level 4 (less than 20 bags - 5 times per week)            $100.00
Dumpster - Level 1 (3 c.y. or less - 1 time per week)           $50.00
Dumpster - Level 2 (3 c.y. or less - 2 times per week)          $70.00
Dumpster - Level 3 (3 c.y. or less - 3 to 5 times per week)     $90.00
Dumpster - Level 4 (3 - 6 c.y. - 1 time per week)               $70.00
Dumpster - Level 5 (3 - 6 c.y. - 2 times per week)              $85.00
Dumpster - Level 6 (3 - 6 c.y. - 3 to 5 times per week)         $135.00
Dumpster - Level 7 (6 - 12 c.y. - 1 time per week)              $85.00
Dumpster - Level 8 (6 - 12 c.y. - 2 times per week)             $110.00
Dumpster - Level 9 (6 - 12 c.y. - 3 to 5 times per week)        $160.00
 
   (b)   The garbage collection service charge shall be collected with the
water service bill. Failure to pay such bill shall be cause for immediate
termination of water and garbage collection service. The owner of the realty
and the occupants thereof shall be liable for payment of the charge.
   (c)   If the charge is paid on an annual basis, the total annual rate shall
be reduced by ten percent.
   (d)   The Mayor is authorized and directed to determine the date of payment
and the time of garbage collection service covered thereby.
   (e)   The garbage collection service charge is predicated on once-a-week
service. Therefore, any business, school, office or other nonhousing unit
desiring service more often than once a week shall pay a fee to be determined
by the Mayor or his or her designate.
   (f)   Fee schedule for the removal of various items of trash and debris.
      (1)   Trash, debris and brush which is removed from the property of a
resident by the city shall be charged by the city to the resident at a rate of
seventy dollars ($70.00) per one level pick-up truck load and eighty dollars
($80.00) for each additional load.
      (2)   For the removal of appliances and/or furniture from the property of
a resident, the city shall charge thirty dollars ($30.00) for the first item
and twenty dollars ($20.00) for each additional item removed.
      (3)   The charge for the removal of tires from the property of the
resident by the city shall be fifty dollars ($50.00) per tire.
(Ord. 81-14, passed 1-22-1981; Am. Ord. 91-68, passed 12-26-1991; Am. Ord. 95-
22, passed 5-25-1995; Am. Ord. 98-30, passed 4-23-1998; Am. Ord. 09-10, passed
2-26-2009; Am. Ord. 18- 31, passed 8-9-2018)
§ 1060.03 SANITATION FUND AND GARBAGE EQUIPMENT RESERVE FUND.
   (a)   The city has adopted a garbage service collection fee for the purposes
of funding the Sanitation Fund and the Garbage Equipment Reserve Fund.
   (b)   The percentage of garbage equipment service collection deposited into
the Garbage Equipment Reserve Fund shall be reduced from the present three
percent to zero percent for a 24-month period starting October 1, 2008 and
ending October 1, 2010.
   (c)   At the end of the above-mentioned 24-month period, the same three
percent of collection fees be returned as the required percentage of collection
fees designated for deposit into the Garbage Equipment Reserve Fund.
(Ord. 95-34, passed 7-13-1995; Am. Ord. 95-79, passed 12-28-1995; Am. Ord. 98-
74, passed 12-29-1998; Am. Ord. 08-91, passed 9-11-2008)
§ 1060.04 PLACEMENT OF DUMPSTERS.
   (a)   In order to obtain permission to place a dumpster next to the curb on
a street in the city, a person shall apply for a permit to be issued by the
Code Enforcement Director if it is determined by the Code Enforcement
Department that granting the permit shall have no dangerous or detrimental
effect.
   (b)   The permit issued under the criteria set forth in division (a) shall
extend for a maximum period of four weeks, but the permit can be extended up to
an additional four weeks if the Code Enforcement Department, in its sole
discretion, determines that circumstances warrant the extension.
   (c)   In the event a permit is granted, no dumpster shall be placed in any
manner that would obstruct the view of vehicular traffic and each dumpster
shall be equipped with adequate reflectors in size and number on each side of
the dumpster which will make the dumpster clearly visible at all times.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section either by failing to obtain a permit or
by not complying with the terms and conditions of an issued permit shall be
given one warning to rectify the violation immediately, and if not so
rectified, shall be subject to a fine of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) per day
for each day the violation continues.
(Ord. 04-02, passed 2-12-2004)
§ 1060.05 LAWRENCE/SCIOTO COUNTY JOINT SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT DISTRICT PLAN.
   (a)   The basic purpose of the Lawrence/Scioto County Joint Solid Waste
Management District Plan is:
      (1)   To assure the District has at least ten years of acceptable
disposal capacity;
      (2)   To provide for a 25 percent reduction of waste disposed at a
landfill; and
      (3)   To make provisions to improve the general health and safety of the
community as it relates to solid waste management.
   (b)   The Council of the City of Ironton hereby approves and ratifies the
Lawrence/Scioto County Joint Solid Waste Management District Plan Update.
(Ord. 92-34, passed 10-22-1992; Am. Res. 05-101, passed 10-27-2005)
§ 1060.06 RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF MATERIAL AT MUNICIPAL GARAGE
AND LANDFILL.
   (a)   The city will accept materials at the Municipal Garage one day a week
(Monday) from 12:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. from residents who present proof of
residency accompanied by a valid driver's license and photo identification.
   (b)   Construction material will not be accepted at the Municipal Garage.
   (c)   Residents and landlord owners of property in Ironton are limited to
one pickup truckload per month.
   (d)   Residents may also be permitted to take debris to the landfill
excluding construction material providing they present proof of residency
accompanied by a valid driver's license and photo identification.
(Ord. 11-19, passed 5-12-2011)
§ 1060.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter where a penalty is not listed is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and
shall be fined not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each offense. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a
violation or noncompliance occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 1062: PARKS AND RECREATION AREAS
Section
1062.01   River View Park
1062.02   Park rules and regulations
Cross-reference:
   Recreation Advisory Committee, see ADM.
Ch. 266
   Recreation Department, see ADM.
Ch. 244
Statutory reference:
   Land appropriation for parks, see Ohio R.C. 715.21, 719.01
   Playgrounds, recreation centers, swimming pools, see Ohio R.C. 755.12 et
seq.
   Power to regulate vehicle speed in parks, see Ohio R.C. 4511.07
§ 1062.01 RIVER VIEW PARK.
   (a)   River View Park is hereby re-established by the city for the benefit
and use of the residents.
   (b)   The park is located as follows: those public lands owned by the city
and bounded by the mouth of Storms Creek to the west, the Ironton flood wall to
the north, the Center Street landing to the east and the Ohio River to the
South.
(Res. 5143, passed 8-26-1965)
§ 1062.02 PARK RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Park hours.
      (1)   Labor Day until Memorial Day, 8:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m.
      (2)   Memorial Day until Labor Day 8:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m.
   (b)   No loitering or dumping allowed.
   (c)   Picnic areas must be cleaned and orderly after use.
   (d)   No motorized vehicles allowed in park or on levees.
   (e)   Beer, alcohol and drugs are strictly prohibited.
   (f)   Firearms, fireworks or explosives of any kind are prohibited.
   (g)   Sales, solicitations or placement of signs within the parks require
permission from the Mayor.
   (h)   Shelter houses can be reserved. A fifty dollar ($50.00) deposit is
required. Contact City of Ironton, Finance Department at (740) 532-0439.
   (i)   Any person owning, keeping, possessing, walking, controlling or
harboring any dog or cat shall promptly remove and dispose of all feces left by
the dog or cat.
   (j)   Recreation Director reserves the right to close the facility for any
circumstances deemed necessary and to restrict entry to the facility and to ask
any person or persons to leave if any of the rules are not followed or
inappropriate behavior is observed.
   (k)   Absolutely no writing, painting or graffiti materials will be allowed
in or around parks or levees.
   (l)   Children under the age of ten must always be accompanied by an adult.
   (m)   Any defects, or damage to park equipment shall be reported to the
Recreation Department office Monday through Friday 8:00 a.m. until 4:30 p.m. at
(740) 532-6224.
   (n)   Pick up all trash and put in proper receptacles.
(Ord. 09-20, passed 4-9-2009)
PART TWELVE - PLANNING AND ZONING CODE
      TITLE TWO - Planning
         
Chap. 1220.   Planning Commission.
         
Chap. 1224.   Subdivision Regulations.
      TITLE FOUR - Zoning Code
         
Chap. 1250.   General Provisions and Definitions.
         
Chap. 1252.   Administration, Enforcement and Penalty.
         
Chap. 1254.   Board of Zoning Appeals.
         
Chap. 1255.   Design Review Board.
         
Chap. 1256.   Districts Generally and Zoning Map.
         
Chap. 1258.   Residence R-1 Single-Family District.
         
Chap. 1259.   Residence R-1A Single-Family District.
         
Chap. 1260.   Residence R-2 District.
         
Chap. 1262.   Residence R-3 District.
         
Chap. 1264.   Business B-1 District.
         
Chap. 1266.   Business B-2 District.
         
Chap. 1268.   Business B-3 District.
         
Chap. 1269.   Central Business District.
         
Chap. 1270.   Light Industrial I-1 District.
         
Chap. 1272.   General Industrial I-2 District.
         
Chap. 1274.   Planned Development PD District.
         
Chap. 1276.   Health Service HS-1 District.
         
Chap. 1278.   Flood Plain FP-1 District.
         
Chap. 1280.   Off-Street Parking and Loading.
         
Chap. 1282.   Provisions Relating to All Districts.
      TITLE SIX - Urban Renewal
         
Chap. 1290.   Description of the Project.
         
Chap. 1292.   Land Use Plan.
         
Chap. 1294.   Project Proposals.
         
Chap. 1296.   Changes in Approved Urban Renewal Plan.
TITLE TWO - PLANNING
CHAPTER 1220: PLANNING COMMISSION
Section
1220.01   Establishment; membership
Charter reference:
   Commissions generally, see CHTR.
Art. VIII
Cross-reference:
   Approval of plats, see P. & Z.
1224.01
   Authority re planned developments, see P. & Z.
1274.03
Statutory reference:
   Planning Commission, see Ohio R.C. Ch. 713
   Powers and duties, see Ohio R.C. 713.01 et seq.
§ 1220.01 ESTABLISHMENT; MEMBERSHIP.
   (a)   There is hereby established a Planning Commission for the city.
   (b)   The Planning Commission shall consist of five members, namely, the
Chairperson of Council, the Mayor and three residents of the city who shall
serve without compensation and who shall be appointed by the Mayor for a term
of six years, except that the original terms of the three residents appointed
shall be two years, four years and six years respectively.
   (c)   The Planning Commission shall have all the powers and perform the
duties provided by Ohio R.C. 713.01 et seq., and shall have such additional
powers as may be provided by ordinance or resolution of Council.
(Ord. 4141, passed 8-1-1950; Am. Ord. 81-04, passed 11-23-1981; Am. Ord. 97-23,
passed 6-12-1997)
CHAPTER 1224: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
1224.01   Compliance required
1224.02   Preliminary plans
1224.03   Minimum standards
1224.04   Improvements required prior to plat approval
1224.05   Final plans
1224.06   Construction of improvements
Statutory reference:
   Authority to adopt subdivision regulations, see Ohio R.C. 711.101
   Original plats, see Ohio R.C. 711.01 et seq.
   Plat and subdivision defined, see Ohio R.C. 711.001
   Revision of plats, see Ohio R.C. 711.28 et seq.
   Vacating plats, see Ohio R.C. 711.17 et seq.
   Violation of regulations, see Ohio R.C. 711.102
§ 1224.01 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   Any person intending to subdivide or resubdivide land within the corporate
limits or within three miles beyond such limits shall submit the preliminary
plans and final plan required by this chapter for approval by the Planning
Commission and shall complete the requirements of this chapter before any plat
is recorded or any land is sold.
(1976 Code, § 1141.01)
§ 1224.02 PRELIMINARY PLANS.
   (a)   Three prints of the preliminary plan shall be submitted. Where a plan
covers only part of the subdivider’s tract, then a sketch plan for
thoroughfares and streets in unplatted parts shall also be submitted.
   (b)   The following technical information shall be provided:
      (1)   Boundaries of the subdivision;
      (2)   Lots and location of streets and alleys;
      (3)   The north point;
      (4)   Contours at intervals of five feet or less;
      (5)   Drainage provisions;
      (6)   Lands to be dedicated for public use; and
      (7)   Names of the subdivision, of adjacent properties, of streets, of
the subdivider and of the surveyor.
   (c)   The proposed subdivision shall conform to the minimum standards
prescribed by this chapter.
   (d)   The preliminary plan shall be submitted to the Planning Commission for
its recommendations as to modifications needed to enable the plan to conform to
its requirements.
   (e)   The preliminary plan shall be resubmitted as a revised preliminary
plan to the Planning Commission for its tentative approval before streets are
graded or otherwise improved.
(1976 Code, § 1141.02)
§ 1224.03 MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   (a)   Streets.
      (1)   Minimum street rights-of-way shall be:
 
                                 Width (ft.)
Major thoroughfare (state route) 86
Principal local thoroughfare     66
Secondary local thoroughfare     60
Residential street               50
Land or cul-de-sac               40
 
      (2)   Proposed thoroughfares shall conform to any official thoroughfare
plan and shall be correlated to existing and planned streets.
      (3)   Other streets shall be located so as to correlate their utilities
with those of adjoining areas.
      (4)   Minimum centerline radii shall be:
 
Major thoroughfares 300 feet
Local thoroughfares 100 feet
 
      (5)   Streets shall intersect at right angles wherever practical.
      (6)   Dead-end streets shall not exceed 500 feet and shall have a
turnaround of not less than 100 feet in diameter.
      (7)   There shall be no private streets.
      (8)   There shall be no reserve strips controlling access to streets
except where the control of such strips is placed with the city.
      (9)   No duplication of street names with existing street names is
permitted.
      (10)   Changes of grade shall be by vertical curves and detailed
information shall be shown on grades. Alignment and visibility, especially at
intersections, shall meet the approval of the Planning Commission.
   (b)   Alleys and easements.
      (1)   Alleys are not required in residential districts except behind
property fronting on major thoroughfares or principal local thoroughfares, or
for apartment house lots having no front entrance drive.
      (2)   Alleys shall have a turnabout where they dead-end.
      (3)   Minimum widths of alleys shall be:
 
Residential alleys       16 feet
Business district alleys 20 feet
 
      (4)   Easements (service strips) not less than ten feet wide shall be
provided for lots not served by alleys.
   (c)   Blocks.
      (1)   The maximum length of a block shall be 1,320 feet. Blocks over 800
feet shall have a 15-foot crosswalk strip half-way.
      (2)   The width of a block shall be two lots’ depth except where the
topography is rough.
   (d)   Lots.
      (1)   Lots shall front on a public street.
      (2)   Side lines shall be at right angles to the street line wherever
practical.
      (3)   Lot size shall conform to population density standards of any city
ordinance.
      (4)   The minimum area of a lot shall be 3,500 square feet.
      (5)   The minimum depth of a lot shall be 110 feet.
      (6)   Corner lots shall provide for extra width in order to permit
building setback lines along both streets.
      (7)   The use of lots shall be restricted by covenants.
   (e)   Public open spaces.
      (1)   Plats shall be prepared with due consideration for the provision of
parks, playgrounds, school sites and other public spaces, in accordance with
the recommendations of the Planning Commission.
      (2)   Due regard shall be shown for watercourses, historic places, large
trees and other natural features that sustain property values.
(1976 Code, § 1141.03)
§ 1224.04 IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED PRIOR TO PLAT APPROVAL.
   (a)   A certificate from the appropriate municipal authorities stating that
the following are completed is required:
      (1)   Streets and alleys graded;
      (2)   Streets and alleys improved according to specifications of the
Mayor’s designee;
      (3)   Street trees planted;
      (4)   Curbs installed;
      (5)   Sewers and storm water inlets installed;
      (6)   Arrangements made with waterworks for water mains; and
      (7)   Street markers of permanent material placed at every intersection.
   (b)   Alternative certificates, where land is beyond the corporate limits,
shall be obtained from both of the following:
      (1)   The County Engineer, after an inspection made by him or her,
stating that:
         A.   Monuments have been installed;
         B.   Streets have been graded;
         C.   Streets have been graveled (or paved) to passable width (by
standards of the County Engineer’s office);
         D.   Streets have been ditched 24 feet between shoulders; and
         E.   Culverts or storm water drains have been installed.
      (2)   The County Commissioners, approving developments.
   (c)   An alternative arrangement of a certified check, bond, escrow
agreement or other contractual agreement may be required by the Planning
Commission, in lieu of the improvements after an estimate of the amount
necessary to provide improvements has been made by the Mayor’s designee for
land within the corporate limits, or by the County Engineer for land beyond the
corporate limits.
   (d)   Monuments of natural stone or concrete or an iron pin shall be shown
as follows on the final plat:
      (1)   At all angles turned;
      (2)   At all street and alley intersections; and
      (3)   At all other important intermediate points.
(Am. Ord. 97-23, passed 6-12-1997)
§ 1224.05 FINAL PLANS.
   (a)   Final plans shall contain the following:
      (1)   Tracings in waterproof ink on linen, with three copies in blue or
black line prints with a cloth background. Each sheet shall be 16 inches by 18
inches to a scale of one inch equals 50 feet or one inch equals 100 feet, or in
the case of a tract exceeding 20 acres, to a scale of one inch equals 200 feet,
and one or more sheets shall contain the description, deed of dedication and
certificates as required by these subdivision regulations.
      (2)   Accurate location of boundaries, including:
         A.   Bearings;
         B.   Lines of all lots, streets, alleys and easements; and
         C.   The exact location of monuments (three-fourths of an inch thick
pipe 30 inches long or longer, or stone or concrete).
      (3)   The location of existing dedicated streets, section lines and
principal property lines;
      (4)   Vacated plats, shown in dotted lines;
      (5)   Lengths of radii, arcs and internal angles of curves;
      (6)   The title of the subdivision and the name of the larger tract of
which the subdivision is a part;
      (7)   The name of the subdivider and the name, registration number and
seal of the engineer or surveyor;
      (8)   The north point;
      (9)   Minimum building lines with a 20-foot setback, but not more than 20
percent depth of lots over 100 feet deep;
      (10)   Assurance that all technical details have been checked by the
Mayor’s designee and found to be correct; and
      (11)   Certificates of the following:
         A.   The owner;
         B.   The mortgage holder, with his or her certificate of consent;
         C.   The surveyor or engineer;
         D.   The County Treasurer, showing the payment of all taxes,
delinquent taxes and special assessments of the land and showing that there are
no deferred installments of special assessments;
         E.   The proper municipal authorities or county authorities as stated
in §
1224.04; and
         F.   The Planning Commission, with the signature of the members of the
Commission.
            1.   In cases where restrictive covenants are to be made a part of
the deeds of sale of all lots, they shall be shown on the face of the
subdivision plat and shall be so recorded.
            2.   The owner’s deed of dedication of streets, alleys and public
ways shall be shown on the face of the plat.
   (b)   Final plans shall conform to the minimum standards prescribed by this
chapter.
(Am. Ord. 97-23, passed 6-12-1997)
§ 1224.06 CONSTRUCTION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (a)   Prior to the acceptance and final approval of a plat the following
shall be completed and installed.
      (1)   All streets as specified in this chapter shall be paved with a
minimum of six inches of concrete or six inches of bituminous asphalt.
      (2)   Each such street shall have concrete curbs extending eight inches
above the flowline of the gutters installed.
      (3)   Concrete or brick sidewalks shall be installed in a minimum width
of one-eleventh of the right-of-way width and 18 inches from the property line.
Sidewalks shall be a minimum thickness of four inches, except at driveways
where the minimum thickness shall be six inches.
      (4)   Separate storm and sanitary sewers shall be installed with proper
manholes and catch basins. All sanitary sewer taps shall be run to the
individual lots and shown on the plans by dimensions.
      (5)   All gas, water, electric and other utilities shall be installed.
(Ord. 5740, passed 9-27-1973)
   (b)   All plans for the construction of improvements shall be submitted to
the Mayor’s designee and receive his or her approval prior to construction of
the improvements and acceptance of the plat. The Mayor’s designee shall also
inspect the construction and approve the completed construction prior to final
approval of the plat.
(Am. Ord. 97-23, passed 6-12-1997)
TITLE FOUR - ZONING CODE
CHAPTER 1250: GENERAL PROVISIONS AND DEFINITIONS
Section
1250.01   Short title
1250.02   Application of district regulations
1250.03   Conflict of laws
1250.04   Severability
1250.05   Definitions
Cross-reference:
   Districts generally and Zoning Map, see P. & Z.
Ch. 1256
   Off-street parking and loading, see P. & Z.
Ch. 1280
    Provisions relating to all districts, see P. & Z.
Ch. 1282
Statutory reference:
   Basis of districting or zoning; classification of buildings or structures,
see Ohio R.C. 713.10
   Division of municipal corporation into zones, see Ohio R.C. 713.06
   Restrictions on location, bulk and height of buildings and structures, see
Ohio R.C. 713.07
   Restrictions on percentage of lot occupancy and setback building lines, see
Ohio R.C. 713.09
§ 1250.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This Title Four of Part Twelve of these Codified Ordinances shall be known
as the Zoning Code of the City of Ironton.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977)
§ 1250.02 APPLICATION OF DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   Except as hereinafter provided:
   (a)   No building, structure or land shall hereafter be used or occupied,
and no building or structure or part thereof shall hereafter be erected,
constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered, unless in conformity
with all of the regulations specified in this Zoning Code for the district in
which it is located;
   (b)   No building or other structure shall hereafter be erected or altered
to exceed in height, to accommodate or house a greater number of families, to
occupy a greater percentage of lot area, and to have narrower or smaller rear
yards, front yards, side yards or other open spaces than herein required, or in
any other manner contrary to this Zoning Code;
   (c)   No part of a yard or other open space, and no off-street parking or
loading space required about or in connection with any building for the purpose
of complying with this Zoning Code, shall be included as part of a yard, open
space or off-street parking or loading space similarly required for any other
building;
   (d)   No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of this Zoning Code
(Ordinance 77-25, passed April 28, 1977) shall be reduced in size or area below
the minimum requirements set forth in this Zoning Code. Yards or lots created
after the effective date of this Zoning Code (Ordinance 77-25, passed April 28,
1977) shall meet at least the minimum requirements established by this Zoning
Code;
   (e)   Within each district, the regulations set by this Zoning Code shall be
minimum regulations and shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of
structure or land; and
   (f)   All territories hereafter annexed to the city shall be zoned at the
time such territory is annexed.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977)
§ 1250.03 CONFLICT OF LAWS.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this Zoning Code
shall be held to be minimum requirements, adopted for the promotion of the
public health, safety, convenience, comfort, prosperity or general welfare.
Whenever the requirements of this Zoning Code are at variance with the
requirements of any other lawfully adopted rules, regulations, ordinances, deed
restrictions or covenants, the most restrictive or that imposing the higher
standard shall govern.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977)
§ 1250.04 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, clause or provision of this Zoning Code is declared by the
courts to be invalid, the same shall not affect the validity of this Zoning
Code as a whole or any part thereof other than the part so declared to be
invalid.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977)
§ 1250.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (a)   Words used in the present tense include the future; the singular
number includes the plural and the plural the singular. The word “lot” includes
the word “plot;” the word “building” includes the word “structure;” the word
“occupied” includes the words “designated or intended to be occupied;” the word
“used” includes the words “arranged, designed or intended to be used;” and the
word “shall” is mandatory and not directory.
   (b)   In addition, as used in this Zoning Code:
      “Accessory building” means a building subordinate to the main or
principal building on the lot and used for purposes customarily incidental to
those of the main or principal building.
      “Accessory use” means a subordinate use of a portion of the lot or
premises which is incidental to the main use of the lot or premises.
      “Alley” means a public or private way, not more than 30 feet wide,
affording only a secondary means of access to abutting property.
      “Apartment” means a room or suite or rooms in a multi-family or multi-use
building arranged and intended as a place of residence for a single family or
for a group of individuals living together as a single housekeeping unit.
      “Basement” means a story having part but not more than one-half of its
height below grade. A basement is counted as a story for the purpose of height
regulations if it is subdivided and used for business or dwelling purposes by
other than a janitor employed on the premises.
      “Board” means the Board of Appeals.
      “Boarding house” means an abode, not a public inn, in which sleeping
rooms for more than four persons for lodging, with meals, are provided for
compensation.
      “Building” means any structure for the shelter, support or enclosure of
persons, animals, chattels or property of any kind.
      “Building line” means a line parallel to the street right-of-way line at
any story level of a building and representing the minimum distance which all
or any part of the building is set back from the right-of-way line.
      “Building height” means the vertical distance from the average grade at a
building line to the highest point of the coping of a flat roof or to the deck
line of a mansard roof, or to the average height of the highest gable of a
pitch or hip roof.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977)
      “Building officer” means the city official responsible for the
administration and enforcement of this Zoning Code.
(Adopting Ordinance)
      “Cemetery” means land used or intended to be used for the burial of human
dead and dedicated as a cemetery for such purposes.
      “Church” or “synagogue” includes any church, synagogue, rectory, parish
house or similar building incidental to the particular use which is maintained
and operated by an organized group of people for religious purposes.
      “Clinic” means a place used for the care, diagnosis and treatment of
sick, ailing, infirm and injured persons and persons who are in need of medical
or surgical attention, but who are not provided with board or room or kept
overnight on the premises.
      “Club” means a nonprofit association of persons who are bona fide
members, paying regular dues, and organized for some common purpose, but not
including a group organized solely or primarily to render a service customarily
carried on as a commercial enterprise.
      “Convalescent, nursing or rest home” means any building or group of
buildings providing personal assistance or nursing care for persons dependent
upon the services by reason of age or physical or mental impairment, but not
for the treatment of contagious diseases, addiction or mental illness.
      “Court” means an open, unoccupied and unobstructed space, other than a
yard, on the same lot with a building or group of buildings.
      “District” means any section of the city for which the regulations
governing the use of buildings and premises and the height and area of
buildings are uniform.
      “District line” means the boundary line between two zoning districts.
      “Drive-in restaurant” means any eating or drinking establishment designed
for food or drinks to be consumed by persons in vehicles parked on the
premises.
      “Dwelling, industrialized unit” means an assembly of materials or
products comprising all or part of a total structure, which, when constructed,
is self-sufficient or substantially self-sufficient and which, when installed
constitutes a dwelling unit, except for necessary preparations for its
placement.
      “Dwelling, mobile home” means a detached dwelling unit designed to be
repeatedly transported on highways and when arriving at the site for placement
involving only minor and incidental unpacking, assembling and connection
operations, but involving no substantial reconstruction which would render the
unit unfit as a conveyance on the highway. The unit shall be considered as real
property if reconstruction is undertaken.
      “Dwelling, multi-family” means a building consisting of three or more
dwelling units, including condominiums, with varying arrangements of entrances
and party walls. Multi-family housing may include public housing and
industrialized units.
      “Dwelling, single-family” means a building consisting of a single
dwelling unit only, separated from other dwelling units by open space.
      “Dwelling, two-family” means a building consisting of two dwelling units
which may be either attached side by side or one above the other, and each unit
having a separate or combined entrance.
      “Dwelling unit” means space, within a building, comprising living, dining
or sleeping rooms and storage closets, as well as space and equipment for
cooking, bathing and toilet facilities, all used by only one family and its
household employees.
      “Family” means one or more persons occupying a single dwelling unit.
Unless all members are related by blood, adoption or marriage, no such family
shall contain over three persons.
      “Garage, private” means any accessory building designed or used for the
storage of motor-driven vehicles which are owned by the occupants of the
building to which it is accessory.
      “Garage, public” means a building or portion thereof, other than a
private garage, designed or used for servicing, repairing, equipping, hiring,
selling or storing motor-driven vehicles.
      “Home occupation” means any occupation which is customarily incidental to
the principal use of the premises and is conducted by a resident occupant.
      “Hospital” means an institution providing health services primarily for
in-patient medical or surgical care of the sick or injured and including
related facilities, such as laboratories, out-patient departments, training
facilities, central services facilities and staff offices which are an integral
part of the facility.
      “Hotel” means a public inn in which there are sleeping rooms for more
than six persons, without provision for cooking in any individual room or
suite.
      “Inn” means a place or shelter with sleeping rooms for more than six
persons, open to the public for compensation, but without provision for cooking
in any individual room or suite.
      “Junk yard” means a place where waste, discarded or salvaged materials
are bought, sold, exchanged, baled, packed, disassembled or handled. “Junk
yard” includes auto wrecking yards, house wrecking yards and used material
yards, but does not include pawn shops, antique shops and places for the sale,
purchase or storage of used furniture and household equipment, used cars in
operable condition or salvaged materials incidental to manufacturing
operations.
      “Lodging house” means an abode, not a public inn, in which sleeping rooms
for more than three persons are provided for compensation.
      “Lot” means a distinct parcel of land on which a principal building and
its accessories are placed, together with the required open spaces, and of
which the location, dimensions and boundaries are determined by the latest
official record or survey.
      “Lot depth” means the mean average distance from the front line to the
rear line of a lot or, in the case of corner lots, the average length of the
longer sides.
      “Lot width” means the mean distance between the side lines.
      “Motel” means a series of attached or detached sleeping or living units
for the lodging of transient guests, offered to the public for compensation,
and with convenient access to off-street parking spaces for the exclusive use
of guests or occupants.
      “Nonconforming use” means a building, structure or premises legally
existing and/or used at the time of adoption of this Zoning Code (Ordinance 77-
25, passed April 28, 1977), or any amendment thereto, and which does not
conform with the use provisions of this Zoning Code for the district in which
the premises are located.
      “Sign” means a name, identification, description, display or illustration
which is affixed to or painted or represented directly or indirectly upon a
building, structure or piece of land, and which directs attention to an object,
product, place, activity, person, institution, organization, idea or business.
However, a sign shall not include any display of official court or public
office notices; the flag, separate emblem or insignia of a nation, political
unit, school or religious group; or an incombustible tablet or lettering built
into the wall of a building or structure. A sign inside a building is not
included unless its face is visible only from the exterior of a building. Each
display surface of a sign shall be considered to be a sign.
      “Sign, advertising” (billboard, signboard) means a sign which directs
attention to a business, commodity, service or entertainment conducted, sold or
offered elsewhere than upon the premises where such sign is located or to which
it is affixed.
      “Sign, business” means a sign which directs attention to a business or
profession conducted or to a commodity, service or entertainment sold or
offered upon the premises where such sign is located or to which it is affixed.
      “Sign, flashing” means any illuminated sign, including any sign
illuminated by reflected or refracted light, on which the artificial light is
not maintained stationary and/or constant in intensity and color at all times
when such sign is in use. For the purpose of this Zoning Code, any revolving
illuminated sign shall be considered a flashing sign.
      “Sign, surface area of” means the entire area within a single continuous
perimeter enclosing the extreme limits of such sign and in no case passing
through or between any adjacent elements of the same. Such perimeter shall not
include any structural elements lying outside of the display. The area of a
sign having more than one display surface shall be computed as one-half of the
total of the exposed exterior surface.
      “Setback line” means the building line parallel to the front lot line and
located at the foremost portion of the building.
      “Story” means that portion of a building, other than a basement, included
between the surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it, or
if there is no floor above it, then the space between the floor and the ceiling
next above it.
      “Street” means a public street, over 20 feet wide, which is a passageway
and which is dedicated, platted and recorded as a street and commonly used for
travel.
      “Street or alley line” means the dividing line between the right-of-way
of a street or alley and a lot.
      “Structural alterations” means any change in the supporting members of a
building, such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams or girders, or
any substantial change in the roof or in the exterior walls.
      “Structure” means anything constructed or erected, the use of which
requires a permanent location on the ground or an attachment to something
having a permanent location on the ground.
      “Trailer (including automobile trailer and mobile homes)” means any
vehicle or structure constructed in such a manner as to permit occupancy
thereof as sleeping quarters, for the conduct of a business, trade or
occupation, for use as a selling or advertising device, or for use for storage
or as a conveyance for tools, equipment or machinery, and so designed that it
is or may be mounted on wheels and used as a conveyance on highways and
streets, propelled or drawn by its own or other motor power.
      “Trailer park” or “mobile home park” means any lot or part thereof or any
parcel of land which is used or offered as a location for two or more trailers
used for any purpose set forth in the definition of trailer as it appears
above.
      “Vacant” means lacking in use or occupation, in whole or in part, by any
nonconforming use for a period of one year.
      “Yard” means a required open space unoccupied and unobstructed by any
structure or portion of a structure from 30 inches above the general ground
level of the graded lot upward. However, roof overhangs, including gutters, may
extend into any yard up to 24 inches, but in no case shall such overhangs be
closer than two feet to any property line. Fences and walls may be permitted in
any yard subject to the height limitations indicated in this Zoning Code.
      “Yard, front” means a space, from the ground up, unoccupied except by
steps and extending the full width of the lot between the extreme line of a
building and the street line.
      “Yard, rear” means a space, from the ground up, unoccupied except by
steps or an uncovered porch and extending the full width of the lot between the
extreme rear line of a building and the rear lot line.
      “Yard, side” means a space, from the ground up, unoccupied except by
steps and extending the full length of a building between the building and the
side lot line.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977; Am. Ord. 21-43, passed 10-28-2021)
CHAPTER 1252: ADMINISTRATION, ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY
Section
1252.01   Enforcement by Building Officer
1252.02   Building permits
1252.03   Occupancy authorization
1252.04   Business zoning permit
1252.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Board of Zoning Appeals, see P. & Z.
Ch. 1254
   General provisions and definitions, see P. & Z.
Ch. 1250
   Planning Commission, see P. & Z.
Ch. 1220
Statutory reference:
   Administrative board; powers and duties, see Ohio R.C.713.11
   Notice and hearing on Municipal zoning regulations, see Ohio R.C. 713.12
   Violation of zoning ordinances may be enjoined, see Ohio R.C. 713.13
§ 1252.01 ENFORCEMENT BY BUILDING OFFICER.
   The Building Officer shall administer and enforce this Zoning Code by the
grant or refusal of permits and occupancy authorizations and in accordance with
this Zoning Code. The Building Officer shall be appointed by the Mayor. The
Building Officer shall be a full-time employee of the city subject to the
administrative control of the Mayor.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977; Am. Ord. 81-04, passed 11-23-1981)
§ 1252.02 BUILDING PERMITS.
   (a)   Before commencing or proceeding with the erection, construction,
enlargement, alteration, repair or removal of any house, building or other
structure, or any part thereof, or the use of the same after the construction
thereof, a permit for such building or structural or repair work or an
authorization for such use shall first be obtained by the owner, his or her
agent or the occupant thereof from the Building Officer. No person shall
commence or proceed with any such work or use without first obtaining such
permit.
   (b)   When a permit is issued, the operation called for by it shall be for a
term as set out below, and at the expiration of the period a new building
permit shall be obtained in the same manner as provided for the original
building permit, before the work can proceed further.
Permit type Term Conditions
Permit type  Term Conditions
New          One  As defined in Ironton Residential Code § R105.5
construction year
Alteration   One  As defined in Ironton Residential Code § R105.5
             year
Repair       One  As defined in Ironton Residential Code § R105.5
             year
Shoring and  90   As defined in Ironton Residential Code § R105.5, except substitute 90 days
raising      days for 180 days
Moving       30   The structure shall be attached to a permanent foundation within the term
buildings    days of the moving permit. The foundation and work on the relocated structure
                  shall require a new construction permit.
Wrecking     30   Except industrial and commercial usage shall be one year.
             days
Sign         90   Except new signage as part of a new construction shall be one year.
             days
 
   (c)   An application for such a permit shall be filed in duplicate upon
appropriate forms furnished by the Building Officer, accompanied by a lot or
plat plan showing the dimension of the lot and the location and dimensions of
the building. The application shall state the character, use and extent of the
building or structure to be erected; the exact location thereof, including the
subdivision name, block number, lot number and street name and number; the
contractor employed for building the same; and such other information or data
as the Building Officer may require. If the Building Officer approves such
application for a permit and such application is found to be in accordance with
this Zoning Code, the Building Officer shall make an entry of such approval
upon the application, which shall thereupon be filed with the Director of
Finance.
   (d)   Upon the filing of the application herein provided for and upon the
payment of the required fees, a permit shall thereupon be issued to the
applicant to erect such building or structure. The fees for issuing such permit
shall be as specified by this Zoning Code.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977; Am. Ord. 07-57, passed 7-12-2007)
§ 1252.03 OCCUPANCY AUTHORIZATION.
   After any building or structure has been constructed in accordance with the
building permit or other permit and this Zoning Code, the Building Officer
shall make authorization for occupancy of the same, certifying that the
building or structure has been constructed in accordance with the permit and
this Zoning Code, and authorizing the installation of utilities and municipal
services and the occupancy of the building or structure.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977)
§ 1252.04 BUSINESS ZONING PERMIT.
   (a)   It is hereby established by the City of Ironton, a business zoning
permit application. Said application is attached to Ordinance 22-50, passed
October 13, 2022, and incorporated herein as if fully rewritten.
   (b)   All businesses operating in the city shall complete the application
initially and thereafter every two years and return the application to the City
of Ironton Zoning Department.
   (c)   A biennial fee in the amount of fifty dollars ($50.00) is hereby
established and required to be paid upon the completion and submission of the
zoning application.
   (d)   The failure to file the application and pay said fee as set forth
herein shall be a five hundred dollar ($500.00) fine. Said fine shall be
assessed each day that the business fails to comply with this section.
(Ord. 22-50, passed 10-13-2022)
§ 1252.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
Zoning Code, or whoever erects, constructs, alters, enlarges, repairs or uses,
or has erected, constructed, altered, repaired or used, any building, structure
or land in violation of this Zoning Code or of a permit or authorization issued
hereunder, shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense and shall pay the costs of
prosecution. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on
which a violation or noncompliance occurs or continues.
   (b)   The owner of a building, structure or premises where anything in
violation of this Zoning Code is placed, exists or is used, and an architect,
builder, contractor, agent, person or corporation employed in connection
therewith and who may have assisted in the commission of such violation, shall
each be guilty of a separate offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined as provided by division (a) hereof.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977; Am. Ord. 95-19, passed 5-11-1995; Am. Ord. 97-
23, passed 6-12-1997)
CHAPTER 1254: BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS
Section
1254.01   Establishment; composition; terms of office
1254.02   Hearings; deposit; notice
1254.03   Appeals
1254.04   Variances
Charter reference:
   Boards generally, see CHTR.
Art. VIII
Statutory reference:
   Administrative board; powers and duties, see Ohio R.C.713.11
   Notice and hearing on Municipal zoning regulations, see Ohio R.C. 713.12
   Violation of zoning ordinances may be enjoined, see Ohio R.C. 713.13
§ 1254.01 ESTABLISHMENT; COMPOSITION; TERMS OF OFFICE.
   A Board of Zoning Appeals is hereby established to administer the details of
the application of the regulations of this Zoning Code and to determine their
application in harmony with their general purpose and intent in accordance with
this Zoning Code. The Board shall consist of five nonsalaried members appointed
by the Mayor to serve for three years each without compensation, except that
the terms of the two new members to be appointed shall be for two and three
years, respectively.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977; Am. Ord. 81-04, passed 11-23-1981)
§ 1254.02 HEARINGS; DEPOSIT; NOTICE.
   Hearings of the Board of Appeals shall be public, but any hearing on any
appeal case shall be preceded by an application for the appeal, in writing,
filed with the Building Officer not less than six days in advance of the
hearing and by notice of the filing of such application as provided in this
section. The appellant shall deposit with the Board the sum of ten dollars
($10.00) and shall be responsible for making a record of the hearing, if such
record is required by him or her. He or she shall receive back from the Board,
after the disposition of the appeal, any unexpended balance of his or her
deposit with the Board. If the Board finds that it is requisite to the interest
of the owners of properties adjoining the lot in question and other owners of
property in the neighborhood who, in the opinion of the Board, are concerned
with the appeal, the appellant shall be required to notify, in writing, such
interested owners or persons concerning the time, place and purpose of the
hearing and the location and ownership of the property in question.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977)
§ 1254.03 APPEALS.
   Appeals to the Board of Zoning Appeals may be taken by any person, firm,
corporation, officer, board or commission of the municipality affected by any
grant or refusal of a building permit or by any other decision of the Building
Officer in regard to this Zoning Code. Such appeal shall be filed within 30
days from the ruling upon an appropriate form furnished by the city for an
appeal. The Board may, in accordance with this Zoning Code, refuse or affirm,
wholly or partly, the appeal.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977)
§ 1254.04 VARIANCES.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals may authorize upon appeal in specific cases,
filed as provided in this chapter, such variances from this Zoning Code as will
not be contrary to the public interest, but only in the case of exceptional
conditions involving irregular, narrow, shallow or steep lots, or other
exceptional physical conditions, whereby the strict application of this Zoning
Code would result in practical difficulty and unnecessary hardship that would
deprive the owner of the reasonable use of the land or buildings involved, but
in no other case. Any application for a variance, which could be approved
through rezoning to any other classification, shall not be approved as a
variance, since this act would be equal to rezoning. No variance from the
strict application of this Zoning Code shall be granted by the Board unless it
finds, beyond a reasonable doubt, that all of the following facts and
conditions exist:
   (a)   There are special circumstances or conditions, fully described in the
Board’s decision, applying to the land or building for which the variance is
sought, which circumstances or conditions are peculiar to such land or building
and do not apply generally to land or building for which the variance is
sought, which circumstances or conditions are peculiar to such land or building
and do not apply generally to land or buildings in the neighborhood, and that
such circumstances or conditions are such that the strict application of this
Zoning Code would result in practical difficulty and unnecessary hardship and
deprive the applicant of the reasonable use of the land or building.
   (b)   The variance as granted by the Board is the minimum variance that will
accomplish the reasonable use of the subject land or building.
   (c)   The granting of the variance shall be in harmony with the general
purpose and intent of this Zoning Code and shall not be injurious to the
neighborhood or otherwise detrimental to the public welfare. In addition to
considering the character and use of adjoining buildings and those in the
vicinity, the Board, in determining its findings, shall take into account the
number of persons residing or working in such buildings or upon such land and
traffic conditions in the vicinity.
   (d)   (1)   All requests for a variance of the current Zoning Code will be
published in a local newspaper once a week for a period of two weeks prior to
being heard by the Board of Appeals. The ad will be one column square with a
black border. It is to be displayed in a location other than in the legal ads.
      (2)   Included in the public notice for a variance requested in the
Zoning Code, will be the time and place of the meeting at which such variance
will be considered by either the Planning Commission or the Board of Appeals.
      (3)   The outcome of each variance request considered by either the
Planning Commission or the Board of Appeals shall be published in a newspaper
of local circulation at least once a week for two weeks. The notice shall state
if the variance was granted or rejected and any other pertinent facts that
would affect property owners within the city.
      (4)   The cost of advertising and notification to the public shall be
paid by the person or persons requesting the variance of the city’s Zoning Code
and shall be paid in advance at the time of application.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977; Am. Ord. 90-19, passed 6-25-1990)
CHAPTER 1255: DESIGN REVIEW BOARD
Section
1255.01   Design Review Board
1255.02   Adoption of Standards for Rehabilitation and Guidelines for
Rehabilitating Historic Buildings
1255.03   Design Review Guidelines
Charter reference:
   Boards generally, see CHTR.
Art. VIII
Statutory reference:
   Administrative board; powers and duties, see Ohio R.C.713.11
   Notice and hearing on Municipal zoning regulations, see Ohio R.C. 713.12
   Violation of zoning ordinances may be enjoined, see Ohio R.C. 713.13
§ 1255.01 DESIGN REVIEW BOARD.
   (a)   A seven-member Design Review Board shall be established to consist of
a representative from the following offices and organizations:
      (1)   City Council appointed by the President of Council;
      (2)   A business owner within the designated Central Business District as
appointed by the Mayor;
      (3)   City Public Services Department/ Building Code Office - appointed
by the Mayor;
      (4)   Director of the Recognized Downtown Organization;
      (5)   Member of the Design Review Board member of the Downtown
Organization;
      (6)   The Community Development Director; and
      (7)   A representative of the local Historical Society appointed by the
President of that organization.
   (b)   All appointed members to the Board will have a term to serve on the
committed equal to the term of the designated appointing individual.
(Ord. 90-22, passed 3-22-1990; Am. Ord. 90-79, passed 11-8-1990; Am. Ord. 16-
20, passed 5-12-2016)
§ 1255.02 ADOPTION OF STANDARDS FOR REHABILITATION AND GUIDELINES FOR
REHABILITATING HISTORIC BUILDINGS.
   (a)   The Secretary of Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation and
Guidelines for Rehabilitating Historic Buildings is adopted and incorporated as
part of this Code of Ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
   (b)   A copy is on file in the Mayor’s office.
(Ord. 90-22, passed 3-22-1990; Am. Ord. 16-20, passed 5-12-2016)
§ 1255.03 DESIGN REVIEW GUIDELINES.
   (a)   The Design Review Guidelines to be used by the Design Review Board for
review of facade renovations and construction and/or renovations within the
designated Central Business District of Ironton are adopted and incorporated as
part of this Code of Ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
   (b)   A copy is on file in the Mayor’s office.
(Ord. 90-79, passed 11-8-1990; Am. Ord. 16-21, passed 5-12-2016)
CHAPTER 1256: DISTRICTS GENERALLY AND ZONING MAP
Section
1256.01   Establishment of districts
1256.02   Zoning map
1256.03   Interpretation of district boundaries
Cross-reference;
   Application of district regulations, see P. & Z.
1250.02
   General provisions and definitions, see P. & Z.
Ch. 1250
   Schedule of zoning district regulations, see P. & Z.
1282.07
Statutory reference:
   Basis of districting or zoning; classification of buildings or structures,
see Ohio R.C. 713.10
   Division of Municipal corporation into zones, see Ohio R.C. 713.06
   Restrictions on location, bulk and height of buildings and structures, see
Ohio R.C. 713.07
   Restrictions on percentage of lot occupancy and setback building lines, see
Ohio R.C. 713.09
§ 1256.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   (a)   For the purpose of this Zoning Code, the city and such other territory
as shall request to be under the jurisdiction of this Zoning Code are hereby
divided into classes of districts, as follows:
      (1)   Residence R-1;
      (2)   Residents R-1A;
      (3)   Residence R-2;
      (4)   Residence R-3;
      (5)   Business B-1;
      (6)   Business B-2;
      (7)   Business B-3;
      (8)   Light Industrial I-1;
      (9)   General Industrial I-2;
      (10)   Planned Development PD;
      (11)   Health Service HS-1; and
      (12)   Flood Plain FP-1.
   (b)   No building or structure shall be erected, reconstructed, enlarged,
structurally altered or used, and no land shall be used for any purpose, except
for the permitted uses specified for the district in which such building,
structure or land is located.
   (c)   No building or structure shall be erected, reconstructed, enlarged or
structurally altered either in excess of the height limit or contrary to the
area requirements for the district in which such building or structure is
located.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977; Am. Ord. 86-53, passed 12-3-1986; Am. Ord. 88-
10, passed 5-26-1988; Am. Ord. 21-11, passed 3-11-2021)
§ 1256.02 ZONING MAP.
   The boundaries of the districts as classified in §
1256.01 are established as shown on the zoning map, which map forms a part of
this Zoning Code and is placed on file in the office of the Mayor’s designee.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977)
§ 1256.03 INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of districts, as shown on the
zoning map, the following rules shall apply:
   (a)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines or
right-of-way lines of streets, highways or alleys shall be construed as
following such centerlines.
   (b)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines
shall be construed as following such lot lines.
   (c)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following city limits shall be
construed as following city limits.
   (d)   Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be construed to
be midway between the main tracks.
   (e)   Boundaries indicated as following rivers and streams shall be
construed as following the approximate centerline of such river or stream, and
in the event of a change in such river or stream, boundaries shall be construed
as moving with the actual centerline.
   (f)   Boundaries indicate as parallel to or an extension of features
indicated in divisions (a) through (e) hereof shall be so construed. Distances
not specifically indicated on the zoning map shall be determined by the scale
of the map.
   (g)   Where the street or property layout existing on the ground is at
variance with that shown on the zoning map, or in other circumstances not
covered by divisions (a) through (f) hereof, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall
interpret the district boundaries in accordance with
Chapter 1254.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977)
CHAPTER 1258: RESIDENCE R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY DISTRICT
Section
1258.01   Purposes
1258.02   Permitted uses
1258.03   Accessory uses and buildings
1258.04   Building height lot; area; yards; off-street parking and loading
Cross-reference:
   General provisions and definitions, see P. & Z.
Ch. 1250
   Schedule of zoning district regulations, see P. & Z.
1282.07
Statutory reference:
   Basis of districting or zoning; classification of buildings or structures,
see Ohio R.C. 713.10
   Division of Municipal corporation into zones, see Ohio R.C. 713.06
   Restrictions on location, bulk and height of buildings and structures, see
Ohio R.C. 713.07
   Restrictions on percentage of lot occupancy and setback building lines, see
Ohio R.C. 713.09
§ 1258.01 PURPOSES.
   The purposes of the Residence R-1 Single-Family District are to encourage
the establishment and preservation of residential neighborhoods characterized
by single-family buildings on medium and larger than medium sized lots and to
preserve undeveloped lands for similar types of residential development by
permitting a minimum of auxiliary nonresidential uses.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977)
§ 1258.02 PERMITTED USES.
   In a Residence R-1 Single-Family District, no building, structure or land
shall be used and no building structure shall be erected, altered or enlarged
which is arranged, intended or designed for other than one of the following
uses:
   (a)   Residential. One-family dwellings;
   (b)   Religious and cultural. Churches, synagogues and other places of
worship, Sunday school buildings, schools for academic instruction, public
libraries, museums, art galleries and similar public cultural uses;
   (c)   Public facilities. Publicly owned and operated facilities of the
municipal, county, state and federal governments as required to provide service
to the residential area. Such facilities shall include parks, playgrounds,
recreation and community center buildings, golf courses, swimming pools and
similar recreational uses, including such structures and concessions as are
necessary for their operation, administration buildings and utility stations;
   (d)   Agricultural. Nurseries, greenhouses and general farming, not
including animal or poultry farms and kennels or marijuana business grow
facilities and/or dispensaries other than for personal use;
   (e)   Recreational. Private noncommercial recreation areas, including
country clubs, golf courses and swimming pools;
   (f)   Health and personal care. Offices for physicians, surgeons, dentists
and other health care professions, such as optometrists, podiatrists and
chiropractors, and beauty and/or barber shops, provided that there is written
consent of 60 percent of the adjacent property owners or their agents, and off-
street parking is available to accommodate one space (ten feet by 20 feet) for
each 400 feet of floor area; and
   (g)   Bed and breakfast. Residential single-family dwelling constructed or
existing that is maintained for residential purposes with the owners residing
on the premises that also provides not more than four rooms for short-term
temporary guests for compensation without provisions for cooking in any
individual guest room. Such usage shall be subject to the following
requirements:
      (1)   The written consent of 60 percent of the adjacent property owners
or their agents;
      (2)   Off-street parking shall conform to §
1280.07(a)(7) and (13);
      (3)   A.   Signage must be of commercial grade, quality and construction
and shall conform to §
1474.17;
         B.   Directional signs, addressed in §
1474.17(c) shall not be illuminated.
      (4)   Premises shall meet the criteria in §
1258.03 except divisions (a) and (b)(4);
      (5)   The definition of short-term as it applies to this division shall
be 16 consecutive days in a three-month period not to exceed a total of 30 days
in the period; and
      (6)   Obtain an annual license to operate a bed and breakfast in the City
of Ironton R-1 zoned area from the office of Building and Code Enforcement upon
satisfying the following requirements:
         A.   Annual inspection by the City Fire Inspector for code compliance;
         B.   Annual inspection by the City Health Commissioner for code
compliance;
         C.   Annual inspection by the City Building Official for code
compliance;
         D.   A guest registry shall be available for the past 12 months
listing names, addresses and dates of occupancy of each room let;
         E.   License is not transferable;
         F.   License is to be renewed annually during the month of January;
         G.   License fee is to be five hundred dollars ($500.00) annually;
            1.   The initial license fee shall be five hundred dollars
($500.00) if purchased during the months of January, February, March or April;
            2.   The initial license fee shall be four hundred dollars
($400.00) if purchased during the months of May, June, July or August;
            3.   The initial license fee shall be three hundred dollars
($300.00) if purchased during the months of September, October, November or
December; and
         H.   All revenue from license fees will be deposited into the general
fund of the city.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977; Am. Ord. 79-77, passed 12-12-1979; Am. Ord. 02-
52, passed 4-24-2002; Am. Ord. 23-82, passed 2-8-2023)
§ 1258.03 ACCESSORY USES AND BUILDINGS.
   In a Residence R-1 Single-Family District, an accessory use, building or
structure customarily incident to a principally permitted use or a
conditionally permitted use, located on the same lot therewith, shall be
permitted, including:
   (a)   Residential. Living quarters of persons employed on the premises and
not rented or otherwise used as a separate dwelling;
   (b)   Customary home occupations. Customary home occupations, such as
handicrafts, dressmaking, millinery, laundry, preserving and home cooking,
provided that not more than one-fourth of the area of one floor of the
residence shall be used for such purposes. In addition, customary home
occupations shall meet the following criteria:
      (1)   No unreasonable use of material or mechanical equipment not
recognized as being part of and compatible with normal household use shall be
permitted.
      (2)   The use shall not generate pedestrian or vehicular traffic beyond
that reasonable or normal to the district in which located.
      (3)   The use shall not involve the use of commercial vehicles for the
delivery of materials to or from the premises.
      (4)   The use shall not involve the use of signs other than one
nonilluminated sign, not over one square foot in area, and attached flat
against the principal building. There shall be no public display of goods.
      (5)   No accessory building or space outside of the principal building
shall be used for such purposes.
      (6)   No special space within the principal building shall be designed or
arranged for such use, nor shall it require any internal or external
alterations or involve construction features not customary to dwellings, either
by color, materials of construction, lighting, sound or noise vibration,
electrical interference, and the like.
      (7)   There shall be no use of utilities or community facilities beyond
that reasonable to the use of the property for residential purposes.
      (8)   There shall be no sale of products or services not produced on the
premises.
   (c)   Accessory buildings. Accessory buildings and structures customarily
incident to any principal use, including private garages, off-street parking as
specified in
Chapter 1280 and temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work,
which buildings shall be removed upon completion or abandonment of the
construction work; and
   (d)   Signs. Signs as may be permitted in
Chapter 1474 of the Building and Housing Code.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977)
§ 1258.04 BUILDING HEIGHT; LOT AREA; YARDS; OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   In a Residence R-1 Single-Family District, the following requirements shall
be observed.
   (a)   Maximum height shall be two and one-half stories or 35 feet.
   (b)   Minimum lot area shall be 7,000 square feet.
   (c)   Minimum lot area per dwelling unit shall be 7,000 square feet.
   (d)   Front, rear and side yards are required as specified herein, and the
maximum lot area that may be covered by principal buildings, accessory
buildings and parking spaces or garages, exclusive of areas used for walkways,
access drives, unenclosed porches, patios, swimming pools and other landscape
elements, shall not exceed the percentage of total lot area as follows:
 
Maximum       Front Yard  Rear Yard  Side Yards   Side Yards Sum  Maximum Lot
Building      (ft.)       (ft.)      Least Width  of Least Width  Coverage
Height                               (ft.)        (ft.)           (percent)
2-1/2 stories 25          10         5            10              36
 
   (e)   Off-street parking and loading facilities shall be provided as
specified in
Chapter 1280.
(Ord 77-25, passed 4-28-1977)
CHAPTER 1259: RESIDENCE R-1A SINGLE-FAMILY DISTRICT
Section
1259.01   Compliance with R-1 District; exceptions
§ 1259.01 COMPLIANCE WITH R-1 DISTRICT; EXCEPTIONS.
   This district shall fully comply with all the requirements of a Residence R-
1 Single-Family District as set forth in §§
1258.01 through
1258.04 of the Codified Ordinances of the City of Ironton, with the exception
that the setback line for the front yard shall be 15 feet and that the maximum
lot coverage shall be 40%.
(Ord. 21-11, passed 3-11-2021)
CHAPTER 1260: RESIDENCE R-2 DISTRICT
Section
1260.01   Purposes
1260.02   Permitted uses
1260.03   Accessory uses and buildings
1260.04   Building height; lot area; yards; off-street parking and loading
Cross-reference;
   General provisions and definitions, see P. & Z.
Ch. 1250
   Schedule of zoning district regulations, see P. & Z.
1282.07
Statutory reference:
   Basis of districting or zoning; classification of buildings or structures,
see Ohio R.C. 713.10
   Division of Municipal corporation into zones, see Ohio R.C. 713.06
   Restrictions on location, bulk and height of buildings and structures, see
Ohio R.C. 713.07
   Restrictions on percentage of lot occupancy and setback building lines, see
Ohio R.C. 713.09
§ 1260.01 PURPOSES.
   The purpose of the Residence R-2 District is to encourage the establishment
and preservation of medium-high density residential neighborhoods characterized
by one-, two-, three-and four-family buildings, for owner and/or rental
occupancy. Nonresidential uses permitted in this district shall provide
auxiliary services and/or shall contribute to the stability and long term
stability of the area for residential purposes.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977)
§ 1260.02 PERMITTED USES.
   No building, structure or land shall be used and no building or structure
shall be erected, altered or enlarged which is arranged, intended or designed
for other than one of the following uses:
   (a)   All permitted uses as regulated in the Residence R-1 Single-Family
District, except as hereafter modified;
   (b)   One-, two-, three- and four-family dwellings and dwelling groups,
containing not more than four dwelling units in any one building;
   (c)   Offices for physicians, surgeons, dentists and other health care
professions, such as optometrists, podiatrists and chiropractors, provided that
there is written consent of 60 percent of the adjacent property owners or their
agents, and off-street parking is available to accommodate one space (ten feet
by 20 feet) for each 400 feet of floor area;
   (d)   A professional office or studio in the residence of an architect,
artist, dentist, lawyer, engineer, physician, teacher or similar professional
person, beauty shops and/or barber shops, but not including schools of any kind
with organized classes or any business, provided that not more than one person
not a resident in the dwelling is employed in the establishment, and not more
than 25 percent of the total floor area of one floor of the dwelling is devoted
to such accessory use. In addition, such professional office shall meet the
criteria specified in §
1258.03(b);
   (e)   Funeral homes; and
   (f)   Signs as may be permitted in
Chapter 1474 of the Building and Housing Code.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977; Am. Ord. 79-77, passed 12-12-1979; Am. Ord. 97-
35, passed 11-13-1997)
§ 1260.03 ACCESSORY USES AND BUILDINGS.
   In a Residence R-2 District, accessory uses, buildings or structures shall
be as permitted and regulated in the R-1 District. Any accessory use, building
or structure customarily incident or accessory to a permitted use in the R-
2 District shall be permitted in the R-2 District.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977)
§ 1260.04 BUILDING HEIGHT; LOT AREA; YARDS; OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   In a Residence R-2 District, the following requirements shall be observed:
   (a)   Maximum building height shall be two and one-half stories or 35 feet.
   (b)   Minimum lot area shall be 4,800 square feet.
   (c)   Minimum lot area per dwelling unit shall be 2,400 square feet.
   (d)   Front, rear and side yards are required as specified and the maximum
lot area that may be covered by principal buildings, accessory buildings and
parking spaces or garages, exclusive of areas used for walkways, access drives,
unenclosed porches, patios, swimming pools and other landscape elements, shall
not exceed the percentage of total lot area as follows:
 
Maximum       Front Yard  Rear Yard  Sides Yards  Side Yards Sum  Maximum Lot
Building      (ft.)       (ft.)      Least Width  of Least Width  Coverage
Height                               (ft.)        (ft.)           (percent)
2-1/2 stories 15          10         5            10              40
 
   (e)   Off-street parking and loading facilities shall be provided as
specified in
Chapter 1280.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977; Am. Ord. 93-13, passed 5- -1993)
CHAPTER 1262: RESIDENCE R-3 DISTRICT
Section
1262.01   Purposes
1262.02   Permitted uses
1262.03   Accessory uses and buildings
1262.04   Building height; lot area; yards; off-street parking and loading
Cross-reference:
   General provisions and definitions, see P. & Z.
Ch. 1250
   Schedule of zoning district regulations, see P. & Z.
1282.07
Statutory reference:
   Basis of districting or zoning; classification of buildings or structures,
see Ohio R.C. 713.10
   Division of Municipal corporation into zones, see Ohio R.C. 713.06
   Restrictions on location, bulk and height of buildings and structures, see
Ohio R.C. 713.07
   Restrictions on percentage of lot occupancy and setback building lines, see
Ohio R.C. 713.09
§ 1262.01 PURPOSES.
   The purpose of the Residence R-3 District is to assist in the maintenance
and development of desirable residential neighborhoods, characterized by high
density development, appropriate levels of service and choice of tenancy.
Nonresidential uses permitted in this district shall be limited to those uses
and buildings that will provide stability and dignity to the area as a
residential neighborhood.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977)
§ 1262.02 PERMITTED USES.
   In a Residence R-3 District, no building, structure or land shall be used
and no building or structure shall be erected, altered or enlarged which is
arranged, intended or designed for other than one of the following uses:
   (a)   All principal permitted uses as regulated in the Residence R-
2 District, except as hereafter modified;
   (b)   Multiple family dwellings for any number of families or housekeeping
units;
   (c)   Lodging and boarding houses, including incidental accessory service;
   (d)   Offices for physicians, surgeons, dentists and other health care
professions, such as optometrists, podiatrists and chiropractors, and beauty
shops and/or barber shops, provided that there is written consent of 60 percent
of the adjacent property owners or their agents, and off-street parking is
available to accommodate one space (ten feet by 20 feet) for each 400 feet of
floor area;
   (e)   Nursing homes or rest homes for convalescent patients, childrens’
nurseries and similar uses;
   (f)   Colleges for academic instruction;
   (g)   Business and professional offices; and
   (h)   Signs as may be permitted in
Chapter 1474 of the Building and Housing Code.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977; Am. Ord. 79-77, passed 12-12-1979; Am. Ord. 22-
65, passed 2-23-2022)
§ 1262.03 ACCESSORY USES AND BUILDINGS.
   In a Residence R-3 District, accessory uses, buildings or structures shall
be as permitted and regulated in the Residence R-2 District. Any accessory use,
building or structure customarily incident or accessory to a principal or
conditional permitted use in the R-3 District shall be permitted in the R-
3 District. Off-street parking as required and as specified in
Chapter 1280 may be provided as an accessory use.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977)
§ 1262.04 BUILDING HEIGHT; LOT AREA; YARDS; OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   In a Residence R-3 District, the following requirements shall be observed:
   (a)   Maximum building height shall be 50 feet, except as authorized by the
Planning Commission
which shall review each application where the height exceeds 50 feet. The
Commission shall base approval of a greater height on the following criteria.
      (1)   The added height does not restrict, impede or destroy visual sight
distances exceeding 40 degrees of a plane from neighboring properties.
      (2)   The street system is adequate for the proposed density of
development and entrances are planned to eliminate peak traffic and pedestrian
congestion.
      (3)   Adequate fire protection is provided for the proposed building and
the additional height does not adversely affect neighboring properties.
   (b)   Minimum lot area shall be 4,800 square feet.
   (c)   Minimum lot area per dwelling unit shall be 1,000 square feet.
   (d)   Front, rear and side yards are required as specified herein, and the
maximum lot area that may be covered by principal buildings, accessory
buildings and parking spaces or garages, exclusive of the area used for
walkways, access drives, unenclosed porches, patios, swimming pools and other
landscape elements, shall not exceed the percentage of total of area as
follows:
 
Maximum   Front Yard                  Side Yards   Side Yards Sum  Maximum Lot
Building  (ft.)       Rear Yard (ft.) Least Width  of Least Width  Coverage
Height                                (ft.)        (ft.)           (percent)
Less than
30        15          10              3            6               40
30        15          10              5            10              38
40        25          15              10           20              36
50        30          20              15           30              34
 
   (e)   Off-street parking and loading facilities shall be provided as
specified in
Chapter 1280.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977)
CHAPTER 1264: BUSINESS B-1 DISTRICT
Section
1264.01   Purposes
1264.02   Permitted uses
1264.03   Accessory uses and buildings
1264.04   Building height; lot area; yards; off-street parking and loading;
miscellaneous requirements
Cross-reference:
   General provisions and definitions, see P. & Z.
Ch. 1250
   Schedule of zoning district regulations, see P. & Z.
1282.07
   Signs for businesses, see B. & H.
1474.19
Statutory reference:
   Basis of districting or zoning; classification of buildings or structures,
see Ohio R.C. 713.10
   Division of Municipal corporation into zones, see Ohio R.C. 713.06
   Restrictions on location, bulk and height of buildings and structures, see
Ohio R.C. 713.07
   Restrictions on percentage of lot occupancy and setback building lines, see
Ohio R.C. 713.09
§ 1264.01 PURPOSES.
   The purpose of the Business B-1 District is to permit and encourage the
establishment of small convenience goods and personal service centers located
in close proximity to residences, which centers are so arranged and designed as
to be a functional and harmonious part of the residential neighborhood. The
location of these districts and the nature of commercial activity primarily
limits the service area to the surrounding neighborhood, thus avoiding undue
traffic congestion and providing commercial services within a reasonable
walking distance.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977)
§ 1264.02 PERMITTED USES.
   In a Business B-1 District, no building, structure or land shall be used and
no building or structure shall be erected, altered or enlarged which is
arranged, intended or designed for other than one of the following uses:
   (a)   Retail and service. A retail business or service establishment
supplying commodities or performing services primarily for residents of the
surrounding neighborhood on a day-to-day basis, including grocery stores,
variety and apparel stores, barber shops, beauty parlors, clothes cleaning and
laundry pickup stations, shoe repair shops, tailor shops, liquor stores,
appliance and television repair shops, automotive service stations, including
minor auto repair, commercial parking lots and other similar stores and shops
for the conduct of a retail business or personal service;
   (b)   Eating and drinking places. Soda fountains, ice cream parlors, tea
rooms, restaurants, cafes and neighborhood establishments selling alcoholic
beverages, not including entertainment and drive-in services;
   (c)   Offices. Business and professional offices;
   (d)   Financial institutions. Banks, building and loan companies and similar
financial institutions, not including drive-in service;
   (e)   Studios. Art, television, radio, music and dance studios and/or
conservatories;
   (f)   Mortuaries. Mortuaries or funeral homes;
   (g)   Business signs. Business identification signs, professional,
institutional, announcement, bulletin board, real estate and nameplate signs,
subject to
Chapter 1474 of the Building and Housing Code;
   (h)   Residential uses. Any use or structure as permitted and regulated in
the adjacent Residential District. If such use is adjacent to two or more
different categories of residence districts, the regulations of the least
restrictive residence district shall prevail;
   (i)   Living quarters. Dwelling units existing as a part of a retail and/or
service structure and occupied by the proprietor of the retail and/or service
business;
   (j)   Drive-in uses. Drive-in banks, building and loan companies and similar
financial institutions; and drive-in eating places, provided that the premises
shall be enclosed by a solid wall or fence at least six feet high where it
adjoins in the rear or on the sides any residence district, public park, school
or church;
   (k)   Transient accommodations. Hotels, motels, motor hotels and tourist
homes on numbered state and federal highways;
   (l)   Multi-family dwelling units. Multi-family dwelling units, provided
they are located on floors other than the ground floor;
   (m)   Self-service establishments. Self-service laundries, dry cleaners, car
washes and similar uses; and
   (n)   Signs. Signs as may be permitted in
Chapter 1474 of the Building and Housing Code.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977)
§ 1264.03 ACCESSORY USES AND BUILDINGS.
   In a Business B-1 District, any accessory use, building or structure
customarily incident to a principally permitted use or conditionally permitted
use and located on the same lot therewith shall be permitted.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977)
§ 1264.04 BUILDING HEIGHT; LOT AREA; YARDS; OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING;
MISCELLANEOUS REQUIREMENTS.
   In a Business B-1 District, the following requirements shall be observed:
   (a)   Enclosed buildings. All businesses, services or processing shall be
conducted wholly within a completely enclosed building, except for the sale of
automotive fuel, lubricants and fluids at service stations and except for such
outdoor display or storage of vehicles, materials and equipment as specifically
authorized by this Zoning Code or as may be authorized by the Board of Zoning
Appeals.
   (b)   Production for sale at retail. All products produced on the premises,
whether primary or incidental, shall be sold at retail on the premises where
produced.
   (c)   Nonobjectionable uses. No processes and equipment shall be employed or
goods sold which are objectionable by reason of odor, dust, smoke, cinders,
gas, fumes, noise, vibration, radiation, refuse matter or water carried waste.
   (d)   New merchandise. Goods for sale shall consist primarily of new
merchandise.
   (e)   Maximum building height. No principal structure shall exceed two and
one-half stories or 35 feet in height and no accessory structure shall exceed
one story or 15 feet in height.
   (f)   Minimum lot area. For residential uses, the minimum lot area shall be
4,800 square feet.
   (g)   Minimum lot area per dwelling unit. The minimum lot area per dwelling
unit shall be 1,000 square feet.
   (h)   Yards and lot coverage. Front, rear and side yards are required as
specified herein, and the maximum lot area that may be covered by principal
buildings, accessory buildings and parking spaces or garages, exclusive of
areas used for walkways, access drives and other landscape elements, shall not
exceed the percentage of total lot area as follows:
      (1)   Nonresidential use.
 
Maximum      Front Yard  Rear Yard  Side Yards   Side Yards Sum  Maximum Lot
Building     (ft.)       (ft.)      Least Width  of Least Width  Coverage
Height                              (ft.)        (ft.)           (percent)
             25 feet or             None except when adjoining a
Up to and    equal to               residential district, in
including 35 surrounding 10         which case there shall be a  Not applicable
feet         residential            side yard of not less than
             district               ten feet
 
      (2)   Residential use. Same as specified in the Residence R-3 District.
   (i)   Off-street parking and loading. Off-street parking and loading
facilities shall be provided as specified in
Chapter 1280.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977)
CHAPTER 1266: BUSINESS B-2 DISTRICT
Section
1266.01   Purposes
1266.02   Permitted uses
1266.03   Prohibited uses
1266.04   Building height; lot area; yards; off-street parking and loading;
miscellaneous requirements
Cross-reference:
   General provisions and definitions, see P. & Z.
Ch. 1250
   Schedule of zoning district regulations, see P. & Z.
1282.07
   Signs for businesses, see B. & H.
1474.19
Statutory reference:
   Basis of districting or zoning; classification of buildings or structures,
see Ohio R.C. 713.10
   Division of Municipal corporation into zones, see Ohio R.C. 713.06
   Restrictions on location, bulk and height of buildings and structures, see
Ohio R.C. 713.07
   Restrictions on percentage of lot occupancy and setback building lines, see
Ohio R.C. 713.09
§ 1266.01 PURPOSES.
   The purpose of the Business B-2 District is to permit and encourage the
establishment of shopping centers which offer a wide variety of consumer goods
and services. The Business B-2 District is intended to serve a larger
population and larger area than the Business B-1 District and, where located
along major highways and thoroughfares, to accommodate primarily automotive-
oriented establishments.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977)
§ 1266.02 PERMITTED USES.
   In a Business B-2 District, no building, structure or land shall be used and
no building or structure shall be erected, altered or enlarged which is
arranged, intended or designed for other than one of the following uses:
   (a)   All permitted uses as regulated in the Business B-1 District, except
as modified in this section;
   (b)   Any retail store;
   (c)   Any personal service establishment, general business service or night
club, theater, pool hall, bowling alley or similar enterprise, subject to all
regulations applicable to such permits and licenses as may be required by law;
   (d)   Any bakery, catering establishment, laundry or dyeing and cleaning
works;
   (e)   Ice storage and distribution stations;
   (f)   Any plumbing shop; painting and decorating shop, tinsmithing shop,
electric repair shop or tire repair shop;
   (g)   Any type of commercial recreation, including baseball fields, swimming
pools, skating rinks, golf driving ranges and similar open air facilities;
   (h)   Animal hospitals, veterinary clinics and kennels for display, boarding
or treatment of pets and other domestic animals. Any structure or area used for
such purposes, including pens and exercise yards, shall be located at least 100
feet from any residential district, and such pens or exercise runs shall be
enclosed on four sides by a sight obscuring, unpierced fence or wall at least
five feet in height;
   (i)   Automobiles, trucks, trailers or farm implements, for sale, display,
hire or repair, including sales lots, used car lots, trailer lots, repair
garages, body and fender shops and paint shops, provided that there shall be a
minimum distance of 50 feet between the use and any residential district, and
provided, further, that the premises shall be enclosed by a solid wall or fence
at least five feet in height where it adjoins in the rear or on the sides of
any residential district;
   (j)   Public utility stations and services;
   (k)   Bottling of soft drinks and milk or distribution stations, provided
that a building used for such processing and distribution shall be at least 100
feet from any residential district boundary;
   (l)   Signs as may be permitted in
Chapter 1474 of the Building and Housing Code; and
   (m)   Hospitals for human care, provided that buildings which are used for
the treatment of contagious diseases, or for the care of epileptics, drug
addicts, the feebleminded or insane, shall be at least 150 feet distance from
any lot in any residence district.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977; Am. Ord. 22-65, passed 2-23-2022)
§ 1266.03 PROHIBITED USES.
   The following uses are prohibited in a Business B-2 District:
   (a)   Storage involving hazards, such as bulk stations or storage of
gasoline or oil above ground, in quantities exceeding 150 gallons;
   (b)   Storage involving odors or dust, such as stockyards for animals or
poultry, except farming; and coal yards, except where dust-controlled
containers are used;
   (c)   Storage, bailing or treatment of junk, dismantled automobiles, rags,
bottles or scrap paper;
   (d)   Manufacture, production or processing of metals, stone, building
materials or related products causing the emission of vibration, noise, dust,
odors, fumes or hazards, such as a lumber mill, cooperage works, enameling,
japanning or lacquering plant, except as an incidental use; shops operating
reciprocating hammers or other noise-producing machine-operated tools, except
as a minor incidental use; and stone or monument works using power-driven tools
or rock crushers;
   (e)   Any nonresidential use prohibited in an industrial district or not
unconditionally permitted in an industrial district; or
   (f)   Any other trade, industry or use that is injurious, noxious or
offensive to a neighborhood by reason of the emission of odor, fumes, dust,
smoke, water-borne waste, vibration, noise or other cause, but not involving
theaters or other public meeting places.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977)
§ 1266.04 BUILDING HEIGHT; LOT AREA; YARDS; OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING;
MISCELLANEOUS REQUIREMENTS.
   In a Business B-2 District, the following requirements shall be observed.
   (a)   Enclosed buildings. All businesses, services or processing shall be
conducted wholly within a completely enclosed building, except for the sale of
automotive fuel, lubricants and fluids at service stations and except for such
outdoor display or storage of vehicles, materials and equipment as specifically
authorized by this Zoning Code or as may be authorized by the Board of Appeals.
   (b)   Production for sale at retail. All products produced on the premises,
whether primary or incidental, shall be sold at retail on the premises where
produced.
   (c)   Nonobjectionable uses. No processes and equipment shall be employed or
goods sold which are objectionable by reason of odor, dust, smoke, cinders,
gas, fumes, noise, vibrations, radiation, refuse matter or water carried waste.
   (d)   New merchandise. Goods for sale shall consist primarily of new
merchandise, excluding antique shops and used motor vehicles.
   (e)   Maximum building height. No principal structure shall exceed two and
one-half stories or thirty-five feet in height and no accessory structure shall
exceed 20 feet in height.
   (f)   Minimum lot area. For residential uses, the minimum lot area shall be
4,800 square feet.
   (g)   Minimum lot area per dwelling unit. The minimum lot area per dwelling
unit shall be 1,000 square feet.
   (h)   Yards and lot coverage.
      (1)   Front, rear and side yards are required as specified herein, and
the maximum lot area that may be covered by principal buildings, accessory
buildings and parking spaces or garages, exclusive of areas used for walkways,
access drives and other landscape elements, shall not exceed the percentage of
total lot area as follows:
 
Maximum      Front Yard  Rear Yard  Side Yards   Side Yards Sum  Maximum Lot
Building     (ft.)       (ft.)      Least Width  of Least Width  Coverage
Height                              (ft.)        (ft.)           (percent)
             25 feet or             None except when adjoining a
Up to and    equal to               residential district, in
including 35 surrounding 10         which case there shall be a  Not applicable
feet         residential            side yard of not less than
             district               ten feet
 
      (2)   Residential use. Same as specified in the Residence R-3 District.
   (i)   Off-street parking and loading. Off-street parking and loading
facilities shall be provided as specified in
Chapter 1280.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977)
CHAPTER 1268: BUSINESS B-3 DISTRICT
Section
1268.01   Purposes
1268.02   Permitted uses
1268.03   Prohibited uses
1268.04   Accessory uses and buildings
1268.05   Building height; lot area; yards; off-street parking and loading;
miscellaneous requirements
Cross-reference:
   General provisions and definitions, see P. & Z.
Ch. 1250
   Schedule of zoning district regulations, see P. & Z.
1282.07
   Signs for businesses, see B. & H.
1474.19
Statutory reference:
   Basis of districting or zoning; classification of buildings or structures,
see Ohio R.C. 713.10
   Division of Municipal corporation into zones, see Ohio R.C. 713.06
   Restrictions on location, bulk and height of buildings and structures, see
Ohio R.C. 713.07
   Restrictions on percentage of lot occupancy and setback building lines, see
Ohio R.C. 713.09
§ 1268.01 PURPOSES.
   The purpose of the Business B-3 District is to permit and encourage the
establishment of a wide variety of shopping goods and services in the central
area in such a way as to attract consumers from a large trade area. Only those
uses that will materially interfere with the overall function of the central
area will be excluded.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977)
§ 1268.02 PERMITTED USES.
   In a Business B-3 District, no building, structure or land shall be used and
no building or structure shall be erected, altered or enlarged which is
arranged, intended or designed for other than one of the following uses:
   (a)   All permitted uses as regulated in the Business B-2 District;
   (b)   Any retail store, personal service or business service establishment,
subject to all applicable regulations and such permits and licenses as may be
required by law, and provided that the use is not objectionable due to noise,
fumes, smoke, odor or vibrations;
   (c)   Manufacturing, treatment, converting, finishing, warehousing or
assembling authorized as a principal permitted use in an industrial district,
provided that such use shall be located on floors other than the ground floor,
and provided, further, that any mechanical equipment, machinery or process is
not hazardous, offensive or objectionable due to noise, fumes, smoke, odor or
vibration; and
   (d)   Signs as may be permitted in
Chapter 1474 of the Building and Housing Code.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977)
§ 1268.03 PROHIBITED USES.
   The uses prohibited in a Business B-3 District shall be the same as those
prohibited in the Business B-2 District.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977)
§ 1268.04 ACCESSORY USES AND BUILDINGS.
   In a Business B-3 District, any accessory use, building or structure
customarily incident to a permitted use and located on the same lot therewith
shall be permitted.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977)
§ 1268.05 BUILDING HEIGHT; LOT AREA; YARDS; OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING;
MISCELLANEOUS REQUIREMENTS.
   In a Business B-3 District, the following requirements shall be observed.
   (a)   Enclosed buildings. All businesses, services, processing or storage of
materials shall be conducted wholly within a completely enclosed building,
except for the sale of automotive fuel, lubricants and fluids at service
stations and except for such outdoor display or storage of vehicles, materials
and equipment as specifically authorized by this Zoning Code or as may be
authorized by the Board of Appeals.
   (b)   Nonobjectionable uses. No processes and equipment shall be employed or
goods sold which are objectionable by reason of odor, dust, smoke, cinders,
gas, fumes, noise, vibration, radiation, refuse matter or water carried waste.
   (c)   Maximum building height.
      (1)   For nonresidential uses there shall be no limit.
      (2)   For residential uses the limit shall be the same as specified in
the Residence R-3 District.
   (d)   Minimum lot area. No minimum lot area is required for nonresidential
uses. For residential uses, the minimum lot area shall be 4,800 square feet.
   (e)   Minimum lot area per dwelling unit. The minimum lot area per dwelling
unit shall be 1,000 square feet.
   (f)   Yards and lot coverage.
      (1)   For nonresidential uses there are no requirements.
      (2)   For residential uses the requirements shall be the same as
specified in the Residence R-3 District.
   (g)   Off-street parking and loading.
      (1)   Off-street parking shall be provided as specified in
Chapter 1280, with up to 50 percent of the total required spaces available
through public parking lots and parking garages within a distance of 500 feet
of the building line of such use.
      (2)   Off-street loading facilities shall be provided as specified in
Chapter 1280.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977)
CHAPTER 1269: CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
Section
1269.01   Purposes
1269.02   Permitted uses
1269.03   Prohibited uses
1269.04   Accessory uses and buildings
1269.05   Building height, lot areas, yards, off-street parking, loading,
miscellaneous requirements
§ 1269.01 PURPOSES.
   This district is designed to provide for a restricted variety of retail
stores and related activities and for office buildings and service
establishments which occupy the prime retail frontage in the Central Business
District, and which serve the comparison, convenience and service needs of a
consumer population well beyond the corporate boundaries of the municipality.
The district regulations are also designed to provide for a centrally located
major shopping complex which will be serviced with conveniently located off-
street parking compounds and safe pedestrian movement, but to exclude non-
retail uses which generate a large volume of truck traffic.
(Ord. 22-68, passed 3-9-2023)
§ 1269.02 PERMITTED USES.
   (a)   Any generally recognized retail business, service establishments or
processing uses as follows:
      (1)   Second floor and above residential units;
      (2)   Apparel shops, including specialty shops of all sorts, shoe stores
and similar uses;
      (3)   Shops selling automobile parts and accessories exclusively;
      (4)   Banks, loan offices, investment offices and other financial
institutions;
      (5)   Commercial recreation facilities such as bowling alleys, movie
theaters, and event venues;
      (6)   Department stores;
      (7)   Drug stores and pharmacies;
      (8)   Eating and drinking restaurants or other places serving food and/or
beverages;
      (9)   Food stores including supermarkets and all types of specialty food
stores such as bakeries, candy stores and similar uses;
      (10)   Furniture and appliances, including rugs, floor coverings,
drapery, sewing, office equipment, supplies, and similar uses;
      (11)   Hardware and related stores such as paint, wallpaper and similar
uses;
      (12)   Hotels and motels;
      (13)   Professional and other offices drawing a large number of clients
and/or customers such as, but not restricted to:
         A.   Chamber of Commerce;
         B.   Doctors, dentists, lawyers, engineers, and architects;
         C.   Insurance, realtors, unions;
         D.   Post office; or
         E.   Utility office;
      (14)   Publishing and printing;
      (15)   Repair shops such as shoe and watch repair;
      (16)   Service shops such as barbers, beauty, laundry, cleaner, and
similar uses;
      (17)   Travel agencies; and
      (18)   Variety stores.
   (b)   Public and semi-public buildings such as but not restricted to:
      (1)   Churches;
      (2)   Fraternal organizations;
      (3)   Library;
      (4)   Municipal, county, state or federal government offices;
      (5)   Parking garages and other intermodal transportation facilities
includes those providing electric charging stations for vehicles; and
      (6)   Nursery schools and day care facilities.
(Ord. 22-68, passed 3-9-2023)
§ 1269.03 PROHIBITED USES.
   (a)   Adult entertainment facilities.
   (b)   Auto service stations.
   (c)   Mechanized car wash facilities.
   (d)   New or used auto sales lots or showrooms.
   (e)   Funeral homes.
   (f)   Hospitals and emergency rooms.
   (g)   EMT and ambulance stations.
   (h)   Outpatient drug treatment.
   (i)   Inpatient or residential treatment including but not limited to
therapeutic communities, short term residential treatment, and recovery houses.
(Ord. 22-68, passed 3-9-2023)
§ 1269.04 ACCESSORY USES AND BUILDINGS.
   Any accessory use, building or structure customarily incident to a permitted
use and located on the same lot therewith shall be permitted.
(Ord. 22-68, passed 3-9-2023)
§ 1269.05 BUILDING HEIGHT, LOT AREAS, YARDS, OFF-STREET PARKING, LOADING,
MISCELLANEOUS REQUIREMENTS.
   In a Central Business District, the following requirements shall be
observed:
   (a)   Enclosed buildings. All businesses, services, processing or storage of
materials shall be conducted wholly within a completely enclosed building.
Businesses offering a roof top entertainment venue and/or food and/or beverage
sales are permitted.
   (b)   Nonobjectionable uses. No processes and equipment shall be employed or
goods sold which are objectionable by reason of odor, soot, smoke, cinders,
gas, fumes, noise, vibration, radiation, refuse matter or water carried waste.
   (c)   Maximum building height.
      (1)   For nonresidential uses there shall be no limit.
      (2)   For residential uses the limit shall be the same as specified in
the Residence R-3 District.
   (d)   Maximum lot area. No minimum lot area is required for nonresidential
uses. For residential uses, the minimum lot area shall be 4,800 square feet.
   (e)   Minimum lot area per dwelling unit. The minimum lot area per dwelling
unit shall be 1,000 square feet.
   (f)   Yard and lot coverage.
      (1)   For nonresidential uses there are no requirements.
      (2)   For residential uses the requirements shall be the same as
specified in the Residence R-3 District.
   (g)   Off-street parking and loading.
      (1)   Off-street parking shall be provided as specified in
Chapter 1280, with up to 50% of the total required spaces through public
parking lots and parking garages within a distance of 500 feet of the building
line of such use.
      (2)   Off-street loading facilities shall be provided as specified in
Chapter 1280.
(Ord. 22-68, passed 3-9-2023)
CHAPTER 1270: LIGHT INDUSTRIAL I-1 DISTRICT
Section
1270.01   Purposes
1270.02   Permitted uses
1270.03   Prohibited uses
1270.04   Setbacks for objectionable uses
1270.05   Accessory uses and buildings
1270.06   Building height; yards; off-street parking and loading
Cross-reference:
   General provisions and definitions, see P. & Z.
Ch. 1250
   Schedule of zoning district regulations, see P. & Z.
1282.07
   Signs for businesses, see B. & H.
1474.19
Statutory reference:
   Basis of districting or zoning; classification of buildings or structures,
see Ohio R.C. 713.10
   Division of Municipal corporation into zones, see Ohio R.C. 713.06
   Restrictions on location, bulk and height of buildings and structures, see
Ohio R.C. 713.07
   Restrictions on percentage of lot occupancy and setback building lines, see
Ohio R.C. 713.09
§ 1270.01 PURPOSES.
   The purpose of the Light Industrial I-1 District is to encourage the
development of manufacturing and wholesale business establishments which are
clean, quiet and free of hazardous or objectionable elements, such as noise,
odor, dust, smoke or glare, and which operate entirely within enclosed
structures and generate little industrial traffic. Research activities are
encouraged. This district is further designed to act as a transitional use
between heavy industrial uses and other less intense business and residential
uses.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977)
§ 1270.02 PERMITTED USES.
   In a Light Industrial I-1 District, no building, structure or land shall be
used and no building or structure shall be erected, altered or enlarged which
is arranged, intended or designed for other than one of the following uses:
   (a)   Any use or structure permitted and as regulated in a Business B-
2 District or Business B-3 District, except as modified in this section;
   (b)   Railroad yards and repair shops;
   (c)   Kennels, provided that any building, structure, area or lot used for
such purposes, including pens or exercise runways, shall be at least 50 feet
distant from any residence district;
   (d)   The manufacturing, compounding, processing, packaging or treatment of
the following goods, materials and products:
      (1)   Air conditioning equipment, sheet metal;
      (2)   Bakery wholesale;
      (3)   Beverage, blending or bottling;
      (4)   Bus garage;
      (5)   Candy, wholesale;
      (6)   Carpenter shop;
      (7)   Cleaning powder, compounding and packaging;
      (8)   Cleaning soda, compounding and packaging;
      (9)   Coffee, processing and packaging;
      (10)   Condensed milk, processing and canning;
      (11)   Cornices, sheet metal;
      (12)   Cosmetics;
      (13)   Creamery;
      (14)   Disinfectants, blending and packaging;
      (15)   Dry cleaning plants;
      (16)   Dry ice;
      (17)   Eaves, sheet metal;
      (18)   Electronic appliances, instruments and devices;
      (19)   Evaporated milk, processing and canning;
      (20)   Food processing, including canning, preserving, drying and
freezing except those items first allowed in an Industrial I-2 District;
      (21)   Freight house;
      (22)   Fungicides, blending and packaging;
      (23)   Heating equipment, sheet metal;
      (24)   Household chemical compounds, blending and packaging;
      (25)   Ice, including dry ice;
      (26)   Ice cream, wholesale;
      (27)   Insecticides, blending and packaging;
      (28)   Industrial chemical compounds, blending and packaging;
      (29)   Laundry plants;
      (30)   Lumber yards, not including cement, bituminous or asphaltic
concrete mixing or mill work;
      (31)   Metal, sheet;
      (32)   Perfumes, compounding and packaging;
      (33)   Pharmaceuticals;
      (34)   Phonographs;
      (35)   Porcelain products, using previously pulverized clay and kilns
fired only with gas or electricity;
      (36)   Pottery, using previously pulverized clay and kilns fired only
with gas or electricity;
      (37)   Radios;
      (38)   Sheet metal shop;
      (39)   Soap, washing, compounding and packaging;
      (40)   Spices, processing and packaging;
      (41)   Storage of boats and trailers;
      (42)   Tea, processing and packaging;
      (43)   Television sets;
      (44)   Temporary structures not exceeding one year for any single purpose
or use;
      (45)   Toiletries;
      (46)   Transfer terminals;
      (47)   Truck terminals;
      (48)   Vegetable processing, including canning, preserving, drying and
freezing; and ice cream, wholesale, except those items first allowed in the
General Industrial I-2 District; and
      (49)   Ventilating equipment, sheet metal.
   (e)   The manufacturing, compounding, processing, packaging or treatment of
the following goods, materials or products, provided that the building,
structure or area used for such purposes is 100 feet from any residence
district:
      (1)   Bag, carpet and rug cleaning, providing necessary equipment is
installed and operated for the effective precipitation or recovery of dust;
      (2)   Blacksmith, welding, auto body or other metal working shops;
      (3)   Building material sales yards, including cement, bituminous or
asphaltic concrete mixing, and lumber yards;
      (4)   Crematory;
      (5)   Flammable liquids, underground storage only;
      (6)   Flour, feed and grain packaging, blending and storage;
      (7)   Foundry, casting lightweight nonferrous metals or an electrical
foundry;
      (8)   Laboratories, experimental, film or testing, provided no operation
shall be conducted or equipment used which would create hazards; and
      (9)   Any other use which, in the opinion of the Board of Zoning Appeals,
is of a similar character to those specified in this section, except any use
first listed in the General Industrial I-2 District.
§ 1270.03 PROHIBITED USES.
   In a Light Industrial I-1 District, no building, structure or land shall be
used and no building or structure shall be erected, altered or enlarged which
is arranged, intended or designed for any of the following uses:
   (a)   Dwellings, dwelling units and residences of any kind, including
hotels, motels, rooming houses, tourist homes and trailer parks;
   (b)   Schools, orphanages, child care centers, homes for the aged and
similar institutions for human care, except where they are incidental to a
principal permitted use;
   (c)   Abattoirs and slaughterhouses, except where such uses comply with the
setback requirements of §
1270.04;
   (d)   Tallow, grease or lard rendering and candle making, except where such
uses comply with the setback requirements of §
1270.04;
   (e)   Fertilizer manufacturing from animal matter, fish or offal, except in
compliance with the setback requirements of §
1270.04;
   (f)   Glue or size manufacturing in compliance with the setback requirements
of §
1270.04;
   (g)   Incineration, reduction or dumping of offal, dead animals, garbage or
biological refuse on a commercial basis, or loading and transfer platforms
therefor, except under municipal control and in compliance with §
1270.04;
   (h)   Tanning, curing or dressing of raw or green salted hides, except in
compliance with the setback requirements of §
1270.04; and
   (i)   Wood or bone distillation, except in compliance with the setback
requirements of §
1270.04.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977)
§ 1270.04 SETBACKS FOR OBJECTIONABLE USES.
   In a Light Industrial I-1 District, buildings and uses which are prohibited
in §
1270.03 shall be set back 100 feet from front and rear lot lines and 125 feet
from the side lot line or centerline of the side street, whichever is the
lesser, except that where a railroad right-of-way, river or canal constitutes a
lot line, no setback shall be required from the railroad right-of-way, river or
canal.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977)
§ 1270.05 ACCESSORY USES AND BUILDINGS.
   In a Light Industrial I-1 District, any accessory use, building or structure
customarily incident to a principal permitted use and located on the same lot
therewith shall be permitted.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977)
§ 1270.06 BUILDING HEIGHT; YARDS; OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   In a Light Industrial I-1 District, the following requirements shall be
observed:
   (a)   There is no maximum building height.
   (b)   Front, rear and side yards, unless otherwise required, shall be as
follows:
 
Maximum Building       Front Yard (ft.) Rear Yard (ft.) Side Yard Width (ft.)
Height
                                                        12 feet each side yard,
1 to 2-1/2 story or 40 25               10              and 25 feet each side
feet                                                    yard adjoining any
                                                        residential district
50 feet                30               15              17 feet and/or 30 feet
60 feet                35               20              22 feet and/or 35 feet
 
   (c)   Off-street parking and loading facilities shall be provided as
specified in
Chapter 1280.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977)
CHAPTER 1272: GENERAL INDUSTRIAL I-2 DISTRICT
Section
1272.01   Purposes
1272.02   Permitted uses
1272.03   Prohibited uses
1272.04   Setbacks for objectionable uses
1272.05   Accessory uses and buildings
1272.06   Building height; yards; off-street parking and loading
Cross-reference:
   General provisions and definitions, see P. & Z.
Ch. 1250
   Schedule of zoning district regulations, see P. & Z.
1282.07
   Signs for businesses, see B. & H.
1474.19
Statutory reference:
   Basis of districting or zoning; classification of buildings or structures,
see Ohio R.C. 713.10
   Division of Municipal corporation into zones, see Ohio R.C. 713.06
   Restrictions on location, bulk and height of buildings and structures, see
Ohio R.C. 713.07
   Restrictions on percentage of lot occupancy and setback building lines, see
Ohio R.C. 713.09
§ 1272.01 PURPOSES.
   The purpose of the General Industrial I-2 District is to create industrial
areas to accommodate a wide variety of industrial establishments which may
operate to their maximum advantage without adversely affecting other nearby
similar or dissimilar uses and activities.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977)
§ 1272.02 PERMITTED USES.
   In a General Industrial I-2 District, no building, structure or land shall
be used and no building or structure shall be erected, altered or enlarged
which is arranged, intended or designed for other than one of the following
uses:
   (a)   Any use or structure permitted and as regulated in the Light
Industrial I-1 District, except as modified in this section;
   (b)   The following manufacturing uses, provided that the building,
structure or area used for such purposes is 150 feet from any residence
district:
      (1)   Asbestos;
      (2)   Brick;
      (3)   Disinfectant;
      (4)   Dye stuff;
      (5)   Emery cloth or sandpaper;
      (6)   Enameling, lacquering or japanning;
      (7)   Felt, storage and drying;
      (8)   Glass cloth;
      (9)   Grain drying;
      (10)   Insecticide;
      (11)   Iron cleaning;
      (12)   Nut, screw and bolt;
      (13)   Paper or clipping, including sorting, refining and bailing;
      (14)   Perfume;
      (15)   Pickle;
      (16)   Plaster;
      (17)   Poison;
      (18)   Pottery;
      (19)   Poultry feed manufacturing from refuse, mash or grain;
      (20)   Printing ink;
      (21)   Sauerkraut;
      (22)   Sausage;
      (23)   Stone and monument products;
      (24)   Sugar, refining;
      (25)   Tile and terra cotta;
      (26)   Vinegar;
      (27)   Wire or rod drawing;
      (28)   Wool pulling and scouring; and
      (29)   Yeast.
   (c)   The following manufacturing uses, provided that the building,
structure or area used for such purposes is 250 feet from any residence
district:
      (1)   Ammonia;
      (2)   Animal black;
      (3)   Atomic energy and fissionable materials;
      (4)   Bone black or graphite manufacture;
      (5)   Brewing or distilling of liquors;
      (6)   Cement;
      (7)   Chlorine, powdered, or bleaching powder manufacturing;
      (8)   Creosote manufacturing or treatment;
      (9)   Curing or tanning of raw, green or salted hides or skins;
      (10)   Dextrine, starch or glucose;
      (11)   Distillation of coal;
      (12)   Explosive or inflammable cellulose or pyroxyline products;
      (13)   Fertilizer, compost manufacture or storage;
      (14)   Fish curing, smoking or packaging;
      (15)   Fish oil manufacturing or refining;
      (16)   Flour, feed or grain mill;
      (17)   Garbage, offal, dead animals, refuse and rancid fat incineration,
reduction or storage;
      (18)   Gas generation or storage for illumination or heating;
      (19)   Glue manufacture;
      (20)   Gypsum;
      (21)   Junk or rags;
      (22)   Lamp black;
      (23)   Lime;
      (24)   Lime products;
      (25)   Linoleum;
      (26)   Manufacturing of small arms ammunitions;
      (27)   Matches;
      (28)   Oil;
      (29)   Oil cloth or oiled goods;
      (30)   Paint;
      (31)   Petroleum;
      (32)   Petroleum or inflammable liquids production, refining and storage
above ground;
      (33)   Plaster of Paris manufacturing;
      (34)   Refuse, grain, wood or bones;
      (35)   Rubber, manufacture and treatment from crude or scrap material;
      (36)   Shellac;
      (37)   Shoe blacking or polish or stone polish;
      (38)   Size or gelatine manufacture where the processes include the
refining or recovery of products from fish;
      (39)   Slaughterhouses or stock yards;
      (40)   Smelting of ores;
      (41)   Sulphurous, sulphuric, nitric, picric carbolic or hydrochloric or
other corrosive acid manufacture;
      (42)   Tar distillation or manufacturing;
      (43)   Tar or asphalt roofing or waterproofing;
      (44)   Turpentine; and
      (45)   Varnish or enamel manufacturing; and
   (d)   Any other use which is determined by the Board of Zoning Appeals to be
of the same character as the permitted uses specified in this section.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977)
§ 1272.03 PROHIBITED USES.
   In a General Industrial I-2 District, no building, structure or land shall
be used and no building or structure shall be erected, altered or enlarged
which is arranged, intended or designed for any of the following uses:
   (a)   Dwellings, dwelling units and residences of any kind, including
hotels, motels, rooming houses, tourist homes and trailer parks;
   (b)   Schools, orphanages, child care centers, homes for the aged and
similar institutions for human care, except where they are incidental to a
principal permitted use;
   (c)   Abattoirs and slaughterhouses, except where such uses comply with the
setback requirements of §
1272.04;
   (d)   Tallow, grease or lard rendering and candle making, except where such
uses comply with the setback requirements of §
1272.04;
   (e)   Fertilizer manufacturing from animal matter, fish or offal, except in
compliance with the setback requirements of §
1272.04;
   (f)   Glue or size manufacturing, except in compliance with the setback
requirements of §
1272.04;
   (g)   Incineration, reduction and dumping of offal, dead animals, garbage or
biological refuse. The incineration, reduction, dumping of offal, dead animals,
garbage or biological refuse on a commercial basis, or loading and transfer
platforms therefor, except under municipal control and in compliance with §
1272.04;
   (h)   Tanning, curing or dressing of raw or green salted hides, except in
compliance with the setback requirements of §
1272.04; and
   (i)   Wood or bone distillation, except in compliance with the setback
requirements of §
1272.04
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977)
§ 1272.04 SETBACKS FOR OBJECTIONABLE USES.
   In a General Industrial I-2 District, buildings and uses which are
prohibited in §
1272.03 shall be set back 100 feet from the front and rear lot lines and 125
feet from the side lot line or centerline of the side street, whichever is the
lesser, except that where a railroad right-of-way, river or canal constitutes a
lot line, no setback shall be required from the railroad right-of-way, river or
canal.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977)
§ 1272.05 ACCESSORY USES AND BUILDINGS.
   In a General Industrial I-2 District, any accessory use, building or
structure customarily incident to a principal permitted use and located on the
same lot therewith shall be permitted.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977)
§ 1272.06 BUILDING HEIGHT; YARDS; OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   In a General Industrial I-2 District, the following requirements shall be
observed:
   (a)   There is no maximum building heights.
   (b)   Front, rear and side yards, unless otherwise required, shall be as
follows:
 
Maximum Building       Front Yard (ft.) Rear Yard (ft.) Side Yard Width (ft.)
Height
                                                        12 feet each side yard,
1 to 2-1/2 story or 40 25               10              and 25 feet each side
feet                                                    yard adjoining any
                                                        residential district
50 feet                30               15              17 feet and/or 30 feet
60 feet                35               20              22 feet and/or 35 feet
 
   (c)   Off-street parking and loading facilities shall be provided as
specified in
Chapter 1280.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977)
CHAPTER 1274: PLANNED DEVELOPMENT PD DISTRICT
Section
1274.01   Purposes
1274.02   General provisions
1274.03   Procedure and review
1274.04   Establishment of district
1274.05   Final development plan approval
1274.06   Final development plans
Cross-reference:
   General provisions and definitions, see P. & Z.
Ch. 1250
   Schedule of zoning district regulations, see P. & Z.
1282.07
Statutory reference:
   Basis of districting or zoning; classification of buildings or structures,
see Ohio R.C. 713.10
   Division of Municipal corporation into zones, see Ohio R.C. 713.06
   Restrictions on location, bulk and height of buildings and structures, see
Ohio R.C. 713.07
   Restrictions on percentage of lot occupancy and setback building lines, see
Ohio R.C. 713.09
§ 1274.01 PURPOSES.
   The purposes of the Planned Development PD District are to create areas
within the city that can be developed or redeveloped with maximum flexibility
in design, to promote the efficient use of land and facilitate an economic
arrangement of buildings, circulation systems, land use and utilities; and to
provide for and locate suitable recreation facilities, educational facilities
and other public and semipublic common facilities, while preserving the
existing landscape to the greatest extent possible.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977)
§ 1274.02 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (a)   District size. The Planned Development PD District shall be comprised
of a parcel of land of not less than one contiguous acre. A parcel of land with
less acreage may be considered for planned development where it is demonstrated
that such smaller parcel has a unique feature of geography, topography or other
development aspect which is determined to be appropriate for such district
designation.
   (b)   Permitted land uses. The permitted land uses in each PD District may
vary. The Planning Commission shall determine in each case the appropriate land
uses, amount of retail or office floor space and dwelling unit density for each
residential planned development stage, as well as the density of the total
area. Each project development stage within the PD District shall conform to
the plan of density allowable for the total project. A narrative summary of the
development objectives and limitations shall be prepared and filed with each PD
District, completely documenting the facts, opinions and judgments used in
establishing and justifying the density and land uses approved in the District.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977)
§ 1274.03 PROCEDURE AND REVIEW.
   Council may establish a Planned Development PD District on its own
initiative, on the recommendation of the Planning Commission or on the
application of a property owner. The following procedure and review process
shall be used in establishing a PD District.
   (a)   An application for a PD District designation commenced by a property
owner shall be filed with the Planning Commission by the owner or authorized
agent of the property included in the development. The application shall
accompany a general development plan, including maps, sketches, elevations and
supporting documents to fully describe the following elements:
      (1)   The general nature, location and objectives of the proposed
development;
      (2)   The areas of the project to be used for single-family detached
dwellings, clustered dwellings, townhouses, garden apartments, and the like,
indicating for each such area the number of housing units by type and size, the
number of bedrooms per unit of each type of housing and the total residential
density for the project;
      (3)   The areas of the project to be used for commercial, office or other
activities indicating the total square footage of each use;
      (4)   The boundaries of the project, including a legal description of
metes and bounds of the parcel and the acreage therein;
      (5)   An area map showing adjacent property owners and existing land uses
within 200 feet of the parcel;
      (6)   Existing contours at five-foot intervals or less, accompanied by an
outline of grading plans;
      (7)   The proposed street system for the project, designating collector
and arterial streets and describing their configuration in conformity with the
plans and standards of the city;
      (8)   Descriptive data concerning the existing and proposed sewer, water
and storm drainage facilities within the project, indicating their size and
location;
      (9)   The location of all main and accessory structures, indicating
intended heights, coverage and orientation;
      (10)   The location, size, capacity, drainage and landscaping of proposed
parking lots within the project;
      (11)   Pedestrian circulation features, walks and paved areas within the
project;
      (12)   Landscaping and forestry features, including planned buffer areas
between uses;
      (13)   Community facilities, including recreational and other nonbuilding
areas designated within the project, indicating areas to be in common
ownership; and
      (14)   A document describing the proposed phasing program for the project
for all dwelling units, commercial or office structures, recreational and other
common facilities, landscaping and other open space improvements.
   (b)   The Planning Commission and staff shall review the development plan
and accompanying documents. The Commission, in conjunction with its review
process, shall hold a public hearing in the manner provided by law for the
rezoning of property. The Commission shall render a written recommendation to
Council and to the applicant on the appropriateness of the area to be zoned as
a PD District. The recommendation shall include the following:
      (1)   Whether the plan is consistent with the intent and purpose of this
section;
      (2)   The relationship, beneficial or adverse, of the proposed
development to adjacent properties and to the neighborhood in which it is
proposed to be established;
      (3)   Whether the overall development shall be adequately serviced by
present or planned utilities, roadways and other public services; and
      (4)   Whether uses permitted in the District plan shall be found to be
necessary to serve the area, preserve unique topographic, historical, special
environmental or other unique features, and/or meet special requirements set
forth in the development objectives.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977)
§ 1274.04 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICT.
   Upon review and approval, Council shall, in conformity with this chapter and
the Ohio Revised Code, approve or disapprove the amendment of the zoning map to
provide for the Planned Development PD District. Legislation approving a PD
District shall include such criteria and guidelines as Council deems
appropriate for the guidance of the developer and the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977)
§ 1274.05 FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN APPROVAL.
   After acceptance of an approved development district plan by Council and
appropriate Planned Development PD District zoning, the final approval of uses
shall be obtained from the Planning Commission as follows.
   (a)   For final approval of uses, the owner shall file a final development
plan for any specific area within the project or for the overall project with
the Commission. Such final development plan shall show the following:
      (1)   The area to be developed and the area to be devoted to open spaces,
with the average designated for each use and the courses and distances defining
the boundaries of the development parcel;
      (2)   Final grading plans, indicating the cubic yards of cuts and fills;
      (3)   The interior roadway system, indicating existing and proposed
rights-of-way and easements and cross sections of new or improved streets;
      (4)   Site plans, floor plans, elevations and cross sections for all
buildings. Additional exterior detail drawings and material specifications
shall be required if deemed essential to the realization of the intent or scope
of the district plan.
      (5)   Descriptive data as to the type of buildings, square footage for
each use, number of dwelling units in each building type and number of bedrooms
per unit;
      (6)   The proposed open space system and areas to be under common
ownership. Where multiple ownership is proposed, a detailed plan setting forth
the manner, means and proposed time of transfer of the land to an entity, the
means of development and maintenance and the obligations and rights of use of
such open space by all residents and/or tenants of the development shall be
included.
      (7)   A detailed landscaping plan for all areas, indicating all existing
and proposed vegetation by species, size and caliber; and dimensions and
materials of privacy or retaining walls or fences, and paving materials and
special lighting features;
      (8)   Roadway, parking and pedestrian lighting plans with lighting
fixture types, heights and designs;
      (9)   The location, size, heights, material, lighting method, if any, and
message of all signs. If deemed essential to the realization of the intent or
scope of the district plan, the submission shall include an elevational design
sketch indicating design, lettering style and method of mounting;
      (10)   Any modifications of the general plan data presented and approved
by the PD District zoning; and
      (11)   Where PD District zoning has been adopted by Council as a result
of a Commission initiative, all elements of the PD District application as may
be required by the Commission.
   (b)   The Commission shall review the final development plan and approve,
modify and approve, or disapprove the application for final approval of uses
and transmit notice thereof to the applicant. Such approval by the Commission
shall be documented and entered into the plan for the area and become a
permanent part of the Building Officer’s records.
   (c)   After approval by the Commission and staff of the final development
plan, submission of appropriate subdivision plats, building construction
permits and certificates of occupancy shall be conditioned upon adherence to
the total development plan, including landscaping, design considerations and
construction of necessary public improvements.
   (d)   Minor changes to an approved final development plan may be approved by
the Building Officer if such changes are consistent with the purpose and
general character of the development plan. Substantial, substantive changes in
the development plan shall require the approval of the city.
   (e)   In the event of a failure to comply with the approved plan or any
condition of approval, the Building Officer may, after notice, rescind and
revoke such approval. A violation of the final approval of uses for a PD
District shall constitute a violation of this Zoning Code.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977)
§ 1274.06 FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLANS.
   The submission of a final development plan by the developer may be
coterminous with the submission of appropriate subdivision plats and
construction drawings for on-site improvements. Approval of such subdivision
plats and construction drawings shall be conditioned upon the approval of the
final development plan.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977)
CHAPTER 1276: HEALTH SERVICE HS-1 DISTRICT
   Editor’s note:  Ordinance 87-29, passed June 8, 1987, provided that all
property zoned HS-1 by Ordinance 86-53, passed December 3, 1986, will revert to
residential zoning at such time as the Lawrence County General Hospital ceases
to conduct operations at its primary facility located between Ninth Street and
Seven and One-Half Alley and from Kemp Avenue to Pleasant Street.
Section
1276.01   Purposes
1276.02   District size and location
1276.03   Permitted uses
1276.04   Accessory uses and buildings
1276.05   Transportation
1276.06   Building height; lot area; yards; off-street parking and loading;
miscellaneous requirements
Cross-reference:
   Board of Health, see ADM.
Ch. 268
   General provisions and definitions, see P. & Z.
Ch. 1250
   Schedule of zoning district regulations, see P. & Z.
1282.07
Statutory reference:
   Division of Municipal corporation into zones, see Ohio R.C. 713.06
   Restrictions on location, bulk and height of buildings and structures, see
Ohio R.C. 713.07
   Restrictions on percentage of lot occupancy and setback building lines, see
Ohio R.C. 713.09
   Basis of districting or zoning; classification of buildings or structures,
see Ohio R.C. 713.10
§ 1276.01 PURPOSES.
   The purposes of the Health Service HS-1 District are to permit and encourage
the establishment of facilities that provide, preserve and maintain complete
health care and related services and to provide for and enhance the
availability of medical services to the community. Only those uses that
materially interfere with the overall function of the central area will be
excluded.
(Ord. 86-53, passed 12-3-1986)
§ 1276.02 DISTRICT SIZE AND LOCATION.
   The Health Service HS-1 District shall be comprised of the area surrounding
Lawrence County General Hospital and specifically those areas shown on Exhibit
A attached to original Ordinance 86-53, passed December 3, 1986, and on file in
the Mayor’s office.
(Ord. 86-53, passed 12-3-1986)
§ 1276.03 PERMITTED USES.
   In a Health Service HS-1 District, no building, structure or land shall be
used and no building or structure shall be erected, altered or enlarged which
is arranged or designed for other than one of the following uses:
   (a)   General. Residential uses as regulated in the Residence R-2 District;
   (b)   Offices. Offices for physicians, surgeons, dentists, osteopaths and
other health professions;
   (c)   Hospitals and hospital facilities. Buildings, structures and other
improvements, additions thereto and extensions thereof, furnishings, equipment
and real estate and interests in real estate, used or to be used for or in
connection with the hospital’s emergency, intensive, intermediate, extended,
long-term or self-care facilities; diagnostic, treatment and out-patient
facilities; facilities related to programs for home health services; clinics
and rehabilitation facilities for or pertaining to diagnosis, treatment, care
or rehabilitation of sick, ill, injured, infirm, impaired, disabled or
handicapped persons, or the prevention, detection and control of disease;
training and food service facilities for health profession personnel; parking
and service facilities in connection with any of the foregoing; any one, part
of or any combination of the foregoing which has a contractual agreement with
the Lawrence County General Hospital Board of Trustees; and site improvements,
utilities, machinery, facilities, furnishings and any separate or connected
buildings, structures, improvements, sites, utilities, facilities or equipment
to be used in, or in connection with, the operation or maintenance of, or
supplementing or otherwise related to the services or facilities to be provided
by, any one or more of such hospitals and hospital facilities;
   (d)   Comprehensive health services.  Preventive, diagnostic, therapeutic,
rehabilitative or palliative items or services that include any of the
following:
      (1)   Services of physicians, physicians’ assistants and nurse
practitioners;
      (2)   Diagnostic laboratory and radiological services;
      (3)   Preventive health services, such as children’s eye and ear
examinations, perinatal services, well child services and family planning
services;   
      (4)   Arrangements for emergency medical services; and
      (5)   Transportation services; and
   (e)   Hospitals for human care, provided that buildings which are used for
the treatment of contagious diseases, or for the care of epileptics, drug
addicts, the feebleminded or insane, shall be at least 150 feet distance from
any lot in any residence district..
(Ord. 86-53, passed 12-3-1986; Am. Ord. 22-65, passed 2-23-2022)
§ 1276.04 ACCESSORY USES AND BUILDINGS.
   In a Health Service HS-1 District, accessory uses, buildings or structures
customarily incident or accessory to a principally or conditionally permitted
use, as well as those technological advancements incident or accessory to a
principally or conditionally permitted use, health service administration
buildings, as emergency medical service (EMS) garage with on-duty berthing and
utility stations shall be permitted.
(Ord. 86-53, passed 12-3-1986)
§ 1276.05 TRANSPORTATION.
   Transportation which does not involve a physical trespass on the premises of
adjacent landowners shall be permitted to and from a Health Service HS-
1 District, including, but not limited to, emergency medical helicopter service
(EMHS).
(Ord. 86-53, passed 12-3-1986)
§ 1276.06 BUILDING HEIGHT; LOT AREA; YARDS; OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING;
MISCELLANEOUS REQUIREMENTS.
   In a Health Service HS-1 District, the following requirements shall be
observed.
   (a)   Enclosed buildings. All health services and processing or storage of
materials shall be conducted wholly within a completely enclosed building,
except for mobile support units such as mobile CAT scanners, health exercise
facilities or the storage of vehicles, materials and equipment that require
outside storage for immediate access for use or that are normal to or are used
in or by an outside health or supporting facility or as may be authorized by
the Board of Appeals.
   (b)   Nonobjectionable uses. No processes and equipment shall be employed
which are objectionable by reason of odor, smoke, fumes, noise, refuse matter
or waste.
   (c)   Maximum building height.
      (1)   There shall be no height limit for a nonresidential use.
      (2)   The maximum building heights for a residential use shall be the
same as specified in the Residence R-2 District.
   (d)   Minimum lot area. No minimum lot area shall be required for a
nonresidential use. For a residential use, the minimum lot area shall be 4,800
square feet.
   (e)   Minimum lot area per dwelling unit. The minimum lot area per dwelling
unit shall be 1,000 square feet.
   (f)   Yards and lot coverage.
      (1)   For a nonresidential use, there are no yard and lot coverage
requirements.
      (2)   For a residential use, the requirements shall be the same as
specified in the Residence R-2 District.
   (g)   Off-street parking and loading.
      (1)   Off-street parking shall be provided as specified in
Chapter 1280, with up to 50 percent of the total required spaces available
through public parking lots and parking garages within a distance of 500 feet
of the building line of such use.
      (2)   Off-street loading facilities shall be provided as specified in
Chapter 1280.
(Ord. 86-53, passed 12-3-1986)
CHAPTER 1278: FLOOD PLAIN FP-1 DISTRICT
Section
1278.01   Purposes
1278.02   District size and location
1278.03   Permitted uses
1278.04   Prohibited uses
Cross-reference:
   Altering, polluting and diverting watercourses, see GEN. OFF.
660.04
   Driving on floodwalls, see TRAF.
432.42
Statutory reference:
   Flood control by soil conservation district supervisors, see Ohio R.C.
1515.08
   Flood insurance, see Ohio R.C. 3925.34(C), 3941.02(A)
   Water supply, sanitation, ditches, see Ohio R.C. 6101.01 et seq.
§ 1278.01 PURPOSES.
   The purposes of the Flood Plain FP-1 District are to create areas within the
city that cannot be developed, to prevent the construction of a building or
dwelling in these areas, to provide open lands to preserve the existing
landscape and to provide a controlled area between the floodwall and low water
mark of the abutting river or creek, known as the flood plain.
(Ord. 88-10, passed 5-26-1988)
§ 1278.02 DISTRICT SIZE AND LOCATION.
   The Flood Plain FP-1 District shall be comprised of a parcel of land located
in the flood plain of the city, between the toe of the floodwall where
residentially zoned areas abut on the opposite side of the floodwall and the
low water mark of the creek, stream or river adjoining it, as shown on the map
attached to original Ordinance 88-10, passed May 26, 1988, and on file in the
Mayor’s office.
(Ord. 88-10, passed 5-26-1988)
§ 1278.03 PERMITTED USES.
   In a Flood Plain FP-1 District, no building, structure or land shall be used
and no building or structure shall be erected, altered or enlarged which is
arranged or designed for other than one of the following uses:
   (a)   Any utility purpose that services the residents of the city and is for
their health, safety and welfare;
   (b)   Noncommercial recreational uses by property owners; and
   (c)   Public boat docking facilities controlled by the city in the area
described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the centerline of Storms Creek with the east
line of Second Street; thence with the east line of Second Street, in a
southerly direction to a point 12 feet north of the toe of slope of the north
base of the earth floodwall; thence parallel with and 12 feet from such toe of
slope, in an easterly direction to the west right-of-way line, of the Norfolk
and Western Railway; thence with such west right-of-way line, in a northerly
direction to the centerline of the main channel of Storms Creek; thence with
the meandering centerline of such main channel, in a westerly direction to the
place of beginning.
(Ord. 88-10, passed 5-26-1988)
§ 1278.04 PROHIBITED USES.
   In a Flood Plain FP-1 District, no building, structure or land shall be used
and no building or structure shall be erected, altered or enlarged which is
arranged, intended or designed for any residential or commercial use, other
than as provided in §
1278.03.
(Ord. 88-10, passed 5-26-1988)
CHAPTER 1280: OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
Section
1280.01   Compliance required
1280.02   Parking space sizes; access drive standards
1280.03   Location of parking facilities
1280.04   Changes requiring additional spaces
1280.05   Mixed uses
1280.06   Joint use of parking facilities
1280.07   Number of parking spaces required
1280.08   Loading and unloading space
Cross-reference:
   Districts, see P. & Z.
1276.06
   Parking generally, see TRAF.
Ch. 452
   Parking meters, see TRAF.
Ch. 454
   Parking near emergency and public safety vehicles, see TRAF.
432.25
   Off-street parking and loading in Business B-3 Districts, see P. & Z.
1268.05
   Off-street parking and loading in Health Service HS-1, see P. & Z.
1276.06
§ 1280.01 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   In all districts, every industrial, business, institutional, recreational,
residential or other use shall provide, at the time any building or structure
is erected, enlarged or increased in capacity, off-street parking and loading
spaces for motor vehicles in accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977)
§ 1280.02 PARKING SPACE SIZES; ACCESS DRIVE STANDARDS.
   (a)   Required off-street parking space sizes shall be as follows:
      (1)   For single and two-family residential uses, be a minimum of nine
feet wide by 18 feet long;
      (2)   For multifamily residential uses, be a minimum of nine feet wide by
18 feet long;
      (3)   For business uses, be a minimum of nine feet wide by 18 feet long;
      (4)   For industrial uses, be a minimum of nine feet wide by 18 feet
long; and
      (5)   For all parallel parking along any drive or street, eight feet wide
by 23 feet long.
   (b)   Internal or access drives shall be:
      (1)   If less than 500 feet long, 20 feet passage width;
      (2)   If more than 500 feet long, 24 feet passage width; and
      (3)   Subject to the following:
         A.   Widths shall not include any parking and shall be measured at the
curb line.
         B.   All curves and intersecting angles shall have a minimum radius of
40 feet.
         C.   Access drives to any business district or industrial district
parking area through any private lands of any residence district shall be
prohibited.
   (c)   Parking spaces for all types of uses may be provided either in garages
or parking areas conforming with this Zoning Code.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977; Am. Ord. 13-67, passed 10-31-2013)
§ 1280.03 LOCATION OF PARKING FACILITIES.
   Off-street parking facilities shall be located as specified in this section.
Where distance is specified, such distance shall be measured from the nearest
point of the parking facility to the nearest point of the building or use such
facility is required to serve. Off-street parking spaces shall be allowed in
required yards except where specifically prohibited by this Zoning Code.
   (a)    For multi-unit dwellings, off-street parking facilities shall be not
more than 200 feet from the building they are required to serve.
   (b)   For uses located in and first permitted in a business district, and
for hospitals, sanitariums, convalescent, nursing and rest homes, homes for the
aged, dormitories, tourist homes, private clubs, fraternity and sorority
houses, lodges and offices as first permitted in a residence district, off-
street parking facilities shall be not more than 300 feet from the building
they are required to serve.
   (c)   For uses other than those specified in divisions (a) and (b) hereof,
off-street parking facilities shall be not more than 800 feet from the building
they are intended to serve.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977)
§ 1280.04 CHANGES REQUIRING ADDITIONAL SPACES.
   Whenever there is a change in use or an increase in floor area or other unit
of measurement, and such change or increase creates a need for an increase of
more than ten percent in the number of off-street parking spaces, as determined
by the requirements in this section, additional off-street parking spaces shall
be provided. As used in this section, “floor area” means the gross floor area.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977)
§ 1280.05 MIXED USES.
   In the case of mixed uses, the total requirements for off-street parking
facilities shall be the sum of the requirements for the various uses, computed
separately.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977)
§ 1280.06 JOINT USE OF PARKING FACILITIES.
   (a)   Not more than 50 percent of the off-street parking facilities required
by this chapter for a church, theater, bowling alley, dance hall or
establishment for the sale and consumption of food, alcoholic beverages or
refreshments may be supplied by off-street parking facilities provided by other
types of buildings or uses as specified in §
1280.07(a), which buildings or uses are not normally open, used or operated
during the principal operating hours of theaters, churches or other
aforementioned establishments. Not more than 50 percent of the off-street
parking facilities required under this chapter for other buildings or uses
specified in this chapter may be supplied by facilities provided for theaters,
churches or other aforementioned establishments, provided that a properly drawn
instrument is executed by the parties concerned for the joint use of the off-
street parking facilities. Such instrument, duly approved as to form and manner
of execution by the Department of Law, shall be filed with the application for
a building permit.
   (b)   Buildings or uses not normally open, used or operated during the
principal operating hours of theaters, churches or other aforementioned
establishments are defined as banks, business offices, retail stores, personal
service shops, clothing, shoe repair or service shops, manufacturing buildings
and similar uses.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977)
§ 1280.07 NUMBER OF PARKING SPACES REQUIRED.
   (a)   The number of off-street parking spaces required shall be as follows:
 Use Number of Spaces
     Use                                        Number of Spaces
(1)  Auditorium                                 One for each ten seats
(2)  Automobile or machine sales and service    One for each 1,000 square feet
                                                of floor area
     Banks, business and professional offices,  One for each 600 square feet of
(3)  except medical and dental offices or       floor area
     clinics
                                                Three for each alley, plus the
                                                necessary space as set forth in
(4)  Bowling alleys                             this section for affiliated
                                                uses such as bars, restaurants
                                                and the like
(5)  Churches                                   One for each six seats in
                                                places of worship
     Dance halls and assembly halls, except     One for each 500 square feet of
(6)  church assembly rooms in conjunction with  floor area used for assembly or
     an auditorium                              dancing
(7)  Dwellings                                  One for each family or dwelling
                                                unit
(8)  Funeral homes, mortuaries                  Five for each reposing room or
                                                parlor
(9)  Hospitals                                  One for each five beds
(10) Libraries, museums or galleries            One for each 1,000 square feet
                                                of floor space
(11) Manufacturing plants, research or testing  One for each 2,000 square feet
     laboratories, bottling plants              of floor area
(12) Medical and dental clinics or offices      One for each 400 square feet of
                                                floor area
(13) Motels and hotels                          One for each living or sleeping
                                                unit
(14) Restaurants, beer parlors and night clubs  One for each 300 square feet of
                                                floor area
(15) Retail stores, shops, and the like         One for each 400 square feet of
                                                floor area
(16) Schools:
        Elementary and junior high (grades 1-One for each classroom, plus
                                                three
        High School (grades 10-12)           One for every 20 classroom
                                                seats
 
   (b)   In addition to the requirements of division (a) hereof, there shall be
provided additional spaces as set forth elsewhere in this Zoning Code for
specific uses, such as auditoriums, gymnasiums, and the like, as follows:
 
(1) Sanitariums, nursing homes, homes for the aged, children’s One for each
    homes                                                        ten beds
(2) Sports arenas, theaters, assembly halls, other than schools  One for each
                                                                 six seats
                                                                 One for each
(3) Wholesale establishments or warehouses                       5,000 square
                                                                 feet of floor
                                                                 area
 
   (c)   In the case of a use not specifically mentioned in this section, the
requirements for off-street parking facilities for a use which is so mentioned
and to which such use is similar, as determined by the Building Officer or his
or her authorized representative shall apply.
   (d)   Each parking space required by this section shall be in compliance
with §
1280.02
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977)
§ 1280.08 LOADING AND UNLOADING SPACE.
   (a)   Loading spaces shall be provided and maintained on the same premises
with every building, structure or part thereof erected, occupied, enlarged or
intended to be used, for manufacturing, storage, warehouse, goods display,
department store, wholesale store, market, retail store, hotel, hospital,
laundry, dry cleaning or other use similarly involving the receipt or
distribution, by vehicles, of material or merchandise.
   (b)   Such space shall be adequate for standing, loading and unloading
services, in order to avoid undue interference with public use of the streets
or alleys.
   (c)   Loading and unloading space shall not be occupied or considered as any
part of the required off-street parking area.
   (d)   All business districts shall include a ten-foot by 20-foot loading
space with a 14-foot height clearance for every 20,000 square feet or fraction
thereof in excess of 3,000 square feet of building floor area or land area used
for the purposes mentioned in division (a) hereof. In the Business B-
3 District, such space, unless otherwise adequately provided for, shall include
a ten-foot by 25 foot loading space with a 14-foot height clearance for each
structure, building or part thereof erected, enlarged or increased in capacity
as follows:
      (1)   Buildings used for offices or hotels:
 
Square Feet             Spaces
3,000 to 149,999        1
150,000 to 399,999      2
400,000 to 659,999      3
Each additional 350,000 1
 
      (2)   All other uses:
 
Square Feet            Spaces
3,000 to 39,999        2
40,000 to 99,999       4
100,000 to 159,999     6
Each additional 90,000 2
 
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977)
CHAPTER 1282: PROVISIONS RELATING TO ALL DISTRICTS
Section
1282.01   Nonconforming uses
1282.02   Exceptions
1282.03   Open space; setbacks
1282.04   Farming
1282.05   Accessory buildings
1282.06   Fences
1282.07   Schedule of district regulations
1282.08   House trailers
1282.09   Group residential home or facility
Cross-reference:
   General provisions and definitions, see P. & Z.
Ch. 1250
Statutory reference:
   Basis of districting or zoning; classification of buildings or structures,
see Ohio R.C. 713.10
   Division of Municipal corporation into zones, see Ohio R.C.713.06
   Restrictions on location, bulk and height of buildings and structures, see
Ohio R.C. 713.07
   Restrictions on percentage of lot occupancy and setback building lines, see
Ohio R.C. 713.09
§ 1282.01 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (a)   Continuation. Any building or use of a building at the time of the
passage of this Zoning Code (Ordinance 77-25, passed April 28, 1977) may be
continued, subject to this section, although such building or use does not
conform to the regulations of the district in which such building or use is
maintained.
   (b)   Re-establishment. No nonconforming use may be re-established in any
vacant building or on any vacant land where such nonconforming use has been
abandoned or discontinued for one year.
   (c)   Change. No nonconforming use of a building, structure or land may be
changed to another nonconforming use.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977)
   (d)   Expansion. A nonconforming use of a building, structure or land may be
expanded or extended into any other portion of such nonconforming building,
structure or land, only as follows:
      (1)   A nonconforming structure may be expanded subject to the most
current zoning restrictions for the area in which the nonconforming structure
is located.
(Ord. 83-44, passed 9-8-1983)
      (2)   A nonconforming use may be expanded for vehicular parking only to
adjacent and adjoining lots, provided such parking facilities are paved and a
two-foot minimum masonry or brick wall is erected on boundaries adjoining other
lots.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977)
   (e)   Replacement and repair of nonconforming structures.
      (1)   A nonconforming structure which may hereafter be damaged be fire,
decay, explosion, flood, riot or act of God may be replaced, rebuilt or
repaired to its traditional and established use, subject to the most current
zoning restrictions, with the exception of the minimum lot area for the area in
which the nonconforming structure is located, or on the original foundation,
subject to the approval of the Board of Appeals, provided that the value of
such structure is equal to or greater than the average appraised value of
existing structures within 200 feet of lot lines.
      (2)   The appraised average value of the surrounding area shall be
determined by a certified real estate appraiser. Any and all expenses incurred
for such appraisal shall be the responsibility of the property owner. No
building permit shall be issued until this requirement is satisfactorily met.
      (3)   A lot of record as of the adoption of this Zoning Code (Ordinance
77-25, passed April 28, 1977) shall not be reduced in size to less than the
minimum size requirement for the district in which it is located and shall be
subject to and governed by this Zoning Code, except in the case of the
continuation of a traditional use and exemptions from lot area requirements.
Reconstruction must take place within 12 months after the calamity.
      (4)   The effect of this division shall be retroactive to include
previously damaged property.
(Ord. 83-44, passed 9-8-1983)
§ 1282.02 EXCEPTIONS.
   (a)   Height limits; projections; signs. Churches, hospitals and public
schools may exceed the height limit for the district in which such buildings
are located. Roof structures for the housing of elevators, stairways, tanks,
ventilating fans or similar equipment required to operate and maintain the
building, and fire walls, skylights, towers, steeples, roof signs, flagpoles,
chimneys, smokestacks, wireless masts, water tanks, silos or similar
structures, may be erected above the height limits prescribed in this Zoning
Code, but no roof structure, penthouse or other space above the height limit
shall be allowed for the purpose of providing usable floor space. An exception
to a roof overhang shall be permitted up to 24 inches, but in no case shall a
roof overhang be less than two feet from any property line.
   (b)   Corner lots. The area regulations concerning front yards in residence
districts shall prevail along that street which the narrow end of the lot
faces, but in regard to the yard along the longer side of the lot, the minimum
distance from the building on a lot narrower than 50 feet to the side street
may be reduced to 60 percent of the required specified front yard within the
district in which such lot is located, except in a Residence R-1 District. This
division shall apply to all principal and accessory buildings.
   (c)   Amusement parks and drive-in theaters.
      (1)   Amusement parks and drive-in theaters located in any residence,
business or industrial district shall be set back 500 feet from the front and
rear lot lines and 533 feet from the side lot line or centerline of the side
street, whichever is the less. However, where a railroad right-of-way, river or
canal constitutes a lot line, no setback shall be required from such railroad
right-of-way, river or canal.
      (2)   As used in this section, “amusement park” shall not include any
such amusement park which is not permanent. “Permanent” means being located in
the same place for more than 31 days.
      (3)   This section shall not be construed as authorizing or permitting
any use which is not authorized or which is prohibited by any other provision
of these Codified Ordinances.
   (d)   Required front yard. A front yard shall be the minimum distance to the
right-of-way of any street as specified in the district in which such yard is
located, or the average distances of the buildings on the same side of the
street within the same block, whichever is the lesser.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977)
§ 1282.03 OPEN SPACE; SETBACKS.
   (a)   No lot shall be so reduced that any of the required open spaces shall
be smaller than prescribed in this Zoning Code. No yard or other open space
required for a building shall, during the life of such building, be occupied by
or counted as an open space for another building on the same or adjoining lot.
   (b)   All buildings on through lots or reversed frontage lots shall conform
to the front yard requirements for each street.
   (c)   No residence shall be built nearer than three feet to any side or rear
lot line nor within less than any setback distance as required by this Zoning
Code.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977)
§ 1282.04 FARMING.
   No farming or keeping of livestock or poultry, except gardens, shall be
conducted in any district unless such farming is specifically authorized by the
Board of Health or by a rule adopted by such Board.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977)
§ 1282.05 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   (a)   Fences and small incidental structures used for children’s recreation
shall not be subject to the requirements for the principal building or
accessory building.
   (b)   Accessory buildings, except for a garage built into or made a
structural part of a dwelling, shall be located only in the rear yard within a
minimum distance of 15 feet from the principal building and with the following
minimum setback distances:
      (1)   The minimum distance from an alley or easement shall be the average
setback distance of the accessory buildings in the same block, but not less
than two feet.
      (2)   The minimum distance from a rear lot line other than an alley or
easement shall be four feet.
      (3)   The minimum distance from a side street shall be as provided in §
1282.02.
      (4)   The minimum distance from other side lot lines shall be two feet,
unless the accessory building is connected with the garage of the neighboring
lot by a fire wall.
      (5)   The minimum distance from any other building shall be four feet.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977)
§ 1282.06 FENCES.
   No fence or wall serving the purpose of a fence shall be constructed of such
height and in such a location in the front or side yard as to interfere with
the safety or vehicular traffic in the streets. Any fence or wall with a height
in excess of seven feet and located elsewhere on the lot shall be subject to
all regulations and requirements for building. Hedges and shrubbery on corner
lots within the required front yards along both streets shall be subject to the
same regulations as those for fences. No fence shall be constructed on any
street until a permit is obtained from the Building Officer. The permit shall
be issued at no cost upon approval by the Building Officer that the fence will
be in conformity with this section.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977; Am. Ord. 81-79, passed 3-8-1984)
§ 1282.07 SCHEDULE OF DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   District regulations shall be as set forth in the Schedule of District
Regulations, hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this
Zoning Code.
(Ord. 77-25, passed 4-28-1977)
§ 1282.08 HOUSE TRAILERS.
   (a)   No person shall place, or permit to be placed, any house trailer used
for human habitation within the city, except in authorized trailer parks, or
when used for office purposes in the industrial zoned areas of the city for
limited periods, not to exceed one year from the date of installation.
   (b)   No person shall make use of business trailers for residential purposes
or housing of any type.
   (c)   Whoever violates any provision of this section shall be fined not more
than one hundred dollars ($100.00). Each day’s violation shall constitute a
separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. 90-31, passed 6-25-1990)
§ 1282.09 GROUP RESIDENTIAL HOME OR FACILITY.
   (a)   As used in this section, “Group Residential Home or Facility” means
any home or place where persons are located for housing by a community
addiction services provider or a residential disabilities provider.
   (b)   Anyone owning, operating, facilitating, or coordinating a group
residential home or facility as defined herein above must register with the
office of Mayor or the Mayor’s designee by disclosing the physical address of
such home or facility and the number of residents occupying said home or
facility. Said registration must take place within 30 days after the effective
date of this section. The penalty for noncompliance with this section shall be
a fine of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00). Each day a violation shall be
deemed a separate offense with said fines being payable to the city’s Finance
Department.
   (c)   A moratorium upon the establishment of any group residential home or
facility as defined herein above is hereby imposed for a period of one year
from the effective date of this section. The provisions hereof shall have no
effect upon any such home or facility in existence as of the date of the
adoption of this section.
(Ord. 21-66, passed 12-23-2021)
TITLE SIX - URBAN RENEWAL
CHAPTER 1290: DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECT
Section
1290.01   Boundaries of the project
1290.02   Types of proposed renewal actions
Cross-reference:
   Department of Community Development, see ADM.
Ch. 242
Statutory reference:
   Community improvement corporations, see Ohio R.C. Ch. 1724
   Community reinvestment areas, see Ohio R.C. 3735.65 et seq
   Community urban redevelopment corporations, see Ohio R. C. Ch. 1728
   Development corporations, see Ohio R.C. Ch. 1726
   Urban renewal, see Ohio R.C. Ch. 725
§ 1290.01 BOUNDARIES OF THE PROJECT.
   (a)   The project area is generally described and bounded as follows:
   Situated in the City of Ironton, County of Lawrence, State of Ohio, and
bounded as follows:
      Beginning at a point at the southeast corner of Center Street and North
Fourth Street, such point being the intersection of the south right-of-way line
of Center Street and the east right-of-way line of North Fourth Street; thence
northwardly along such east right-of-way line of North Fourth Street to a point
in the south right-of-way line of Aid Alley; thence eastwardly with such south
right-of-way line of Aid Alley to a point in the east right-of-way line of
North Low Alley; thence northwardly along such east right-of-way line of North
Low Alley to a point in the north right-of-way line of Etna Street; thence
westwardly along such north right-of-way line of Etna Street to a point in the
west right-of-way line of North Second Street; thence southwardly along such
west right-of-way line of North Second Street to a point in the north right-of-
way line of Lawrence Street; thence westwardly to a point in the east right-of-
way line of North Front Street; thence southwardly with such east right-of-way
line of North Front Street to a point in the south right-of-way line of Center
Street; thence eastwardly with such south right-of-way line of Center Street to
the point of beginning.
   (b)   See the project boundary map on file in the Mayor’s office.
(Res. 5531, passed 4-22-1971)
§ 1290.02 TYPES OF PROPOSED RENEWAL ACTIONS.
   Proposed renewal actions are as follows:
   (a)   Eliminate structurally substandard and blighting structures and
adequately relocate the present occupants;
   (b)   Eliminate certain structures which are not a substandard or blighting
influence, but which for various other reasons shall be removed in order to
facilitate the successful execution of the project;
   (c)   Provide land for residential re-use, with emphasis upon the provision
of units for low and moderate income families and individuals and upon
increasing the community’s supply of higher-density residential development;
   (d)   Interrelate higher-density residential development and housing with
the provision of open space;
   (e)   Provide land for new Central Business District commercial uses and, in
the process, complement existing central commercial functions;
   (f)   Develop a convenience commercial area for residents at inlying
locations to the hillside and downstream sides of the Central Business
District, with good pedestrian access for its walk-in market and good vehicular
access for its drive-in market;
   (g)   Separate loading-unloading spaces from off-street parking spaces so
that service vehicles and automobiles do not conflict with one another;
   (h)   Create adequate off-street parking spaces to serve the commercial
customers, office users and residents within the project.
   (i)   Locate peripheral off-street parking in close proximity to the
commercial frontage;
   (j)   Limit access points along Second and Fourth Street frontages through
selective placement of off-street parking lots;
   (k)   Vacate a number of streets and alley rights-of-way within the project
area;
   (l)   Construct various new streets within the project area;
   (m)   Install attractive and functional street lighting, street furniture,
landscaping, walkways, curbs and gutters, street pavements, water lines,
sanitary and storm sewers, and the like within the project area;
   (n)   Close a portion of Railroad Street for use as a pedestrian walkway;
   (o)   Close Third Street to all vehicular traffic, except emergency
vehicles, so as to provide a pedestrian walkway interconnecting the new housing
with the commercial areas and the neighborhood park land;
   (p)   Provide neighborhood park land for project area residents and for
adjacent residential development;
   (q)   Place all utility lines underground within the project area; and
   (r)   Separate sanitary sewage from storm drainage runoff within the project
area.
(Res. 5531, passed 4-22-1971)
CHAPTER 1292: LAND USE PLAN
Section
1292.01   Land Use Plan map
1292.02   Land use provisions
1292.03   Tract A
1292.04   Tract B
1292.05   Tract C
1292.06   Tract D
1292.07   Tract E
1292.08   Tract F
1292.09   Tract G
1292.10   Tract H
1292.11   Tract I
1292.12   Tract J
1292.13   Tract K
1292.14   Tract L
1292.15   Tract M
1292.16   Tract O
1292.17   Tract P
1292.18   Tract Q
1292.19   Tracts R, S and T delayed
1292.20   Tract R
1292.21   Tract S
1292.22   Tract T
1292.23   Duration of controls
1292.24   Application to real property not to be acquired
Cross-reference:
   Department of Community Development, see ADM.
Ch. 242
   Zoning map, see P. & Z.
1256.02
Statutory reference:
   Community improvement corporations, see Ohio R.C. Ch. 1724
   Community reinvestment areas, see Ohio R.C. 3735. 65 et seq.
   Community urban redevelopment corporations, see Ohio R. C. Ch. 1728
   Urban renewal, see Ohio R.C. Ch. 725
§ 1292.01 LAND USE PLAN MAP.
   (a)   There is hereby adopted the Land Use Plan map showing the following:
      (1)   Thoroughfare and street rights-of-way;
      (2)   Other public uses; and
      (3)   Land uses not covered by division (a)(1) or (2) hereof.
   (b)   See the Land Use Plan map on file in the Mayor’s office.
(Res. 5531, passed 4-22-1971)
§ 1292.02 LAND USE PROVISIONS.
   (a)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   The selection of the urban renewal area was made on the basis of
providing needed expansion room for the Central Business District, intensifying
residential density levels in the vicinity of the Central Business District,
introducing necessary convenience commercial establishments to service not only
the higher-intensity residential re-uses but also adjacent residential
development. Permitted land uses within the project area are limited to the
following:
         A.   Central Business District commercial and office uses, including
all retail and service establishments, but excluding the following uses:
automobile sales, service and repair, including tire and washing
establishments; motel, hotel or other transient housing; pet shops, kennels and
animal hospitals; service stations; drive-in restaurants or any other drive-in
facility;
         B.   Convenience commercial and office uses such as bakery shops,
barber shops, beauty parlors, ice cream stores, drug stores, food stores,
launderettes, laundromats, dry cleaning establishments, variety stores and
accessory buildings or uses incidental to the foregoing. Drive-in facilities
shall not be permitted;
         C.   High-rise multiple-family apartment units, multi-family garden
apartments, row houses and single-family detached dwelling units. Low and
moderate income housing, including public housing, shall be permitted;
         D.   Neighborhood park land and pedestrian walkways;
         E.   Loading-unloading zones, off-street parking and landscaped
pedestrian walkways and sidewalks as required in connection with the foregoing
permitted uses;
         F.   Institutional uses; and
         G.   Industrial uses limited to railroad rights-of-way.
      (2)   Existing buildings within the project area that are to remain
include the Masonic Building (also known as the Leader Building) located at the
southwest corner of the intersection of Center Street and Third Street; the new
U.S. Post Office Building located at the southwest corner of the intersection
of Railroad Street and Fourth Street; and William Bourne’s single-family home
at 322 Buckhorn Street.
   (b)   Land use controls and building restrictions. Land use controls and
building restrictions required by the Urban Renewal Plan on the sale, lease or
retention of all real property acquired shall be as set forth in this division.
The project area covered by the Urban Renewal Plan has been subdivided into 17
tracts designated Tracts A through Q (see the Land Use Plan map). For each of
these tracts of land, specifications are outlined, e.g. development objectives
to be accomplished, physical organization of uses and activities, provision of
off-street parking spaces, provision for pedestrian movement, access for
vehicular traffic, including service vehicles, and other restrictions on the
use and development of the area. In addition, a statement of control is
provided for those areas not presently proposed for acquisition (Tracts R, S,
T). These controls shall only become applicable if, at a later date, the
project should acquire these properties. Otherwise the Zoning Code shall
control the future development of these parcels.
   (Editor’s note: Tract N was deleted by Ordinance 75-16, passed March 27,
1975.)
(Res. 5531, passed 4-22-1971)
§ 1292.03 TRACT A.
   Tract A: Center Street, North Fourth Street, Railroad Street, Linear Park.
   (a)   Basic objectives. The area to be made available for redevelopment
shall be utilized to expand the Central Business District. The functional
organization of commercial frontage allows for off-street parking areas
immediately to the northeast (hillside), southwest (riverside) and west
(riverside).
   (b)   Physical organization. Prime retail floor space is concentrated along
the Center Street frontage and along the pedestrian walkways on the Railroad
Street and the Linear Park (formerly Third Street) rights-of-way. Most of the
prime commercial area shall be oriented to the Linear Park which connects the
project’s residential areas with this commercial development. Interior
pedestrian paths may link the off-street parking areas with store fronts. Some
second-story offices may be developed over street level commercial frontage
along the Linear Park or at ground level along Center Street, Railroad Street
or Fourth Street. Frontage on the Linear Park shall be limited to retail
commercial and personal service establishments.
   (c)   Land use. Land shall be used for retail commercial space and offices,
with the exception of drive-in facilities, gas stations, automobile repair or
sales, tire and auto washing establishments, motels, hotels or other transient
housing facilities, pet shops, kennels, animal hospitals, and the like. A
utility easement of 20 feet wide shall be reserved, beginning at a point
approximately 212 feet from the southwestern right-of-way line (riverside) of
North Fourth Street (Vacated Cedar Alley).
(Res. 5531, passed 4-22-1971)
   (d)   Off-street parking. Off-street parking shall consist of one space for
each 500 square feet of retail sales area and one space for each 200 square
feet of office space. Each parking space shall be at least nine feet by 18 feet
in size. Parking areas shall be located within 350 linear feet of the project
facility. No parking area may face on the Linear Park. All parking areas shall
be screened by a four-foot high brick wall, or a wall of similar height
consisting of other material, or mature vegetation acceptable to the local
public agency. All parking areas shall be paved. No vehicular access shall be
permitted from the Linear Park or from Railroad Street.
(Ord. 5569, passed 10-14-1971)
   (e)   Maximum height. No structure shall exceed 50 feet in height.
   (f)   Setback requirements. No setback is required for structures located on
Center Street, Railroad Street or the Linear Park. A minimum five-foot setback
is required along North Fourth Street. Parking areas and loading zones shall be
set back at least five feet from the right-of-way and the setback area shall be
suitably landscaped.
   (g)   Maximum land coverage. Maximum land coverage may be 100 percent,
except for required setback areas.
   (h)   Floor area ratio. The ratio of floor area to total land area shall not
exceed 3.0.
   (i)   Loading zones. All loading shall be provided on site and loading areas
shall be screened by a brick wall of at least four feet in height, by a wall of
similar height consisting of other material or by mature vegetation which is
acceptable to the local public agency. No access to loading areas shall be
allowed from Railroad Street or the Linear Park. Loading areas shall be set
back a minimum of five feet from all rights-of-way and shall be screened from
the Linear Park. All loading zones shall be paved.
(Res. 5531, passed 4-22-1971)
   (j)   Lighting. All exterior public areas shall be lighted to a minimum
level of .051 footcandles. All exterior lighting shall be compatible with the
publicly provided street and mall lighting, in both type and design. All
exterior lighting shall be approved by the Development Review Committee.
   (k)   Signs. No neon or other self-illuminated sign shall be permitted.
Signs may be illuminated by indirect sources only. No freestanding signs shall
be permitted. No sign shall be more than 30 square feet in size. No overhanging
or projecting signs, except those hung from a canopy and less than six square
feet in size, shall be permitted. No billboard type signs shall be permitted on
the side of or on top of structures. No pennants, flags, banners or paper signs
shall be permitted. No signs shall protrude into the public right-of-way except
as provided under a canopy. All exterior signs shall be approved by the
Committee. The Committee may waive the sign requirements of this division when
such requirements create an undue hardship upon a developer. However, such
waiver shall not materially detract from the aesthetic quality of the project
area.
(Ord. 5664, passed 1-11-1973; Am. Ord. 76-79, passed 11-11-1976)
§ 1292.04 TRACT B.
   Tract B: North Third Street between Railroad Street and Center Street, and
the northeasterly (upriver) side of Railroad Street.
   (a)   Basic objectives. This area shall be a Linear Park connecting the
retail shopping area with the convenience commercial and residential sections
of the project.
   (b)   Physical organization. The total Linear Park shall extend the full
length of the project from Center Street to Etna Street. It shall provide
pedestrian orientation to the retail and convenience commercial facilities and
shall allow direct pedestrian access to the residential area to the north and
northwest of the shopping area. No vehicular traffic shall be permitted except
for emergency vehicles. The pedestrian walkway shall also extend along the
northeast side of Railroad Street connecting the Linear Park with residential
areas.
   (c)   Land use. Land shall be used for public open space.
   (d)   Parking requirements. No parking requirements shall apply.
   (e)   Maximum land coverage. No permanent structure shall be allowed in the
area. This restriction shall not prohibit the construction of kiosks,
monuments, works of art, street furniture and other accessory and incidental
fixtures appropriate for a public pedestrian area.
   (f)   Lighting. All exterior lighting shall be approved by the Development
Review Committee. All areas shall be lighted to a minimum level of .051
footcandles
(Res. 5531, passed 4-22-1971)
   (g)   Signs. No neon or self-illuminated sign shall be permitted. Signs may
be illuminated by indirect light sources only. No sign shall be more than 16
square feet in size. All exterior signs shall be approved by the Committee.
(Ord. 5664, passed 1-11-1973)
§ 1292.05 TRACT C.
   Tract C: North Second Street, Buckhorn Street, the Linear Park, Center
Street.
   (a)   Basic objectives. The area shall be available for retail commercial
development and shall be utilized to expand the Central Business District.
Orientation shall be toward the Linear Park and Center Street.
   (b)   Physical organization. Prime retail floor space shall be concentrated
along the Center Street frontage and along the Linear Park (formerly the Third
Street right-of-way). Most of the prime commercial area shall be oriented to
the Linear Park which connects the project residential areas with this
commercial development. Interior pedestrian paths shall link the off-street
parking areas with the Linear Park. Some second-story offices may be developed
over street level commercial frontage of the Linear Park or at ground level
along Center, Railroad and Second Streets. Ground level frontage on the Linear
Park shall be limited to retail commercial and personal service establishments.
(Res. 5531, passed 4-22-1971)
   (c)   Land use. Land shall be used for retail commercial space and offices,
with the exception of drive-in facilities, gas stations, automobile repair or
sale, tire and auto washing establishments, motels, hotels or other transient
housing facilities, pet shops, kennels, animal hospitals, and the like.
(Ord. 5766, passed 2-28-1974)
   (d)   Off-street parking. No off-street parking shall be required on site.
Parking shall be provided in adjoining public lots. Parking areas provided on
site may not face on the Linear Park and must be screened from it. All parking
areas shall be screened by a four-foot high brick wall or by a wall of similar
height consisting of other material or mature vegetation acceptable to the
local public agency. All parking areas shall be paved. No vehicular access to
parking areas shall be provided from Railroad Street or the Linear Park.
   (e)   Maximum height. No structure shall exceed 50 feet in height.
   (f)   Setback requirements. There shall be no setback requirements for
structures located on Center Street, Railroad Street, the Linear Park or Second
Street. Parking areas and loading zones shall be set back a minimum of five
feet from the right-of-way and setback areas shall be suitably landscaped.
   (g)   Maximum land coverage. Maximum land coverage may be 100 percent except
for required setback areas.
   (h)   Floor area ratio. Floor area ratio shall not exceed 3.0.
   (i)   Loading zones. All loading shall be provided on site and loading areas
shall be screened by a brick wall at least four feet in height or by a wall of
similar height consisting of other material or mature vegetation which is
acceptable to the local public agency. No vehicular access shall be allowed
from Railroad Street or the Linear Park. Loading areas shall be set back a
minimum of five feet from all rights-of-way and shall be screened from the
Linear Park. All loading zones shall be paved.
(Res. 5531, passed 4-22-1971)
   (j)   Lighting. All exterior public areas shall be lighted to a minimum
level of .051 footcandles. All exterior lighting shall be approved by the
Development Review Committee. All exterior lighting shall be compatible with
the publicly provided street and mall lighting, in both type and design.
   (k)   Signs. No neon or other self-illuminated sign shall be permitted.
Signs may be illuminated by indirect sources only. No freestanding sign shall
be permitted. No sign shall be more than 30 square feet in size. No overhanging
or projecting signs, except those hung from a canopy and less than six square
feet in size, shall be permitted. No billboard type sign shall be permitted on
the side of or on top of structures. No pennants, flags, banners or paper signs
shall be permitted. No sign may protrude into the public right-of-way except as
provided under a canopy. No sign shall protrude above the roof level of a
structure. All exterior signs shall be approved by the Committee.
(Ord. 5664, passed 1-11-1973)
§ 1292.06 TRACT D.
   Tract D: Second Street, Center Street, the Norfolk and Western Railroad
right-of-way, the centerline of vacated Lawrence Street.
   (a)   Basic objectives. The basic objectives shall be to provide off-street
public parking facilities for the retail development in other portions of the
project area. At the discretion of Council, up to 40 percent of this Tract may
be used for retail commercial activity.
   (b)   Physical organization. This public parking area shall serve the retail
facilities to the northeast (hillside) of Second Street. Access to the Linear
Park shall be provided by pedestrian walkways. Any retail commercial activity
allowed in this area shall be located toward the Lawrence Street end of the
tract.
   (c)   Land use. Land shall be used for automobile parking facilities. An
alternate use of the Central Business District or convenience commercial,
including automobile service and repair uses, shall be permitted at the
discretion of Council. Any retail development which is permitted on this tract
shall not exceed 40 percent of the overall area of the tract and shall be
oriented toward the Lawrence Street end of the area.
   (d)   Off-street parking. If retail commercial activity is permitted on the
tract, Council may, at its discretion, require whatever level of parking it
deems necessary in keeping with the proposed activity and the surrounding
public parking. Such parking requirements shall not exceed in either size or
design those required for similar retail tracts in the project area (e.g. Tract
P).
   (e)   Maximum height. No structure shall exceed 25 feet in height.
   (f)   Setback requirements. Development shall be set back a minimum of five
feet on all sides except from the Norfolk and Western Railroad right-of-way.
Setback areas shall be appropriately landscaped. Landscaping which shall
effectively screen the parking area shall be provided along Second Street.
(Ord. 5777, passed 4-11-1974)
   (g)   Maximum land coverage. Maximum land coverage may be 100 percent except
for setback requirements.
(Res. 5531, passed 4-22-1971)
   (h)   Floor area ratio. Floor area ratio shall not exceed 2.0.
   (i)   Loading zones. All loading shall be provided on site. All loading
areas shall be screened from Second Street by a brick wall of at least four
feet in height or by a wall of similar height consisting of other material or
mature vegetation which is acceptable to the local public agency. Loading areas
shall be set back a minimum of five feet from all parcel boundaries. All
loading areas shall be appropriately paved and well lighted.
(Ord. 5777, passed 4-11-1974)
   (j)   Lighting. All exterior public areas shall be lighted to a minimum
level of .051 footcandles. All exterior lighting shall be compatible with the
publicly provided street and mall lighting, in both type and design. All
exterior lighting shall be approved by the Development Review Committee.
(Ord. 5668, passed 1-11-1973)
   (k)   Signs. No sign shall be more than 30 square feet in size. No pennants,
flags, banners or paper signs shall be permitted. All exterior signs shall be
approved by the Committee.
(Ord. 5664, passed 1-11-1973; Am. Ord. 78-68, passed 11-30-1978)
§ 1292.07 TRACT E.
   Tract E: Second Street, Railroad Street, the Linear Park, a line
approximately 140 feet northwest of Railroad Street.
   (a)   Basic objectives. The basic objectives shall be to provide convenience
retail commercial and office facilities oriented to needs of project area
residents and the residential area to the northeast (hillside) of the project
area.
   (b)   Physical organization. Physical organization shall be convenience
commercial establishments and secondary retail with floor space oriented toward
Railroad Street and the Linear Park, with primary orientation to the Linear
Park. The Linear Park interconnects the convenience commercial shops with
adjacent high, medium and low-density residential areas and the prime retail
sector. Most parking is provided across Second Street in public off-street
parking lots.
   (c)   Land use. Land shall be used for convenience commercial, office and
secondary retail uses. No drive-in facilities shall be permitted. Bakery shops,
barber shops, beauty parlors, ice cream stores, drug stores, food stores,
laundrettes, laundromats, dry cleaning establishments, variety stores and other
similar or accessory uses shall be permitted.
   (d)   Off-street parking. No off-street parking shall be required on site.
Parking shall be provided in adjoining public lots. Parking areas provided on
site may not face on the Linear Park and shall be screened from it. All parking
areas shall be screened by a four-foot high brick wall or by a wall of similar
height consisting of other material or mature vegetation acceptable to the
local public agency. All parking areas shall be paved. No access shall be
provided to parking areas from Railroad Street or the Linear Park.
   (e)   Maximum height. No structure shall exceed 40 feet in height.
   (f)   Setback requirements. No setback is required from Railroad Street, the
Linear Park or Second Street. A minimum ten-foot setback is required from all
other lot lines. All setback areas shall be suitably landscaped.
   (g)   Maximum land coverage. Maximum land coverage may be 100 percent,
except for required setback areas.
   (h)   Floor area ratio. Floor area ratio shall not exceed 1.5.
   (i)   Loading zones. All loading shall be provided on site. Loading areas
shall be screened by a brick wall at least four feet in height or by a wall of
similar height consisting of other material or mature vegetation acceptable to
the local public agency. No loading areas may face on the Linear Park and all
such areas shall be screened from the Linear Park. No vehicular access shall be
provided from Railroad Street. All loading zones shall be paved.
(Res. 5531, passed 4-22-1971)
   (j)   Lighting. All exterior public areas shall be lighted to a minimum
level of .051 footcandles. All exterior lighting shall be compatible with the
publicly provided street and mall lighting, in both type and design. All
exterior lighting shall be approved by the Development Review Committee.
   (k)   Signs. No neon or other self-illuminated sign shall be permitted.
Signs may be illuminated by indirect sources only. No freestanding sign shall
be permitted. No sign shall be more than 30 square feet in size. No overhanging
or projecting signs, except those hung from a canopy and less than six square
feet in size, shall be permitted. No billboard type signs shall be permitted on
the side of or on top of structures. No pennants, flags, banners or paper signs
shall be permitted. No sign may protrude above the roof level of a structure.
All exterior signs shall be approved by the Committee.
(Ord. 5665, passed 11-1-1973)
§ 1292.08 TRACT F.
   Tract F: Second Street, a line approximately 150 feet northwest of Railroad
Street, the Linear Park, a line approximately 280 feet northwest of Railroad
Street.
   (a)   Basic objectives. The basic objectives shall be to provide a high-
density residential area which shall act as a transition between the commercial
area and lower density residential areas.
   (b)   Physical organization. Residential structures shall be oriented toward
the Linear Park with access to parking from Second Street. Convenience
commercial shall be located just to the southeast. To the northeast shall be
located medium and low density residential units.
(Res. 5531, passed 4-22-1971)
   (c)   Land use. Land shall be used for high-density residential and
accessory or incidental uses thereto.
(Ord. 5664, passed 1-11-1973)
   (d)   Maximum density. Maximum density shall not exceed 120 units per acre.
   (e)   Off-street parking. Off-street parking shall consist of one and one-
half spaces for every dwelling unit, except for housing restricted to the
elderly, in which case there shall be one space for every two dwelling units.
Parking areas shall not face the Linear Park and shall be screened from the
Linear Park Area. All parking shall be screened by a brick wall at least four
feet high, by a wall of similar height consisting of other material or by
mature vegetation acceptable to the local public agency. Each parking space
shall be at least nine feet by 18 feet in size. All parking areas shall be
paved. No vehicular access shall be provided to parking areas from the Linear
Park.
   (f)   Maximum height. No structure shall exceed 90 feet in height.
   (g)   Setback requirements.
      (1)   Generally.
         A.   Front yard, ten feet;
         B.   Side yard, ten feet; and
         C.   Rear yard, ten feet.
      (2)   Exclusions. Parking and loading zones may not be provided within
setback areas.
   (h)   Maximum land coverage. Land coverage shall not exceed 70 percent for
both structures and parking.
   (i)   Loading zones. All loading shall be provided on site. No loading area
shall face on the Linear Park and all such areas shall be screened from the
Linear Park. All loading sites shall be screened by a brick wall at least four
feet high or by a wall of similar height and of other material or mature
vegetation acceptable to the local public agency. All loading zones shall be
paved. There shall be no vehicular access to loading zones from the Linear
Park.
(Res. 5531, passed 4-22-1971)
   (j)   Lighting. All exterior lighting shall be compatible with the publicly
provided street and mall lighting, in both type and design. All exterior
lighting shall be approved by the Development Review Committee.
   (k)   Signs. No neon or self-illuminating sign shall be permitted. Signs may
be illuminated by indirect sources only. No freestanding sign shall be
permitted. Signs shall not exceed nine square feet in size. No overhanging or
projecting sign shall be permitted. No billboard type sign shall be permitted.
No pennants, flags, banner or paper signs shall be permitted. No sign may
protrude into the public right- of-way. No sign shall protrude above the roof
level of a structure. All exterior signs shall be approved by the Committee.
(Ord. 5664, passed 1-11-1973)
§ 1292.09 TRACT G.
   Tract G: Etna Street, Linear Park, a line approximately 280 feet from
Railroad Street, Second Street.
   (a)   Basic objectives. The basic objectives shall be to provide low and
medium-density multi-family housing.
   (b)   Physical organization. High density, multi-family units shall be
developed just to the southeast. The Linear Park shall offer a pedestrian
connector to convenience commercial facilities and the neighborhood park.
Structures shall be oriented toward the Linear Park with access to parking
areas from Second Street and/or Etna Street.
(Res. 5531, passed 4-22-1971)
   (c)   Land use. Land shall be used for low or medium-density multi-family
residential dwelling units. A utility easement ten feet wide shall be reserved,
beginning at a point approximately 135 feet from the southeastern (downstream)
right-of-way line of Etna Street between Second Street and the Linear Park.
   (d)   Maximum density. Maximum density shall not exceed 17 dwelling units
per acre.
   (e)   Off-street parking. Off-street parking shall consist of one space per
dwelling unit. Parking areas may not face on the Linear Park and shall be
screened from the Linear Park. All parking shall be screened by a brick wall at
least four feet high or by a wall of similar height consisting of similar
material or mature vegetation acceptable to the local public agency. All
parking areas shall be paved. There shall be no vehicular access to parking
areas from the Linear Park.
(Ord. 5569, passed 10-14-1971)
   (f)   Minimum lot area per dwelling unit. The minimum lot area per dwelling
unit shall be 2,500 square feet.
   (g)   Maximum height. No structure shall exceed 50 feet in height.
   (h)   Setback requirements.
      (1)   Generally.
         A.   Front yard, ten feet;
         B.   Side yard, ten feet; and
         C.   Rear yard, ten feet.
      (2)   Exclusions. No habitable structural complex shall be located within
15 feet of any other habitable structural complex. Parking or loading area
zones may not be provided within setback areas.
   (i)   Maximum land coverage. Land coverage shall not exceed 50 percent for
both structures and parking.
(Res. 5531, passed 4-22-1971)
   (j)   Lighting. All exterior lighting shall be compatible with the publicly
provided street and mall lighting, in both type and design. All exterior
lighting shall be approved by the Development Review Committee.
(Ord. 5664, passed 1-11-1973)
   (k)   Signs.  No neon or self-illuminated sign shall be permitted. Signs may
be illuminated by indirect light sources only. No freestanding sign shall be
permitted. Signs may not exceed 16 square feet in size.
(Res. 5531, passed 4-22-1971)
§ 1292.10 TRACT H.
   Tract H: Previously North Third Street between Etna Street and Railroad
Street, the southeasterly right-of-way line of Etna Street, a line
approximately 370 feet from North Fourth Street, the northwesterly right-of-way
line of Railroad Street, a line approximately 132 feet from North Second
Street.
   (a)   Basic objectives. This area shall be a Linear Park connecting the
retail shopping area with the residential section of the project.
   (b)   Physical organization. The Linear Park shall extend the full length of
the project from Center Street to Etna Street. It shall provide a pedestrian
orientation to the retail and convenience commercial facilities and shall allow
direct pedestrian access to the residential area to the north and northeast of
the shopping area. No vehicular traffic shall be allowed except for emergency
vehicles.
(Res. 5531, passed 4-22-1971)
   (c)   Land use. Land shall be used for public open space. A utility easement
ten feet wide shall be reserved beginning at a point approximately 135 feet
from the northwestern right-of-way line (upstream) of Etna Street.
(Ord. 5569, passed 10-14-1971)
   (d)   Parking requirements. No parking requirements shall apply.
   (e)   Maximum land coverage. No permanent structure shall be allowed in the
area. This restriction shall not prohibit the construction of kiosks,
monuments, works of art, street furniture and other accessory and incidental
fixtures appropriate for a public pedestrian area.
(Res. 5531, passed 4-22-1971)
   (f)   Lighting. All exterior lighting shall be approved by the Development
Review Committee. All exterior areas shall be lighted to a minimum level of
.051 footcandles.
   (g)   Signs. No neon or self-illuminated sign shall be permitted. Signs may
be illuminated by indirect sources only. Signs may not exceed 16 square feet in
size. All exterior signs shall be approved by the Committee.
(Ord. 5664, passed 1-11-1973)
§ 1292.11 TRACT I.
   Tract I: Etna Street, North Fourth Street, a line approximately 110 feet
from the new loop street to a line approximately 338 feet from Etna Street, the
Linear Park.
   (a)   Basic objectives.  The basic objectives shall be to provide
neighborhood parkland and open space.
   (b)   Physical organization. This area shall be developed as a park to
provide a recreation and open space area for residents and to act as a buffer
between the industrial development across Etna Street and adjacent housing.
(Res. 5531, passed 4-22-1971)
   (c)   Land use. Land shall be used for open space and a neighborhood park. A
utility easement 20 feet wide shall be reserved beginning at a point
approximately 212 feet from the southwestern right-of-way line (riverside) of
North Fourth Street (vacated North Cedar Alley). Another utility easement ten
feet wide shall be reserved beginning at a point approximately 135 feet from
the northwestern right-of-way line (upstream) of Etna Street and running
between the Linear Park and North Fourth Street.
(Ord. 5569, passed 10-14-1971)
   (d)   Maximum density. Dwelling units shall not be permitted.
   (e)   Off-street parking. No off-street parking shall be required.
   (f)   Maximum height. No fixture or improvement shall exceed 30 feet in
height.
   (g)   Setback requirements. No fixture or improvement shall be placed within
the following limits:
      (1)   Ten feet from Etna Street;
      (2)   Ten feet from the Linear Park;
      (3)   Ten feet from North Second Avenue; and
      (4)   Ten feet from the residential development on Tract L.
   (h)   Maximum land coverage. Seventy-five percent of this area shall be
maintained as open space without any structural improvements. This provision
does not restrict the construction of outdoor play areas, such as playgrounds,
tennis courts, horseshoe pits, and the like. These and similar facilities shall
not be considered as structural improvements.
(Res. 5531, passed 4-22-1971)
   (i)   Lighting. All exterior lighting in the park area shall be with
fixtures compatible in type and design with the publicly provided street and
mall lighting. Special lighting may be used for illumination of certain
recreation areas which require high intensity fixtures (e.g. tennis courts).
All exterior lighting shall be approved by the Development Review Committee.
   (j)   Signs. No neon or self-illuminated sign shall be permitted. Signs may
be illuminated by indirect light sources only. Signs may not exceed 16 square
feet in size. All exterior signs shall be approved by the Committee.
(Ord. 5664, passed 1-11-1973)
§ 1292.12 TRACT J.
   Tract J: New loop street, North Fourth Street, a line approximately 110 feet
northwest of the intersection of the new loop street and North Fourth Street,
the Linear Park, a line approximately 346 feet northwest of Railroad Street.
   (a)   Basic objectives. The basic objectives shall be to provide a site for
low and medium-density multi-family residential dwelling units.
   (b)   Physical organization. Government institutional facilities and high-
density multi-family units shall be developed to the south and southeast. To
the northwest shall be single-family residential units. This development shall
provide a transition from the more intensive residential and commercial uses to
the single-family area.
   (c)   Land use. Land shall be used for low or medium-density multi-family
residential dwelling units. A utility easement 20 feet wide shall be reserved
beginning at a point approximately 212 feet from the southwestern (riverside)
right-of-way line of North Fourth Street (vacated North Cedar Alley).
   (d)   Maximum density. The maximum density shall not exceed 25 dwelling
units per acre.
   (e)   Off-street parking. Off-street parking shall consist of one and one-
fourth spaces per dwelling unit. All parking shall be screened by a brick wall
at least four feet high or by a wall of similar height consisting of other
material or mature vegetation acceptable to the local public agency. All
parking areas shall be paved. Access to parking areas shall be from the new
loop street. The site shall not face on the Linear Park and shall be screened
from it. There shall be no vehicular access to the site from the Linear Park or
Fourth Street.
   (f)   Minimum lot area per dwelling unit. The minimum lot area per dwelling
unit shall be 1,800 square feet.
   (g)   Maximum height. No structure shall exceed 50 feet in height.
   (h)   Setback requirements.
      (1)   Generally.
         A.   Front yard, ten feet;
         B.   Side yard, ten feet; and
         C.   Rear yard, ten feet.
      (2)   Exclusions. No parking areas or loading zones shall be provided in
the setback areas. No habitable structural complex shall be located within 15
feet of any other habitable structural complex.
   (i)   Maximum land coverage. Land coverage shall not exceed 70 percent for
both structures and parking.
   (j)   Lighting. All exterior lighting shall be compatible with the publicly
provided street and mall lighting, in both type and design. All exterior
lighting shall be approved by the Development Review Committee.
   (k)   Signs. No neon or self-illuminated sign shall be permitted. Signs may
be illuminated by indirect light sources only. No freestanding sign shall be
permitted. Signs shall not exceed nine square feet in size. No overhanging or
projecting sign shall be permitted. No billboard type sign shall be permitted.
No pennants, flags, banners or paper signs shall be permitted. No sign may
protrude into the public right-of-way. No sign shall protrude above the roof
level of a structure. All signs shall be approved by the Committee.
(Ord. 5664, passed 1-11-1973; Am. Ord. 75-16, passed 3-27-1975)
§ 1292.13 TRACT K.
   Tract K: Etna Street, a line approximately 140 feet from North Fourth
Street, Buckhorn Street, North Fourth Street.
   (a)   Basic objectives. The basic objectives shall be to provide sites for
single-family residential development.
   (b)   Physical organization. This area shall be developed with single-family
residential structures. This shall provide a transition between the new multi-
family development and the existing single-family area outside of the project.
Development shall be oriented toward Fourth Street.
   (c)   Land use. Land shall be used for single-family detached residential
units.
   (d)   Maximum density. Maximum density shall not exceed eight dwelling units
per acre.
   (e)   Minimum lot area per dwelling unit. The minimum lot area per dwelling
unit shall be 5,000 square feet.
   (f)   Minimum lot width. The minimum lot width shall be 50 feet.
(Res. 5531, passed 4-22-1971)
   (g)   Off-street parking. A minimum of one parking space shall be provided
on site for each dwelling unit. Parking areas and driveway access shall be
paved. Parking shall not be located in the front setback area. The developer
shall limit the number of vehicular access points to this site from Fourth
Street to an absolute minimum.
(Ord. 5664, passed 1-11-1973)
   (h)   Maximum height. No structure shall exceed 35 feet in height.
   (i)   Setback requirements.
      (1)   Generally.
         A.   Front yard, 20 feet;
         B.   Side yard, eight feet; and
         C.   Rear yard, 15 feet.
      (2)   Exclusions. No parking area shall be provided in the front setback
area.
   (j)   Maximum land coverage. Land coverage shall not exceed 40 percent.
(Res. 5531, passed 4-22-1971)
   (k)   Lighting. Exterior light fixtures shall be compatible with the
publicly provided street lighting. All exterior lighting shall be approved by
the Development Review Committee.
   (l)   Signs. No neon or self-illuminated sign shall be permitted. Signs may
be illuminated by indirect sources only. No freestanding sign shall be
permitted. Signs shall not exceed two square feet in size. All signs shall be
approved by the Committee. As a general rule, signs shall not be permitted in
this area except to identify the house number and name of the occupants.
(Ord. 5664, passed 1-11-1973)
§ 1292.14 TRACT L.
   Tract L: Buckhorn Street, a line approximately 140 feet from Buckhorn
Street, North Fourth Street, a line approximately 140 feet from North Fourth
Street.
   (a)   Basic objectives. The basic objectives shall be to provide sites for
single-family residential development.
   (b)   Physical organization. This area shall be developed with single-family
residential structures. This shall provide a transition between the new multi-
family development and the existing single-family area outside of the project.
Development shall be oriented toward Fourth Street.
   (c)   Land use. Land shall be used for single-family detached residential
units.
   (d)   Maximum density. The maximum density shall not exceed eight dwelling
units per acre.
   (e)   Minimum lot area per dwelling unit. The minimum lot area per dwelling
unit shall be 5,000 square feet.
(Res. 5531, passed 4-22-1971)
   (f)   Off-street parking. A minimum of one parking space shall be provided
on site for each dwelling unit. Parking areas and driveway access shall be
paved. Parking shall not be located in the front setback area.
(Ord. 5805, passed 7-25-1974)
   (g)   Maximum height. No structure shall exceed 35 feet in height.
   (h)   Setback requirements.
      (1)   Generally.
         A,   Front yard, 20 feet;
         B.   Side yard, eight feet; and
         C.   Rear yard, 15 feet.
      (2)   No parking area shall be provided in the front setback area.
   (i)   Maximum land coverage. Land coverage shall not exceed 40 percent.
(Res. 5531, passed 4-22-1971)
   (j)   Lighting. Exterior light fixtures shall be compatible with the
publicly provided street lighting. All exterior lighting shall be approved by
the Development Review Committee.
   (k)   Signs. No neon or self-illuminated sign shall be permitted. Signs may
be illuminated by indirect light sources only. No freestanding sign shall be
permitted. Signs shall not exceed two square feet in size. All signs shall be
approved by the Committee. As a general rule, signs shall not be permitted in
this area except to identify the house number and name of the occupant.
(Ord. 5664, passed 1-11-1973)
§ 1292.15 TRACT M.
   Tract M: North Fourth Street, the new loop street, a line approximately 88
feet from the new loop street.
   (a)   Basic objectives. The basic objectives shall be to provide sites for
single-family residential development.
   (b)   Physical organization. This area shall be developed with single-family
residential structures. This shall provide a transition between the new multi-
family development and the existing single-family area outside of the project.
Development shall be oriented toward the new loop street and shall be in
character with the single-family home to be retained on that street.
   (c)   Land use. Land shall be used for single-family detached residential
units.
   (d)   Maximum density. The density shall not exceed eight dwelling units per
acre.
   (e)   Minimum lot area per dwelling unit. The minimum lot area per dwelling
unit shall be 5,000 square feet.
   (f)   Minimum lot width. The minimum lot width shall be 50 feet.
   (g)   Off-street parking. A minimum of one parking space shall be provided
on site for each dwelling unit. Parking areas and access drives shall be paved.
Access shall be from the new loop street. Parking shall not be allowed in the
front setback area.
   (h)   Maximum height. No structure shall exceed 35 feet in height.
   (i)   Setback requirements.
      (1)   Generally.
         A.   Front yard, 15 feet;
         B.   Side yard, eight feet; and
         C.   Rear yard, 15 feet.
      (2)   Exclusions. No parking area may be provided in the front setback
area.
(Ord. 5805, passed 7-25-1974)
   (j)   Maximum land coverage. Land coverage shall not exceed 40 percent.
(Res. 5531, passed 4-22-1971)
   (k)   Lighting. Exterior light fixtures shall be compatible with the
publicly provided street lighting. All exterior lighting shall be approved by
the Development Review Committee.
   (l)   Signs. No neon or self-illuminated sign shall be permitted. Signs may
be illuminated by indirect sources only. No freestanding sign shall be
permitted. Signs shall not exceed two square feet in size. All signs shall be
approved by the Committee. As a general rule, signs shall not be permitted in
this area except to identify the house number and name of the occupant.
(Ord. 5664, passed 1-11-1973)
§ 1292.16 TRACT O.
   Tract O: Linear Park, a line approximately 630 feet from Etna Street, a line
approximately 225 feet from North Fourth Street, a line approximately 150 feet
from Railroad Street.
   (a)   Basic objectives. The basic objectives shall be to provide a high-
density residential area which shall act as a transition between the commercial
area and lower density residential area.
   (b)   Physical organization. This area shall be developed as a convenience
commercial and retail area located just to the southeast with ready access via
the Linear Park. Structures shall be oriented toward the Linear Park, with
parking access from the new loop street. To the northwest shall be located low
density residential units.
   (c)   Land use. Land shall be used for high-density residential uses and
uses accessory and incidental thereto. A utility easement 20 feet wide shall be
reserved beginning at a point approximately 212 feet from the southwestern
right-of-way line (riverside) of North Fourth Street. An easement ten feet wide
shall be reserved beginning at a point approximately 310 feet from the
northwestern right-of-way line (upstream) of Railroad Street.
   (d)   Maximum density. The density shall not exceed 120 units per acre.
   (e)   Off-street parking. Off-street parking shall consist of one and one-
half spaces for every dwelling unit, except for housing restricted to the
elderly. In such case, there shall be one space for every two dwelling units.
Parking areas shall not face the Linear Park and shall be screened from the
Linear Park. All parking shall be screened by a brick wall at least four feet
in height or by a wall of similar height consisting of other material or mature
vegetation acceptable to the local public agency. Parking spaces shall be at
least nine feet by 18 feet in size. All parking areas shall be paved. No
vehicular access shall be allowed from the Linear Park to any parking area.
   (f)   Maximum height. No structure shall exceed 90 feet in height.
   (g)   Setback requirements.
      (1)   Generally.
         A.   Front yard, ten feet;
         B.   Side yard, ten feet; and
         C.   Rear yard, ten feet.
      (2)   Exclusions. Parking areas and loading zones shall not be provided
in the setback areas.
   (h)   Maximum land coverage. Land coverage shall not exceed 70 percent for
structures and parking.
   (i)   Loading zones. All loading shall be provided on site. No loading area
shall face on the Linear Park. All loading areas shall be screened from the
Linear Park. All loading sites shall be screened by a brick wall at least four
feet in height or by a wall of similar height and of other material or mature
vegetation acceptable to the local public agency. All loading areas shall be
paved. No vehicular access shall be allowed from the Linear Park to any loading
area.
(Res. 5531, passed 4-22-1971)
   (j)   Lighting. All exterior lighting shall be compatible with the publicly
provided street and mall lighting, in both type and design. All exterior
lighting shall be approved by the Development Review Committee.
   (k)   Signs. No neon or self-illuminated sign shall be permitted. Signs may
be illuminated by indirect light sources only. No freestanding sign shall be
permitted. Signs shall not exceed nine square feet in size. No overhanging or
projecting sign shall be permitted. No billboard type sign shall be permitted.
No pennants, flags, banners or paper signs shall be permitted. No sign shall
protrude into the public right-of-way. No sign may protrude above the roof
level of a structure. All exterior signs shall be approved by the Committee.
(Ord. 5664, passed 1-11-1973)
§ 1292.17 TRACT P.
   Tract P: Fourth Street, Railroad Street, the Linear Park, an irregular line
a maximum of 195 feet northwest of Railroad Street.
   (a)   Basic objectives. The basic objectives shall be to provide convenience
retail commercial facilities oriented to needs of project area residents and
the residential area to the north of the project area.
   (b)   Physical organization. This area shall be developed with convenience
commercial establishments and secondary retail floor space situated along
Railroad Street, with primary orientation to the Linear Park. The Linear Park
shall interconnect the convenience commercial shops with adjacent high, medium
and low-density residential areas and the prime retail sector. Some parking
shall be provided across Second Street in public facilities.
   (c)   Land use. Land shall be used for convenience commercial, office and
secondary retail uses. No drive-in facilities shall be permitted. Bakery shops,
barber shops and beauty parlors, ice cream stores, drug stores, food stores,
launderettes, laundromats, drycleaning establishments, variety stores, offices
and other similar or accessory uses shall be permitted. A utility easement 20
feet wide shall be reserved beginning at a point approximately 212 feet from
the southwestern right-of-way line (riverside) of North Fourth Street (vacated
Cedar Alley).
(Res. 5531, passed 4-22-1971)
   (d)   Off-street parking. Off-street parking shall consist of one space for
each 500 square feet of retail sales area and one space for each 200 square
feet of office space. Parking areas may not face on the Linear Park and shall
be screened from it. All parking areas shall be located within 350 linear feet
of the projected facility and shall be at least nine feet by 18 feet in size.
Parking areas shall be screened by a four-foot high brick wall or by a wall of
similar height consisting of other material or mature vegetation acceptable to
the local public agency. All parking areas shall be paved. No vehicular access
shall be allowed to parking areas from the Linear Park or from within 100 feet
of the Linear Park along Railroad Street.
(Ord. 5569, passed 10-14-1971)
   (e)   Maximum height. No structure shall exceed 40 feet in height.
   (f)   Setback requirements. No setback is required from Railroad Street or
the Linear Park. A minimum ten-foot setback is required from all other lot
lines. All parking and loading zones shall be set back at least five feet from
the right-of-way. All setback areas shall be suitably landscaped.
   (g)   Maximum land coverage. Land coverage may be 100 percent except for
required setback areas.
   (h)   Floor area ratio. The floor area ratio shall not exceed 1.5.
   (i)   Loading zones. All loading shall be provided on site. Loading areas
shall be screened by a brick wall at least four feet in height or by a wall of
similar height consisting of other material or mature vegetation acceptable to
the local public agency. No loading area shall face on the Linear Park and all
such areas shall be screened from the Linear Park. All loading zones shall be
paved. There shall be no access to loading zones from the Linear Park or from
within 100 feet of the Linear Park along Railroad Street.
(Res. 5531, passed 4-22-1971)
   (j)   Lighting. All exterior public areas shall be lighted to a minimum
level of .051 footcandles. All exterior lighting shall be compatible with the
publicly provided street and mall lighting, in both type and design. All
exterior lighting shall be approved by the Development Review Committee.
   (k)   Signs. No neon or other self-illuminated sign shall be permitted.
Signs may be illuminated by indirect sources only. No freestanding sign shall
be permitted. Signs shall not exceed 30 square feet in size. No overhanging or
projecting signs, except those hung from a canopy and less than six square feet
in size, shall be permitted. No billboard type sign shall be permitted on the
side of or on top of structures. No pennants, flags, banners or paper signs
shall be permitted. No sign may protrude into the public right-of-way except as
provided under a canopy. No sign shall protrude above the roof level of a
structure. All exterior signs shall be approved by the Committee.
(Ord. 5664, passed 1-11-1973)
§ 1292.18 TRACT Q.
   Tract Q: In the former right-of-way of Railroad Street between the Linear
Park and North Second Street.
   (a)   Basic objectives. The basic objectives shall be to provide public open
space.
   (b)   Physical organization. This open area shall be located in such a
manner as to provide a buffer area between the railroad tracks and vehicular
traffic on Railroad Street.
   (c)   Land use. Land shall be used for public open space.
   (d)   Parking requirements. No parking requirements shall apply.
   (e)   Maximum land coverage. No permanent structures are allowed in this
area. This restriction shall not prohibit the construction of kiosks,
monuments, works of art, street furniture and other accessory and incidental
fixtures appropriate for a public area.
   (f)   Lighting. All exterior lighting fixtures shall be compatible with the
publicly provided street lighting.
(Res. 5531, passed 4-22-1971)
   (g)   Signs. No neon or self-illuminated sign shall be permitted. Signs may
be illuminated by indirect light fixtures only. Signs shall not exceed 16
square feet in size. All exterior signs shall be approved by the Development
Review Committee.
(Ord. 5664, passed 1-11-1973)
§ 1292.19 TRACTS R, S AND T DELAYED.
   Tracts R, S and T are not to be acquired under the present acquisition plan.
Controls included for these areas shall apply to them only if these areas
should be subject to acquisition by the project at a later date or if the
owners of property in these tracts should acquire property within the project
area from the local public agency.
(Ord. 76-36, passed 6-22-1976)
§ 1292.20 TRACT R.
   Tract R: Fourth Street, Railroad Street, a line approximately 119 feet from
Fourth Street, the new loop street.
   (a)   Basic objectives. This area is to remain in its present use which is
governmental. The U.S. Post Office is located in this area.
   (b)   Physical organization. This area shall be developed with commercial
development to the southwest and residential development to the northwest.
Existing governmental development to the northeast (City Hall) shall act as a
transition zone between the commercial and residential areas. There shall be
access to parking from Fourth Street, with access to loading areas from the new
loop street.
(Res. 5531, passed 4-22-1971)
   (c)   Land use. Land shall be used for public facilities.
(Ord. 5569, passed 10-14-1971)
   (d)   Off-street parking. Off-street parking shall consist of one space for
each 500 square feet of net floor space. Each space shall be at least nine feet
by 18 feet in size. All parking areas shall be paved. Parking areas shall be
screened by a brick wall four feet in height or by a wall of similar height
consisting of other material or mature vegetation acceptable to the local
public agency.
   (e)   Maximum height. No structure shall exceed 35 feet in height.
   (f)   Setback requirements. All structures, parking areas and loading areas
shall be set back a minimum of five feet from Fourth Street, Railroad Street,
the new loop street and all other property lines. All setback areas shall be
suitably landscaped.
   (g)   Maximum land coverage. Land coverage may be 100 percent except for the
required setback areas.
   (h)   Floor area ratio. Floor area ratio shall not exceed 2.0.
   (i)   Loading zones. All loading shall be provided on site. Loading zones
shall be screened by a brick wall four feet in height or by a wall of similar
height consisting of other material or mature vegetation acceptable to the
local public agency.
(Res. 5531, passed 4-22-1971)
   (j)   Lighting. All exterior public areas shall be lighted to a minimum
level of .051 footcandles. All exterior lighting shall be compatible with
publicly provided street and mall lighting, in both type and design. All
exterior lighting shall be approved by the Development Review Committee.
   (k)   Signs. No neon or other self-illuminated sign shall be permitted.
Signs may be illuminated by indirect sources only. No freestanding sign shall
be permitted. Signs shall not exceed 30 square feet in size. No overhanging or
projecting signs, except those hung from a canopy and less than six square feet
in size, shall be permitted. No billboard type sign shall be permitted on the
side or on top of structures. No pennants, flags, banners or paper signs shall
be permitted. No sign may protrude into the public right-of-way, except as
provided under a canopy. No sign shall protrude above the roof level of a
structure. All exterior signs shall be approved by the Committee.
(Ord. 5664, passed 1-11-1973)
§ 1292.21 TRACT S.
   Tract S: Second Street, a line approximately 140 feet from Center Street,
the Norfolk and Western Railroad right-of-way, a line approximately 236 feet
from Center Street.
   (a)   Basic objectives. This area is to remain in its present use, which is
as a right-of-way for the Detroit, Toledo and Ironton Railroad. If this area
ever ceases to function as a railroad right-of-way, it shall be converted to
automotive parking.
   (b)   Physical organization. This area carries the Detroit, Toledo and
Ironton Railroad northeast from the Norfolk and Western Railroad through the
project area. It is bounded by parking and the flood wall. If it ceases its
function as a railroad right-of-way, it shall become an automotive parking area
which is compatible with surrounding uses.
   (c)   Land use. Land use shall be industrial, but restricted to a railroad
right-of-way. If the area ceases to function as a railroad right-of-way, it
shall be converted to an automotive parking use.
   (d)   Off-street parking. No off-street parking requirements shall apply.
   (e)   Maximum height. No structure shall exceed 20 feet in height.
   (f)   Setback requirements. All structures, parking areas and loading areas
shall be setback a minimum of five feet from all property lines. All setback
areas shall be landscaped.
   (g)   Maximum land coverage. Land coverage may be 100 percent, except for
the required setback areas.
   (h)   Loading zones. All loading shall be provided on site. All loading
areas shall be screened from Second Street by a brick wall four feet in height
or by a wall of similar height consisting of other materials or mature
vegetation acceptable to the local public agency.
(Res. 5531, passed 4-22-1971)
   (i)   Lighting. All exterior public areas shall be lighted to a level of at
least .051 footcandles. All exterior lighting shall be compatible with the
publicly provided street lighting, in both type and design. All exterior
lighting shall be approved by the Development Review Committee.
   (j)   Signs. No neon or other self-illuminated sign shall be permitted.
Signs may be illuminated by indirect sources only. Signs shall not exceed 16
square feet in size. All exterior signs shall be approved by the Committee.
(Ord. 5664, passed 1-11-1973)
§ 1292.22 TRACT T.
   Tract T: Second Street, Center Street, the Norfolk and Western Railroad
right-of-way, a line 132 feet from Center Street.
   (a)   Basic objectives. This area is an existing public parking lot and
shall remain so. It shall provide parking for the commercial area to be
developed in the project area and the existing commercial area outside the
project area.
   (b)   Physical organization. This parking area shall be on the periphery of
the commercial area and shall provide public parking facilities for shoppers in
the commercial area and allow the exclusion of vehicles from the interior of
the project area. It shall also allow more efficient use of the commercial area
to the north and northeast.
   (c)   Land use. Land shall be used for automobile parking facilities.
   (d)   Off-street parking. No off-street parking requirements shall apply.
   (e)   Maximum height. No structure shall exceed 20 feet in height.
   (f)   Setback requirements. Parking shall be set back a minimum of five feet
on all sides, except from the Norfolk and Western Railroad right-of-way.
Setback areas shall be appropriately landscaped. Landscaping which will
effectively screen the parking area shall be provided along Second Street.
   (g)   Maximum land coverage. Land coverage may be 100 percent, except for
setback requirements.
   (h)   Floor area ratio. No floor area ratio requirements shall apply.
(Res. 5531, passed 4-22-1971)
   (i)   Lighting. All exterior public areas shall be lighted to a level of
.051 footcandles. All lighting shall be approved by the Development Review
Committee.
   (j)   Signs. No neon or other self-illuminated sign shall be permitted.
Signs may be illuminated by indirect sources only. Signs shall not exceed 16
square feet in size. All exterior signs shall be approved by the Committee.
(Ord. 5664, passed 1-11-1973)
§ 1292.23 DURATION OF CONTROLS.
   The land use and building regulations set forth in this chapter shall be
binding and effective upon the adoption of the Urban Renewal Plan by Council.
These controls shall be binding and effective on the purchasers and their
heirs, successors and assigns for a period of 25 years commencing from the
original adoption date of this Plan by Council.
(Ord. 5569, passed 10-14-1971)
§ 1292.24 APPLICATION TO REAL PROPERTY NOT TO BE ACQUIRED.
   The land use provisions and building requirements enumerated in this chapter
shall be applicable to real property included within the project area by deed
covenants or terms between the city and the owner thereof when such owner
acquires other real property in the project area from the city.
(Res. 5531, passed 4-22-1971)
CHAPTER 1294: PROJECT PROPOSALS
Section
1294.01   Land acquisition
1294.02   Conditions under which property not designated for acquisition may be
acquired
1294.03   Conditions under which property identified for acquisition may be
excluded from acquisition
1294.04   Redevelopers’ obligations; review of plans
1294.05   Underground utility lines
1294.06   Other necessary provisions
Cross-reference:
   Department of Community Development, see ADM.
Ch. 242
Statutory reference:
   Community improvement corporations, see Ohio R.C. Ch. 1724
   Community reinvestment areas, see Ohio R.C. 3735.65 et seq.
   Community urban redevelopment corporations, see Ohio R.C. Ch. 1728
   Urban renewal, see Ohio R.C. Ch. 725
§ 1294.01 LAND ACQUISITION.
   The land acquisition map indicates real property to be acquired for
clearance and redevelopment, including spot clearance, development of vacant
land and land that is to be acquired for public facilities. The land
acquisition tabulations set forth the parcel ownership area data for the land
that is to be acquired.
(Res. 5531, passed 4-22-1971)
§ 1294.02 CONDITIONS UNDER WHICH PROPERTY NOT DESIGNATED FOR ACQUISITION MAY BE
ACQUIRED.
   Properties which are not currently proposed for acquisition, but which are
found, at a later date, to be either incapable of economic or physical
rehabilitation or containing blighting factors in the area, shall be made
subject to acquisition and demolition. There are no such properties identified
at this time.
(Res. 5531, passed 4-22-1971)
§ 1294.03 CONDITIONS UNDER WHICH PROPERTY IDENTIFIED FOR ACQUISITION MAY BE
EXCLUDED FROM ACQUISITION.
   Property which is presently designated for acquisition in the Urban Renewal
Plan may be excluded at a later date if it is found that it is not feasible for
the project to acquire the property and the property is not substandard, a
blighting influence, necessary for a public improvement or necessary for the
efficient and expeditious execution of the Urban Renewal Plan within its goals
and objectives. No such properties are identified at this time.
(Res. 5531, passed 4-22-1971)
§ 1294.04 REDEVELOPERS’ OBLIGATIONS; REVIEW OF PLANS.
   (a)   The land acquired by the city shall be disposed of subject to an
agreement between the city and the redeveloper. The redeveloper shall be
required by the contractual agreement to observe the land use and building
requirements and development objectives of the Urban Renewal Plan. The
developer shall further be required to submit a redevelopment schedule and a
method of mortgage financing, if residential redevelopment is proposed,
satisfactory to the city. The redeveloper shall not be permitted to defer the
start of construction for a period longer than required for the preparation of
necessary redevelopment plans and their review and approval by the city.
   (b)   In addition to the requirements provided in division (a) hereof, the
following provisions shall be included in the agreement:
      (1)   That the redeveloper shall submit to the city a plan and schedule
for the proposed development;
      (2)   That the purchase of the land is for the purpose of redevelopment
and not for speculation;
      (3)   That the land shall be built upon and improved in conformity with
the objectives and provisions of the Urban Renewal Plan;
      (4)   That the building of improvements shall be commenced and completed
within a reasonable time; and
      (5)   That the redeveloper and his or her successors or assigns agree
that there shall be no discrimination against any person or group of persons on
account of race, creed, color or national origin or in connection with the
improvements erected or to be erected thereon, nor shall the redeveloper or any
person claiming under or through the developer establish or permit any such
practice of discrimination or segregation with reference to the selection,
location, number, use or occupancy of tenants, lessees, sublessees or vendees
in the premises therein conveyed, or improvements erected thereon. The
foregoing provision shall be perpetual and shall run with the land disposed of
within the urban renewal area by the city.
   (c)   A Development Review Committee shall be established which shall
consist of five members as follows:
      (1)   The Director of Community Development, who shall be the
Chairperson;
      (2)   The Mayor;
      (3)   A member of Council, selected by Council;
      (4)   One city resident selected by the Mayor. The city resident member
shall serve for two years or until a successor is appointed; and
      (5)   The President of the Citizen’s Advisory Committee.
   (d)   (1)   All proposals for construction in the project area shall be
submitted to the Department of Community Development. These proposals shall
include:
         A.   A preliminary site plan prepared by a landscape architect, which
plan shall clearly illustrate the proposed siting of the building and the
treatment of open space;
         B.   A preliminary design plan of the proposed building prepared by an
architect and/or engineer, which plan shall be sufficient to illustrate the
size, shape and mass of the building, as well as the treatment of the facades;
and
         C.   A proposed method of mortgage financing, indicating if the
proposed method involves the use of any federal, state or local programs to
provide low and moderate income housing units.
      (2)   These proposals shall then be submitted to the Committee which
shall concern itself with the design aspects of the redevelopment proposals,
the arrangement of land uses in the project and the adherence of the developers
to the building requirements as established. The Committee shall also consider
the method of mortgage financing to be used in the case of residential dwelling
units and shall give preference to those proposals which provide for low and
moderate income units. The Committee shall review each proposal and prepare a
written comment. It shall forward such proposals and comments to the Department
of Community Development, together with its recommendations. This review shall
be accomplished within a reasonable time from the date of submission. The
Committee may obtain guidance and assistance from professional consultants in
the review and evaluation of redevelopers’ proposals.
   (e)   (1)   Disposition documents shall incorporate provisions for achieving
development and design objectives set forth in the Urban Renewal Plan through:
         A.   Fixed price offerings with the Urban Renewal Plan objectives as
criteria for selecting the redeveloper;
         B.   Negotiation where the objectives are determining factors; or
         C.   By other means which shall ensure attainment of the design and
development objectives. The disposition documents shall be drawn up with the
advice and the assistance of the urban renewal consultant, other consultants
(urban designer, architect and/or economist) and the Committee.
      (2)   Disposition documents, if necessary, shall spell out in detail the
criteria to be met in order to achieve the development and design objectives of
the Urban Renewal Plan, including the method of procedure for reviewing
redevelopers’ proposals.
(Res. 5531, passed 4-22-1971; Am. Ord. 81-04, passed 11-23-1981)
§ 1294.05 UNDERGROUND UTILITY LINES.
   All utility lines, including but not limited to, water, sanitary sewer,
storm sewer, gas, electric, police and fire communication and telephone lines,
shall be placed underground in utility easements which shall be provided within
the project area.
(Res. 5531, passed 4-22-1971)
§ 1294.06 OTHER NECESSARY PROVISIONS.
   There are no other provisions necessary to meet state or local law.
(Res. 5531, passed 4-22-1971)
CHAPTER 1296: CHANGES IN APPROVED URBAN RENEWAL PLAN
Section
1296.01   Action by resolution of Council
Cross-reference:
   Community reinvestment areas, see Ohio R.C. 3735. 65 et seq.
   Department of Community Development, see ADM.
Ch. 242
Statutory reference:
   Community improvement corporations, see Ohio R.C. Ch. 1724
   Community urban redevelopment corporations, see Ohio R. C. Ch. 1728
   Urban renewal, see Ohio R.C. Ch. 725
§ 1296.01 ACTION BY RESOLUTION OF COUNCIL.
   The Urban Renewal Plan may be modified or varied at any time by a resolution
of Council. Any modification or variation proposed to the Urban Renewal Plan by
a redeveloper or the Department of Community Development shall be submitted to
the Development Review Committee. If the Committee determines that such
modification or variation is significant, then such modification or variation
shall be submitted to Council for approval in accordance with the same
procedure by which the plan was originally adopted. If the Committee determines
that such modification or variation is not significant, then the Committee
itself may approve or deny the modification or variation.
(Res. 5531, passed 4-22-1971)
PART FOURTEEN - BUILDING AND HOUSING CODE
      TITLE TWO - Building Standards
         
Chap. 1420.   International Building Code.
         
Chap. 1424.   National Electrical Code.
         
Chap. 1428.   International Plumbing Code.
         
Chap. 1430.   Adoption of Uniform Codes.
         
Chap. 1432.   Ohio Building Code.
      TITLE FOUR - Building Administration
         
Chap. 1440.   Enforcement; Permits and Fees.
      TITLE SIX - Miscellaneous Building Regulations
         
Chap. 1456.   Special Purpose Flood Damage Reduction.
         
Chap. 1474.   Signs and Sign Structures.
         
Chap. 1484.   Vacant Property Registration.
TITLE TWO - BUILDING STANDARDS
CHAPTER 1420: INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE
Section
1420.01   2006 edition adopted
1420.02   File and distribution copies
Cross-reference:
   Enforcement; permits and fees, see B. & H.
Ch. 1440
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of technical codes by reference, see Ohio R.C. 731.231
   Fees for plan approval, see Ohio R.C. 3791.07
   Ohio Basic Building Code, see Ohio R.C. 3781.10
   Ohio State building standards, see Ohio R.C. Ch. 3781
   Required submission of plans of public buildings, see Ohio R.C. 3791.04
§ 1420.01 2006 EDITION ADOPTED.
   There is hereby adopted by and for the city, for the regulating and
governing the conditions and maintenance of all property, buildings and
structures; by providing the standards for supplied utilities and facilities
and other physical things and conditions essential to ensure that structures
are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and the condemnation of
buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use and the demolition
of structures as herein provided; providing for the issues of permits and
collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions,
penalties, conditions and terms therein provided, that certain code known as
the 2006 International Building Code, including Appendix Chapters A, B, C, D,
E, F, G, H, I, and J, as published by the International Code Council, save and
except such portions thereof as may be hereinafter amended or deleted.
(Ord. 05-56, passed 5-12-2005; Am. Ord. 08-72, passed 8-14-2008)
§ 1420.02 FILE AND DISTRIBUTION COPIES.
   At least one copy of the 2006 International Building Code, as adopted in §
1420.01, is on file with the Public Service Department for inspection by the
public.
(Ord. 05-56, passed 5-12-2005; Am. Ord. 08-72, passed 8-14-2008)
CHAPTER 1424: NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE
Section
1424.01   2008 edition adopted
1424.02   File and distribution copies
Cross-reference:
   Electric fences, see GEN. OFF.
660.12
   Electricity, see S.U. & P.S.
Ch. 1048
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of technical codes by reference, see Ohio R.C. 731.231
   Power to license electricians, see Ohio R.C. 715.27
§ 1424.01 2008 EDITION ADOPTED.
   There is hereby adopted by and for the city, to regulate and govern the
design, alteration, modification, construction, maintenance and testing of
electrical systems and equipment in the city; providing for the issuance of
permits, including the inspection, review of construction plans, drawings,
specifications and investigation of fires related to electrical installations
that certain code known as the National Electrical Code, 2008 edition,
recommended by the National Fire Protection Association, save and except such
portions thereof as may be hereinafter amended or deleted.
(Ord. 05-55, passed 5-12-2005; Am. Ord. 08-89, passed 9-11-2008)
§ 1424.02 FILE AND DISTRIBUTION COPIES.
   At least one copy of the National Electrical Code, as adopted in §
1424.01, is on file with the Public Service Department of the city for
inspection by the public.
(Ord. 05-55, passed 5-12-2005; Am. Ord. 08-89, passed 9-11-2008)
CHAPTER 1428: INTERNATIONAL PLUMBING CODE
Section
1428.01   Adoption by reference
1428.02   File and distribution copies
Cross-reference:
   Sewers, see S.U. & P.S.
Ch. 1042
   Water, see S.U. & P.S.
Ch. 1046;
   Fees for plumbing permits, see B. & H.
1440.02(h)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of technical codes by reference, see Ohio R.C. 731.231
   Power to enforce State Building Code relating to sanitary construction, see
Ohio R.C. 3781.03
   Regulations to control house sewers and connections to sewerage system, see
Ohio R.C. 729.51
§ 1428.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   There is hereby adopted by and for the city, to regulate and govern the
design, construction, quality of materials, erection, installation, alteration,
repair, location, relocation, replacement, addition to, use or maintenance of
plumbing systems; providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees
therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions and terms of the International Plumbing Code, 2006 Edition,
including Appendix Chapters B, C, D, E, F and G, as published by the
International Code Council, save and except such portions thereof as may be
hereinafter amended or deleted.
(Ord. 05-61, passed 5-12-2005; Am. Ord. 08-79, passed 8-14-2008)
§ 1428.02 FILE AND DISTRIBUTION COPIES.
   At least one copy of the International Plumbing Code, 2006 Edition, as
adopted in §
1428.01, is on file with the Public Services Department for inspection by the
public.
CHAPTER 1430: ADOPTION OF UNIFORM CODES
Section
1430.01   Adoption of Uniform Codes
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of technical codes by reference, see Ohio R.C. 731.231
   Fees for plan approval, see Ohio R.C. 3791.07
   Ohio Basic Building Code, see Ohio R.C. 3781.10
   Ohio State building standards, see Ohio R.C. Ch. 3781
   Required submission of plans of public buildings, see Ohio R.C. 3791.04
§ 1430.01 ADOPTION OF UNIFORM CODES.
   (a)   The following codes are hereby adopted and made of a part of this
chapter the same as though the codes were specifically set forth in full
herein.
   (b)   The following codes, one copy of which is on file with the Public
Services Department of the city for inspection by the public, are hereby
adopted by reference as if fully set forth in this section and City of Ironton
Code, save and except such portions thereof as may be hereinafter amended or
deleted.
      (1)   The International Building Code, 2006 Edition, as published by the
International Code Council, Inc., with amendments.
(Ord. 05-56, passed 5-12-2005; Am. Ord. 08-72, passed 8-14-2008)
      (2)   The International Existing Building Code, 2006 Edition, as
published by the International Code Council, Inc., with amendments.
(Ord. 08-75, passed 8-14-2008)
      (3)   The International Electrical Code, 2008 Edition, with amendments.
(Ord. 05-55, passed 5-12-2005; Am. Ord. 08-89, passed 9-11-2008)
      (4)   The ICC Electrical Code– Administrative Provisions, with
amendments.
(Ord. 05-57, passed 5-12-2005)
      (5)   The International Energy Conservation Code, 2006 Edition, with
amendments.
(Ord. 05-58, passed 5-12-2005; Am. Ord. 08-78, passed 8-14-2008)
      (6)   The International Fuel Gas Code, 2006 Edition, with amendments.
(Ord. 05-59, passed 5-12-2005; Am. Ord. 08-73, passed 8-14-2008)
      (7)   The International Mechanical Code, 2006 Edition, with amendments.
(Ord. 05-60, passed 5-12-2005; Am. Ord. 08-76, passed 8-14-2008)
      (8)   The International Plumbing Code, 2006 Edition, with amendments.
(Ord. 05-61, passed 5-12-2005; Am. Ord. 08-79, passed 8-14-2008)
      (9)   The International Property Maintenance Code, 2006 Edition, with
amendments.
(Ord. 05-62, passed 5-12-2005; Am. Ord. 08-74, passed 8-14-2008)
      (10)   The International Private Sewage Disposal Code, 2006 Edition, with
amendments.
(Ord. 05-63, passed 5-12-2005; Am. Ord. 08-77, passed 8-14-2008)
      (11)   The International Residential Code, 2006 Edition, with amendments.
(Ord. 05-64, passed 5-12-2005; Am. Ord. 08-80, passed 8-14-2008)
CHAPTER 1432: OHIO BUILDING CODE
Section
1432.01   Adoption by reference.
§ 1432.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   Chapters 4101:1, 4101:2 and 4101:3 of the Ohio Administrative Code,
collectively known as the Ohio Building Code, shall apply and be enforced
within the City of Ironton.
(Ord. 09-12, passed 2-26-2009)
TITLE FOUR - BUILDING ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1440: ENFORCEMENT; PERMITS AND FEES
Section
1440.01   Administrative Authority; Building Official and Code Enforcement
Officer defined
1440.02   Permit fees
Cross-reference:
   Authority of Building Officer re Zoning Code, see P. & Z.
1252.01
   Building permits for occupation of public ways, see S.U. & P.S.
1020.06
   Zoning requirements for building permits, see P. & Z.
1252.02
Statutory reference:
   Fees for plan approval, see Ohio R.C. 3791.07
   Required submission of plans of public buildings, see Ohio R.C. 3791.04
§ 1440.01 ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY; BUILDING OFFICIAL AND CODE ENFORCEMENT
OFFICER DEFINED.
   As used in this Part Fourteen - Building and Housing Code, “Administrative
Authority,” “Building Official” or “Code Enforcement Officer” means the city
official assigned the responsibility of enforcing applicable provisions of this
Building and Housing code.
(Ord. 97-23, passed 6-12-1997)
§ 1440.02 PERMIT FEES.
   Permit fees for work done under this Building and Housing Code shall be as
follows:
   (a)   New construction. For new construction the following fees shall be
charged. The fees shall be determined and paid upon application for a building
permit and before any building permit is issued.
      (1)   A basic fee of twenty dollars ($20.00), plus seven dollars and
fifty cents ($7.50) per 100 square feet of cubic contents or fraction thereof.
      (2)   A.   The cubic contents shall be determined as the space occupied
by the building from the basement, cellar floor or ground level under the
building up to a point at one-half the vertical distance from the highest
ceiling to the ridge of the roof.
         B.   No building permit shall be issued until construction plans have
been submitted with the application to the Building Official, the plans have
been approved by him or her and the fees have been paid.
   (b)   Alterations to buildings. For alterations to buildings or any change
or rearrangement in the building or in heating or ventilation equipment
(excluding work performed for maintenance purposes only), and for new items as
indicated in division (g) hereof or alterations thereto, except as otherwise
provided for in this schedule of fees, the fees shall be as follows:
Cost                              Fee
Over $200.00 but not over $300.00 $10.00
Over $300.00 but not over $400.00 12.00
Over $400.00 but not over $500.00 14.00
Over $500.00 but not over $600.00 16.00
Over $600.00 but not over $700.00 18.00
Over $700.00 but not over $800.00 20.00
                                  20.00, for up to $2,000.00 alteration cost
Over $1,000.00                    and $3.00 for each $1,000.00 or fraction
                                  thereof, of alteration cost thereafter
 
   (c)   Reconditioning or repairing buildings.
      (1)   For reconditioning or repairing of buildings, structures or heating
or ventilating equipment, including work performed on buildings, structures or
heating or ventilating equipment for maintenance purposes only in keeping with
the existing type of construction and occupancy, there shall be charged the
same fees as in division (b) hereof, except that no fee shall be required where
the work and material do not exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00).
      (2)   Divisions (b) and (c) hereof, shall not be construed to include
nonstructural work such as painting either exterior or interiors, papering of
walls, ceilings or rooms, carpeting or linoleum work upon floors, walls or
stairs, installing gates on walls, work on sidewalks or other nonstructural
work.
   (d)   Shoring and raising. For shoring and raising, the fees, shall be the
same as in division (b) hereof.
   (e)   Moving buildings. For moving buildings, the fees shall be as
determined by the Building Official. Such determination shall be based upon
grounds of safety.
   (f)   Wrecking. For wrecking, the fees shall be ten dollars ($10.00) for
each 2,000 square feet or fraction thereof of total floor area. The floor area
of each story (except basement) using outside dimensions shall be additional
and a separate permit shall be required for each separate building. Before the
required bond can be released, the lot shall be cleaned to the satisfaction of
the Building Official.
   (g)   Electrical work.
      (1)   The fees for electrical permits, including inspection, shall be as
provided in this division for electrical work in the city. If and when the
services of the city electrical inspectors are required outside the city, those
services shall be paid for in accordance with the schedule of fees as set forth
in this division, plus one dollar and seventy-five cents ($1.75) per hour, and
one hour shall be a minimum charge. All such requests shall be made on the same
forms as those required for work in the city.
         A.   For concealed construction:
 
For the first 10 outlets                 $0.30 each
All over 10 outlets and under 26 outlets 0.10 each
All over 25 outlets                      0.05 each
 
         B.   For open construction and installation of lighting fixtures:
 
For the first 10 lighting fixtures $0.15 each
All over 10 and under 26 fixtures  0.10 each
All over 25 fixtures               0.05 each
 
         C.   Electric ranges and electric hot water heaters:
 
If electric range and electric hot water heater are installed at the same $2.25
time
Electric range                                                            2.00
Electric hot water heater                                                 1.00
 
         D.   Electric signs and wiring:
 
Gas tube signs, per transformer                                           $1.00
Incandescent signs:
   If sign is of fireproof construction and suspended from the building2.00
   If sign is of the bulletin type and recesses or is flat against the
building so that it can be considered a part of the building, the fees    5.00
shown under concealed construction for outlets shall be used, with a
maximum fee of
 
         E.   Additional wiring:
 
Changes not requiring an increase in the number of circuits $1.00
 
         F.   Electrical space heaters, fans, motors, and the like, and wiring:
 
One electrical space heater or fan              $1.50
Each additional heater or fan                   0.50
First piece of motor driven equipment           1.50
Each additional piece of motor driven equipment 0.50
Note: Such fees cover only the electrical permit and inspection.
 
      (2)   Inspection fees in excess of five dollars ($5.00) shall include
necessary partial inspections.
      (3)   For each reinspection fee made necessary on account of incomplete
or faulty work, a charge of one dollar ($1.00) will be made.
      (4)   This division does not apply to maintenance work or to minor
changes or revisions done by an industry maintaining a qualified electrical
department supervised by a qualified maintenance foreperson approved by the
Building Official.
   (h)   Plumbing work.
      (1)   The fees for plumbing work shall be as provided in this division
for plumbing work in the city and shall be paid for by the owner, contractor or
other agent of the owner except where the application for such plumbing permit,
together with the required plans and specifications, are submitted to the city
as a part of and along with the original plan for the building or structure
concerned.
      (2)   Wherever the services of a city plumbing inspector are required in
the city, his or her services shall be paid for by the agency receiving the
fees in accordance with the schedule of fees as set forth in this division, but
in no case shall such fee be less than one dollar ($1.00), and the minimum
payment for his or her services shall be two dollars ($2.00) per hour. The
owner, contractor or other agent shall pay to the city or to another agency
receiving the fees for plumbing permits in accordance with the schedule of fees
as set forth in this division, but in no case shall such fee be less than one
dollar ($1.00) for a permit.
         A.   For installation other than fixtures or replacements, one dollar
($1.00);
         B.   For installation of fixtures included, one dollar ($1.00) for the
first fixture, plus fifty cents ($.50) for each additional fixture;
         C.   No fee for replacements.
   (i)   Signs and outdoor display structures. See §
1474.22.
   (j)   Furnace, boiler and heating equipment installations. For furnace,
boiler and heating equipment installations, where not included in the original
plan, the fees shall be as follows:
      (1)   Warm or hot air heating furnaces, warm air winter air conditioning
installations, steam and hot water heating, boiler installations: two dollars
($2.00) for each unit.
      (2)   Power boiler installations: five dollars ($5.00) for each unit of
fifty horse power (H.P.) or less, plus five dollars ($5.00) for each additional
100 H.P.
         A.   Boilers carrying more than thirty-five pounds per square inch
pressure shall be classed as power boilers and ten square feet of heating
surface shall be classed as one H.P.
         B.   Power boilers installed for heating purposes shall be rated at
138 square feet radiating capacity for each H.P. Permit fees shall be paid as
set forth for steam heating boilers.
      (3)   Gas fired unit heaters or gas or oil burners: two dollars ($2.00)
for the first unit and twenty-five cents ($0.25) for each additional unit in
the same installation job.
      (4)   Gas fired radiators:
         A.   For the first unit with rated capacity of not over 50 square feet
radiation, one dollar ($1.00); fifteen cents ($0.15) for each additional unit
in same installation job; and
         B.   For the first unit exceeding 50 square feet radiation, two
dollars ($2.00); and 30 cents ($0.30) for each additional unit in same
installation job.
      (5)   Powdered coal burning equipment, two dollars ($2.00) for the first
unit of 150 H.P. or less, plus one dollar ($1.00) per additional 100 H.P. or
unit in the same installation job;
      (6)   Incinerator installations, two dollars ($2.00) for each unit; and
      (7)   Chimneys and stacks: The fees as scheduled in division (b) hereof
shall apply.
   (k)   Ventilating fan and air conditioning. For ventilating fan and air
conditioning installations, the fee shall be two dollars ($2.00) per fan for a
fan involving the use of duct work.
   (l)   Elevators and escalators. The fees shall be as follows:
      (1)   Installations. One dollar ($1.00), subject to the approval of the
State Department of Industrial Relations.
      (2)   Alterations. One dollar ($1.00), subject to the approval of the
State Department of Industrial Relations.
   (m)   Blocking sidewalk, street or alley. There shall be no fee for the
blocking of a sidewalk, street or alley, but the person constructing,
reconstructing, altering, repairing, moving or demolishing a building or
structure or part thereof shall repair or repay to the city for the repair of
any damage to such sidewalk, street or alley as may occur during such work upon
the building or structure, and shall file a bond or furnish insurance to the
city to save harmless the city for all damage claims arising from the neglect
to erect barricades, warning lights and other protective measures.
(Ord. 95-45, passed 8-10-1995; Am. Ord. 07-58, passed 7-12-2007)
TITLE SIX - MISCELLANEOUS BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1456: SPECIAL PURPOSE FLOOD DAMAGE REDUCTION
Section
1456.01   Adoption by reference
Cross-reference:
   Driving on floodwalls, see TRAF.
432.42
   Flood Plain FP-1 District, see P. & Z.
Ch. 1278
   Polluting and diverting watercourses, see GEN. OFF.
660.04
Statutory reference:
   Flood control by soil conservation district supervisors, see Ohio R.C.
1515.08
   Flood insurance, see Ohio R.C. 3925.34(C), 3941.02(A)(1)
   Water supply, sanitation, ditches, see Ohio R.C. 6101.01 et seq.
§ 1456.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The revised special purpose flood damage reduction ordinance, copies of
which are on file in the Mayor’s office, is adopted and incorporated as part of
this Code of Ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 06-05, passed 2-23-2006)
CHAPTER 1474: SIGNS AND SIGN STRUCTURES
Section
1474.01   Purposes
1474.02   Definitions
1474.03   Prohibited signs
1474.04   Nonconforming signs
1474.05   Responsibility of owners
1474.06   Maintenance of signs
1474.07   Location
1474.08   Obstructions to traffic visibility at intersections
1474.09   Illumination
1474.10   Moving signs
1474.11   Portable signs
1474.12   Wind pressure
1474.13   Allowable stresses and materials
1474.14   Noncombustible signs
1474.15   Combustible signs
1474.16   Electrical signs
1474.17   One and two-family residential signs
1474.18   Multi-family residential signs
1474.19   Commercial, industrial and institutional signs
1474.20   Advertising signs
1474.21   Enforcement by Code Enforcement Officer
1474.22   Sign permits
1474.23   Exceptions to chapter
1474.24   Hanging signs
1474.25   Notice of violation
1474.26   Abatement
1474.27   Violations
1474.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Advertising on traffic control devices - see TRAF.
414.07
   Signs for home sales - see B.R. & T.
834.08
   Signs on windshields - see TRAF.
438.23
   Zoning Code requirements - see P. & Z.
1282.02(a)
Statutory reference:
   Power to regulate - see Ohio R.C. 715.27, 715.65
§ 1474.01 PURPOSES.
   The purposes of this chapter are to prevent accident to the general public
because of unsafe structures; to prevent the erection of structures of any kind
that will obstruct the view of crossings and intersections of streets; to
lessen the fire hazard; to enforce the use of noncombustible material in
construction; to do away with places where nuisances are committed and trash
deposited; and to prevent the erection and maintenance of unsightly, carelessly
constructed, unsafely located, posted or painted sign boards.
(Ord. 76-36, passed 6-22-1976)
§ 1474.02 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter:
   “Area” is specifically defined as follows:
      (1)   “Face area” means the area of any face of a sign facing in and
readable from any one direction.
      (2)   “Sign area” means the area enclosed by one rectangle, the sides of
which make contact with the extreme points or edges of the sign, excluding the
supporting structure if it does not form part of the sign proper or of the
display.
      (3)   “Total sign area” means the total area of all faces of any one sign
or any combination of signs at a given location or mounted upon a common
structure.
   “Business building” means any building or portion of a building occupied by
a single business fronting onto a common public or private street, alleyway,
parking facility or mall, or a building having access to the businesses therein
by means of a common entrance vestibule.
   “Business premises” means any unified premises containing a building under
common ownership, regardless of the number of tenants within the building.
   “Marquee” means a permanent canopy attached to and supported by the building
and projecting over public property.
   “Sign” means any letter, figure, design, symbol, trademark, device or
illuminating device, and all parts thereof, intended to attract attention to
any place, subject, person, firm, corporation, public performance, article,
machine or merchandise whatsoever, which is painted, printed, constructed and
displayed in any manner out-of-doors for recognized advertising, identification
or information purposes. Specifically:
      (1)   “Advertising sign” means a sign, including a billboard, which
carries advertising pertaining to business transacted, services rendered, goods
sold or produced or other activities, and having the primary function of
general advertising as opposed to business identification. An advertising sign
may or may not be on the same premises as the activity advertised. A billboard
shall be defined as an advertising sign regardless of its location.
      (2)   “Animated sign” means a sign giving the illusion of motion, having
flashing lights, scintillating lites or chasing lights and requiring electrical
energy for its operation.
      (3)   “Billboard” means a panel or other surface, including a wall, used
for the purpose of posting bills or posters, or painted, and containing general
advertising copy, and upon which the copy may be changed from time to time.
      (4)   “Changeable copy sign” means a sign on which the copy is designed
to be regularly changed, either manually or by mechanical or electrical means.
A billboard or other advertising sign upon which the copy may be changed from
time to time shall not be considered a changeable copy sign.
      (5)   “Directional sign” means an on-premises incidental sign designed to
guide vehicular or pedestrian traffic or to regulate parking.
      (6)   “Electrical sign” means a sign containing electrical wiring. This
does not include signs illuminated by an exterior floodlight source.
      (7)   “Freestanding sign” means a sign which is supported by one or more
columns, uprights or braces, or any other structure erected for the purpose in
or upon the ground.
      (8)   “Identity sign” means an on-premises sign which carries only the
name of the occupant of the premises, the address of the premises, the name of
the firm, the major enterprise or the principal product offered for sale on the
premises, or a combination of these.
      (9)   “Illuminated sign” means a sign in which a source of light,
provided for the purpose, is used in order to make the message readable.
      (10)   “Marquee sign” means a sign attached to or constructed in a
marquee.
      (11)   “Moving sign” means a sign that moves in any manner or has any
major moving part.
      (12)   “On-premises sign” means a sign which carries only advertisements
or information strictly relating to a lawful use of the premises on which it is
located, including signs or sign devices indicating the business transacted,
services rendered and goods sold or produced on the premises, and the name of
the business and/or person, firm or corporation occupying the premises.
      (13)   “Projecting sign” means a sign, other than a wall sign or marquee
sign, which projects from and is supported by a wall or structural support of a
building or structure.
      (14)   “Revolving sign” means a moving sign that revolves 360 degrees.
      (15)   “Roof sign” means a sign, other than a wall sign, located on or
projecting above the roof, parapet, eave line, roof projection or marquee of
any building, and which is or appears to be wholly or partially supported by
the building. For purposes of this chapter, a roof with a slope greater than
sixty degrees shall be considered a wall and any sign located thereon, and not
extending beyond the limits thereof, shall be considered a wall sign.
      (16)   “Temporary sign” means a banner, pennant, poster, portable sign or
advertising display constructed of cloth, canvas, plastic sheet, cardboard,
wall board, plywood or other like material and intended to be displayed for a
limited period of time, including advertising or announcements of community or
civic projects, construction projects, real estate for sale or lease, business
promotions or other special events on a temporary basis.
      (17)   “Under canopy sign” means a sign located under a hanging from a
marquee canopy or roof projection.
      (18)   “Wall sign” means a sign affixed directly to, painted on or
otherwise inscribed on an exterior wall of any building or roof projection, and
confined within the limits thereof, and which projects from that surface less
than 12 inches at all points. Any sign mounted on a roof surface with a slope
greater than 60 degrees shall be considered a wall sign and the projection
shall be measured from the surface of the roof at the lowest point of the sign.
Any sign mounted on a fence or wall, the primary purpose of which is other than
to support the sign, shall be considered a wall sign.
   “Sign structure” means any combination of parts having the function of
supporting or being capable of supporting any sign, including the sign attached
thereto or supported thereby, and any other parts attached thereto which may or
may not have any advertising function.
(Ord. 76-36, passed 6-22-1976)
§ 1474.03 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   The following types of signs are prohibited and shall be removed, altered or
repaired in accordance with this chapter:
   (a)   Signs containing statements, words or pictures of an obscene, indecent
or immoral character;
   (b)   Signs containing, or which are in imitation of, an official traffic
sign or signal;
   (c)   Signs that are of a size, location, movement, content, coloring or
manner of illumination which may be confused with or construed as a traffic
control device or which hide from view any traffic or street sign or signal;
   (d)   Signs which advertise an activity, business, product or service no
longer conducted on the premises upon which the sign is located;
   (e)   Signs that may swing or otherwise noticeably move as a result of wind
pressure because of the manner of their suspension or attachment; and
   (f)   Signs located within the public right-of-way.
(Ord. 76-36, passed 6-22-1976; Am. Ord. 85-31, passed 6-27-1985)
§ 1474.04 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   Signs existing at the time of the enactment of this chapter and not
conforming to its provisions, but which were constructed in compliance with
previous regulations, shall be regarded as nonconforming signs. Such
nonconforming signs may be continued if properly repaired and maintained as
provided for in this chapter and if they continue to be in conformity with
other city ordinances.
(Ord. 76-36, passed 6-22-1976; Am. Ord. 85-31, passed 6-27-1985)
§ 1474.05 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNERS.
   The owner of each sign or sign structure and the owner of the premises upon
which such sign is erected, affixed, attached or maintained shall each be
individually and separately responsible for the maintenance of such sign or
sign structure and its removal when so ordered.
(Ord. 76-36, passed 6-22-1976)
§ 1474.06 MAINTENANCE OF SIGNS.
   All signs and sign structures, together with all supports, braces, guys and
anchors, shall be kept in repair and in a proper state of preservation.
(Ord. 76-36, passed 6-22-1976)
§ 1474.07 LOCATION.
   No sign shall be erected, constructed and maintained so as to obstruct any
fire escape, window, door or opening used as a means of egress or for fire
fighting purposes, or so as to prevent free passage from one part of a roof to
any other part thereof. No sign shall be attached in any form, shape or manner
to a fire escape or be so placed as to interfere with any openings required for
legal ventilation.
(Ord. 76-36, passed 6-22-1976)
§ 1474.08 OBSTRUCTIONS TO TRAFFIC VISIBILITY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   No freestanding sign or sign structure shall occupy an area between two feet
above and ten feet above the average street grade within 20 feet of the
intersection of the right-of-way lines of a public street, highway or alley.
(Ord. 76-36, passed 6-22-1976)
§ 1474.09 ILLUMINATION.
   All signs which are permitted to be illuminated may be illuminated
internally with exposed incandescent or neon lamps or by reflected light. The
light from any illuminated sign or floodlight shall be so shaded, shielded or
directed that the light intensity or brightness will not be objectionable to
surrounding areas or create a traffic hazard to operators of motor vehicles on
public thoroughfares. No exposed reflective type bulbs, beacons, strobe lights
or incandescent lamps exceeding 15 watts shall be used on the exterior surface
of any signs so as to expose the face of the bulb, light or lamp to any public
street or adjacent property.
(Ord. 76-36, passed 6-22-1976)
§ 1474.10 MOVING SIGNS.
   No moving sign shall be permitted, with the exception of a revolving sign
where the whole sign revolves at eight revolutions per minute or less.
(Ord. 76-36, passed 6-22-1976)
§ 1474.11 PORTABLE SIGNS.
   Portable signs shall not exceed six feet in height and shall be supported by
frames or posts rigidly attached to bases so proportioned that the weight and
size of the base is adequate to resist the prescribed wind load.
(Ord. 76-36, passed 6-22-1976)
§ 1474.12 WIND PRESSURE.
   (a)   For purposes of determining wind pressure, all signs shall be designed
and constructed to withstand wind pressure of not less than the following
intensity applied to the projected exposed area:
 
Height in Feet (from ground to top of Wind Pressure (in pounds/square feet)
sign)
Less than 100                         42
100 to 199                            49
200 to 299                            53
300 to 399                            56
 
   (b)   The exposed area subjected to wind pressure shall be the total area of
all parts of the sign, including structural framing on a plane perpendicular to
the direction of the wind. In determining the stress on any member, the wind
shall be assumed to flow from the horizontal direction, and from that
inclination from the vertical (but not to exceed 20 degrees above or below the
horizontal) which produces the maximum stress in that member.
(Ord. 76-36, passed 6-22-1976)
§ 1474.13 ALLOWABLE STRESSES AND MATERIALS.
   In all signs, the allowable stresses, materials and details of design shall
render all signs safe to persons, property and the movement of traffic along
all streets and public thoroughfares. All signs shall be designed, constructed
and installed in conformity with this chapter and applicable statutes of the
state. All signs shall be supported by signs structures which are made of wood,
concrete, steel or other structural material designed and constructed to resist
wind pressure and dead and lateral loads in accordance with the following
specifications:
   (a)   For steel sign structures, American Standard Building Code
requirements for structural steel, as approved by the American National
Standards Institute, Inc., shall apply. Secondary members in contact with or
directly supporting the facing may, in all types of signs, be formed of light
gauge steel, provided such members are designed in accordance with the Light
Gauge Steel Design Manual of the American Iron and Steel Institute.
   (b)   For wood, National Design Specifications for Stress Grade Lumber and
Its Fastenings, recommended by the National Forest Products Association, shall
apply.
   (c)   The working stress of chains, wires, ropes and steel guy rods and
their fastenings shall not exceed one-fourth of their ultimate strength.
   (d)   For other materials, recognized engineering standards will be
accepted.
(Ord. 76-36, passed 6-22-1976)
§ 1474.14 NONCOMBUSTIBLE SIGNS.
   When noncombustible signs or sign structures are required, all parts,
including the supporting structure, shall be of noncombustible material.
However, wood, approved plastic or other material not more combustible than
wood or approved plastic shall be permitted in the following locations:
   (a)   For small ornamental moldings, cappings, nailing strips, individual
letters, symbols, figures and insignia;
   (b)   On the face of a sign, provided that the aggregate area of such facing
for any sign shall not exceed 100 square feet, and for a group of signs such
aggregate area shall not exceed 200 square feet; and
   (c)   For posts and braces on ground signs whose total height is not more
than 20 feet above grade level.
(Ord. 76-36, passed 6-22-1976)
§ 1474.15 COMBUSTIBLE SIGNS.
   (a)   No material more flammable or combustible than wood or approved
plastic shall be used in any permitted combustible sign. No combustible sign
shall be illuminated by other than the reflector method of electric lighting
and all parts of reflectors shall be of noncombustible material.
   (b)   Approved combustible plastic is any plastic material more than 0.050
inch thick which, when tested for flammability in sheets 0.060 inch thick in
accordance with ASTM D 635, does not burn at a rate exceeding two and one-half
inches per minute.
(Ord. 76-36, passed 6-22-1976)
§ 1474.16 ELECTRICAL SIGNS.
   Any electrical sign shall be noncombustible and the electrical wiring,
devices and installation shall be according to applicable provisions of the
National Electrical Code, as adopted in §
1424.01, or other applicable ordinances of the city.
(Ord. 76-36, passed 6-22-1976)
§ 1474.17 ONE AND TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL SIGNS.
   Only the following on-premises signs may be erected on any premises used for
a one or two-family residence.
   (a)   Temporary signs. One temporary sign on each premises, nonilluminated
and not exceeding 12 square feet in face area or 24 feet in total area. Such
signs may be wall signs or freestanding signs not exceeding six feet in overall
height.
   (b)   Identification signs. One identification sign for each dwelling unit,
nonilluminated and not exceeding six square feet in face area or 12 square feet
in total area. Such signs may be wall signs, projecting signs or freestanding
signs not exceeding six feet in overall height.
   (c)   Directional signs. Directional signs as needed in addition to other
permitted signs to control pedestrian or vehicular traffic. Such a sign shall
not exceed six square feet in face area or 12 square feet in total area. Signs
may be wall signs, projecting signs or freestanding signs not exceeding six
feet in overall height.
(Ord. 76-36, passed 6-22-1976)
§ 1474.18 MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL SIGNS.
   Only the following on-premises signs may be erected on any premises used for
a multi-family residence.
   (a)   Temporary signs. One temporary sign on each frontage, nonilluminated
and not exceeding 12 square feet in face area or 24 square feet in total area.
Such signs may be wall signs or freestanding signs not exceeding six feet in
overall height.
   (b)   Identification signs.
      (1)   One identification sign for each dwelling unit, nonilluminated and
not exceeding four square feet in total area. Such signs may be wall signs or
projecting signs.
      (2)   One identification sign for each entrance from a public street or
alley to a multiple dwelling complex, nonilluminated and not exceeding two
square feet per dwelling unit or 50 square feet, whichever is less, in total
sign area for each sign. Such signs may be wall signs, projecting signs or free
standing signs not exceeding six feet in overall height.
   (c)   Directional signs. Directional signs, as needed in addition to other
permitted signs to control pedestrian or vehicle traffic. Signs shall not
exceed six square feet face area or 12 square feet total area for each sign.
Signs may be wall signs, projecting signs or freestanding signs not exceeding
six feet in overall height.
(Ord. 76-36, passed 6-22-1976)
§ 1474.19 COMMERCIAL, INDUSTRIAL AND INSTITUTIONAL SIGNS.
   The following regulations shall apply to on-premises signs erected on any
premises used for a commercial, industrial or institutional use:
   (a)   Temporary signs. Temporary signs may be erected up to 100 square feet
in face area and ten feet in overall height. Temporary signs may be either wall
signs or freestanding signs and shall be nonilluminated.
   (b)   Wall signs. One wall on-premises sign shall be permitted on each
elevation of a business building and may be located anywhere on the building
face, but may not extend beyond the limits of the building facade.
   (c)   Projecting signs. One projecting identification sign shall be
permitted for each business building public entrance and shall not exceed six
square feet in face area or 12 square feet in total area. Projecting signs may
be located on any building face or building structural support.
   (d)   Freestanding signs. One or more freestanding on-premises sign
structures shall be permitted for each business premises.
      (1)   Freestanding signs may be located anywhere on the premises,
provided that the base of the sign structure is located subject to the
applicable side yard setback for a building to a side property line and not
closer than 100 feet to another freestanding sign on the same premises.
      (2)   The total sign area of all freestanding signs oriented toward any
one street or alley shall not exceed 100 square feet or one square foot for
each linear foot of street frontage, whichever is greater. Signs oriented
toward more than one street shall be sized according to one street frontage
only. The total sign area of all freestanding signs on any one business
premises shall not exceed 300 square feet.
      (3)   The total height of a freestanding sign shall not exceed 20 feet
measured from the average ground elevation at the base of the sign to the
highest point thereof.
   (e)   Under canopy signs. One under canopy identification sign may be
located under a canopy or permitted marquee for each business entrance located
under the canopy or marquee. An under canopy sign hung under a marquee shall
be, at its lowest level, at least eight feet above the sidewalk level. Under
canopy signs shall not project beyond the horizontal limits of the canopy or
marquee.
   (f)   Marquee signs. No marquee sign shall be permitted except for under
canopy signs located under the marquee in accordance with division (e) hereof.
   (g)   Roof signs. No roof signs shall be permitted.
   (h)   Directional signs. Directional signs may be erected in addition to
other permitted signs as needed to control pedestrian or vehicular traffic. The
face area of such signs shall not exceed six square feet. Such signs may be
wall signs, projecting signs or freestanding signs not exceeding six feet in
overall height. Such signs may be located anywhere on the property, but may not
project beyond the property line or into a public street or alley right of way
and must maintain the same setback from a lot line as may be required for a
parking facility.
(Ord. 76-36, passed 6-22-1976; Am. Ord. 85-31, passed 6-27-1985)
§ 1474.20 ADVERTISING SIGNS.
   Advertising sign structures may be erected on any premises permitting
outdoor advertising, subject to the following regulations:
   (a)   Not more than one advertising sign facing in each direction may be
closer than 500 linear feet to each other on any one premises.
   (b)   The total face area of any one sign shall not exceed 300 square feet
and the total sign area for any one location shall not exceed 600 square feet.
   (c)   Advertising signs shall be either wall signs or freestanding signs.
   (d)   The maximum overall height above the average ground level at the base
of the structure shall not exceed 35 feet for a freestanding structure. Where a
freestanding sign is mounted along U.S. Route 52 that has a higher grade level
as compared to the grade level directly below the freestanding sign or sign
structure, then the freestanding sign or structure's height will be measured
from the roadway grade level to the highest point of the freestanding sign or
sign structure.
(Ord. 76-36, passed 6-22-1976; Am. Ord. 17-44, passed 10-26-2017)
§ 1474.21 ENFORCEMENT BY CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The Code Enforcement Officer shall administer and enforce this chapter.
(Ord. 76-36, passed 6-22-1976)
§ 1474.22 SIGN PERMITS.
   (a)   Required. No person shall erect, alter or relocate any sign without
first obtaining a permit therefor. However, any sign exempt from this section
shall not be exempt from any other requirement of this chapter. Separate
permits shall be required for each sign structure.
   (b)   Application. An application for such permit shall be made to the Code
Enforcement Officer on such form as may be prescribed, shall include the name
and address of the sign owner and the sign erector and shall be accompanied by
drawings showing the design and location of the sign and such other pertinent
information as the Code Enforcement Officer may require to ensure compliance
with the ordinances of the city.
   (c)   Fee. The fee for each sign permit shall be ten dollars ($10.00). The
installation of an electrical sign shall require a separate electrical permit.
   (d)   Expiration. A sign permit shall become void if the work for which the
permit was issued has not been completed within six months after the date the
permit was issued.
   (e)   Exemptions.
      (1)   Erection of the following nonilluminated signs does not require a
sign permit:
         A.   Temporary signs;
         B.   On-premises signs less than 12 square feet in total sign area;
and
         C.   Signs exempted from this chapter.
      (2)   The following operations shall not be considered as creating a sign
and, therefore, do not require a sign permit:
         A.   The changing of the advertising copy or message on an approved
painted or printed advertising sign or billboard, or on changeable copy panels,
and similar approved signs which are specifically designed for the purpose; and
         B.   Painting, repainting, cleaning, replacing of lamps and other
normal maintenance and repair of a sign or sign structure unless a structural
change is made. However, this exemption shall not apply to an existing sign
repainted with a change in copy to accommodate a new business located on the
premises. Such a change shall be considered a new sign and shall conform to all
applicable requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 76-36, passed 6-22-1976)
§ 1474.23 EXCEPTIONS TO CHAPTER.
   The following types of signs are exempted from all provisions of this
chapter, except for construction and safety regulations.
   (a)   Public signs. Signs of a noncommercial nature and in the public
interest erected by or on the order of a public officer in the performance of
his or her public duty, such as safety signs, danger signs, trespassing signs,
traffic control devices, house numbers, memorial plaques, signs of historical
interest and the like.
   (b)   Integral signs. Names of buildings, dates of erection, monumental
citations, commemorative tablets and the like, when carved into stone, concrete
or similar material or made of bronze, aluminum or other permanent type
construction and made an integral part of the structure.
   (c)   Vehicle signs. Signs painted or attached directly to the body of a
vehicle of any kind.
(Ord. 76-36, passed 6-22-1976)
§ 1474.24 HANGING SIGNS.
   (a)   All property owners, tenants or business occupants of real estate in
the city desiring to hang or project a sign from a building into the public
sidewalk, alley or street right-of-way shall first sign a document in the
office of the Director of Public Works and Services agreeing to hold the city
harmless for any liability or damages of any type arising in any manner from or
connected with the projecting of such sign into the public sidewalk, alley or
street right-of-way.
   (b)   This section shall apply to all signs currently located in the public
right-of-way and to the installation of new signs in the public right-of-way.
§ 1474.25 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Whenever the Code Enforcement Officer determines that a sign, sign structure
or any work in connection therewith is being erected or altered in violation of
this chapter, he or she shall serve written notice and an order upon the owner
directing the discontinuance of such violation.
(Ord. 76-36, passed 6-22-1976)
§ 1474.26 ABATEMENT.
   Whenever the Code Enforcement Officer determines that any sign prohibited by
§
1474.03 exists, he or she may, after opportunity for a hearing is given, cause
its removal and cause the cost of the removal to be charged to the owner of the
sign or premises in the manner provided by law.
(Ord. 76-36, passed 6-22-1976)
§ 1474.27 VIOLATIONS.
   No person shall:
   (a)   Fail to comply with any lawful order issued by the Code Enforcement
Officer under this chapter; or
   (b)   Proceed with the installation, alteration or repair of any work in a
manner which does not comply with the approved plans and the permit issued for
such work.
(Ord. 76-36, passed 6-22-1976)
§ 1474.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed each day during or on which a violation or noncompliance occurs or
continues.
(Ord. 76-36, passed 6-22-1976)
CHAPTER 1484: VACANT PROPERTY REGISTRATION
Section
1484.01   Purpose
1484.02   Definitions
1484.03   Vacant property/building registration
1484.04   Escrow
1484.05   Inspections
1484.06   Vacant building fees
1484.07   Exemptions
1484.08   Vacant properties to be identified by placard
1484.09   Vacant property utility fee
 
1484.99   Penalty
§ 1484.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish a program for identifying and
registering vacant residential and commercial buildings to determine the
responsibilities of owners of vacant buildings and structures and to speed the
rehabilitation of the vacant buildings, shifting the cost of burden from the
general citizenry to the owners of the blighted buildings.
(Ord. 18-55, passed 10-25-2018)
§ 1484.02 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter:
   "Evidence of vacancy." Any condition that on its own or combined with other
conditions present would lead a reasonable person to believe the property is
vacant. Such conditions include, but are not limited to: significantly below
standard utility usage, overgrown and/or dead vegetation, accumulation of
newspapers or mail, accumulation of trash, junk, and/or debris, broken or
boarded up windows, abandoned vehicles,
auto parts or materials, the absence of window coverings, the absence of
furnishings and/or personal items consistent with habitation or occupation.
   "Secured by other than normal means." A building secured by means other than
those used in the design of the building.
   "Unoccupied." A building which is not being used for the occupancy
authorized by the owner.
   "Unsecured." A building or portion of a building which is open to entry by
unauthorized persons without the use of tools or ladders.
   "Vacant building." A building which is:
      (1)   Unoccupied and unsecured;
      (2)   Unoccupied and secured by other than normal means;
      (3)   Unoccupied and an unsafe building;
      (4)   Unoccupied and having utilities disconnected;
      (5)   Unoccupied and has code violations;
      (6)   Illegally occupied which shall include loitering and vagrancy;
      (7)   Unoccupied for a period of time over 90 days and having an existing
code property maintenance code violations issued;
      (8)   Unoccupied with mortgage status of abandonment (i.e. deceased or
foreclosed); or
      (9)   Unoccupied and abandoned by the property owner.
(Ord. 18-55, passed 10-25-2018)
§ 1484.03 VACANT PROPERTY/BUILDING REGISTRATION.
   (a)   The owner of a vacant building shall register with the Public Service
Department no later than 60 days after any building located in an area zoned
for residential or commercial use becomes vacant or no later than 30 days after
being notified by the city of the requirements to register.
   (b)   The registration shall be submitted on forms provided by the Public
Service Department and shall include the following information supplied by the
owner:
      (1)   The name and address of the owner or owners;
      (2)   If the owner does not reside in Ironton, the name and address of
any third party who the owner has entered into a contract or agreement with for
property management. By designating an authorized agent under the provisions of
this section, the owner is consenting that the third party is authorized to
receive any and all notices relating to the property and conformance of any and
all ordinances;
      (3)   The names and addresses of all known lien holders and all other
parties with an ownership interest in the building;
      (4)   A telephone number where a responsible party can be reached at all
times during business and non-business hours;
   (c)   All applicable laws and codes shall be complied with by the owner. The
owner shall notify the Public Service Department of any changes of information
of their vacant building registration within 30 days of the change.
   (d)   The owner shall keep building secured and safe and the building and
grounds properly maintained.
   (e)   A new owner shall register or re-register the vacant building with the
Public Service Department within 30 days of transfer of an ownership interest
in the vacant building continues to remain vacant after transfer.
   (f)   The Public Service Department shall include in the file any property
specific written statements from community organizations, other interested
parties, or citizens regarding the history, problems, status, or blighting
influence of a vacant building.
   (g)   The registration and all associated processes must be completed in its
entirety annually for as long as the property remains vacant.
(Ord. 18-55, passed 10-25-2018)
§ 1484.04 ESCROW.
   Each demolition of a vacant building requires that the owner hold in escrow
with the city a deposit of ten thousand dollars ($10,000) for a residential
building and seventy-five thousand dollars ($75,000) for a commercial building.
If the amount to be set up in escrow cannot be paid in full, the city will
place a lien on the property for the amount previously specified. The city will
use these funds to demolish the building/dwelling if it is not completed by the
property owner. Escrow funds will be released upon completion of the work or
transfer of ownership, provided that all fees have been paid in full. New
owners must sign a form accepting responsibility for completing the demolition.
(Ord. 18-55, passed 10-25-2018)
§ 1484.05 INSPECTIONS.
   The Public Service Department shall inspect any premises in the city for the
purpose of enforcing and assuring compliance with the provisions of this
chapter as follows;
   (a)   Vacant properties will be externally inspected a minimum of twice per
year to ensure the compliance of the Property Maintenance Code;
   (b)   Inspections will take place at the start of each registration period
(new and renewal) and when the registration is terminated by the property
owner;
   (c)   Vacant properties will be inspected upon acquisition of the property
by a new owner.
(Ord. 18-55, passed 10-25-2018)
§ 1484.06 VACANT BUILDING FEES.
   The fees shall be reasonably related to the administration costs for
registering and processing the vacant building owner registration form and for
the costs incurred by the city in monitoring the vacant building site. The
annually increased fee amounts shall be reasonably related to the costs
incurred by the city for demolition and hazard abatement of or repairs to
vacant buildings, as well as the continued normal administrative costs stated
above.
   (a)   The owner of a vacant residential building shall pay an annual fee of
two hundred dollars ($200.00) for the first year the building remains vacant.
For every consecutive year that the building remains vacant, the annual fee
will be assessed at double the previous year's fee amount for a maximum annual
fee equaling the five year fee of three thousand two hundred dollars ($3,200)
to be used for the fifth and for all consecutive, subsequent years of vacancy.
   (b)   The owner of a vacant commercial building shall pay an annual fee of
four hundred dollars ($400.00) for the first year the building remains vacant.
For every consecutive year that the building remains vacant, the annual fee
will be assessed at double the previous year's fee amount for a maximum annual
fee equaling the five year fee of six thousand four hundred dollars ($6,400) to
be used for the fifth and for all consecutive, subsequent years of vacancy.
   (c)   The first annual fee shall be paid at the time the building is
registered. If the fee is not paid, the owner shall be subject to prosecution
as prescribed in §
1484.07.
   (d)   All delinquent fees shall be paid by the owner prior to any transfer
of an ownership interest in the vacant building. A lien may be placed on the
property to collect delinquent fees.
   (e)   Late fees shall be paid in addition to the annual registration and
will be equal to the annual fee or one thousand dollars ($1,000), whichever is
less.
(Ord. 18-55, passed 10-25-2018)
§ 1484.07 EXEMPTIONS.
   (a)   A building under active construction/ renovation and having a valid
building permit(s) shall be exempt from registration until the expiration of
the longest running, currently active building permit but no longer than one
year from the date issued.
   (b)   A building which has suffered fire damage or damage caused by extreme
weather conditions shall be exempt from the registration requirements for a
period of 90 days after the date of the fire or extreme weather event if the
property owner submits a request for exemption in writing to the Public Service
Department. This request shall include the names and addresses of the owner and
a statement of intent to repair and repair and reoccupy the building in an
expedient manner or the intent to demolish the building.
   (c)   A building that is for sale and listed with a licensed State of Ohio
realtor shall be exempted for a period of 12 months from the start of vacancy,
provided that the owner submits proof to the Public Service Department of
listing and sale status.
   (d)   A building that has been granted an exemption pursuant to the
following. Any owner of a vacant building may request an exemption from the
provisions of this chapter by filing a written application with the Public
Service Department who shall timely consider same. In determining whether a
request for exemption should be granted, the Director shall consider the
following: the applicant's prior record as it pertains to City Fire Code,
Building Code, or Property Maintenance Code violations; the amount of vacant
property the applicant currently has within the city; and the length of time
that the building for which the exception is sought has been vacant.
   (e)   Any building or structure acquired by the Lawrence County Land
Reutilization Corporation for the purpose of demolition or rehabilitation shall
be exempt from registration and any fees set forth in §
1484.06.
(Ord. 18-55, passed 10-25-2018)
§ 1484.08 VACANT PROPERTIES TO BE IDENTIFIED BY PLACARD.
   Any and all properties that are required to be registered as a vacant
residential or vacant commercial building pursuant to this chapter, shall
within 30 days of the building being listed on the vacant property registry,
the city shall post a sign affixed to the building, indicating the name,
address, and if known, the telephone number of the building owner. The size of
the sign shall be no less than 12" by 12" but shall otherwise be created under
the direction of the Director of Public Works or his or her designee. The sign
shall remain in place as public notice of the ownership of the building until
such time as it is removed from the vacant building registry or it is
demolished. If the ownership of the building changes hands, the sign shall be
amended to contain the correct ownership information. Every property upon which
such sign is posted shall be assessed a fee of two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00), to be invoiced with the next vacant building registry invoice to
cover the cost of posting the sign.
(Ord. 20-13, passed 3-12-2020)
§ 1484.09 VACANT PROPERTY UTILITY FEE.
   (a)   Owners of vacant residential and commercial properties not serviced by
a water meter shall pay the city’s current garbage fee, administrative fee,
municipal fee, fire fee, flood fee and economic development fee on a monthly
basis to be billed on the first of each month as the current water fee is
billed.
   (b)   The Mayor of the City of Ironton shall identify such vacant
properties, as well as their owners.
   (c)   The penalty for failing to pay said fee by the tenth day of the month
the fee is billed shall be an additional 10% of the amount billed.
(Ord. 19-76, passed 12-12-2019)
§ 1484.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of the vacant building registry shall be
fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for each offense and shall pay the costs of prosecution. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a
violation or noncompliance occurs or continues.
(Ord. 18-55, passed 10-25-2018)
PART SIXTEEN - FIRE PREVENTION CODE
         
Chap. 1610.   Ohio Fire Code.
         
Chap. 1612.   Fire Safety Fee.
CHAPTER 1610: OHIO FIRE CODE
Section
1610.01   Adoption by reference
1610.02   Purpose
1610.03   Application of Code
1610.04   Enforcement; responsibilities of Municipal Fire Safety Inspector
1610.05   Compliance required
1610.06   Posting arson laws
1610.07   Setting fires which spread
1610.08   Responsibilities upon discovery of unfriendly fires
1610.09   Inspections
1610.10   Sale and use of fire equipment; standards; service and repair of
equipment
1610.11   File and distribution copies
1610.12   Conflicts of laws
1610.13   Permit fees
1610.14   Civil penalties
1610.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Arson, see GEN. OFF.
642.09
   Bureau of Fire Prevention, see ADM.
240.05
   Driving over fire hoses, see TRAF.
432.26
   Fire Department, see ADM.
Ch. 240
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of technical codes, see Ohio R.C. 731.231
   Fireworks, see Ohio R.C. Ch. 3743
   Gasoline, oils and paint, see Ohio R.C. Ch. 3741
   Power to regulate against fires, see Ohio R.C. 737.27, 3737.08
   Power to regulate elevators, stairways and fire escapes, see Ohio R.C.
715.26
   Right to examine buildings, see Ohio R.C. 737.34 et seq., 3737.14
   State Fire Marshal, see Ohio R.C. Ch. 3737
§ 1610.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   (a)   There is hereby adopted by the municipality the 1985 edition of the
Ohio Fire Code (OFC), as amended through July, 1989, as adopted by the Ohio
Department of Commerce, Division of State Fire Marshal, published in O.A.C.
Division 1301:7.
   (b)   The BOCA Basic Fire Prevention Code, 1984, sixth edition, as amended
by O.A.C. Chapters 1301:7-1 to 1301:7-7, as published by Building Officials and
Code Administrators International, Inc., is incorporated herein as fully as if
set out at length.
§ 1610.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Ohio Fire Code, as adopted in §
1610.01, is to prescribe minimum standards and regulations governing conditions
hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion.
§ 1610.03 APPLICATION OF CODE.
   The Ohio Fire Code, as adopted in §
1610.01, applies to the use of all lands and properties within the municipality
and such other lands or properties owned by the municipality which are situated
outside the corporate limits thereof.
§ 1610.04 ENFORCEMENT; RESPONSIBILITIES OF MUNICIPAL FIRE SAFETY INSPECTOR.
   (a)   No person shall serve as a Municipal Fire Safety Inspector unless he
or she has received a certificate issued by the Ohio Superintendent of Public
Instruction under Ohio R.C. 3303.07 evidencing his or her satisfactory
completion of a fire safety inspection training program.
(ORC 3737.34)
   (b)   The Municipal Fire Safety Inspector, upon examination or inspection,
shall issue citations when he or she finds conditions as specified in Ohio R.C.
3737.41 which are especially dangerous to the safety of persons, buildings,
premises or property, and shall make any necessary remedial orders in
connection therewith. Citation enforcement may be by use of the procedures
established by Ohio R.C. 3737.42 for hearing on the citation or Ohio R.C.
3737.44 for injunctive relief or a temporary restraining order and oral order
for vacation of the building or premises.
   (c)   The Municipal Fire Safety Inspector, upon reasonable belief and after
inspection or investigation, shall, with reasonable promptness, issue a
citation to the responsible person for a violation of the Ohio Fire Code or any
order issued by the Ohio Fire Marshal or any Municipal Fire Safety Inspector.
The citation shall fix a reasonable time for abatement of the violation. Each
citation issued under this division shall be prominently posted by the
responsible person, as prescribed by the Ohio Fire Code, at or near each place
a violation referred to in the citation occurs.
   (d)   Upon request of the Municipal Fire Safety Inspector, the Department of
Law shall institute and prosecute any necessary action or proceeding to enforce
this chapter or Ohio R.C. Chapter 3737.
§ 1610.05 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly violate any provision of the Ohio Fire Code,
as adopted in §
1610.01, or any order issued pursuant thereto.
(ORC 3737.51(A))
   (b)   No person shall fail to comply with the fire prevention measures or
fire protection activities prescribed in the Ohio Fire Code or fail to comply
with the municipal application and plan submission and processing requirements,
including payment of the fees designated therefor.
§ 1610.06 POSTING ARSON LAWS.
   The owner, operator or lessee of any transient residential building shall
post the provisions of Ohio R.C. 2909.02 and 2909.03 in a conspicuous place in
each room occupied by guests in such building. The owner, operator or lessee of
any nontransient residential building institution, school or place of assembly
shall post the provisions of such sections in conspicuous places upon such
premises. No person shall fail to comply with this section.
(ORC 3737.61)
§ 1610.07 SETTING FIRES WHICH SPREAD.
   No person shall set, kindle or cause to be set or kindled any fire which,
through his or her negligence, spreads beyond its immediate confines to any
structure, field or wood lot.
(ORC 3737.62)
§ 1610.08 RESPONSIBILITIES UPON DISCOVERY OF UNFRIENDLY FIRES.
   (a)   The owner, operator or lessee, an employee of any owner, operator or
lessee, an occupant, and any person in direct control of any building regulated
under the Ohio Basic Building Code, upon the discovery of an unfriendly fire or
upon receiving information that there is an unfriendly fire on the premises,
shall immediately and with all reasonable dispatch and diligence call or
otherwise notify the Fire Department concerning the fire and shall spread an
alarm immediately to all occupants of the building.
   (b)   For the purposes of this section, “unfriendly fire” means a fire of a
destructive nature as distinguished from a controlled fire intended for a
beneficial purpose.
   (c)   No person shall fail to comply with this section.
(ORC 3737.63)
§ 1610.09 INSPECTIONS.
   No person who is not a certified Fire Safety Inspector shall act as such or
hold himself or herself out to be such unless, prior to commencing any
inspection function, he or she discloses the purpose for which he or she is
making such inspection and the fact that he or she is not employed by any state
or local fire service or agency and that he or she is not acting in an official
capacity for any governmental subdivision or agency.
(ORC 3737.64)
§ 1610.10 SALE AND USE OF FIRE EQUIPMENT; STANDARDS; SERVICE AND REPAIR OF
EQUIPMENT.
   (a)   No person shall sell, offer for sale, or use any fire protection or
fire fighting equipment that does not meet the minimum standards established by
the Ohio Fire Marshal in the Ohio Fire Code.
   (b)   Except for public and private mobile fire trucks, no person shall
service, test, repair or install for profit any fire protection or fire
fighting equipment without a certificate issued by the Ohio Fire Marshal.
(ORC 3737.65)
§ 1610.11 FILE AND DISTRIBUTION COPIES.
   Copies of the Ohio Fire Code and the BOCA Basic Fire Prevention Code, as
adopted in §
1610.01, are on file with the Mayor’s office for inspection by the public. In
addition, the Mayor’s office has copies available for distribution to the
public, at cost.
§ 1610.12 CONFLICTS OF LAWS.
   (a)   The Ohio Basic Building Code shall supersede and govern any order,
standard, rule or regulation of the Ohio Fire Code or the Division of State
Fire Marshal, Department of Commerce, in all cases where any such order,
standard, rule or regulation is in conflict with the Ohio Basic Building Code,
except that rules adopted and orders issued by the Fire Marshal pursuant to
Ohio R.C. Chapter 3743 prevail in the event of a conflict.
(O.A.C. 4101:2-1-04(B); ORC 3781.11(B))
   (b)   In all other cases of conflict between the Ohio Fire Code and any
other municipal ordinance or technical code adopted thereby, the stricter
standard shall control.
§ 1610.13 PERMIT FEES.
   There shall be no fee for a permit issued by the Fire Chief or the Municipal
Fire Safety Inspector pursuant to § 1301:7-5-03 of the Ohio Fire Code.
§ 1610.14 CIVIL PENALTIES.
   (a)   Fines for state fire code violations pursuant to R.C. §§ 3737.42,
3737.43, 3737.45, 3737.51 and 3737.99:
      (1)   No annual extinguisher service/tag: $25.00 per extinguisher;
      (2)   Failure to have required extinguisher: $75.00 per extinguisher;
      (3)   Failure to have required K extinguisher: $300.00 per extinguisher;
      (4)   No commercial hood system cleaning service/tag: $500.00;
      (5)   Any commercial hood fire protection system violation; $500.00 per
violation;
      (6)   Any sprinkler system or fire protection system violation: $1,000
per violation;
      (7)   Any alarm system violation: $500.00 per violation;
      (8)   Failure to have required exit signs: $100.00 per violation;
      (9)   Failure to have required emergency lighting: $50.00 per violation;
      (10)   Open electric panels, junction box or wiring; $100.00 per
violation;
      (11)   Open electric panels, junction box or wiring 220 volts or greater:
$500.00 per violation;
      (12)   Improper use of extension cords: $25.00 per cord;
      (13)   Blocking of egress or exit in any manner: $250.00 per violation;
      (14)   Any fire door violation: $250.00 per door;
      (15)   Accumulations of waste: $100.00 per violation;
      (16)   Heating appliance violations: $500.00 per violation;
      (17)   Failure to have certificate of occupancy: $1,000;
      (18)   Failure to have required Knox box: $750.00; and
      (19)   LPG, Flammable or combustible liquid stored in occupied structure;
$1,000.
   (b)   All other fines shall be assessed as needed determinant on perceived
danger to public or firefighting personnel, but shall not exceed one thousand
dollars ($1,000) per violation.
(Ord. 18-43, passed 9-27-2018)
§ 1610.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   Criminal penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates §
1610.05(a) is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined
not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisoned not more than six
months, or both.
(ORC 3737.99(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates §
1610.05(b) or
1610.06 is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than one
hundred dollars ($100.00).
(ORC 3737.99(C))
      (3)   Whoever violates §
1610.07 or
1610.09 is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree and shall be fined not
more than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) or imprisoned not more than 30
days, or both.
(ORC 3737.99(D))
      (4)   Whoever violates §
1610.08 or
1610.10 is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree and shall be fined not
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisoned not more than 60 days,
or both.
(ORC 3737.99(E))
   (b)   Civil penalties.
      (1)   Any person who has received a citation for a serious violation of
the Ohio Fire Code or any order issued pursuant to it shall be assessed a civil
penalty of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each such
violation.
      (2)   Any person who has received a citation for a violation of the Ohio
Fire Code or any order issued pursuant to it, and such violation is
specifically determined not to be of a serious nature, may be assessed a civil
penalty of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each such
violation.
      (3)   Any person who fails to correct a violation for which a citation
has been issued, within the period permitted for its correction, may be
assessed a civil penalty of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for
each day during which such failure or violation continues.
      (4)   Any person who violates any of the posting requirements prescribed
by §
1610.04(c) shall be assessed a civil penalty of not more than one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) for each violation.
      (5)   Due consideration to the appropriateness of the penalty with
respect to the gravity of the violation, the good faith of the person being
charged and the history of previous violations shall be given whenever a
penalty is assessed under this chapter.
      (6)   For purposes of this section, a serious violation shall be
considered to exist if there is a substantial probability that an occurrence
causing death or serious physical harm to persons could result from a condition
which exists, or from one or more practices, means, methods, operations or
processes which have been adopted or are in use, unless the person did not and
could not, with the exercise of reasonable diligence, know of the presence of
the violation.
      (7)   Civil penalties imposed under this chapter shall be paid to the
Director of Finance for deposit into the general fund. Such penalties may be
recovered in a civil action in the name of the municipality brought in the
Court of Common Pleas.
(ORC 3737.51(B) to (H))
CHAPTER 1612: FIRE SAFETY FEE
Section
1612.01   Fire safety fee
§ 1612.01 FIRE SAFETY FEE.
   (a)   Residential households.
      (1)   A fire fee is hereby established at the rate of six dollars ninety
cents ($6.90) per month to be paid by each residential household, including
each rental unit, in the city and shall be billed as part of the monthly
municipal utility billing, beginning May 1, 2017.
      (2)   The rate charged to residential customers for the fire safety fee
shall be increased as follows.
 
Increase per Month Effective Date
$0.75              1-1-2010
$0.85              1-1-2020
$1.05              1-1-2030
 
   (b)   Nonresidential households.
      (1)   Every commercial water account in the city shall pay a fire safety
fee of fourteen dollars fifteen cents ($14.15) per month, to be billed as part
of the monthly municipal utility billing, beginning May 1, 2017.
      (2)   The rate charged to nonresidential customers for the fire safety
fee shall be increased one dollar ($1.00) every five years beginning in 2015.
   (c)   Use of fund established. The fund established by this section and the
fees collected shall be used exclusively for capital improvements, manpower and
necessary operating expenses of the Ironton Fire Department.
(Ord. 17-11, passed 3-23-2017)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
Editor's Note: The Codified Ordinances of Ironton comprise all ordinances and
resolutions of a general and permanent nature. The provisions of such general
and permanent ordinances and resolutions are set forth in full in the Codified
Ordinances.
   References must be made frequently to many special ordinances and
resolutions, particularly those relating to property, such as easements,
vacations, dedications, acquisitions and disposals, leases, and the like. In
the following Tables A through K, all such ordinances and resolutions are
listed. These Tables list ordinances and resolutions chronologically by subject
and include both a citation to and a brief description of each ordinance and
resolution.
      Table
         
TABLE A.   FRANCHISES
         
TABLE B.   EASEMENTS
         
TABLE C.   VACATING OF STREETS AND ALLEYS
         
TABLE D.   DEDICATION AND PLAT APPROVAL
         
TABLE E.   ACQUISITION AND DISPOSAL OF REAL PROPERTY
         
TABLE F.   LEASE OF REAL PROPERTY
         
TABLE G.   STREET GRADE LEVELS AND CHANGE OF STREET NAME
         
TABLE H.   ANNEXATION AND DETACHMENT OF TERRITORY
         
TABLE I.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
         
TABLE J.   CONTRACTS
         
TABLE K.   ENTERPRISE ZONE AGREEMENTS
TABLE A: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.   Date Passed Description
407        -           Railroad franchise.
945        -           Railroad franchise.
994        -           Railroad franchise.
1133       -           Railroad franchise.
1918       -           Railroad franchise.
2463       -           Termination of railroad franchise.
4213       -           Paper and waste material collection.
4331       -           United Fuel Gas Co.
4339       -           Ironton Outdoor Advertising Co.
4545       -           United Fuel Gas Co.
4588       -           United Fuel Gas Co.
4618       -           City to furnish water to Coal Grove, Ohio.
4741       -           Ohio Power Co.
4824       -           Ohio Valley Gas Co.
4827       -           Ohio Valley Gas Co.
4900       -           Ironton and Russell Bridge Co.
4996       -           City to furnish water to Coal Grove, Ohio.
5075       -           Ohio Valley Gas Co.
Res. 5123  -           License to Ohio Bell Telephone Co. for public telephones
                       on city property.
5188       -           Ohio Power Co. for street lighting.
5189       3-10-1966   Ohio Power Co. for street lighting for a period of ten
                       years.
5278       6-12-1967   Ohio Valley Gas Co. for natural gas for four years.
5326       3-28-1968   Granting to Ironton By-Product Gas Co. right to lay and
                       maintain gas lines for industrial purposes.
5548       6-24-1971   Ohio Valley Gas Co. for natural gas for a period of four
                       years.
75-59      7-29-1975   Columbia Gas Co. for natural gas for four years. Repeals
                       Ord. 5548.
75-86      1-8-1976    Iron City Transit Co. to operate bus service in city.
76-28      4-29-1976   Ohio Power Co. for street lighting.
76-29      4-29-1976   Ohio Power Co. for street lighting.
79-55      8-9-1979    Fixing price charged by Columbia Gas of natural gas
                       until August 28, 1980.
81-102     11-23-1981  Tower Communications Cable Service for C.A.T.V. service
                       for 10 years.
84-25      6-20-1984   Fixing price charged by Columbia Gas of natural gas
                       until October 14, 1985.
86-23      4-24-1986   Ohio Power Co. for street lighting.
91-59      11-25-1991  Times Mirror Cable Television of Ohio, Inc. for cable
                       television system.
                       Approving transfer of control of Times Mirror Cable
Res. 94-33 9-8-1994    Television from Times Mirror Co. to Cox Cable
                       Communications, Inc.
                       Consenting to the sale and assignment of assets,
Res. 96-22 3-14-1996   including the cable television franchise from Cox
                       Communications, Inc. to Frontiervision Operating
                       Partners, L.P. or an affiliated entity.
Res. 99-19 4-8-1999    Denying consent and opposing the transfer of the cable
                       television franchise.
99-20      5-27-1999   Granting franchise to Ohio Power Company for
                       distribution of electric energy.
Res. 99-30 6-10-1999   Consent resolution authorizing the transfer of control
                       of the cable television franchisee.
06-82      12-28-2006  Extending the franchise agreement with Time Warner
                       Cable.
Res. 07-07 2-8-2007    Authorizing the Mayor to negotiate a new franchise
                       agreement with Time Warner Cable.
                      
 
TABLE B: EASEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.   Date Passed Description
745        -           Railroad easement.
747        -           Railroad easement.
894        -           Railroad easement.
951        -           Railroad easement.
1188       -           Railroad right-of-way.
1196       -           Railroad right-of-way.
1241       -           Railroad right-of-way.
1464       -           Railroad right-of-way.
1528       -           Railroad right-of-way.
1546       -           Railroad right-of-way.
1573       -           Railroad right-of-way.
2458       -           Railroad right-of-way.
3366       -           Railroad easement.
3379       -           Railroad easement.
3380       -           Railroad easement.
3495       -           Railroad easement.
3603       -           Railroad easement.
3713       -           Railroad easement.
3905       -           Railroad easement.
3969       -           Railroad easement.
4559       -           Easement - Municipal real estate.
4836       -           Easement to U. S. government.
5102       -           Appropriating easement.
                       Appropriating easement and right-of-way for water and
5105       2-25-1965   sewerage on the property of Alice J. and Homer W.
                       Woodburn.
5173       -           Railroad right-of-way.
5199       4-28-1966   Permission to Clarke Wire Co. to use and relocate
                       certain railroad tracks.
Res. 5301  10-26-1967  To Ohio Power Co. for wire overhang.
5505       1-28-1971   To Hecla Water Assn. for 99 years.
5720       8-9-1973    Appropriating easement for temporary roadway from parcel
                       No. 3 T.
Res. 5839  11-26-1974  To Hecla Water Assn. for water lines for 99 years.
78-46      7-27-1978   To Ohio Power Co. for electrical service to Buckhorn
                       Urban Renewal property.
80-104     10-23-1980  Relinquishing utility easement of Ord. 4927.
                       Relinquishing underground easement but retaining
Res. 83-25 4-28-1983   overhead easement in connection with vacation of part of
                       Swan Alley pursuant to Ord. 79-59.
95-51      9-14-1995   Granting an easement to the Norfolk and Southern Railway
                       to complete the Center Street crossing.
05-19      3-24-2005   Authorizing the Mayor to convey a perpetual easement
                       over certain real property.
05-20      3-24-2005   Authorizing the Mayor to convey a temporary easement for
                       highway construction over certain real property.
05-21      3-24-2005   Authorizing the Mayor to convey a temporary easement for
                       highway construction over certain real property.
09-43      7-23-2009   Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a certain
                       easement agreement with Honeywell International, Inc.
Res. 13-70 11-14-2013  Easement with Columbia Gas Company.
19-64      10-10-2019  Providing a parking easement on a portion of dead ended
                       Rome Alley.
                       Authorizing the Mayor to grant Ohio Power Company a
24-08      2-22-2024   right-of-way easement across real estate owned by the
                       city for the North Ironton Pump Station Project.
                       Authorizing the Mayor to grant Ohio Power Company a
24-12      3-28-2024   right-of-way easement across real estate owned by the
                       city for the North Ironton Pump Station Project.
                      
 
TABLE C: VACATING OF STREETS AND ALLEYS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
140  -      Cherry Alley.
140  -      Locust Alley.
145  -      Quincy Street.
167  -      Bridge Alley.
186  -      Locust Alley.
237  -      Iron Alley.
276  -      Plum Alley.
280  -      Pleasant Alley.
455  -      Sugar Alley.
535a -      Neal Avenue (narrowing).
566  -      Sugar Alley.
572  -      Beech Alley.
577  -      Walnut Alley.
633  -      Locust Alley.
654  -      Hecla Street.
679  -      Seventh Street (narrowing).
688  -      Vesuvius Street.
689  -      Sugar Alley.
694  -      Cedar Alley.
707  -      Monroe Street.
713  -      Jefferson Street.
722  -      Eden Alley.
730  -      Eden Alley.
748  -      Bird Alley.
749  -      Iron Alley.
750  -      Grape Alley.
751  -      Iron Alley.
762  -      Seventh Street.
          Walnut Alley.
          Locust Alley.
          Ashtabula Street.
767a -      Swan Alley.
768  -      Plum Alley.
772  -      Sugar Alley.
791  -      Mulberry Street.
812  -      Low Alley.
818  -      Cherry Alley.
842  -      Seventh Street (narrowing).
865  -      Swan Alley.
921  -      Park Avenue.
936  -      Second Street.
946  -      Park Avenue.
948  -      Salt Alley.
950  -      Sugar Alley.
957  -      Locust Alley.
970  -      Fifth Street.
          Sugar Alley.
972  -      Hedges Alley.
973  -      Fourth Street.
          Cedar Alley.
1011 -      Swan Alley.
1018 -      Cherry Alley.
1019 -      Monroe Street.
1040 -      Locust Alley.
1063 -      Front Street.
1083 -      Vine Alley.
1112 -      Buckhorn Street.
1211 -      Hecla Street.
1261 -      Pond Alley.
1266 -      Third Street.
1275 -      Cedar Alley.
1304 -      Sugar Alley.
1354 -      Center Alley.
1403 -      Ashtabula Street.
1470 -      Green Alley.
1569 -      Campbell Avenue.
1594 -      Locust Alley.
1601 -      Front Street.
1764 -      Seventh Street (narrowing).
1767 -      Mulberry Street.
1901 -      Vesuvius Street.
1902 -      Vesuvius Street.
2115 -      Ellison Avenue.
2149 -      Ellison Avenue.
2291 -      Allen Block 128 Lombard.
2379 -      Mulberry Street.
2694 -      Chestnut Street.
2759 -      Corn Alley.
2959 -      Scioto Street.
3099 -      Front Street.
          Quincy Street.
          Vine Street.
          Peach Street.
          Green Street.
          Railroad Street.
3203 -      Corn Alley.
3249 -      Cemetery Lane.
          Eighth Street.
          Walnut Alley.
3337 -      First Alley.
3361 -      Birch Alley.
          Maple Alley.
          Locust Alley.
          Sugar Alley.
          Clinton Alley.
          Cemetery Lane.
3451 -      Elm Street.
3528 -      Chestnut Street.
          Front Street.
3542 -      Chestnut Street.
3546 -      Deep Cut Road.
3590 -      Mastin Avenue.
          Ellison Avenue.
          Monroe Street.
          Washington Street.
          Bird Alley.
          Swan Alley.
          Grape Alley.
          Cherry Alley.
3622 -      Ashtabula Street.
3640 -      Cedar Alley.
3641 -      Sarah Alley.
3716 -      Chestnut Street.
3828 -      Mulberry Street.
3962 -      Maple Alley.
4015 -      Walnut Alley.
          Eighth Street.
          Seventh Street.
          Clinton Street.
          Cemetery Lane.
4115 -      Walnut Alley.
4307 -      Cherry Alley.
4346 -      Cedar Alley.
4378 -      Oak Alley.
          Aid Alley.
4417 -      Dayton Alley.
4423 -      Dayton Lane.
4476 -      Alley, Block AA, Clark's 2nd addition to city.
4488 -      Beach Alley.
4512 -      Sugar Alley.
4624 -      Maple Alley.
4767 -      5th Avenue.
4770 -      Willow Alley.
4777 -      5th Avenue.
4780 -      Poplar Alley.
4782 -      Poplar Alley.
4845 -      Poplar Alley.
4883 -      Maple Alley.
4926 -      Chestnut Street.
4927 -      Old Lime Alley.
4940 -      Birch Alley.
4955 -      Maple Alley.
4956 -      Maple Alley.
4975 -      Jefferson Street.
4976 -      Maple Alley.
4985 -      Osage Alley.
5056 -      Grand Alley.
5067 -      Walnut Alley.
5079 -      Steel Alley.
5097 2-11-  Vacating Osage Alley from Ashtabula Street to the Alpha Portland Cement Co.
     1965   property.
5098 2-11-  Vacating Eden Alley between Second and Third Streets.
     1965
5138 8-12-  Vacating a portion of Storms Alley from North Fifth Street to the lands of
     1965   Elizabeth Gildea.
5172 12-13- Vacating the west part of Dayton Lane.
     1965
5173 -      Dayton Street.
5174 12-21- Vacating Liberty Avenue between Jones Street and Pleasant Street and vacating
     1965   Pleasant Street north of Twelfth Street.
5181 2-24-  Vacating Grape Alley between Second and Third Streets.
     1966
5198 3-24-  Vacating that part of Old County Road from the northeasterly boundary of that
     1966   part vacated by Ord. 5174.
5204 4-28-  Vacating Vine Alley between Third Street and Three and One-Half Alley.
     1966
5220 6-23-  Vacating Lot No. 837.
     1966
5234 10-27- Vacating a portion of Coal Alley bordering on Fourth Street.
     1966
5236 11-10- Vacating Locust Alley.
     1966
5274 4-27-  Vacating unnamed alley identified as Six and One-Half Alley of Block Y of
     1967   Clark's Second Subdivision.
5309 1-25-  Vacating Oak Alley from 5th Street to 5-1/2 (Sugar) Alley.
     1968
5315 3-14-  Vacating the remainder of Steel Alley.
     1968
5324 3-14-  Vacating Chestnut Street from the south line of Second Street to the north
     1968   line of Campbell Avenue.
5373 2-13-  Vacating Maple Alley in John F. Rist Subdivision and Jones Street from Eighth
     1969   to Ninth Streets.
5408 7-24-  Vacating a portion of the intersection of Second Street and Ellison Avenue.
     1969
5430 10-9-  Vacating that part of Laura Alley that ends at Delaware Street
     1969
5493 11-24- Repeals § 4, Ord. 4777, which vacated a portion of Fifth Avenue from the east
     1970   side of Ellison Street to the west side of Means Street
5578 12-9-  Vacating those portions of Oak Alley, Buckhorn Street and Aid Alley between
     1971   North Second Street and North 3rd Street.
5585 1-13-  Repealing Ord. 5236 vacating Locust Alley.
     1972
5586 1-13-  Vacating Locust Alley between Lots 341 and 342.
     1972
5616 5-25-  Vacating a portion of Grape Alley.
     1972
5617 5-25-  Vacating a portion of Spruce Street from Green Alley to the road parallel to
     1972   the base of the flood wall.
5653 11-21- Vacate part of the east side of Eighth Street at Ashtabula Street.
     1973
5657 11-21- Abandonment and closing of 11th Street, Willow Alley and Osage Alley.
     1972
5660 -      Vacating a portion of Crestview Drive.
5665 1-11-  Vacating a portion of Aid and North Low Alleys.
     1973
5696 4-26-  Vacating Plum Alley between Second and Third Streets.
     1973
5725 9-13-  Vacating a part of Low Alley from Etna Street to Oak Alley.
     1973
5728 9-13-  Vacating a portion of Clinton Street between Eleventh and Twelfth Street.
     1973
5729 -      Vacating a portion of Osage Alley between Adams Lane and Clinton Street.
5736 9-27-  Vacating a portion of Clinton Street between Tenth and Eleventh Streets and
     1973   repealing Ord. 5728.
5737 9-28-  Vacating a part of Penobscot Trail Street.
     1973
5765 2-28-  Vacating a portion of Gold Alley.
     1974
5771 2-28-  Vacating Coal Alley between North Second and North Third Streets.
     1974
5791 4-11-  Vacating a portion of Hecla Street.
     1974
5841 12-12- Vacating certain alleys and streets located in the Buckhorn Urban Renewal
     1974   Project.
75-  2-27-  Vacating Corn Alley from Seventh Street. to Walnut Alley.
10   1975
75-  4-10-  Vacating a portion of Court Alley between Cedar Alley and South Fourth Street.
22   1975
75-  4-24-  Vacate a portion of Lawrence Street and Buckhorn Street.
37   1975
75-  5-22-  Vacate a portion of Pond Alley between Tenth and Eleventh Streets.
35   1975
75-  5-22-  Vacate a portion of Poplar Alley between Eleventh Street and Willow Alley.
45   1975
75-  5-22-  Vacate a portion of Poplar Alley between Eleventh Street and Osage Alley.
46   1975
75-  5-22-  Vacate a portion of Second Street on petition of City Amusement Co. Inc.
47   1975
75-  5-22-  Repeals Ord. 5765 which vacated a portion of Gold Alley.
48   1975
75-  5-22-  Vacating a portion of Drury Lane between Second Street and Third Street.
49   1975
75-  8-28-  Vacating a portion of Lawrence Street, between Second and Third Street.
67   1975
75-  9-11-  Vacating a portion of Bird Alley between Fourth Street and Law or 4-1/2 Alley.
70   1975
75-  9-11-  Vacating a portion of Center Alley between Second Street and Plum or 2-1/
71   1975   2 Alley.
75-  10-9-  Vacate a portion of Third Street.
72   1975
76-  9-2-   Portion of Center Alley between Pleasant or 3-1/2 Alley and Fourth Street.
48   1976
76-  9-2-   Portion of Clinton Street between Eleventh and Twelfth Streets, and portion of
49   1976   Osage or 11-1/2 Alley between Clinton Street and Adams Lane.
77-  4-11-  Portion of Swan Alley between Campbell Avenue and Second Street
14   1977
77-  8-11-  Portions of Green Alley and New Cherry Alley.
49   1977
77-  9-8-   Portion of Ninth Street.
54   1977
77-  9-8-   Portion of Ellison Avenue.
62   1977
79-3 1-23-  Portion of Bird Alley between Fifth Street and Law or 4-1/2 Alley.
     1979
79-  9-25-  Portion of Swan Alley between Third Street and Cedar or 3-1/2 Alley.
59   1979
80-  8-19-  Portion of Locust or 6-1/2 Alley between Aid Alley and Lawrence Street.
90   1980
81-  5-14-  Portion of Swan Alley between Sixth Street and Sugar or 5-1/2 Alley.
46   1981
82-  8-26-  Mulberry Alley between Tenth Street and Willow Alley.
35   1982
83-  5-26-  Tenth Street between Clinton Street and the Campbell Reserve.
22   1983
83-  6-23-  Portion of Bird Alley.
31   1983
83-  7-28-  Portion of Etna Street between N. Second Street and the N and W Railroad
37   1983   right-of-way.
84-  8-9-   Portion of Eden Alley between Locust Alley and Seventh Street.
30   1984
84-  10-11- Portion of the south half of Maple Avenue between the east line of Eleventh
34   1984   Street and the State right-of-way easement.
86-  6-12-  Drury Lane between N. Second Street and the N and W Railroad right-of-way.
41   1986
87-7 3-12-  Jersey Alley Between Vernon Street and Washington Street.
     1987
87-  11-12- Portion of Storms Alley between Seventh Street and Walnut or 7-1/2 Alley.
54   1987
88-  5-12-  Portion of Cypress Alley between Fifth Street and Beech or 4-1/2 Alley.
13   1988
89-  8-24-  Portion of Cherry Alley between Second Street and Third Street.
31   1989
89-  9-14-  Portion of Park Avenue east of U.S. Rte. 52.
34   1989
90-  6-25-  Vacating Grape Alley between Campbell and Second Street.
35   1990
90-  8-23-  Vacating Mulberry Alley between Tenth Street and Willow Alley.
44   1990
90-  1-24-  Vacating a portion of Law Alley.
91   1991
91-  6-13-  Vacating a portion of Beech Alley between Seventh Street and Walnut Alley.
31   1991
92-  4-9-   Vacating a portion of Mill Street.
22   1992
92-  4-23-  Vacating a portion of Jones Street from Eighth Street to Walnut (7-1/2) Alley.
23   1992
93-  3-25-  Vacating a portion of Locust Alley between Center Street and Law Alley.
07   1993
93-  4-8-   Vacating Jones Street from Seventh Street to Walnut Alley.
08   1993
93-  12-9-  Vacating a portion of Poplar Alley between Fourth Street and Beech Alley.
55   1993
93-  12-9-  Vacating a portion of Swan Alley between Second Street and Third Street.
59   1993
94-  2-10-  Vacating a portion of Locust Alley between Buckhorn Street and Aid Alley.
03   1994
95-  2-23-  Vacating a portion of Poplar Alley between Twelfth Street and corporation
04   1995   line.
95-  4-27-  Vacating a part of Beech Alley between the old Campbell right-of-way and
16   1995   Clinton Street.
95-  - -    Vacating a portion of Pond Alley between Ninth Street and Tenth Street.
20   1995
95-  7-13-  Vacating a portion of Pond Alley between Fourth Street and Fifth Street.
36   1995
95-  9-28-  Vacating the Hecla Street railroad crossing and the opening of a temporary
53   1995   crossing at Etna Street.
96-  6-13-  Vacating a part of Prospect (4-1/2) Alley between Railroad Street and Gold
40   1996   Alley.
96-  7-11-  Vacating a portion of Scott Street between Eighth Street and 8-1/2 Alley.
46   1996
96-  1-23-  Vacating a part of Walnut Alley between Center Street and Park Avenue.
106  1997
96-  1-23-  Vacating Law Alley between Seventh Street and Eighth Street.
107  1997
99-  4-22-  Vacating a portion of Pond Alley between South Twelfth Street and Osage Alley.
07   1999
99-  5-27-  Vacating an area of right-of-way which is located on the south side of Depot
26   1999   Street at the intersection with Jefferson Street.
99-  8-26-  Vacating a portion of Jefferson Street right-of-way.
39   1999
99-  8-26-  Vacating a portion of Rome Alley.
40   1999
00-  2-10-  Vacating a portion of Willow Alley.
03   2000
01-  2-28-  Amending and clarifying Ord. 90-44 for the vacation of relocated Mulberry
50   2001   Alley between South Tenth Street and Willow Alley.
01-  4-12-  Vacating a portion of High Alley.
19   2001
03-  9-25-  Vacating a portion of right-of-way abutting 1521 North Fifth Street.
44   2003
09-  9-10-  Vacating Poplar Alley between 12th and 13th Streets.
50   2009
09-  10-11- Vacating a portion of Rome Alley.
51   2009
10-  2-25-  Vacating a portion of Cedar Alley.
06   2010
10-  4-8-   Vacating a portion of Eden Alley.
10   2010
10-  4-22-  Vacating a portion of Jersey Alley.
24   2010
10-  7-22-  Vacating Lewis Lane.
42   2010
10-  9-9-   Vacating a portion of Pond Alley.
53   2010
10-  9-9-   Vacating a portion of Jones Street.
64   2010
10-  12-20- Vacating a portion of Salt Alley.
82   2010
11-  12-22- Vacating Washington Street from 9th Street to Jersey Alley.
34   2011
11-  12-22- Vacating a portion of Grape Alley.
69   2011
12-  9-27-  Vacating a portion of Pond Alley.
70   2012
12-  10-11- Vacating a portion of Pond Alley.
72   2012
13-  4-11-  Vacating a portion of Buckhorn Street.
31   2013
14-  4-10-  Vacating Washington Street from 8½ Alley (Maple Alley) to 9th Street.
05   2014
17-  8-14-  Vacating a portion of Locust Alley (6½ Alley) between Lawrence Street and Corn
35   2017   Alley.
18-  4-12-  Vacating portions of Washington Street and 8½ Alley (Maple Alley).
16   2018
18-  4-12-  Vacating the alley running from South 4th to South 5th Streets between
20   2018   Chestnut and Quincy Streets.
18-  10-25- Vacating parts of Hedge Alley, Marsh Alley, Thirteenth Street and Wyanoke
56   2018   Streets.
20-  3-26-  Vacating a portion of Lawrence Street from 2nd Street to Norfolk and Southern
22   2020   Railroad.
23-  9-28-  Vacating a portion of Jones Street between Cedar Alley and South Fourth
58   2023   Street.
24-  11-19- Vacating Pond Alley between 10th Street and Birch Alley and between Pleasant
42   2024   Street and Vine Street.
           
 
TABLE D: DEDICATION AND PLAT APPROVAL
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
33        -           W. D. Kelley's second addition.
-         -           W. D. Kelley's third addition.
-         -           John Peter's first addition.
-         -           Kelley Building Assn., first addition.
-         -           Kelley Building Assn., second addition.
92        -           J. M. Kelley's third addition to West Ironton.
411       -           L. M. Henry Subdivision of Lot 967 Ohio Iron and Coal Co.
425       -           Lombard Addition.
457       -           David Nixon Subdivision.
680       -           Plat No. 1 of Fairground Subdivision.
708       -           Lombard Subdivision.
715       -           Eva S. Collins addition to Lombard Subdivision.
847       -           Park View Addition.
850       -           Ironton Engine Co. Subdivision of Blocks 63 and 73,
                      Lombard Subdivision.
913       -           J. R. C. Brown Trustee Subdivision.
1430      -           Liberty Subdivision.
1638      -           R. L. and Rebecca Harris.
1758      -           T. J. Kennedy Subdivision.
1769      -           T. N. Allyn Subdivision.
1796      -           Wieteki Subdivision of Block 74 of Lombard Subdivision.
1843      -           A. 0. Davidson Subdivision.
1844      -           Mittendorf Subdivision.
1846      -           Jones Halley Subdivision.
1868      -           Jones Halley Subdivision.
1870      -           T. N. Allyn Subdivision.
1929      -           C. T. M. Kemp addition to Etna.
1930      -           Lucas Subdivision.
1953      -           Kennedy Subdivision of Block 65 Mittendorf Subdivision of
                      Spanner Land.
2052      -           Clark's second addition.
2068      -           Jones Halley Subdivision.
2087      -           Birdie A. Corns Subdivision.
2148      -           Jenkins and Gannon's first Subdivision.
2197      -           Crawford's first addition.
2251      -           John F. Rist Subdivision.
2334      -           Ward Subdivision.
2411      -           E. D. Lambert Subdivision.
2702      -           John F. Rist Subdivision.
3560      -           E. J. Meyer Subdivision.
3840      -           William Subdivision of Lots 16-21 inclusive of Glen
                      Means.
3841      -           Goldcamp Subdivision.
3870      -           Table Rock Subdivision.
3906      -           Franz Subdivision.
4126      -           Goldcamp Subdivision #2.
4153      -           Gallenstein addition.
4200      -           Schweichart Subdivision.
4379      -           Amos Breeding Subdivision.
4768      -           "Sta-tan" Recreation Park.
Res. 5144 9-9-1965    Accepting plat of Zenith Heights Subdivision.
5155      10-14-1965  Accepting extension of Florence Avenue - deed of
                      dedication.
5158      11-10-1965  Accepting plat of James E. Waldo addition.
                      Accepting deed of dedication to Dayton Street from S.
5173      12-13-1965  Third Street to the east boundary of the Norfolk and
                      Western Railroad right-of-way.
5197      3-24-1966   Accepting plans for River View Park.
Res. 5286 7-13-1967   Accepting plat of Zenith Heights second addition.
5417      8-14-1969   Making Four and One-Half Alley between Jefferson and
                      Adams a public alley.
79-14     3-8-1979    Dedicating portion of Fourth Street.
75-37     4-24-1975   Dedicating a portion of Loop Street.
79-56     8-9-1979    Accepting Lou Lee Subdivision.
                      Accepting from State parts of Valley View Road, Rock
80-32     4-24-1980   Avenue, Orchard Hollow Road, Adams Lane and Clinton
                      Street.
89-17     5-25-1989   Dedicating portions of Park Avenue extending into Ironton
                      Hills Plaza.
01-43     9-27-2001   Dedicating Ellison Street between Fourth Avenue and Sixth
                      Avenue.
02-33     7-11-2002   Dedicating Woodland Lane between Lorain Street and the
                      corporation line.
04-16     4-8-2004    Dedicating the roadway within River View Park.
05-70     5-26-2005   Dedicating certain real estate owned by the city as a
                      public right-of-way known as Commerce Drive.
10-29     5-13-2010   Accepting the plat entitled Central School Subdivision.
                     
 
TABLE E: ACQUISITION AND DISPOSAL OF REAL PROPERTY
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
4145 -      Sale of municipal real estate.
4146 -      Appropriation of property.
4267 -      Exchange of lands.
4406 -      Accepting quit claim of interest in Copper Park.
4442 -      Accepting deed to Lot #6 of Norris Henry's addition.
4458 -      Purchase of municipal real estate.
4459 -      Accepting deed.
4473 -      Sale of municipal real estate.
4499 -      Sale of municipal real estate.
4503 -      Sale of municipal real estate.
4536 -      Reconveyance of Copper Park lands.
4556 -      Exchange of lands: William Kuelne.
4668 -      Sale of municipal real estate.
4784 -      Sale of municipal real estate.
4788 -      Sale of municipal real estate.
4793 -      Sale of municipal real estate.
4803 -      Sale of municipal real estate.
4818 -      Sale of municipal real estate.
4829 -      Purchase of land.
5034 -      Sale of municipal real estate.
5068 -      Sale of municipal real estate.
5108 3-16-  Sale of 1126 acres of real estate in the First Ward of the city.
     1965
5119 5-13-  Amends Ord. 5108, sale of 1.26 acres of real estate in the First Ward of the
     1965   city.
5147 9-23-  Amends Ord. 5108, sale of 1.26 acres of real estate in the First Ward of the
     1965   city.
5166 -      Amends Ord. 5108, sale of 1.26 acres.
5168 12-13- Purchase of Indian Hills Water System and adjacent water and sewer facilities.
     1965
5319 3-14-  Authorizing sale of real estate described as the old garbage dump.
     1968
5320 3-14-  Authorizing sale of house and lot at 857 North Second Street.
     1968
5342 7-11-  Authorizing sale of lot and house at 88 Walnut Street.
     1968
5357 10-10- Authorizing sale of 1.26 acres of real estate in First Ward.
     1968
5376 2-27-  Authorizing purchase of realty being Lots 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 of the Ward
     1969   Block.
5484 10-8-  Authorizing city to sell property to Buckhorn Urban Renewal authority.
     1970
5542 6-24-  Appropriating certain real property for the Buckhorn Urban Renewal area.
     1971
5571 10-14- Sale of Lots 73, 74, 75, 76, 77 and 78 of the original plat of the city.
     1971
5632 7-20-  Sale of land commonly called Cronacher Hill for educational purposes.
     1972
Res. 10-28- Acceptance of sewage lift station from Sta-Tan Trailer Court.
5650 1972
5691 3-30-  Appropriating certain Urban Renewal property.
     1973
Res. 6-14-  Accepting deed to Norfolk and Western Railroad Passenger Terminal.
5706 1973
5713 8-23-  Authorizing sale of Parcels 11 and 12 in the Buckhorn Urban Renewal Project.
     1973
5741 10-16- Authorizing sale of Parcels 10-1, 10-2 and 11 in the Buckhorn Urban Renewal
     1973   Project.
5767 2-28-  Authorizing sale of Parcel #2 in the Buckhorn Urban Renewal Project.
     1974
5775 3-14-  Sale of certain city property to the City of Ironton, Buckhorn Urban Renewal
     1974   Project.
5787 4-11-  Sale of Parcel 12 in the Buckhorn Urban Renewal Project.
     1974
5792 4-25-  Sale of Parcel #4 in the Buckhorn Urban Renewal Project.
     1974
5796 5-9-   Authorizing sale of certain public lands being the north 25 feet of abandoned
     1974   Hecla Street.
5829 10-10- Sale of Parcel 3-1 of Buckhorn Urban Renewal Project.
     1974
Res. 10-10- Sale of Parcel 3-2 of Buckhorn Urban Renewal Project.
5830 1974
Res. 11-26- Authorizing sale of Parcel #16 of Buckhorn Urban Renewal Project.
5838 1974
75-5 2-13-  Sale of Parcel #1 of Buckhorn Urban Renewal Project.
     1975
75-  4-10-  Sale of Parcel #14 Buckhorn Urban Renewal Project.
21   1975
Res. 4-10-
75-  1975   Authorizing sale of Parcel #9 Buckhorn Urban Renewal.
32
75-  5-13-  Authorizing sale of Parcel #9 of Buckhorn Urban Renewal Project.
38   1975
Res. 6-12-
75-  1975   Authorizing sale of Parcels 1-5-15 in the Buckhorn Urban Renewal Project.
50
75-  7-12-  Authorizing sales of Parcels #1-5-15 of Buckhorn Urban Renewal Project to
60   1975   Federal Associates of Cleveland.
Res. 9-25-
75-  1975   Sale of Parcel #13 in Buckhorn Urban Renewal Project.
74
76-  2-26-  Authorizing purchase of Lots 216, 217 and 218.
11   1976
76-  7-22-  Authorizing purchase of property in vicinity of Fifth and Park Streets for
44   1976   off-street parking.
Res. 8-12-  Authorizing sale of Disposition Parcel No. 3-2 of Buckhorn Urban Renewal
76-  1976   Project.
47
76-  8-26-  Authorizing purchase of unsold land in connection with Buckhorn Urban Renewal
52   1976   Project.
76-  8-26-  Authorizing sale of Disposition Parcel No. 1 in Buckhorn Urban Renewal
56   1976   Project.
76-  12-1-  Authorizing sale of Disposition Parcel Nos. 3-2 and 3-2a in Urban Renewal
83   1976   Project area.
77-2 1-27-  Authorizing sale of Disposition Parcel No. 3-2a in Urban Renewal Project area.
     1977
77-7 2-24-  Authorizing purchase of Lots 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 in Murnahan Subdivision and
     1977   part of vacated Steel Alley.
77-  11-10- Authorizing sale of property in vicinity of N. Second Street. and northeast
65   1977   corner of Parcel 3-2 in Buckhorn Urban Renewal Project area.
78-6 1-19-  Authorizing sale of property in vicinity of N. Second Street and northeast
     1978   corner of Parcel 3-2 in Buckhorn Urban Renewal Project area.
78-  9-5-   Authorizing sale of 4.152 acres in Section 27, T. 1, R. 18.
55   1978
78-  11-9-  Authorizing sale of part of Lots 216, 217 and 218 of Ohio Iron and Coal Co.'s
59   1978   Addition.
79-1 1-25-  Authorizing purchase of Block 121 of Lombard Addition.
     1979
79-  9-13-  Authorizing purchase of part of Lots 768and 769 of Ohio Iron and Coal Co.'s
64   1979   Second Addition.
79-  9-25-  Authorizing sale of 44.26 acres in Sections 16 and 20, T.1, R.18.
65   1979
79-  10-25- Authorizing sale of Lots 97 through 102, and parts of Lots 127 through 132 of
68   1979   Ohio Iron and Coal Co.'s. Survey of the original Town of Ironton, and parts of
            vacated Cedar and Gold Alleys.
81-  4-2-   Authorizing sale of Lots 97 through 102 and parts of Lots 127 through 132 of
29   1981   Ohio Iron and Coal Co.'s Survey of Original Town of Ironton, and parts of
            vacated Cedar and Gold Alleys.
81-  4-2-   Authorizing sale of city property to Ironton Board of Education.
30   1981
81-  4-27-  Amends Ord. 81-30.
49   1981
81-  8-13-  Authorizing sale of part of Lots 133, 134 and 135 and Lots 94, 95 and 96 of
73   1981   Ohio Iron and Coal Co.'s Survey of Original Town of Ironton, and parts of
            vacated Cedar and Coal Alleys.
82-  7-22-  Authorizing sale of 44.26 acres in Sections 16 and 20, T.1, R.18.
36   1982
82-  8-26-  Authorizing sale of city-owned former urban renewal property.
42   1982
Res. 11-21- Authorizing transfer of parts of Lots 33 and 34 in West Ironton to County
83-  1983   Community Action Organization.
62
85-  10-10- Authorizing sale of 20.41 acres in Sections 16 and 20, T. 1, R.18, Upper
50   1985   Township, for a shopping center.
Res. 11-14-
85-  1985   Accepting ownership of Lots 16, 17 and 18 of Gallenstein Subdivision.
54
87-  2-26-  Authorizing sale of 1,134 sq. ft. of Tract D of Buckhorn Urban Renewal
11   1987   Project.
87-  2-26-  Authorizing sale of 11,160 sq. ft. of Tract D of Buckhorn Urban Renewal
12   1987   Project.
87-  3-12-  Authorizing sale of 810 sq. ft. of Tract D of Buckhorn Urban Renewal Project.
17   1987
87-  12-21- Amends Ord. 85-50.
60   1987
88-6 2-25-  Authorizing purchase of 1.39 acres.
     1988
88-  7-14-  Authorizing purchase of 1.04 acres (Parcel No. 34-0581400.000).
26   1988
Res. 7-11-  Authorizing the Mayor to advertise for bid to sell the east part of a 2.05
91-  1991   acre tract of land owned by the city in Lot No. 4.
40
91-  8-8-   To receive bids and sell a certain 1.65 acre parcel of city property.
39   1991
Res. 9-12-  Authorizing the Mayor to accept the best bid for a certain 1.65 acre parcel of
91-  1991   land owned by the city.
49
Res. 10-24-
91-  1991   To amend Res. 91-49 by adding a requirement from Ohio R.C. 721.01.
56
92-  2-20-  Authorizing the Mayor to purchase real estate located on part of Lot No. 10.
08   1992
92-  3-26-  Authorizing the Mayor to purchase real estate and the building thereon known
10   1992   as the J.C. Penney building.
93-  9-23-  Authorizing the Mayor to purchase real estate for off-street parking.
46   1993
94-  2-10-  Authorizing the Mayor to sell Parcel 16 of the Urban Renewal property.
02   1994
94-  8-11-  Authorizing the Mayor to offer municipal property located in B.F. Corey’s
26   1994   first addition for sale or lease.
94-  11-1-  Selling municipal property located in B.F. Corey’s first addition to the
41   1994   Ironton Park Avenue Corporation.
94-  - -    Authorizing the city to purchase certain property owned by the Ironton Board
44   1994   of Education.
95-  7-13-  Declaring municipal property located in B.F. Corey’s first addition unneeded
35   1995   and authorizing the Mayor to offer the property for sale or lease.
96-  3-14-  Authorizing the Mayor to sell certain municipal owned property.
17   1996
Res. 7-23-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a purchase agreement to acquire land for
98-  1998   downtown parking and development.
48
98-  12-1-  Authorizing the Mayor and Finance Director to purchase real property located
73   1998   at 520 and 520-1/2 South Fourth Street.
99-  3-11-  Authorizing the Mayor and Finance Director to purchase real property located
08   1999   on Jefferson Street and 3-1/2 Alley.
00-  1-27-  Authorizing the Mayor to publicly auction city owned property on Orchard
07   2000   Street.
00-  2-24-  Authorizing the Mayor to publicly auction city owned property on McPherson
08   2000   Street.
Res. 2-28-  Declining transfer of ownership of the existing Ironton-Russell bridge from
02-  2002   the Ohio Department of Transportation to the city.
08
Res. 6-27-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute a certain real estate purchase agreement with
02-  2002   Honeywell International, Inc.
41
02-  7-25-  Authorizing the Mayor to expend matching fund monies for the purchase of real
45   2002   estate to be used for the development of an industrial park.
03-  1-9-   Authorizing the Mayor to transfer a 25 foot strip of land to Lawrence Economic
01   2003   Development Corporation.
03-  1-9-   Authorizing the purchase of a 25 foot strip of land from the Ohio Department
02   2003   of Transportation.
03-  2-13-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract to sell 8.6 acres of city
10   2003   property to the State of Ohio.
03-  9-11-  Authorizing the Mayor to advertise for sealed bids regarding property owned by
48   2003   the city on the corner of Fifth Street and Park Avenue and to sell such
            property to the highest bidder.
04-  12-23- Authorizing the Mayor to execute a deed conveying certain property to the
104  2004   Ironton Port Authority.
05-  3-24-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute a deed for the fee simple conveyance of
18   2005   certain property to the State of Ohio.
05-  3-24-  Approving the conveyance of certain real property to the Board of Education of
24   2005   the Ironton School District and authorizing the Mayor to execute a deed to the
            property on behalf of the city.
05-  10-27- Authorizing the Mayor to execute a deed conveying property to the Ironton Port
99   2005   Authority.
06-  3-23-  Approving the purchase of real estate from the State of Ohio located 920
11   2006   Vernon Street.
06-  5-25-  Approving the conveyance of real estate owned by the city and located at 920
33   2006   Vernon Street for no consideration to the Ironton Port Authority.
06-  6-22-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute a deed conveying certain property to the
37   2006   Ironton Port Authority.
06-  7-13-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement with Ironton Iron, Inc. for
44   2006   the acquisition of certain real estate.
06-  7-13-  Authorizing the Mayor to advertise for sealed bids regarding property owned by
50   2006   the city located at 2200 South Seventh Street and sell the property to the
            highest bidder.
08-  12-11- Authorizing the Mayor to execute a deed conveying certain property to the
109  2008   Ironton Port Authority, as described in Exhibit A attached to Ord. 08-109.
Res. 3-25-  Transferring title of the property known as the RoNa Theater to the Ironton
10-  2010   Port Authority.
17
10-  5-13-  Authorizing the Mayor to purchase property described in Deed Volume 525, Page
26   2010   213.
10-  8-12-  Authorizing the Mayor to convey real estate to the State of Ohio.
46   2010
Res. 5-26-  Authorizing the City Council and the Mayor to accept the conveyance of real
11-  2011   estate commonly known as the Splash Park.
28
11-  5-26-  Authorizing the Mayor to convey real estate to Lawrence County.
21   2011
Res. 2-9-   Authorizing the City Council and the Mayor to accept the conveyance of the
12-  2012   real estate located at 2412 South 6th Street.
14
13-  2-13-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute a deed on behalf of the city which conveys
91   2014   certain real property.
14-  12-17- Authorizing the Mayor to execute a quitclaim deed or other appropriate
46   2014   document relinquishing a certain reversionary clause set forth in Lawrence
            County Official Record Vol. 650, Page 490.
17-  6-8-   Authorizing the Mayor to execute a quit claim deed conveying certain real
19   2017   property to Sherman Thompson OH TC, L.P., certain vacated portions of Third
            Street and Lawrence Street.
22-  4-6-   Authorizing the Mayor to purchase certain real estate from the Lawrence
18   2022   Economic Development Corporation.
Res. 4-13-  Authorizing the Mayor to purchase property known as Parcel Nos. 30-032-1700
23-  2023   and 30-032-1600 from James Laber, Mary K. Laber, Frank J. Laber, and James F.
25          Laber, II.
23-  - -    Authorizing the sale of Memorial Hall property.
43
23-  10-26- Directing the appropriation of properties owned by Raymond P. Lunsford,
68   2023   deceased, Leonard Jones, deceased, Dennis E. Justice and Elizabeth A. Justice,
            and Stephanie S. Brown.
Res. 3-28-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement to purchase the old Lombard
24-  2024   School Property being Parcel Nos. 36-102-0511.000 and 36-102-1700.000.
13
           
 
TABLE F: LEASE OF REAL PROPERTY
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
2925 -      Lease of part of Chronacher Hill to the Boy Scouts.
4472 -      Lease of municipal property.
4645 -      Lease of municipal real estate.
4671 -      Lease of municipal real estate.
4678 -      Lease of municipal real estate.
5471 8-13-  Authorizing lease of realty for recreational purposes.
     1970
5481 10-8-  Lease of real property lying between the east line of Second Street, the west
     1970   line of holdings of Norfolk and Western Railroad.
5612 5-11-  Lease of certain real property for purpose of providing Little League
     1972   baseball.
5629 6-22-  Lease of certain real property for purpose of providing Little League baseball
     1972   for a period of ten years.
5700 4-26-  Lease of former Ironton Tribune real property to its original owner.
     1973
5746 12-13- Authorizing lease of certain realty acquired from Norfolk and Western Railroad
     1973   for a period of ten years.
Res. 7-8-
76-  1976   Lease of property from County United Way for a playground.
43
Res. 7-22-
76-  1976   Lease of property from Ironton Board of Education for recreational facilities.
46
78-  11-9-  Lease of part of Lots 216, 217 and 218 of Ohio Iron and Coal Co.'s Addition.
59   1978
79-4 2-8-   Lease of part of 26.75 acre tract conveyed by J.C. Snyder.
     1979
79-  3-22-  Lease of city property in Section 17, T.1, R.18, First Ward, for boat dock and
19   1979   recreational facility.
79-  3-22-  Lease of property at intersection of Fourth Street and Vesuvius Street for
20   1979   little league ballfield and recreational facility.
81-  12-21- Lease of part of 26.75 acre tract conveyed by J.C. Snyder.
91   1981
Res. 6-28-  Lease of South part of 26.75 acre tract in Lots 10 and 12 through 17 of Ohio
84-  1984   Iron and Coal Co.'s Subdivision in Section 20, T.1, R.18.
26
Res. 7-12-
84-  1984   Amends Res. 84-26.
31
84-  12-13- Renews lease with Ohio Bell Telephone Co for .50 acre near city reservoir.
45   1984
87-  4-23-  Amends Ord. 5746.
19   1987
Res. 4-23-
87-  1987   Extends lease agreement with Jack Hager for Ironton boat dock.
26
Res. 4-23-
87-  1987   Lease of property northeast of N. Second Street for recreational purposes.
27
87-  12-21- Lease of river front property in vicinity of Center Street landing flood gate
67   1987   for restaurant and dock facility.
Res. 2-4-   Repeals Res. 87-26 and extends lease of city boat dock to Jack Hager for 5
88-  1988   years.
04
89-  2-9-   Lease of the old tunnel to Ironton Lions Club.
07   1989
89-  7-27-  Renews lease with Ohio Bell Co. for .50 acre near city reservoir.
32   1989
90-  5-31-  For the lease of certain downtown sidewalk areas.
30   1990
Res. 3-28-  Regarding the lease of certain river front rights from the vicinity of Kemp
91-  1991   Street downstream to Walnut Street and being approximately 4,000 feet.
26
91-  11-14- Authorizing the lease of property by the city lying between the south bank of
57   1991   Storms Creek and the north line of Pearl Street extended from the flood wall
            to the Ohio River.
91-  11-14- Authorizing the Mayor to bid by competitive negotiation and lease a parcel of
61   1991   property located near Mill Street.
91-  12-26- Amending the description of Ord. 91-57.
66   1991
92-  3-12-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a lease with the Ironton Little League.
15   1992
95-  5-25-  Authorizing the lease of property owned by the city located on the old
29   1995   filtration plant site.
96-  2-22-  Authorizing the Mayor to renew a lease with Ameritech Telephone Company.
04   1996
Res. 10-9-  Authorizing the Mayor to advertise for sealed bids to lease a parcel of land
97-  1997   located in Lot No. 12.
48
98-  2-12-  Authorizing the lease of city owned property located on Nixon Hill.
06   1998
Res. 8-26-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute the city’s consent to the partial agreement
99-  1999   of the lease interest from Phil’s Landing, Inc. to Robert Johnson.
43
Res. 10-27- Authorizing the Mayor to execute an assignment of lease in which Horizon
99-  1999   Personal Communications, Inc. is assigning it’s rights and obligations under a
54          lease dated 4-2-1998.
Res. 3-9-   Authorizing the Mayor to advertise for bid proposals to lease a certain parcel
00-  2000   of land for telecommunications purposes.
13
00-  4-13-  Authorizing the Mayor to advertise and accept bid proposals to lease a certain
23   2000   parcel of land for a boat dock and recreational facility.
03-  9-11-  Amending Ord. 87-19, authorizing the lease of the Depot Restaurant building.
49   2003
06-  10-26- Authorizing the transfer of lease designee for the Depot Restaurant building.
73   2006
Res. 6-19-  Approving assignment of lease from Tri-State Realty and Rentals to Bridgeview,
07-  2007   Inc.
55
09-  12-10- Authorizing a lease with Custom Tree Service for certain real estate owned by
62   2009   the city, located at the intersection of Lawrence Street Road and U.S. Route
            52.
11-  1-26-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a lease with the Ironton Little League for
70   2011   real estate for the use as baseball and softball fields.
14-  4-10-  Authorizing the leasing of the Depot Restaurant Building.
15   2014
Res. 7-13-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute a consent to sublease space at the request of
17-  2017   SBA Towers, LLC.
18
18-  8-9-   Authorizing the Mayor to execute a lease with the Ironton Lions Club.
34   2018
21-  5-13-  Authorizing the lease of property known as the former Ohio Department of
25   2021   Transportation (ODOT) Bridge Building and related facilities.
22-  4-6-   Authorizing the lease of a piece of property and building formerly known as
19   2022   the Wolohan/LEDC property and related facilities in the city to the Lawrence
            County Port Authority.
           
 
TABLE G: STREET GRADE LEVELS AND CHANGE OF STREET NAME
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.   Date Passed Description
241        -           Naming and marking.
300        -           Olive Street to Park Avenue.
309        -           Ellison Street.
310        -           Sycamore to Maple.
365        -           Elm Street.
386        -           Naming and marking.
437        -           Gold Alley to Darry Lane.
630        -           Heplar Street.
710        -           Ninth Street.
711        -           Fifth Street.
712        -           Seventh Street.
780        -           Sixth Street.
878        -           Seventh Street.
891        -           Third Street.
916        -           Mastin Avenue.
935        -           Spruce Street.
959        -           Fourth Street.
1072       -           Curb grade, Second Street.
1081       -           Curb grade, Walnut Street.
1082       -           Curb grade, Fifth Street.
1135       -           Curb grade, Mulberry Street.
1153       -           Ashtabula Street.
1154       -           Vine Street.
1155       -           Fourth Street.
1284       -           Lorain Street.
1320       -           Cedar Alley.
1340       -           Cedar Alley.
1360       -           Coal Alley.
1389       -           Gold Alley.
1393       -           Coal Alley.
1439       -           Gold Alley.
2361       -           Old County Road.
2510       -           Second Avenue to Second Street.
2714       -           Jersey Alley.
3027       -           Railroad crossing.
3049       -           Railroad crossing.
3508       -           Lorain Street.
76-3       2-17-1976   Loop Street to Susan Court.
93-47      9-23-1993   Renaming a section of Campbell Avenue to Bobby Bare
                       Boulevard.
95-52      9-14-1995   Renaming a section of Ellison Avenue to Bob Lutz Way.
                       To add to South Ninth Street, from Park Avenue to Maple
Res. 99-03 2-11-1999   Avenue, the commemorative name of Martin Luther King Jr.
                       Drive.
                      
 
TABLE H: ANNEXATION AND DETACHMENT OF TERRITORY
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.   Date Passed Description
                       Annexing certain property described in Plat Book 5,
5131       7-19-1965   pages 80, 81, 82, 83 and 84 of the County Recorder's
                       office and certain other territory adjacent thereto.
5203       4-28-1966   Detaching part of U. S. Route 52 previously annexed.
                       Annexing of certain realty being a part of Sections 16
5516       3-11-1971   and 20, Town 1, Range 18 in Upper Township, Lawrence
                       County.
88-47      11-21-1988  Annexing part of Sections 16 and 20, T. 1, R.18, Upper
                       Township.
90-14      2-8-1990    Annexing three acre tract of land for placement of a
                       restaurant sign.
90-52      8-15-1990   Accepting Mulberry Alley into the city.
Res. 00-19 4-13-1999   Offering city services to the area north of Lawrence
                       Street to be annexed into the city.
                       Authorizing the Mayor to sign a petition for the
Res. 99-62 12-21-1999  annexation of certain city owned properties in the
                       vicinity of Lawrence Street into the city.
00-30      7-13-2000   Annexing certain properties in the vicinity of Lawrence
                       Street.
                       Authorizing the detachment of 33.89 acres of land
21-10      3-25-2021   situated in the southwest quarter of the southeast
                       quarter of Section 21, T1, R18, of the Ohio River Survey
                       in Upper Township and the City of Ironton.
                      
 
TABLE I: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
4364     -            
4414     -            
4433     -            
4825     -            
4919     -            
5028     -            
5140     10-14-1965  Rezoning property on Park Avenue from Fifth Street to
                     Ninth Street to Business A.
5351     9-12-1968   Rezoning Lots 81-96 from Industrial to Residential A.
5449     5-14-1970   Zoning annexed area east of Liberty Avenue and Twelfth
                     Street and adjacent to State Route 141.
5610     5-11-1972   Rezoning Lots 67 through 78 of the Original Plat of the
                     City of Ironton to Business B-2.
84-19    5-24-1984   Area bounded by Sixth Street, Fourth Street, Ashtabula
                     Street and Cemetery Lane from R-2 to B-2.
86-46    8-28-1986   89.4 acres adjacent to Deep Cut Road, from R-2 to B-3.
87-29    6-8-1987    Property described in Ord. 86-53, from HS-1 to original
                     residential zoning.
                     Rezoning areas between Fourth Street and 6-1/2 Alley and
90-32    6-25-1990   between Quincy Street to certain portions on either side
                     of Washington Street from R-2 to R-1 District.
                     Rezoning areas between Sixth and Seventh Streets and
91-63    1-9-1992    Mulberry and Walnut Streets from R-2 to a Planned
                     Development District.
98-49    9-24-1998   Amending Ord. 91-63.
00-41    9-28-2000   Establishing zoning districts for the territory annexed to
                     the city by Ord. 00-30.
                     Rezoning the area between Sixth Avenue and the N and W
01-14    5-10-2001   right-of-way and between Means Street and the flood wall
                     from R-2 to B-2 District.
                     Rezoning the area between the centerline of South Seventh
                     Street and the line that follows the south right-of-way
04-17    4-22-2004   line of U.S. 52 and between the adjoining B-3 Zoning
                     District to the centerline of Old Hecla Road from R-2 to
                     R-3 District.
                     Rezoning the area between North Sixth Street and North
05-22    4-14-2005   Seventh Street and between Center Street and Gold Alley
                     from R-3 to B-3 District.
                     Rezoning approximately 13 acres beginning at the
10-56    9-9-2010    intersection of the east boundary line of U.S. Route 52
                     and the south boundary line of State Route 141 as Health
                     Care Service District (HS-1).
                     Rezoning the area zoned Health Service District by
                     Ordinance No. 87-53, adopted 12-3-87, as Residential
10-67    10-28-2010  District 2 (R-2), except the area from South Ninth Street
                     to South Eight Street between Pleasant Street and Kemp
                     Avenue as Residential District 1 (R-1).
10-68    11-8-2010   Amending Ordinance No. 10-56.
13-60    9-12-2013   Rezoning a 6 acre site to B-3 District.
18-17    7-26-2018   Rezoning parcels located in the 300 block and 400 block of
                     South 8th Street from R-3 to B-3 District.
                     Establishing boundaries for the Central Business District
                     zone as follows: from the Ohio River following Jefferson
                     Street to 3.5 Alley, then along 3.5 Alley from Jefferson
                     Street to Washington Street, then on Washington Street
                     from 3.5 Alley to South Fourth Street, then on South
                     Fourth Street from Washington Street to Vernon Street,
22-67    3-9-2022    then on Vernon Street from South Fourth Street to South
                     Fifth Street, then on South Fifth Street from Vernon
                     Street to Railroad Street, then on Railroad Street from
                     South Fifth Street to Market Street, then on Market Street
                     from Railroad Street to Lawrence Street, then on Lawrence
                     Street from Market Street to the Ohio River, and then
                     along the Ohio River back to the place of origin on the
                     Ohio River and an extension of Jefferson Street.
                    
 
TABLE J: CONTRACTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
Res. 8-26-  Authorizing the competition negotiation for the lease of space for
93-  1993   commercial development within the Ironton municipal Complex.
41
Res. 8-26-  Authorizing the competition negotiation of a part of Tract P (Parcel No.
93-  1993   16) of urban renewal property for commercial development.
44
95-  4-27-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with Robert Dalton to
24   1995   provide architectural services.
Res. 9-14-
95-  1995   Awarding certain construction contracts for the City Center.
58
Res. 2-22-  Agreement for contracting management services with the Lawrence Economic
96-  1996   Development Corporation for management of Ironton Industrial/Cabletron
14          complex.
96-  4-25-  Approving the contract with the American Federation of State, County and
27   1996   Municipal Employees, Local 771.
96-  5-9-   Canceling the existing street lighting agreement and authorizing the Mayor
26   1996   to enter into a new agreement for street lighting.
96-  6-27-  Approving the contract with the Ironton Fraternal Order of Police, Local
54   1996   75.
Res. 8-22-  Recommending a professional services contract be entered into with
96-  1996   Schonhardt and Associates for the city’s GAAP conversion.
67
Res. 10-10- Authorizing the Mayor to execute a certain landlord’s consent and waiver
96-  1996   agreement.
83
97-  6-24-  Approving the contract with the International Association of Fire
19   1997   Fighters, Local 532.
Res. 3-12-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute a certain contract with Texas Eastern
98-  1998   Transmission Corporation regarding the treatment of waste water.
22
98-  6-11-  Approving the contract re-opener agreement with the Ironton Fraternal
36   1998   Order of Police, Local 75.
Res. 8-27-  Recommending a professional services contract be entered into with
98-  1998   Schonhardt and Associates for the city’s GAAP conversion.
55
99-  4-8-   Approving the contract with the American Federation of State, County and
09   1999   Municipal Employees, Local 771.
Res. 9-23-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with the Huntington WV -
99-  1999   Ironton Ohio Empowerment Zone Board of Directors for year one projects.
50
00-  5-11-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with Woolpert Consultants
28   2000   for consulting engineering services for the Woodland bridge replacement
            project.
00-  10-12- Approving the contract with the International Association of Fire
49   2000   Fighters, Local 532.
Res. 10-12- Recommending a professional services contract be entered into with
00-  2000   Schonhardt and Associates for the city’s GAAP conversion.
50
01-  2-8-   Authorizing the Mayor award a contract for the disposal of municipal solid
05   2001   waste.
01-  6-28-  Authorizing the Mayor to award the contract for the construction of a
29   2001   sanitary sewer extension to the Lawrence Street area.
02-  1-10-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with Underwater Marine
01   2002   Contractors, Inc. for the in service repair of potable water storage tank
            #1.
02-  4-11-  Approving the contract with the American Federation of State, County and
14   2002   Municipal Employees, Local 771.
02-  8-22-  Approving the contract with the International Association of Fire
48   2002   Fighters, Local 532.
02-  8-22-  Approving the contract agreement with the Ironton Fraternal Order of
49   2002   Police, Local 75.
Res. 11-14- Recommending a professional services contract be entered into with
02-  2002   Schonhardt and Associates for the city’s GAAP conversion.
72
02-  11-25- Authorizing the Mayor to award the general construction trades contract
65   2002   for the construction of the new Fire Department facility.
02-  11-25- Authorizing the Mayor to award the plumbing trade contract for the
66   2002   construction of the new Fire Department facility.
02-  11-25- Authorizing the Mayor to award the heating, ventilation and air
67   2002   conditioning (HVAC) trade contract for the construction of the new Fire
            Department facility.
02-  11-25- Authorizing the Mayor to award the electrical trade contract for the
68   2002   construction of the new Fire Department facility.
02-  11-25- Authorizing the Mayor to award the fire protection trade contract for the
69   2002   construction of the new Fire Department facility.
02-  11-25- Authorizing the Mayor to execute an amendment to the contract with Cole
70   2002   and Russell Architects to authorize construction administration services
            during the construction of the new Fire Department facility.
03-  2-27-  Authorizing the Mayor to award the contract for clearing work associated
15   2003   with activities at the Nixon Hill water storage tank site.
03-  3-27-  Approving the contract with the American Federation of State, County and
17   2003   Municipal Employees, Local 771.
03-  3-27-  Approving the contract agreement with the Ironton Fraternal Order of
18   2003   Police, the Ohio Labor Council, Inc.
03-  3-27-  Authorizing the Mayor to award the contract for geotechnical engineering
23   2003   design services for the Center Street floodgate improvement project.
03-  6-12-  Authorizing a change order to the general construction trades contract for
32   2003   the construction of the new Fire Department facility.
03-  6-12-  Authorizing a change order to the plumbing trade contract for the
33   2003   construction of the new Fire Department facility.
03-  8-28-  Approving the contract with the International Association of Fire
47   2003   Fighters, Local 532.
03-  11-24- Authorizing a change order to the professional services contract with Cole
54   2003   and Russell Architects for the construction of the new Fire Department
            facility.
03-  11-24- Authorizing a change order to the fire sprinkler contractors trade
55   2003   contract for the construction of the new Fire Department facility.
03-  11-24- Authorizing a change order to the general construction trades contract for
56   2003   the construction of the new Fire Department facility.
03-  11-24- Authorizing a change order to the general construction trades contract for
57   2003   the construction of the new Fire Department facility.
03-  11-24- Authorizing a change order to the plumbing trade contract for the
58   2003   construction of the new Fire Department facility.
03-  11-24- Authorizing a change order to the HVAC trades contract for the
59   2003   construction of the new Fire Department facility.
03-  11-24- Authorizing a change order to the electrical trades contract for the
60   2003   construction of the new Fire Department facility.
03-  12-30- Authorizing the Mayor to award a contract for the disposal of municipal
70   2003   solid waste.
04-  1-8-   Amending the contracts with the various contractors for the construction
03   2004   of the Ironton fire station.
04-  1-24-  Authorizing the Mayor to award and enter into a contract for repair work
06   2004   for the Nixon Hill 4.5 Mil. gallon in-ground concrete potable water
            storage tank.
04-  3-11-  Amending the contract with the general trades contractor for the
15   2004   construction of the Ironton fire station.
04-  3-25-  Authorizing the Mayor to negotiate and then execute a contract with the
13   2004   lowest and best bidder for emergency repairs.
(B)
04-  4-22-  Amending the architectural services agreement for the design of the
33   2004   improvements to the third floor of the Ironton City Center.
04-  5-27-  Amending the contract with the general trades contractor for the
45   2004   construction of the Ironton fire station.
04-  5-27-  Amending the contract with the electrical contractor for the construction
46   2004   of the Ironton fire station.
Res. 6-10-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract for services agreement with
04-  2004   the Ironton-Lawrence County Area Community Action Organization, Inc.
50
04-  9-9-   Authorizing the Mayor to award and execute contracts for the downtown
79   2004   street enhancement project, to execute a deduct change order with the
            general contract.
04-  9-23-  Authorizing the Mayor to award and execute contracts for the Center Street
84   2004   floodgate improvement project, to execute a deduct change order on the
            Rail Commission contract - 3.
04-  10-14- Authorizing the Mayor to award and execute contracts for 2004 on-system
88   2004   street improvements project LPA - PID 22936.
Res. 6-11-
04-  2004   To award a management contract to Ron Reed.
54
04-  7-8-   Amending the contract with Distel Construction, Inc. for emergency repairs
65   2004   to the sewer lines.
Res. 1-13-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a water purchase contract with Hecla
05-  2005   Water Association, Inc.
02
Res. 2-24-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a confidentiality agreement with
05-  2005   Intermet Corporation.
30
05-  2-24-  Approving the contract with the American Federation of State, County and
34   2005   Municipal Employees, Local 771.
Res. 3-10-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into contracts for the collection of
05-  2005   delinquent utility bills.
43
05-  3-24-  Authorizing the Mayor to award a contract for the disposal of municipal
47   2005   solid waste.
Res. 4-14-  Authorizing the approval of the contract for services agreement with the
05-  2005   Ironton-Lawrence County Area Community Action Organization, Inc.
67
05-  4-28-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with Ballestra, Harr and
66   2005   Scherer for audit services.
05-  5-26-  Approving the contract with the Fraternal Order of Police and the Ohio
75   2005   Labor Council, Inc.
05-  7-14-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an LPA agreement with the Ohio
82   2005   Department of Transportation to facilitate the construction of the
            Ironton-Russell bridge.
05-  8-25-  Authorizing Mayor to execute an engineering services agreement with E.L.
91   2005   Robinson Engineering Company of Ohio for the preparation of a CSO long
            term control plan.
06-  2-9-   Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract for mechanical solids
02   2006   dewatering system.
Res. 2-13-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an instant bingo fund raising
06-  2006   contract.
12
06-  4-13-  Authorizing the Mayor to accept the bid of Fields Excavating, Inc. and
22   2006   execute a contract for the repairs of the Railroad Street sanitary sewer
            project.
06-  6-8-   Authorizing the Mayor to award a contract for the disposal of municipal
30   2006   solid waste.
Res. 7-13-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute on behalf of the city a collective
06-  2006   bargaining agreement between the city and American Federation of State,
47          County and Municipal Employees, Local 771.
06-  7-27-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute on behalf of the city a collective
51   2006   bargaining agreement between the city and American Federation of State,
            County and Municipal Employees, Local 771.
06-  9-28-  Approving the contract with the International Association of Fire
58   2006   Fighters, Local 532.
06-  9-28-  Approving the contract with the Fraternal Order of Police and the Ohio
60   2006   Labor Council, Inc.
06-  10-12- Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract for all renovations,
72   2006   improvements and leases for the depot.
06-  12-14- Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with Ironton Metropolitan
74   2006   Housing Authority.
07-  1-11-  Authorizing the Mayor to award and execute a contract for the sewerline,
02   2007   CSO discharge point and catch basin cleaning and internal sewerline
            inspection project.
07-  3-22-  Authorizing the Mayor to renew the contract for the disposal of municipal
12   2007   solid waste.
07-  4-26-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute on behalf of the city a collective
45   2007   bargaining agreement between the city and the Fraternal Order of Police
            and the Ohio Labor Council, Inc.
07-  5-24-  Authorizing the Mayor to award a contract for the Ironton water storage
52   2007   tank contract I site preparation.
08-  9-11-  Authorizing the Mayor to award and execute contracts for the South Fourth
92   2008   Street Improvement Project.
Res. 12-22-
08-  2008   Authorizing the Mayor to execute a Fifth Supplemental Tolling Agreement.
123
Res. 1-8-   Authorizing the execution of a revolving loan fund agreement the city and
09-  2009   the State of Ohio.
01
09-  1-22-  Authorizing a contract with Ohio University Southern Campus for additional
05   2009   police protection.
09-  2-19-  Authorizing a neighborhood stabilization program joint cooperation
15   2009   agreement.
Res. 3-12-  Authorizing approval of the contract for services agreement with the
09-  2009   Ironton-Lawrence County Area Community Action Organization, Inc. (CAO).
18
Res. 4-9-   Authorizing contracts with ODOT relating to the Safe Routes to School
09-  2009   Program.
22
Res. 4-23-  Authorizing fire protection mutual aid agreements with Carlettsburg
09-  2009   Refining, LLC, and the Departments of the Lawrence County Fire Fighters
28          Association.
Res. 5-28-
09-  2009   Authorizing the Mayor to sign a second tolling agreement.
32
09-  6-11-  Authorizing a collective bargaining agreement between the city and the
33   2009   Fraternal Order of Police, the Ohio Labor Council, Inc.
09-  6-11-  Authorizing a collective bargaining agreement between the city and the
34   2009   International Association of Firefighters.
09-  6-25-  Authorizing renewal of the contract for the disposal of municipal solid
38   2009   waste.
09-  8-13-  Authorizing extension of the contract for health insurance coverage for
39   2009   the employees of the city.
09-  9-10-  Authorizing renewal of the contract for the disposal of municipal solid
45   2009   waste.
09-  10-11- Authorizing an agreement with Mi-De-Con Construction Company to install
53   2009   the decking to the RO-NA Theater.
09-  10-11- Authorizing a contract for engineering and constructions services to
54   2009   install backflow preventers.
09-  10-11- Authorizing a contract with Southern Ohio Trenching Company to install
55   2009   backflow preventers.
09-  10-27- Authorizing an agreement with Fairfax Inc. Construction Company to install
59   2009   the roof on the RO-NA Theater.
09-  10-27- Authorizing a contract with Ironton Metropolitan Housing Authority for
60   2009   additional police protection.
09-  10-24- Authorizing a contract with Ohio University Southern Campus for additional
61   2009   police protection.
Res. 1-14-  Authorizing approval of the contract for services agreement with the
10-  2010   Ironton-Lawrence County Area Community Action Organization, Inc. (CAO).
01
10-  2-25-  Authorizing a contract with Brown/Raybourn and Associates for health
08   2010   insurance coverage.
10-  3-11-  Authorizing a contract for the purchase of a steelwheel roller for the
15   2010   year 2010.
Res. 4-8-   Authorizing a contract with Grubb and Ellis West Shell Commercial
10-  2010   Marketing Company to market the Ironton Iron Property.
19
10-  7-8-   Amending Ordinance No. 09-60 and authorizing an amended contract with
38   2010   Ironton Metropolitan Housing Authority.
10-  7-8-   Authorizing a contract with Rumpke Waste, Inc. for the disposal of
45   2010   municipal solid waste.
10-  10-28- Authorizing a contract with Ironton Metropolitan Housing Authority for
72   2010   additional police protection.
Res. 11-22- Authorizing a contract with Grant Source Professionals, LLC for police
10-  2010   equipment/vehicles.
83
10-  12-20- Authorizing a contract with Ohio University Southern Campus for additional
91   2010   police protection.
Res. 12-20- Authorizing a first responder contract with the Lawrence County Emergency
10-  2010   Medical Services.
92
Res. 1-27-  Authorizing a contract with City National Bank for services to utilize the
11-  2011   Ohio Business Gateway ACH functions.
06
11-  3-24-  Extending the contract with Brown/Raybourn and Associates for health
15   2011   insurance coverage for the employees of the city.
Res.        Authorizing the contract for services agreement with the Ironton-Lawrence
11-  4-14-  County Area CAO, Inc. to provide planning, grant application writing,
11   2011   administration and implementation activities utilizing grant monies
            received.
Res. 4-14-  Extending the current contract with Grubb and Ellis West Shell Commercial
11-  2011   Marketing Company to market the Ironton Iron Property.
18
11-  7-14-  Awarding a contract with Rumpke Waste, Inc. of Cincinnati for the disposal
38   2011   of municipal solid waste.
11-  8-25-  Awarding contracts for the Downtown Improvement Program.
49   2011
11-  9-22-  Authorizing a contract with E.L. Robinson Engineering to administer the
54   2011   construction of Depot Square.
11-  10-13- Authorizing a contract with Ironton Metropolitan Housing Authority for
55   2011   additional police protection.
Res. 1-24-
13-  2013   Authorizing an agreement for the Ironton signal improvements.
08
Res. 2-14-  Authorizing the contract for services agreement with the Ironton-Lawrence
13-  2013   County Area CAO, Inc.
13
13-  12-12- Authorizing a contract with Ohio University Southern Campus.
78   2013
Res. 2-13-  Authorizing a contract with the Ironton - Lawrence County Area Community
14-  2014   Action Organization, Inc.
02
14-  1-27-  Authorizing a contract with Brown Raybourn and Associates.
04   2014
14-  3-13-  Authorizing a contract with Ironton Metropolitan Housing Authority.
08   2014
14-  11-24- Authorizing a contract with Ironton Metropolitan Housing Authority.
43   2014
14-  12-17- Authorizing a contract with Ironton Metropolitan Housing Authority.
47   2014
15-  1-22-  Authorizing a contract with Brown Raybourn and Associates.
02   2015
15-  9-24-  Authorizing a contract with Ohio University Southern Campus.
33   2015
16-  1-28-  Authorizing a contract with Brown Raybourn and Associates.
03   2016
Res. 2-11-  Authorizing a contract with the Ironton - Lawrence County Area Community
16-  2016   Action Organization, Inc.
06
16-  3-24-  Authorizing a contract with Ironton Metropolitan Housing Authority.
19   2016
Res. 4-28-
16-  2016   Authorizing a contract with AT&T.
22
16-  8-11-  Authorizing a contract with Champion Energy Services.
35   2016
16-  1-12-  Authorizing a contract with Ironton Metropolitan Housing Authority.
52   2017
16-  1-12-  Authorizing a contract with Brown Raybourn and Associates.
56   2017
Res. 1-26-  Authorizing a contract with the Ironton - Lawrence County Area Community
17-  2017   Action Organization, Inc.
03
Res. 7-13-  Authorizing a contract with the State of Ohio, Department of
17-  2017   Transportation.
27
17-  8-24-  Authorizing a contract with Ohio University Southern Campus.
31   2017
17-  12-28- Authorizing a contract with Ironton Metropolitan Housing Authority.
52   2017
18-  1-25-  Authorizing a contract with Brown Raybourn and Associates.
02   2018
Res. 3-8-   Authorizing a contract with the Ironton - Lawrence County Area Community
18-  2018   Action Organization, Inc.
03
18-  2-8-   Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with Ohio University
06   2018   Southern Campus.
18-  10-25- Authorizing the Mayor to award contracts for the disposal of municipal
54   2018   solid waste.
18-  11-19- Authorizing a contract with Brown Raybourn and Associates.
61   2018
19-  1-24-  Authorizing a contract with Schonhardt & Associates.
04   2019
19-  2-14-  Authorizing a contract with the Ohio Auditor of State.
07   2019
19-  3-14-  Authorizing a contract with Ironton Metropolitan Housing Authority.
19   2019
19-  7-25-  Authorizing a contract with Connhurst, LLC.
42   2019
19-  7-25-  Authorizing a contract with Connhurst, LLC.
43   2019
19-  7-25-  Authorizing a contract with C.W. Electric of Ashland, KY.
44   2019
Res. 7-11-  Authorizing the City Finance Director to enter into a sweep account
19-  2019   agreement with City National Bank.
46
19-  8-8-   Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an agreement with the Ohio
49   2019   Department of Transportation to provide the bridge inspection set forth in
            the FHWA’s bridge metrics and ODOYT PID 109334.
Res. 8-22-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a water/wastewater agency response
19-  2019   network mutual aid agreement.
50
19-  11-14- Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute on behalf of the city a
68   2019   collective bargaining agreement with the International Association of
            Firefighters.
19-  12-12- Authorizing a contract with Brown Raybourn and Associates.
79   2019
19-  12-26- Authorizing a contract with Rebuild-It Services Group, LLC.
81   2019
19-  12-26- Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute on behalf of the city a
84   2019   collective bargaining agreement with AFSCME Local 771.
20-  1-9-   Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with E.L. Robinson
01   2020   Engineering Company of Ohio, Inc.
20-  1-9-   Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute on behalf of the city a
02   2020   collective bargaining agreement with FOP Local #75.
20-  1-27-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an emergency contract with E&I
05   20     Corporation.
20-  2-13-  Authorizing the Mayor to award contracts for the disposal of municipal
07   2020   solid waste.
Res. 2-13-  Authorizing the approval of the contract for services agreement with the
20-  2020   Ironton-Lawrence County Area Community Action Organization, Inc. (CAO).
08
20-  2-27-  Authorizing a contract between the City of Ironton and the Ohio Auditor of
12   2020   State.
20-  3-26-  Authorizing a contract with Ironton Metropolitan Housing Authority.
23   2020
20-  3-26-  Authorizing a contract with Ironton Metropolitan Housing Authority.
23   2020
20-  5-28-  Authorizing a contract with Great Lakes Community Action Partnership.
35   2020
20-  6-25-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a change order to the existing
42   2020   contract with Rebuild-It Services Group, LLC.
20-  7-23-  Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an agreement with Southern
51   2020   Ohio Trenching and Excavating, Inc. for construction of the water
            treatment facility filter effluent valve replacement.
Res.        Authorizing the city to enter into a marketing agreement with Utility
20-  8-13-  Service Partners Private Label, Inc. for advertisement to the City’s
54   2020   residents of warranty plans for repairs of external water lines, external
            sewer lines, and in- home plumbing on residential property.
20-  9-3-   Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a master consulting services agreement
59   2020   with IBI Group.
20-  10-8-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with ABM Building
65   2020   Solutions, LLC to perform investment grade audits.
20-  11-12- Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute on behalf of the city a
67   2020   collective bargaining agreement with the International Association of
            Firefighters.
Res. 10-22- Permitting the Chairman of Council to enter into a contract with Dave
20-  2020   Lucas Communications for the purpose of live streaming City Council
68          meetings.
20-  11-12- Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute on behalf of the city a
70   2020   collective bargaining agreement with the Fraternal Order of Police, Ohio
            Labor Council.
20-  11-23- Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute on behalf of the city a
74   2020   collective bargaining agreement with Local 771 and American Federation of
            State, County, and Municipal Employees, AFL- CIO.
21-  1-14-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract for health insurance
01   2021   coverage for the employees of the city.
21-  1-28-  Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute on behalf of the city an
02   2021   amended collective bargaining agreement with the Fraternal Order of
            Police, Ohio Labor Council.
Res. 3-25-  Authorizing the approval of the contract for services agreement with the
21-  2021   Ironton-Lawrence County Area Community Action Organization, Inc. (CAO).
14
21-  4-8-   Authorizing and directing the Mayor to enter into a contract with Ironton
16   2021   Metropolitan Housing Authority.
Res. 4-8-   Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract for the installation of
21-  2021   flow meters.
17
21-  - -    Authorizing the city to enter into energy savings contracts with ABM
19   2021   Facility Support Services.
Res. 4-22-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract for the purchase of a skid
21-  2021   steer.
20
Res. 6-10-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract for the purchase of three
21-  2021   new police vehicles.
37
21-  12-23- Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract for health insurance
63   2021   coverage for employees of the city.
21-  12-23- Authorizing the Finance Director to enter into a three-year contract with
67   2021   Schonhardt and Associates.
22-  1-27-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with IBI Group Engineering
03   2022   Services (USA), Inc. for professional services for the design of the
            Batham Lane and Orchard Avenue sewer projects.
22-  3-10-  Authorizing amendment to the ABM facility support services bundled energy
10   2022   solutions project.
Res. 3-10-  Authorizing the approval of the contract for services agreement with the
22-  2022   Ironton-Lawrence County Are Community Action Organization, Inc. (CAO).
12
22-  4-14-  Authorizing and directing the Mayor to enter into a contract with Ironton
22   2022   Metropolitan Housing Authority.
22-  4-28-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into contracts with the Director of
23   2022   Transportation concerning resurfacing of U.S. 52.
22-  6-9-   Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with the Shelly Company.
29   2022
22-  10-13- Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with Liftnow Automotive
52   2022   Equipment Corp.
22-  10-13- Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with Rick Eplion Paving,
53   2022   Inc.
22-  10-27- Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a consulting services agreement with
55   2022   IBI Group.
22-  11-10- Authorizing the Finance Director to enter into a contract with Software
59   2022   Solutions.
22-  11-10- Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a change order contract with IBI Group
60   2022   Engineering Services (USA), Inc.
22-  11-21- Authorizing the Mayor to enter into the Emergency Water Purchase Agreement
66   2022   between the Village of Coal Grove and the City of Ironton.
23-  1-26-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into contract with Britten Inc.
02   2023
23-  3-23-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute a collective bargaining agreement between
21   2023   the city and IAFF, Local 532 for the contract beginning 04/01/2023 and
            ending 03/31/2026.
23-  4-13-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with Ironton Metropolitan
26   2023   Housing Authority.
Res. 4-13-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute and enter into an administrative contract
23-  2023   with the Ohio Valley Regional Development Commission.
31
23-  4-17-  Approving natural gas aggregation program agreement with Constellation
32   2023   NewEnergy.
23-  4-17-  Approving electric aggregation program agreement with Dynegy Energy
33   2023   Services (East), LLC d/b/a Dynegy Energy Services, LLC.
Res. 6-22-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a settlement agreement with Duane
23-  2023   Russell.
41
Res. 6-22-  Authorizing the city to enter into a water pollution control loan fund
23-  2023   agreement on behalf of the City Council.
42
Res. 7-13-  Authorizing the execution of an electric supply agreement with Dynegy
23-  2023   Energy Services, LLC.
47
23-  7-27-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with Rick Eplion Paving,
50   2023   Inc.
23-  8-24-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a professional engineering consulting
52   2023   services contract with Arcadis Engineering Services (USA) Inc.
Res. 8-24-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into Addendum #1 Joint Development
23-  2023   Agreement.
53
Res. 9-14-
23-  2023   Authorizing the execution of the legal services agreement with the Firm.
56
Res. 9-28-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with Allard Excavation,
23-  2023   LLC.
61
Res. 9-28-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with Allard Excavation,
23-  2023   LLC.
62
Res. 9-28-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with Southern Ohio
23-  2023   Trenching & Excavating Inc.
63
23-  10-26- Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with Ironton Metropolitan
69   2023   Housing Authority.
Res. 10-26- Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with Southern Ohio
23-  2023   Trenching and Excavating, Inc.
70
23-  12-14- Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with Brown Raybourn and
77   2023   Associates.
24-  1-25-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract for services agreement with
03   2024   the Ironton-Lawrence County Area Community Action Organization, Inc.
24-  2-8-   Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with Rumpke of Ohio, Inc.
05   2024
24-  5-20-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with Southern Ohio
18   2024   Trenching & Excavating, Inc.
24-  5-20-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into contract with ODOT.
21   2024
Res. 5-20-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into Addendum #2 Joint Development
24-  2024   Agreement.
22
24-  5-20-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with Allard Excavation,
23   2024   LLC.
Res. 5-20-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an electricity aggregation agreement
24-  2024   through Aspen Energy Corp.
24
Res. 6-13-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with Corky Wells Electric,
24-  2024   Inc.
25
Res. 8-8-   Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with Allard Excavation,
24-  2024   LLC.
30
Res. 8-22-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a pollution control loan fund (WPCLF)
24-  2024   agreement with the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency and the Ohio Water
35          Development Authority.
Res. 10-10- Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a pollution control loan fund (WPCLF)
24-  2024   agreement with the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency and the Ohio Water
40          Development Authority.
24-  11-19- Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with West End Electric Co.,
43   2024   Inc.
24-  11-19- Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a professional services agreement with
45   2024   ARCADIS Engineering Services.
24-  11-19- Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a professional services agreement with
46   2024   ARCADIS Engineering Services.
 
 
TABLE K: ENTERPRISE ZONE AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Consenting to the execution of an enterprise zone
                     agreement between the Board of County Commissioners of
95-05    2-26-1995   Lawrence County and Muth Lumber Company and associated
                     partnership and corporation for reinvestment and job
                     creation within the enterprise zone of the city.
                     Authorizing an amendment to the enterprise zone agreement
95-67    11-20-1995  between the Board of County Commissioners of Lawrence
                     County and Muth Lumber Company.
                     Authorizing an amendment to the enterprise zone agreement
95-68    11-20-1995  between the Board of County Commissioners of Lawrence
                     County and Ironton Iron, Inc.
                     Consenting to the execution of an enterprise zone
                     agreement between the Board of County Commissioners of
96-11    2-8-1996    Lawrence County and Cabletron Systems, Inc. for
                     reinvestment and job creation within the enterprise zone
                     of the city.
                     Consenting to the execution of an enterprise zone
                     agreement between the Board of County Commissioners of
00-33    7-13-2000   Lawrence County and Liebert North America, Inc. for
                     reinvestment and job creation within the enterprise zone
                     of the city.
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
Historical References to Ohio Revised Code
References to Ohio Administrative Code
References to 1976 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
HISTORICAL REFERENCES TO OHIO REVISED CODE
ORC Section Code Section
ORC Section                            Code Section
1.01                                   202.01
1.02                                   202.02
1.05                                   202.02
1.14                                   202.03
1.15                                   202.03
1.23                                   202.05
1.42                                   202.03
1.43                                   202.03
1.44                                   202.02
1.45                                   202.03
1.50                                   202.06
1.55                                   202.05
1.57                                   202.04
1.58                                   202.04
1.59                                   202.02
128.01(A)                              606.31
128.96(F) - (H)                        606.31
128.99(A), (B)                         606.31
701.01                                 202.02
723.011                                660.05
901.51                                 642.06
901.99(A)                              642.06
925.62                                 618.06
925.99(B)                              618.06
951.02                                 618.01
951.99                                 618.01
955.10                                 618.095
955.11(A)                              618.01
955.21                                 618.08
955.22                                 618.01
955.222                                618.01
955.24                                 618.09
955.25                                 618.10
955.54                                 618.20
955.99(B)                              618.09,
                                       618.10
955.99(E)                              618.08
955.99(E) - (H)                        618.01
955.99(J)                              618.01
955.99(L) - (N)                        618.01
955.99(O)                              618.20
955.99(P), (Q)                         618.01
959.01                                 618.02
959.02                                 618.03
959.03                                 618.04
959.13                                 618.05
959.131                                618.05
959.99(B)                              618.03
959.99(C)                              618.04
959.99(D)                              618.05,
                                       618.17
959.99(E)                              618.05
959.99(E)(3)                           618.02
1349.17                                642.155
1349.99                                642.155
2901.01                                606.01
2901.02                                606.03
2901.03                                606.04
2901.04                                606.05
2901.09                                606.32
2901.11                                606.055
2901.13                                606.06
2901.21                                606.07
2901.22                                606.02
2901.23                                606.08
2901.24                                606.09
2903.05                                636.01
2903.06                                434.08
2903.08(A)(3), (C)(3), (D)(3), (E)-(G) 434.08
2903.09                                636.001
2903.10                                636.22
2903.13                                636.02
2903.14                                636.03
2903.16                                636.22
2903.21                                636.04
2903.211                               636.055
2903.22                                636.05
2903.31                                636.19
2903.311                               636.19
2905.03                                636.06
2905.12                                636.09
2907.01                                666.01
2907.04                                666.02
2907.06                                666.03
2907.08                                666.05
2907.09                                666.04
2907.10                                666.06
2907.23                                666.07
2907.231                               666.07
2907.24                                666.08
2907.241                               666.085
2907.25                                666.09
2907.26                                666.10
2907.31                                666.11
2907.311                               666.115
2907.33                                666.14
2907.35                                666.15
2907.36                                666.16
2907.37                                666.17
2907.38                                666.19
2907.39                                666.20
2907.40                                666.21
2909.01                                642.01
2909.03                                642.09
2909.06                                642.10
2909.07                                642.11
2909.08(A) - (E)                       672.11
2909.09                                642.10
2909.10                                642.38
2909.101                               642.38
2909.11(B) - (D)                       642.25
2909.31                                606.30
2911.21                                642.12
2911.211                               642.125
2911.23                                642.12
2911.32                                642.13
2913.01                                642.01
2913.02                                642.02
2913.03                                642.04
2913.04                                642.05
2913.07                                642.38
2913.11                                642.14
2913.21                                642.15
2913.31(B)                             642.31
2913.31(C)(2)                          642.31
2913.32                                642.32
2913.33                                642.16
2913.40                                642.35
2913.401                               642.35
2913.41                                642.17
2913.42                                642.18
2913.43                                642.19
2913.44                                642.20
2913.441                               606.26
2913.45                                642.21
2913.47                                642.33
2913.48                                642.34
2913.51                                642.22
2913.61(B) - (E)                       642.24
2913.71                                642.03
2913.72                                642.30
2915.01                                630.01
2915.02(A) - (G), (K)                  630.02
2915.03                                630.03
2915.04                                630.04
2915.05                                630.05
2915.06                                630.14
2915.061                               630.14
2915.09                                630.06
2915.091                               630.10
2915.092                               630.11
2915.093                               630.12
2915.094                               630.13
2915.10                                630.07
2915.11                                630.08
2915.12                                630.09
2915.13                                630.12
2915.14                                630.15
2917.01                                648.11
2917.03                                648.01
2917.031                               648.01
2917.04                                648.02
2917.05                                648.03
2917.11                                648.04
2917.12                                648.05
2917.13                                648.06
2917.14                                648.13
2917.21                                636.15
2917.211                               666.23
2917.31                                648.07
2917.32                                648.08
2917.40                                636.18
2917.41                                642.28
2919.18                                636.24
2919.21                                636.10
2919.22(A) - (E)                       636.11
2919.22(H)                             636.11
2919.23                                636.12
2919.24                                636.13
2919.25                                636.17
2919.27                                636.055
2921.01                                606.01
2921.13                                606.10
2921.14                                606.28
2921.21                                606.11
2921.22                                606.12
2921.23                                606.13
2921.29                                606.30
2921.31                                606.14
2921.32                                606.14
2921.321                               642.29
2921.33                                606.16
2921.331(A) - (C)                      606.165
2921.331(E)                            606.165
2921.331(F)                            606.165
2921.36                                612.09
2921.42                                606.17
2921.43                                606.18
2921.44                                606.19
2921.45                                606.20
2921.51                                606.25
2921.52(A) - (D)                       606.29
2923.02                                606.21
2923.03                                606.22
2923.11                                672.01
2923.11                                672.10
2923.12                                672.02
2923.1211(B)                           672.14
2923.1211(C)                           672.14
2923.1212                              672.14
2923.122(C) - (G)                      672.13
2923.126                               672.14
2923.131                               672.025
2923.15                                672.03
2923.16                                672.04
2923.162                               672.095
2923.18                                672.05
2923.19                                672.06
2923.20                                672.07
2923.201                               672.15
2923.211                               672.085
2923.24                                672.12
2925.01                                624.01
2925.03(A) - (C), (I)                  624.02
2925.04(A), (B), (C)(5), (G)           624.025
2925.11                                624.03
2925.12                                624.04
2925.13(A) - (C), (F)                  624.05
2925.14                                624.14
2925.141                               624.14
2925.31                                624.07
2925.32(B)(4)                          624.073
2925.32(D)(2)                          624.073
2925.32(F)                             624.073
2925.32(G)                             624.073
2925.33                                624.074
2925.34                                624.17
2925.36(A) - (C)                       624.08
2925.37(A)                             624.15
2925.37(G)                             624.15
2925.50                                624.11
2925.51                                624.10
2925.511                               624.10
2925.55                                624.16
2925.56                                624.16
2925.57                                624.16
2925.58                                624.16
2925.62                                624.18
2927.02                                636.20
2927.021                               636.20
2927.022                               636.20
2927.023                               636.20
2927.024                               636.20
2927.03                                636.23
2927.11                                642.06
2927.12                                636.21
2927.15                                636.25
2927.17                                666.22
2927.21                                698.02
2929.22                                698.03
2929.23                                666.99
2929.24                                698.02
2929.25                                698.02
2929.26                                698.02
2929.27                                698.02
2929.28                                698.02
2929.31                                698.04
2929.41                                698.05
2935.041                               606.23
2935.36(E)                             698.01
2981.07                                642.36
2981.11                                606.24
2981.12                                606.24
2981.13(A)                             606.24
3701.81                                660.02
3701.82                                660.01
3701.99(B)                             660.01
3701.99(C)                             660.02
3715.05                                624.16
3715.06                                624.16
3716.11                                636.16
3716.99(C)                             636.16
3719.01                                624.01
3719.011                               624.01
3719.013                               624.01
3719.08(A)                             624.13
3719.08(E)                             624.13
3719.172(A)                            624.09
3719.172(B)                            624.09
3719.19                                624.11
3719.99(C)                             624.13
3719.99(E)                             624.09
3737.34                                1610.04
3737.51(A)                             1610.05
3737.51(B) to (H)                      1610.99
3737.61                                1610.06
3737.62                                1610.07
3737.63                                1610.08
3737.64                                1610.09
3737.65                                1610.10
3737.99(B)                             1610.99
3737.99(C)                             1610.99
3737.99(D)                             1610.99
3737.99(E)                             1610.99
3743.01                                672.10
3743.45                                672.10
3743.54                                672.10
3743.60(E) - (L)                       672.10
3743.61(E) - (L)                       672.10
3743.63                                672.10
3743.64                                672.10
3743.65(A) -  (E), (G), (H)            672.10
3743.66                                672.10
3743.68(B)                             672.10
3743.80                                672.10
3743.99 (C), (D), (F) - (H)            672.10
3767.13                                660.04
3767.29                                660.06
3767.32                                660.03
3767.99(B)                             660.06
3767.99(C)                             660.03,
                                       660.04
3780.36                                624.19
3780.99                                624.19
3781.55                                666.06
3791.031                               660.13
4301.01                                612.01
4301.22(A)(2)                          612.10
4301.22(B)                             612.03
4301.244                               612.01
4301.62                                612.07
4301.63                                612.02
4301.631                               612.10
4301.633                               612.02
4301.634                               612.02
4301.637                               612.06
4301.64                                612.04
4301.65                                612.11
4301.69                                612.02
4301.70                                612.06
                                       612.06,
4301.99(A)                             612.07,
                                       612.11
4301.99(B)                             612.04,
                                       612.10
4301.99(C)                             612.02
4301.99(D)                             612.02,
                                       612.03
4301.99(E)                             612.02,
                                       612.10
4301.99(F)                             612.02
4301.99(H)                             612.03
4301.99(I)                             612.02
4301.99(J)                             612.11
4303.202(D)(2)                         612.08
4303.208(C)                            612.08
4303.25                                612.05
4303.99(D)                             612.08
4501.01(LL)                            402.075
4501.01(TT)                            416.12
4503.11(A)                             436.09
4503.11(D)                             436.09
4503.111                               436.09
4503.12(A), (D)                        436.09
4503.21(A)                             436.09
4503.21(B)                             436.09
4505.18                                436.08
4506.01                                442.01
4506.011                               442.02
4506.04(A)                             442.03
4506.04(B)                             442.03
4506.04(C)                             442.03
4506.10(A)                             442.04
4506.10(E)                             442.04
4506.12(F)                             442.03
4506.12(I)                             442.03
4506.15                                442.05
4506.19                                442.06
4506.20                                442.07
4506.23                                442.08
4507.02(A)(1)                          436.01
4507.02(A)(2)                          436.02
4507.03                                436.01
4507.04                                436.01
4507.05(I)                             436.03
4507.05(F)                             436.03
4507.071(B) - (J)                      436.035
4507.213                               436.01
4507.30                                436.04
4507.35                                436.06
4507.99                                436.02
4509.102                               606.10
4510.037(J)                            436.071
                                       436.071,
4510.04                                436.073,
                                       436.074,
                                       436.075
4510.05                                408.03,
                                       698.07
4510.11                                436.071
4510.111                               436.071
4510.12                                436.072
4510.14                                436.073
4510.16                                436.074
4510.21                                436.075
4510.44                                434.011
4511.01(A)                             402.53
4511.01(B)                             402.20
4511.01(C)                             402.21
4511.01(D)                             402.12
4511.01(E)                             402.29
4511.01(F)                             402.37
4511.01(G)                             402.05
4511.01(H)                             402.22
4511.01(I)                             402.077
4511.01(J)                             402.02
4511.01(K)                             402.50
4511.01(L)                             402.06
4511.01(M)                             402.50
4511.01(N)                             402.38
4511.01(O)                             402.26
4511.01(P)                             402.30
4511.01(Q)                             402.32
4511.01(T)                             402.13
4511.01(U)                             402.14
4511.01(V)                             402.17
4511.01(W)                             402.25
4511.01(X)                             402.24
4511.01(Y)                             402.11
4511.01(Z)                             402.27
4511.01(AA)                            402.195
4511.01(BB)                            402.44
4511.01(CC)                            402.09
4511.01(DD)                            402.28
4511.01(EE)                            402.35
4511.01(FF)                            402.39
4511.01(GG)                            402.19
4511.01(HH)                            402.45
4511.01(II)                            402.398
4511.01(JJ)                            402.40
4511.01(KK)                            402.18
4511.01(LL)                            402.10
4511.01(MM)                            402.36
4511.01(NN)                            402.07
4511.01(OO)                            402.33
4511.01(PP)                            402.52
4511.01(QQ)                            402.48
4511.01(RR)                            402.49
4511.01(SS)                            402.31
4511.01(TT)                            402.47
4511.01(UU)                            402.34
4511.01(VV)                            402.355
4511.01(WW)                            402.165
4511.01(XX)                            402.03
4511.01(YY)                            402.16
4511.01(ZZ)                            402.14
4511.01(AAA)                           402.46
4511.01(BBB)                           402.42
4511.01(CCC)                           402.04
4511.01(DDD)                           402.335
4511.01(EEE)                           402.225
4511.01(FFF)                           402.077
4511.01(GGG)                           402.02
4511.01(HHH)                           402.227
4511.01(III)                           402.275
4511.01(JJJ)                           402.345
4511.01(KKK)                           402.045
4511.01(LLL)                           402.179
4511.01(MMM)                           402.177
4511.01(NNN)                           402.197
4511.01(OOO)                           402.277
4511.01(PPP)                           402.385
4511.01(RRR)                           402.54
4511.01(SSS)                           402.115
4511.01(TTT)                           402.115
4511.01(UUU)                           402.115
4511.01(WWW)                           402.196
4511.03                                432.18
4511.031                               414.10
4511.04                                402.175,
                                       404.03
4511.041                               404.035
4511.042                               404.035
4511.05                                404.04
4511.051                               412.05
4511.12(A)                             414.01
4511.12(B)                             414.01
4511.121(A)-(C)                        414.01
4511.121(D)                            414.01
4511.121(E)                            414.01
4511.13                                414.03
4511.131                               414.04
4511.132                               432.155
4511.14                                414.05
4511.16                                414.07
4511.17                                414.07
4511.18                                414.09
4511.181                               434.01
4511.19(A) - (F)                       434.01
4511.19(G) - (M)                       434.01
4511.191(A)                            434.01
4511.191(D)                            434.01
4511.192                               434.01
4511.194                               434.01
4511.20                                434.02
4511.201                               434.02
4511.202                               434.025
4511.203                               436.05
4511.204                               432.44
4511.205                               432.45
4511.21(A) - (G)                       434.03
4511.21(O)                             434.03
4511.21(P)                             434.03
4511.211                               434.035
4511.213                               432.195
4511.214                               434.09
4511.215                               434.09
4511.216                               434.09
4511.22                                434.04
4511.23                                434.05
4511.24                                434.06
4511.25                                432.01
4511.251                               434.07
4511.26                                432.01
4511.27                                432.03
4511.28                                432.04
4511.29                                432.05
4511.30                                432.06
4511.31                                432.07
4511.32                                432.28
4511.33                                432.08
4511.34                                432.09
4511.35                                432.29
4511.36                                432.10
4511.37                                432.11
4511.38                                432.12
4511.39                                432.13
4511.40                                432.14
4511.41                                432.15
4511.42                                432.16
4511.43                                432.17
4511.431                               432.20
4511.432                               432.205
4511.44                                432.20
4511.441                               416.09
4511.45                                432.19
4511.451                               432.21
4511.452                               416.08
4511.454                               432.19
4511.46                                416.01
4511.47                                416.02
4511.48                                416.03
4511.481                               416.10
4511.49                                416.04
4511.491                               416.11
4511.50                                416.04
4511.51                                416.06
4511.511                               416.07
4511.512                               416.12
4511.513                               416.13
4511.514                               416.14
4511.52                                474.01
4511.521                               474.11
4511.522                               474.14
4511.53                                474.02
4511.54                                474.03
4511.55                                474.04
4511.56                                474.05
4511.60                                432.27
4511.61                                432.32
4511.62                                432.31
4511.63                                432.32
4511.64                                432.33
4511.65                                414.02
4511.66                                452.01
4511.661                               452.06
4511.67                                452.02
4511.68                                452.03
4511.681                               452.055
4511.69                                452.04
4511.70                                432.23,
                                       452.07
4511.701                               440.08
4511.71                                432.24
4511.711                               432.22
4511.712                               432.34
4511.713(A)                            432.39
4511.713(B)                            432.39
4511.714                               432.24
4511.72                                432.24
4511.73                                432.26
4511.74                                412.01
4511.75                                432.30
4511.79                                442.09
4511.81(A)-(G)                         438.29
4511.81(J)                             438.29
4511.82                                432.40
4511.84                                432.41
4511.85                                440.12
4511.99                                408.02
4511.991                               408.02
4513.02(A)                             438.01
4513.02(H)                             438.01
4513.021                               438.27
4513.03                                438.02
4513.04                                438.03
4513.05                                438.04
4513.06                                438.05
4513.07                                438.06
4513.071                               438.26
4513.08                                438.06
4513.09                                438.08
4513.10                                438.09
4513.11                                438.10
4513.111                               438.10
4513.112                               438.10
4513.113                               438.10
4513.114                               438.10
4513.115                               438.10
4513.12                                438.11
4513.13                                438.12
4513.15                                438.14
4513.16                                438.15
4513.17                                438.16
4513.171                               438.165
4513.182                               438.17
4513.19                                438.18
4513.20                                438.19
4513.21                                438.20
4513.22                                438.21
4513.23                                438.22
4513.24                                438.23
4513.241(C) - (J)                      438.24
4513.241(K)                            438.24
4513.263                               438.30
4513.28                                440.11
4513.29                                440.04
4513.30                                438.25
4513.31                                440.06
4513.32                                440.05
4513.34                                440.01
4513.36                                404.02
4513.361                               404.08
4513.60                                452.055
4513.601                               452.055
4513.61                                452.05
4513.64                                452.05
4513.66                                436.14
4513.68                                436.14
4513.681                               452.055
                                       438.09,
                                       438.17,
                                       438.19,
                                       438.24,
4513.99                                438.25,
                                       440.01,
                                       440.04,
                                       440.05,
                                       440.06,
                                       440.11
4519.01                                476.01
4519.02                                476.08
4519.20                                476.02
4519.40                                476.03
4519.401                               434.09
4519.41                                476.04
4519.44                                476.05
4519.46                                476.06
4519.48                                476.07
4519.66                                476.09
4549.02                                436.11
4549.021                               436.12
4549.03                                436.13
4549.05                                404.01
4549.08                                436.10
4549.081(B)                            414.01
4549.081(C)                            414.01
4549.11(A)                             436.09
4549.11(B)                             436.09
4549.12(A)                             436.09
4549.12(B)                             436.09
4549.20                                438.32
4727.01                                856.01
4727.06                                856.04
4727.07                                856.05
4727.08                                856.06
4727.09                                856.07
4727.10                                856.08
4727.11                                856.09
4727.12                                856.10
4729.01                                624.01
4933.18                                642.26
4933.19                                642.26
5301.61                                642.08
5301.99                                642.08
5577.05                                440.02
5577.06                                440.02
5577.11                                440.03
5577.15                                440.05
5577.99(C)                             440.02
5577.99(E)                             440.03
5589.08                                440.07
5589.081                               440.07
5589.12                                642.23
5589.99(B)                             440.07,
                                       642.23
                                       
 
REFERENCES TO OHIO ADMINISTRATIVE CODE
O.A.C. Section Code Section
O.A.C. Section       Code Section
1301:7               1610.01
1301:7-1 to 1301:7-7 1610.01
3301-35-08           434.03
                     850.01,
3701-27              850.02,
                     850.99
3745-17-09           660.08
3745-17-10           660.08
3745-19              660.08
3745-19-01           660.08
3745-19-02           660.08
3745-19-03           660.08
3745-19-05           660.08
3745-25              660.08
4101:2-1-04(B)       1610.12
4101:2-51            1428.01
4301:1-1-49          612.08
4501-41              438.24
4501-43              438.27
                     
 
REFERENCES TO 1976 CODE
 
1976 Code Section 2008 Code Section
1141.01           1224.01
1141.02           1224.02
1141.03           1224.03
                  
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
5123     -           TSO Table A
5143     8-26-1965   1062.01
5144     9-9-1965    TSO Table D
5286     7-13-1967   TSO Table D
5301     10-26-1967  TSO Table B
                     1290.01,
                     1290.02,
                     1292.01,
                     1292.02,
                     1292.03,
                     1292.04,
                     1292.05,
                     1292.06,
                     1292.07,
                     1292.08,
                     1292.09,
                     1292.10,
                     1292.11,
                     1292.13,
5531     4-22-1971   1292.14,
                     1292.15,
                     1292.16,
                     1292.17,
                     1292.18,
                     1292.20,
                     1292.21,
                     1292.22,
                     1292.24,
                     1294.01,
                     1294.02,
                     1294.03,
                     1294.04,
                     1294.05,
                     1294.06,
                     1296.01
5650     10-28-1972  TSO Table E
5706     6-14-1973   TSO Table E
5830     10-10-1974  TSO Table E
5838     11-26-1974  TSO Table E
5839     11-26-1974  TSO Table B.
75-32    4-10-1975   TSO Table E
75-50    6-12-1975   TSO Table E
75-74    9-25-1975   TSO Table E
75-76    10-9-1975   222.01
76-31    4-22-1976   270.01
76-43    7-8-1976    TSO Table F
76-46    7-22-1976   TSO Table F
76-47    8-12-1976   TSO Table E
76-60    9-9-1976    240.04
77-56    8-25-1977   250.05
78-29    3-9-1978    270.02
82-62    12-9-1982   Ch. 894
82-66    12-23-1982  Ch. 894
83-25    4-28-1983   TSO Table B
83-60    10-27-1983  Ch. 894
83-61    10-27-1983  Ch. 894
83-62    11-21-1983  TSO Table E
84-26    6-28-1984   TSO Table F
84-31    7-12-1984   TSO Table F
85-54    11-14-1985  TSO Table E
87-26    4-23-1987   TSO Table F
87-27    4-23-1987   TSO Table F
88-04    2-4-1988    TSO Table F
90-93    12-20-1990  220.022
91-26    3-28-1991   TSO Table F
91-40    7-11-1991   TSO Table E
91-49    9-12-1991   TSO Table E
91-56    10-24-1991  TSO Table E
92-21    3-26-1992   Ch. 894
93-41    8-26-1993   TSO Table J
93-44    8-26-1993   TSO Table J
94-33    9-8-1994    TSO Table A
95-47    7-27-1995   234.04
95-57    9-14-1995   234.05
95-58    9-14-1995   TSO Table J
95-71    11-9-1995   234.05
96-14    2-22-1996   TSO Table J
96-22    3-14-1996   TSO Table A
96-38    5-23-1996   250.04
96-53    6-27-1996   232.01
96-67    8-22-1996   TSO Table J
96-83    10-10-1996  TSO Table J
97-20    6-12-1997   234.05
97-48    10-9-1997   TSO Table F
98-22    3-12-1998   TSO Table J
98-48    7-23-1998   TSO Table E
98-55    8-27-1998   TSO Table J
98-56    9-10-1998   240.08
99-03    2-11-1999   TSO Table G
99-19    4-8-1999    TSO Table A
99-30    6-10-1999   TSO Table A
99-43    8-26-1999   TSO Table F
99-49    9-23-1999   412.07
99-50    9-23-1999   TSO Table J
99-54    10-27-1999  TSO Table F
99-62    12-21-1999  TSO Table H
00-13    3-9-2000    TSO Table F
00-19    4-13-2000   TSO Table H
00-50    10-12-2000  TSO Table J
01-60    12-27-2001  234.03
02-08    2-28-2002   TSO Table E
02-21    4-11-2002   220.04
02-28    5-9-2002    618.18
02-41    6-27-2002   TSO Table E
02-72    11-14-2002  TSO Table J
03-25    4-10-2003   250.07
03-65    12-30-2003  252.01
04-50    6-10-2004   TSO Table J
04-54    6-11-2004   TSO Table J
04-82    9-23-2004   252.04
05-02    1-13-2005   TSO Table J
05-30    2-24-2005   TSO Table J
05-43    3-10-2005   TSO Table J
05-67    4-14-2005   TSO Table J
05-81    7-14-2005   234.05
05-101   10-27-2005  1060.05
06-12    2-13-2006   TSO Table J
06-47    7-13-2006   TSO Table J
07-07    2-8-2007    TSO Table A
07-16    2-22-2007   252.01
07-55    6-19-2007   TSO Table F
08-123   12-22-2008  TSO Table J
09-01    1-8-2009    TSO Table J
09-15    2-19-2009   TSO Table J
09-18    3-12-2009   TSO Table J
09-22    4-9-2009    TSO Table J
09-28    4-23-2009   TSO Table J
09-32    5-28-2009   TSO Table J
09-43    7-23-2009   TSO Table B 
10-01    1-14-2010   TSO Table J
10-17    3-25-2010   TSO Table E
10-19    4-8-2010    TSO Table J
10-83    11-22-2010  TSO Table J
10-92    12-20-2010  TSO Table J
11-06    1-27-2011   TSO Table J
11-11    4-14-2011   TSO Table J
11-18    4-14-2011   TSO Table J
11-28    5-26-2011   TSO Table E
12-14    2-9-2012    TSO Table E
13-08    1-24-2013   TSO Table J
13-13    2-14-2013   TSO Table J
13-70    11-14-2013  TSO Table B
14-02    2-13-2014   TSO Table J
16-06    2-11-2016   TSO Table J
16-22    4-28-2016   TSO Table J
17-03    1-26-2017   TSO Table J
17-18    7-13-2017   TSO Table F
17-27    7-13-2017   TSO Table J
18-03    3-8-2018    TSO Table J
19-46    7-11-2019   TSO Table J
19-50    8-22-2019   TSO Table J
20-08    2-13-2020   TSO Table J
20-54    8-13-2020   TSO Table J
20-68    10-22-2020  TSO Table J
21-14    3-25-2021   TSO Table J
21-17    4-8-2021    TSO Table J
21-20    4-22-2021   TSO Table J
21-37    6-10-2021   TSO Table J
22-12    3-10-2022   TSO Table J
22-25    5-12-2022   252.01
23-25    4-13-2023   TSO Table E
23-31    4-13-2023   TSO Table J
23-41    6-22-2023   TSO Table J
23-42    6-22-2023   TSO Table J
23-47    7-13-2023   TSO Table J
23-53    8-24-2023   TSO Table J
23-56    9-14-2023   TSO Table J
23-61    9-28-2023   TSO Table J
23-62    9-28-2023   TSO Table J
23-63    9-28-2023   TSO Table J
23-70    10-26-2023  TSO Table J
24-13    3-28-2024   TSO Table E
24-22    5-20-2024   TSO Table J
24-24    5-20-2024   TSO Table J
24-25    6-13-2024   TSO Table J
24-30    8-8-2024    TSO Table J
24-35    8-22-2024   TSO Table J
24-40    10-10-2024  TSO Table J
                    
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        -           TSO Table D
-        -           TSO Table D
-        -           TSO Table D
-        -           TSO Table D
33       -           TSO Table D
92       -           TSO Table D
140      -           TSO Table C
145      -           TSO Table C
167      -           TSO Table C
186      -           TSO Table C
237      -           TSO Table C
241      -           TSO Table G
276      -           TSO Table C
280      -           TSO Table C
300      -           TSO Table G
309      -           TSO Table G
310      -           TSO Table G
365      -           TSO Table G
386      -           TSO Table G
407      -           TSO Table A
411      -           TSO Table D
425      -           TSO Table D
437      -           TSO Table G
455      -           TSO Table C
457      -           TSO Table D
535a     -           TSO Table C
566      -           TSO Table C
572      -           TSO Table C
577      -           TSO Table C
630      -           TSO Table G
633      -           TSO Table C
654      -           TSO Table C
679      -           TSO Table C
680      -           TSO Table D
688      -           TSO Table C
689      -           TSO Table C
694      -           TSO Table C
707      -           TSO Table C
708      -           TSO Table D
710      -           TSO Table G
711      -           TSO Table G
712      -           TSO Table G
713      -           TSO Table C
715      -           TSO Table D
722      -           TSO Table C
730      -           TSO Table C
745      -           TSO Table B
747      -           TSO Table B
748      -           TSO Table C
749      -           TSO Table C
750      -           TSO Table C
751      -           TSO Table C
762      -           TSO Table C
767a     -           TSO Table C
768      -           TSO Table C
772      -           TSO Table C
780      -           TSO Table G
791      -           TSO Table C
812      -           TSO Table C
818      -           TSO Table C
842      -           TSO Table C
847      -           TSO Table D
850      -           TSO Table D
865      -           TSO Table C
878      -           TSO Table G
891      -           TSO Table G
894      -           TSO Table B
913      -           TSO Table D
916      -           TSO Table G
921      -           TSO Table C
935      -           TSO Table G
936      -           TSO Table C
945      -           TSO Table A
946      -           TSO Table C
948      -           TSO Table C
950      -           TSO Table C
951      -           TSO Table B
957      -           TSO Table C
959      -           TSO Table G
970      -           TSO Table C
972      -           TSO Table C
973      -           TSO Table C
994      -           TSO Table A
1011     -           TSO Table C
1018     -           TSO Table C
1019     -           TSO Table C
1040     -           TSO Table C
1063     -           TSO Table C
1072     -           TSO Table G
1081     -           TSO Table G
1082     -           TSO Table G
1083     -           TSO Table C
1112     -           TSO Table C
1133     -           TSO Table A
1135     -           TSO Table G
1153     -           TSO Table G
1154     -           TSO Table G
1155     -           TSO Table G
1188     -           TSO Table B
1196     -           TSO Table B
1211     -           TSO Table C
1241     -           TSO Table B
1261     -           TSO Table C
1266     -           TSO Table C
1275     -           TSO Table C
1284     -           TSO Table G
1304     -           TSO Table C
1320     -           TSO Table G
1354     -           TSO Table C
1360     -           TSO Table G
1389     -           TSO Table G
1393     -           TSO Table G
1403     -           TSO Table C
1430     -           TSO Table D
1439     -           TSO Table G
1464     -           TSO Table B
1470     -           TSO Table C
1528     -           TSO Table B
1546     -           TSO Table B
1569     -           TSO Table C
1573     -           TSO Table B
1594     -           TSO Table C
1601     -           TSO Table C
1638     -           TSO Table D
1758     -           TSO Table D
1764     -           TSO Table C
1767     -           TSO Table C
1769     -           TSO Table D
1796     -           TSO Table D
1843     -           TSO Table D
1846     -           TSO Table D
1868     -           TSO Table D
1870     -           TSO Table D
1901     -           TSO Table C
1902     -           TSO Table C
1918     -           TSO Table A
1929     -           TSO Table D
1930     -           TSO Table D
1953     -           TSO Table D
2052     -           TSO Table D
2068     -           TSO Table D
2087     -           TSO Table D
2115     -           TSO Table C
2148     -           TSO Table D
2149     -           TSO Table C
2197     -           TSO Table D
2251     -           TSO Table D
2291     -           TSO Table C
2334     -           TSO Table D
2361     -           TSO Table G
2379     -           TSO Table C
2411     -           TSO Table D
2458     -           TSO Table B
2463     -           TSO Table A
2510     -           TSO Table G
2694     -           TSO Table C
2702     -           TSO Table D
2714     -           TSO Table G
2759     -           TSO Table C
2925     -           TSO Table F
2959     -           TSO Table C
3027     -           TSO Table G
3049     -           TSO Table G
3099     -           TSO Table C
3203     -           TSO Table C
3249     -           TSO Table C
3337     -           TSO Table C
3361     -           TSO Table C
3366     -           TSO Table B
3379     -           TSO Table B
3380     -           TSO Table B
3451     -           TSO Table C
3495     -           TSO Table B
3508     -           TSO Table G
3528     -           TSO Table C
3542     -           TSO Table C
3546     -           TSO Table C
3560     -           TSO Table D
3590     -           TSO Table C
3603     -           TSO Table B
3622     -           TSO Table C
3640     -           TSO Table C
3641     -           TSO Table C
3713     -           TSO Table B
3716     -           TSO Table C
3828     -           TSO Table C
3840     -           TSO Table D
3841     -           TSO Table D
3870     -           TSO Table D
3905     -           TSO Table B
3906     -           TSO Table D
3962     -           TSO Table C
3969     -           TSO Table B
4015     -           TSO Table C
4115     -           TSO Table C
4126     -           TSO Table D
4145     -           TSO Table E
4146     -           TSO Table E
4153     -           TSO Table D
4200     -           TSO Table D
4213     -           TSO Table A
4267     -           TSO Table E
4307     -           TSO Table C
4331     -           TSO Table A
4339     -           TSO Table A
4346     -           TSO Table C
4364     -           TSO Table I
4378     -           TSO Table C
4379     -           TSO Table D
4406     -           TSO Table E
4414     -           TSO Table I
4417     -           TSO Table C
4423     -           TSO Table C
4433     -           TSO Table I
4442     -           TSO Table E
4458     -           TSO Table E
4459     -           TSO Table E
4472     -           TSO Table F
4473     -           TSO Table E
4476     -           TSO Table C
4488     -           TSO Table C
4499     -           TSO Table E
4503     -           TSO Table E
4512     -           TSO Table C
4536     -           TSO Table E
4545     -           TSO Table A
4556     -           TSO Table E
4559     -           TSO Table B
4588     -           TSO Table A
4618     -           TSO Table A
4624     -           TSO Table C
4645     -           TSO Table F
4668     -           TSO Table E
4671     -           TSO Table F
4678     -           TSO Table F
4741     -           TSO Table A
4767     -           TSO Table C
4768     -           TSO Table D
4770     -           TSO Table C
4777     -           TSO Table C
4780     -           TSO Table C
4782     -           TSO Table C
4784     -           TSO Table E
4788     -           TSO Table E
4793     -           TSO Table E
4803     -           TSO Table E
4818     -           TSO Table E
4824     -           TSO Table A
4825     -           TSO Table I
4827     -           TSO Table A
4829     -           TSO Table E
4836     -           TSO Table B
4845     -           TSO Table C
4883     -           TSO Table C
4900     -           TSO Table A
4919     -           TSO Table I
4926     -           TSO Table C
4927     -           TSO Table C
4940     -           TSO Table C
4955     -           TSO Table C
4956     -           TSO Table C
4975     -           TSO Table C
4976     -           TSO Table C
4985     -           TSO Table C
4996     -           TSO Table A
5028     -           TSO Table I
5034     -           TSO Table E
5056     -           TSO Table C
5067     -           TSO Table C
5068     -           TSO Table E
5075     -           TSO Table A
5079     -           TSO Table C
5102     -           TSO Table B
5166     -           TSO Table E
5173     -           TSO Table B
5173     -           TSO Table C
5188     -           TSO Table A
5660     -           TSO Table C
5729     -           TSO Table C
05-09    -           234.06
79-44    6-26-79     628.05
740      12-19-1902  206.01
4122     5-11-1950   454.05
                     206.01,
                     810.01,
                     810.03,
                     810.04,
                     810.05,
                     816.01,
                     838.04,
                     838.05,
                     840.06,
                     840.07,
                     840.11,
                     840.12,
                     840.13,
                     840.14,
                     840.15,
4141     8-1-1950    860.01,
                     860.06,
                     872.02,
                     872.04,
                     872.05,
                     876.01,
                     876.02,
                     880.01,
                     880.02,
                     880.03,
                     880.05,
                     884.01,
                     884.03,
                     1020.05,
                     1022.01,
                     1220.01
4319     1-8-1953    250.02
4352     7-9-1953    250.03
4456     7-14-1955   648.09
4764     8-11-1960   850.03
4849     5-24-1962   840.16
4904     5-26-1962   452.12
49 90    7-12-1963   660.14,
                     660.15
5035     2-13-1964   1020.04
5097     2-11-1965   TSO Table C
5098     2-11-1965   TSO Table C
5105     2-25-1965   TSO Table B
5108     3-16-1965   TSO Table E
5119     5-13-1965   TSO Table E
5131     7-19-1965   TSO Table H
5138     8-12-1965   TSO Table C
5147     9-23-1965   TSO Table E
5140     10-14-1965  TSO Table I
5155     10-14-1965  TSO Table D
5156     11-10-1965  206.01,
                     876.03
5158     11-10-1965  TSO Table D
5168     12-13-1965  TSO Table E
5172     12-13-1965  TSO Table C
5173     12-13-1965  TSO Table D
5174     12-21-1965  TSO Table C
5181     2-24-1966   TSO Table C
5189     3-10-1966   TSO Table A
5197     3-24-1966   TSO Table D
5198     3-24-1966   TSO Table C
5199     4-28-1966   TSO Table B
5203     4-28-1966   TSO Table H
5204     4-28-1966   TSO Table C
5205     4-28-1966   206.01
5206     4-28-1966   240.05
5220     6-23-1966   TSO Table C
5234     10-27-1966  TSO Table C
5236     11-10-1966  TSO Table C
5262     2-23-1967   250.03
5274     4-27-1967   TSO Table C
5278     6-12-1967   TSO Table A
5309     1-25-1968   TSO Table C
5315     3-14-1968   TSO Table C
5319     3-14-1968   TSO Table E
5320     3-14-1968   TSO Table E
5324     3-14-1968   TSO Table C
5326     3-28-1968   TSO Table A
5342     7-11-1968   TSO Table E
5351     9-12-1968   TSO Table I
5357     10-10-1968  TSO Table E
                     890.012,
5365     1-9-1969    890.013,
                     890.081
5373     2-13-1969   TSO Table C
5376     2-27-1969   TSO Table E
5408     7-24-1969   TSO Table C
5417     8-14-1969   TSO Table D
5430     10-9-1969   TSO Table C
5436     12-11-1969  238.02
5449     5-14-1970   TSO Table I
5471     8-13-1970   TSO Table F
5481     10-8-1970   TSO Table F
5484     10-8-1970   TSO Table E
5493     11-24-1970  TSO Table C
5505     1-28-1971   TSO Table B
5516     3-11-1971   TSO Table H
5542     6-24-1971   TSO Table E
5548     6-24-1971   TSO Table A
                     1292.03,
                     1292.09,
                     1292.10,
5569     10-14-1971  1292.11,
                     1292.17,
                     1292.20,
                     1292.23
5571     10-14-1971  TSO Table E
5578     12-9-1971   TSO Table C
5585     1-13-1972   TSO Table C
5586     1-13-1972   TSO Table C
5610     5-11-1972   TSO Table I
5611     5-11-1972   454.07
5612     5-11-1972   TSO Table F
5616     5-25-1972   TSO Table C
5617     5-25-1972   TSO Table C
5620     6-8-1972    452.03
5629     6-22-1972   TSO Table F
5632     7-20-1972   TSO Table E
5634     7-27-1972   474.10,
                     474.13
5657     11-21-1972  TSO Table C
                     1292.03,
                     1292.04,
                     1292.05,
                     1292.06,
                     1292.08,
                     1292.09,
                     1292.10,
                     1292.11,
5664     1-11-1973   1292.12,
                     1292.13,
                     1292.14,
                     1292.15,
                     1292.16,
                     1292.17,
                     1292.18,
                     1292.20,
                     1292.21,
                     1292.22
5665     1-11-1973   TSO Table C
5668     1-11-1973   1292.06
5691     3-30-1973   TSO Table E
5696     4-26-1973   TSO Table C
5700     4-26-1973   TSO Table F
5720     8-9-1973    TSO Table B
5713     8-23-1973   TSO Table E
5725     9-13-1973   TSO Table C
5726     9-13-1973   660.07
5728     9-13-1973   TSO Table C
5736     9-27-1973   TSO Table C
5740     9-27-1973   1224.06
5737     9-28-1973   TSO Table C
5741     10-16-1973  TSO Table E
5665     11-1-1973   1292.07
5653     11-21-1973  TSO Table C
                     830.01,
5743     12-13-1973  830.02,
                     830.08
5746     12-13-1973  TSO Table F
5765     2-28-1974   TSO Table C
5766     2-28-1974   1292.05
5767     2-28-1974   TSO Table E
5771     2-28-1974   TSO Table C
5775     3-14-1974   TSO Table E
5777     4-11-1974   1292.06
5787     4-11-1974   TSO Table E
5791     4-11-1974   TSO Table C
5792     4-25-1974   TSO Table E
5796     5-9-1974    TSO Table E
5805     7-25-1974   1292.14,
                     1292.15
5829     10-10-1974  TSO Table E
5841     12-12-1974  TSO Table C
5849     12-26-1974  250.04
75-5     2-13-1975   TSO Table E
75-10    2-27-1975   TSO Table C
75-16    3-27-1975   1292.12
75-21    4-10-1975   TSO Table E
75-22    4-10-1975   TSO Table C
75-37    4-24-1975   TSO Table C,
                     TSO Table D
75-38    5-13-1975   TSO Table E
75-35    5-22-1975   TSO Table C
75-45    5-22-1975   TSO Table C
75-46    5-22-1975   TSO Table C
75-47    5-22-1975   TSO Table C
75-48    5-22-1975   TSO Table C
75-49    5-22-1975   TSO Table C
75-60    7-12-1975   TSO Table E
75-59    7-29-1975   TSO Table A
75-67    8-28-1975   TSO Table C
75-70    9-11-1975   TSO Table C
75-71    9-11-1975   TSO Table C
75-72    10-9-1975   TSO Table C
75-78    11-13-1975  402.085
75-86    1-8-1976    TSO Table A
76-3     2-17-1976   TSO Table G
76-4     2-17-1976   1020.04
76-11    2-26-1976   TSO Table E
76-28    4-29-1976   TSO Table A
76-29    4-29-1976   TSO Table A
                     240.03,
                     250.03,
                     412.06,
                     438.13,
                     452.03,
                     454.01,
                     454.02,
                     454.03,
                     454.04,
                     618.16,
                     1292.19,
                     1474.01,
                     1474.02,
                     1474.03,
                     1474.05,
                     1474.06,
                     1474.07,
                     1474.08,
76-36    6-22-1976   1474.09,
                     1474.10,
                     1474.11,
                     1474.12,
                     1474.13,
                     1474.14,
                     1474.15,
                     1474.16,
                     1474.17,
                     1474.18,
                     1474.19,
                     1474.20,
                     1474.21,
                     1474.22,
                     1474.23,
                     1474.25,
                     1474.26,
                     1474.27,
                     1474.99
76-44    7-22-1976   TSO Table E
76-52    8-26-1976   TSO Table E
76-56    8-26-1976   TSO Table E
76-48    9-2-1976    TSO Table C
76-49    9-2-1976    TSO Table C
76-72    11-11-1976  250.02
76-79    11-11-1976  1292.03
76-87    11-23-1976  454.08
76-83    12-1-1976   TSO Table E
76-84    12-1-1976   250.01
76-85    12-1-1976   440.01
77-2     1-27-1977   TSO Table E
77-7     2-24-1977   TSO Table E
77-13    3-24-1977   892.01
77-18    3-24-1977   240.02
77-14    4-11-1977   TSO Table C
                     1250.01,
                     1250.02,
                     1250.03,
                     1250.04,
                     1250.05,
                     1252.01,
                     1252.02,
                     1252.03,
                     1252.99,
                     1254.01,
                     1254.02,
                     1254.03,
                     1254.04,
                     1256.01,
                     1256.02,
                     1256.03,
                     1258.01,
                     1258.02,
                     1258.03,
                     1260.01,
                     1260.02,
                     1260.03,
                     1262.01,
                     1262.02,
                     1262.03,
                     1262.04,
                     1264.01,
                     1264.02,
                     1264.03,
                     1264.04,
                     1266.01,
                     1266.02,
                     1266.03,
                     1266.04,
77-25    4-28-1977   1268.01,
                     1268.02,
                     1268.03,
                     1268.04,
                     1268.05,
                     1270.01,
                     1270.03,
                     1270.04,
                     1270.05,
                     1270.06,
                     1272.01,
                     1272.02,
                     1272.03,
                     1272.04,
                     1272.06,
                     1274.01,
                     1274.02,
                     1274.03,
                     1274.04,
                     1274.05,
                     1274.06,
                     1280.01,
                     1280.02,
                     1280.03,
                     1280.04,
                     1280.05,
                     1280.06,
                     1280.07,
                     1280.08,
                     1282.01,
                     1282.02,
                     1282.03,
                     1282.04,
                     1282.05,
                     1282.06,
                     1282.07
77-49    8-11-1977   TSO Table C
77-54    9-8-1977    TSO Table C
77-62    9-8-1977    TSO Table C
77-65    11-10-1977  TSO Table E
77-66    11-22-1977  238.03
77-74    1-12-1978   238.03
78-6     1-19-1978   TSO Table E
78-39    4-27-1978   250.01
78-46    7-27-1978   TSO Table B
8-52     8-10-1978   250.01
78-55    9-5-1978    TSO Table E
78-59    11-9-1978   TSO Table E,
                     TSO Table F
78-68    11-30-1978  1292.06
79-3     1-23-1979   TSO Table C
79-1     1-25-1979   TSO Table E
79-4     2-8-1979    TSO Table F
79-10    3-8-1979    432.42
79-11    3-8-1979    654.04
79-14    3-8-1979    TSO Table D
79-20    3-22-1979   TSO Table F
79-19    3-22-1979   TSO Table F
79-55    8-9-1979    TSO Table A
79-56    8-9-1979    TSO Table D
79-72    8-21-1979   648.09
79-64    9-13-1979   TSO Table E
79-59    9-25-1979   TSO Table C
79-65    9-25-1979   TSO Table E
79-66    10-11-1979  606.27
79-68    10-25-1979  TSO Table E
                     1258.02,
79-77    12-12-1979  1260.02,
                     1262.02
80-32    4-24-1980   TSO Table D
80-29    4-28-1980   454.07
80-90    8-19-1980   TSO Table C
80-104   10-23-1980  TSO Table B
81-14    1-22-1981   1060.02
81-29    4-2-1981    TSO Table E
81-30    4-2-1981    TSO Table E
81-49    4-27-1981   TSO Table E
81-46    5-14-1981   TSO Table C
81-73    8-13-1981   TSO Table E
81-80    10-8-1981   1022.06
                     250.03,
                     250.04,
                     250.05,
                     412.06,
81-04    11-23-1981  838.04,
                     1220.01,
                     1252.01,
                     1254.01,
                     1294.04
81-89    11-23-1981  220.02
81-97    11-23-1981  648.10
81-102   11-23-1981  TSO Table A
81-91    12-21-1981  TSO Table F
82-36    7-22-1982   TSO Table E
82-35    8-26-1982   TSO Table C
82-42    8-26-1982   TSO Table E
82-52    11-11-1982  440.01
83-22    5-26-1983   TSO Table C
83-30    5-26-1983   222.02
83-31    6-23-1983   TSO Table C
83-37    7-28-1983   TSO Table C
83-44    9-8-1983    1282.01
84-01    2-9-1984    1022.07
81-79    3-8-1984    1282.06
84-19    5-24-1984   TSO Table I
84-25    6-20-1984   TSO Table A
84-30    8-9-1984    TSO Table C
84-34    10-11-1984  TSO Table C
84-45    12-13-1984  TSO Table F
85-02    1-10-1985   250.01
85-06    2-16-1985   250.01
85-09    3-4-1985    666.18
85-19    5-9-1985    250.04
                     1474.03,
85-31    6-27-1985   1474.04,
                     1474.19
85-50    10-10-1985  TSO Table E
85-58    11-25-1985  220.01
86-19    3-27-1986   440.01
86-20    4-10-1986   440.01
86-25    4-10-1986   240.06
86-23    4-24-1986   TSO Table A
86-41    6-12-1986   TSO Table C
                     1042.01,
                     1042.02,
                     1042.03,
                     1042.04,
                     1042.05,
                     1042.06,
                     1042.07,
                     1042.08,
                     1042.09,
                     1042.10,
                     1042.11,
                     1042.12,
                     1042.13,
                     1042.14,
                     1042.15,
                     1042.16,
                     1042.17,
                     1042.18,
                     1042.19,
                     1042.20,
                     1042.21,
                     1042.22,
86-32    6-23-1986   1042.23,
                     1042.24,
                     1042.25,
                     1042.26,
                     1042.27,
                     1042.28,
                     1042.29,
                     1042.30,
                     1042.31,
                     1042.32,
                     1042.33,
                     1042.34,
                     1042.35,
                     1042.99,
                     1044.01,
                     1044.02,
                     1044.03,
                     1044.04,
                     1044.05,
                     1044.06,
                     1044.07,
                     1044.08,
                     1044.09,
                     1044.10
86-46    8-28-1986   TSO Table I
                     1256.01,
                     1276.01,
                     1276.02,
86-53    12-3-1986   1276.03,
                     1276.04,
                     1276.05,
                     1276.06
87-11    2-26-1987   TSO Table E
87-12    2-26-1987   TSO Table E
87-13    2-28-1987   440.01
87-7     3-12-1987   TSO Table C
87-17    3-12-1987   TSO Table E
87-19    4-23-1987   TSO Table F
87-29    6-8-1987    TSO Table I
87-32    6-8-1987    234.02
87-54    11-12-1987  TSO Table C
87-60    12-21-1987  TSO Table E
87-64    12-21-1987  1044.11
87-67    12-21-1987  TSO Table F
87-63    1-28-1988   220.01
88-6     2-25-1988   TSO Table E
88-13    5-12-1988   TSO Table C
                     1256.01,
                     1278.01,
88-10    5-26-1988   1278.02,
                     1278.03,
                     1278.04
88-18    6-9-1988    234.01
88-26    7-14-1988   TSO Table E
88-42    10-27-1988  440.01
88-47    11-21-1988  TSO Table H
88-52    1-26-1989   890.012
89-07    2-9-1989    TSO Table F
89-17    5-25-1989   TSO Table D
89-20    6-22-1989   1044.04,
                     1044.07
89-32    7-27-1989   TSO Table F
89-31    8-24-1989   TSO Table C
89-34    9-14-1989   TSO Table C
90-14    2-8-1990    TSO Table H
90-22    3-22-1990   1255.01,
                     1255.02
90-26    4-17-1990   260.01
90-30    5-31-1990   TSO Table F
90-19    6-25-1990   1254.04
90-31    6-25-1990   1282.08
90-32    6-25-1990   TSO Table I
90-35    6-25-1990   TSO Table C
                     868.01,
                     868.02,
90-36    6-25-1990   868.03,
                     868.04,
                     868.05,
                     868.99
90-52    8-15-1990   TSO Table H
90-44    8-23-1990   TSO Table C
90-79    11-8-1990   1255.01,
                     1255.03
90-91    1-24-1991   TSO Table C
91-02    1-25-1991   234.03
91-31    6-13-1991   TSO Table C
91-39    8-8-1991    TSO Table E
91-46    8-8-1991    810.05
91-61    11-14-1991  TSO Table F
91-57    11-14-1991  TSO Table F
91-59    11-25-1991  TSO Table A
91-66    12-26-1991  TSO Table F
91-68    12-26-1991  1060.02
91-63    1-9-1992    TSO Table I
92-08    2-20-1992   TSO Table E
92-15    3-12-1992   TSO Table F
92-10    3-26-1992   TSO Table E
92-24    3-26-1992   234.03
92-22    4-9-1992    TSO Table C
92-23    4-23-1992   TSO Table C
92-29    5-14-1992   660.07 
92-42    9-24-1992   240.01
92-34    10-22-1992  1060.05
93-04    2-25-1993   252.05
93-07    3-25-1993   TSO Table C
93-08    4-8-1993    TSO Table C
93-13    5- -1993    1260.03
93-24    5-27-1993   240.99
93-25    5-27-1993   240.06
93-27    8-12-1993   452.08
93-31    8-12-1993   454.09
93-46    9-23-1993   TSO Table E
93-47    9-23-1993   TSO Table G
93-55    12-9-1993   TSO Table C
93-59    12-9-1993   TSO Table C
94-44    - -1994     TSO Table E
93-65    1-27-1994   1022.05
94-02    2-10-1994   TSO Table E
94-03    2-10-1994   TSO Table C
94-26    8-11-1994   TSO Table E
94-30    9-8-1994    1044.07
94-41    11-1-1994   TSO Table E
94-46    12-8-1994   234.03
94-49    12-22-1994  868.03
94-50    12-22-1994  236.01
95-20    - -1995     TSO Table C
95-04    2-23-1995   TSO Table C
95-05    2-26-1995   TSO Table K
95-11    4-13-1995   234.05
95-16    4-27-1995   TSO Table C
95-24    4-27-1995   TSO Table J
95-19    5-11-1995   1252.99
95-22    5-25-1995   1060.02
95-29    5-25-1995   TSO Table F
95-34    7-13-1995   1060.03
95-35    7-13-1995   TSO Table E
95-36    7-13-1995   TSO Table C
95-45    8-10-1995   1440.02
95-51    9-14-1995   TSO Table B
95-52    9-14-1995   TSO Table G
95-53    9-28-1995   TSO Table C
95-67    11-20-1995  TSO Table K
95-68    11-20-1995  TSO Table K
95-79    12-28-1995  1060.03
96-01    1-11-1996   414.11
96-02    1-11-1996   414.11
96-11    2-8-1996    TSO Table K
96-04    2-22-1996   TSO Table F
96-17    3-14-1996   TSO Table E
96-23    3-30-1996   234.03
96-19    4-11-1996   220.021
96-27    4-25-1996   TSO Table J
96-26    5-9-1996    TSO Table J
96-40    6-13-1996   TSO Table C
96-45    6-24-1996   220.023
96-54    6-27-1996   TSO Table J
96-46    7-11-1996   TSO Table C
96-63    8-22-1996   432.43
96-73    8-30-1996   Charter, §
                     3.04
96-74    8-30-1996   Charter, §
                     4.03
96-64    9-12-1996   1044.07
96-80    9-12-1996   234.07
96-106   1-23-1997   TSO Table C
96-107   1-23-1997   TSO Table C
97-03    1-23-1997   237.08
97-05    3-13-1997   220.024
97-17    5-22-1997   812.02
                     1220.01,
                     1224.04,
97-23    6-12-1997   1224.05,
                     1224.06,
                     1252.99,
                     1440.01
97-19    6-24-1997   TSO Table J
97-27    7-24-1997   234.03
97-31    8-14-1997   648.12
97-35    11-13-1997  1260.02
97-59    12-22-1997  234.06
98-06    2-12-1998   TSO Table F
98-11    3-26-1998   452.13,
                     812.03
98-20    4-9-1998    234.05
98-30    4-23-1998   1060.02
98-36    6-11-1998   TSO Table J
98-34    6-25-1998   234.05
98-37    6-25-1998   812.01
98-47    8-13-1998   660.14,
                     660.15
98-49    9-24-1998   TSO Table I
98-50    9-24-1998   240.06
98-59    9-24-1998   234.05
98-69    11-12-1998  234.05
98-73    12-1-1998   TSO Table E
98-67    12-10-1998  234.05
98-68    12-10-1998  234.05
92-48    12-21-1998  1044.07
98-74    12-29-1998  1060.03
99-08    3-11-1999   TSO Table E
99-09    4-8-1999    TSO Table J
99-07    4-22-1999   TSO Table C
99-11    4-22-1999   234.05
99-20    5-27-1999   TSO Table A
99-26    5-27-1999   TSO Table C
99-33    7-8-1999    1020.02
99-39    8-26-1999   TSO Table C
99-40    8-26-1999   TSO Table C
00-07    1-27-2000   TSO Table E
00-03    2-10-2000   TSO Table C
00-08    2-24-2000   TSO Table E
00-23    4-13-2000   TSO Table F
00-28    5-11-2000   TSO Table J
00-30    7-13-2000   TSO Table H
00-33    7-13-2000   TSO Table K
00-41    9-28-2000   TSO Table I
00-49    10-12-2000  TSO Table J
00-62    12-28-2000  1044.07
01-05    2-8-2001    TSO Table J
01-08    2-27-2001   234.06
01-50    2-28-2001   TSO Table C
01-19    4-12-2001   TSO Table C
01-10    4-26-2001   1044.07
01-14    5-10-2001   TSO Table I
01-29    6-28-2001   TSO Table J
01-43    9-27-2001   TSO Table D
01-52    11-8-2001   234.06
01-58    12-27-2001  234.03
01-59    12-27-2001  234.03
02-01    1-10-2002   TSO Table J
02-14    4-11-2002   TSO Table J
02-52    4-24-2002   1258.02
02-31    6-27-2002   892.01
02-33    7-11-2002   TSO Table D
02-45    7-25-2002   TSO Table E
02-49    8-22-2002   TSO Table J
02-44    8-22-2002   238.05
02-48    8-22-2002   TSO Table J
02-65    11-25-2002  TSO Table J
02-66    11-25-2002  TSO Table J
02-67    11-25-2002  TSO Table J
02-68    11-25-2002  TSO Table J
02-69    11-25-2002  TSO Table J
02-70    11-25-2002  TSO Table J
03-01    1-9-2003    TSO Table E
03-02    1-9-2003    TSO Table E
03-10    2-13-2003   TSO Table E
03-15    2-27-2003   TSO Table J
03-17    3-27-2003   TSO Table J
03-18    3-27-2003   TSO Table J
03-23    3-27-2003   TSO Table J
03-32    6-12-2003   TSO Table J
03-33    6-12-2003   TSO Table J
03-43    7-23-2003   272.01
03-47    8-28-2003   TSO Table J
03-48    9-11-2003   TSO Table E
03-49    9-11-2003   TSO Table F
03-44    9-25-2003   TSO Table C
03-54    11-24-2003  TSO Table J
03-55    11-24-2003  TSO Table J
03-56    11-24-2003  TSO Table J
03-57    11-24-2003  TSO Table J
03-58    11-24-2003  TSO Table J
03-59    11-24-2003  TSO Table J
03-60    11-24-2003  TSO Table J
03-62    12-30-2003  237.09
03-70    12-30-2003  TSO Table J
04-03    1-8-2004    TSO Table J
04-06    1-24-2004   TSO Table J
04-02    2-12-2004   1060.04
                     864.01,
04-08    3-11-2004   864.02,
                     864.03,
                     864.06
04-15    3-11-2004   TSO Table J
04-13(B) 3-25-2004   TSO Table J
04-16    4-8-2004    TSO Table D
04-17    4-22-2004   TSO Table I
04-33    4-22-2004   TSO Table J
04-45    5-27-2004   TSO Table J
04-46    5-27-2004   TSO Table J
04-65    7-8-2004    TSO Table J
04-72    9-9-2004    890.081
04-79    9-9-2004    TSO Table J
04-84    9-23-2004   TSO Table J
04-88    10-14-2004  TSO Table J
04-93    11-22-2004  1044.07
04-104   12-23-2004  TSO Table E
05-109   1-12-2005   252.03
05-08    1-24-2005   660.135
05-34    2-24-2005   TSO Table J
05-18    3-24-2005   TSO Table E
05-19    3-24-2005   TSO Table B
05-20    3-24-2005   TSO Table B
05-21    3-24-2005   TSO Table B
05-24    3-24-2005   TSO Table E
05-47    3-24-2005   TSO Table J
05-22    4-14-2005   TSO Table I
05-38    4-14-2005   454.10
05-39    4-14-2005   454.10
05-40    4-14-2005   868.03
05-50    4-28-2005   240.07
05-66    4-28-2005   TSO Table J
05-54    5-12-2005   1045.01
                     1424.01,
05-55    5-12-2005   1424.02,
                     1430.01
                     1420.01,
05-56    5-12-2005   1420.02,
                     1430.01
05-57    5-12-2005   1430.01
05-58    5-12-2005   1430.01
05-59    5-12-2005   1430.01
05-60    5-12-2005   1430.01
05-61    5-12-2005   1428.01,
                     1430.01
05-62    5-12-2005   1430.01
05-63    5-12-2005   1430.01
05-64    5-12-2005   1430.01
05-70    5-26-2005   TSO Table D
05-75    5-26-2005   TSO Table J
05-82    7-14-2005   TSO Table J
05-91    8-25-2005   TSO Table J
05-99    10-27-2005  TSO Table E
05-104   12-8-2005   234.05
06-02    2-9-2006    TSO Table J
06-05    2-23-2006   1456.01
                     864.01,
06-14    2-23-2006   864.02,
                     864.03,
                     864.06
06-11    3-23-2006   TSO Table E
06-13    3-23-2006   220.04
06-22    4-13-2006   TSO Table J
06-21    4-27-2006   234.06
06-27    4-27-2006   1045.01
06-33    5-25-2006   TSO Table E
06-30    6-8-2006    TSO Table J
06-37    6-22-2006   TSO Table E
06-44    7-13-2006   TSO Table E
06-46    7-13-2006   1044.12
06-50    7-13-2006   TSO Table E
06-51    7-27-2006   TSO Table J
06-53    9-14-2006   414.12
06-58    9-28-2006   TSO Table J
06-60    9-28-2006   TSO Table J
06-72    10-12-2006  TSO Table J
06-73    10-26-2006  TSO Table F
06-74    12-14-2006  TSO Table J
06-82    12-28-2006  TSO Table A
07-02    1-11-2007   TSO Table J
06-85    1-25-2007   234.06
07-01    2-8-2007    252.02
07-12    3-22-2007   TSO Table J
07-45    4-26-2007   TSO Table J
                     266.01,
07-47    5-24-2007   266.02,
                     266.03
07-52    5-24-2007   TSO Table J
07-51    6-28-2007   412.08
07-65    6-28-2007   414.12
07-57    7-12-2007   1252.02
07-58    7-12-2007   1440.02
                     1420.01,
08-72    8-14-2008   1420.02,
                     1430.01
08-73    8-14-2008   1430.01
08-74    8-14-2008   1430.01
08-75    8-14-2008   1430.01
08-76    8-14-2008   1430.01
08-77    8-14-2008   1430.01
08-78    8-14-2008   1430.01
08-79    8-14-2008   1428.01,
                     1430.01
08-80    8-14-2008   1430.01
                     1424.01,
08-89    9-11-2008   1424.02,
                     1430.01
08-91    9-11-2008   1060.03
08-92    9-11-2008   TSO Table J
08-100   12-11-2008  1044.12
08-108   12-22-2008  618.19
08-109   12-11-2008  TSO Table E
08-111   9-22-2008   1045.10 -
                     1045.13
08-113   12-11-2008  Adopting Ordinance
08-118   12-11-2008  234.03
09-05    1-22-2009   TSO Table J
09-07    3-12-2009   404.05
09-10    2-27-2009   1060.02
09-12    2-26-2009   1432.01
09-20    4-9-2009    1062.02
09-24    4-23-2009   866.01 -
                     866.08
09-33    6-11-2009   TSO Table J
09-34    6-11-2009   TSO Table J
09-38    6-25-2009   TSO Table J
09-39    8-13-2009   TSO Table J
09-45    9-10-2009   TSO Table J
09-50    9-10-2009   TSO Table C
09-51    10-11-2009  TSO Table C
09-53    10-11-2009  TSO Table J
09-54    10-11-2009  TSO Table J
09-59    10-27-2009  TSO Table J
09-60    10-27-2009  TSO Table J
09-61    10-27-2009  TSO Table J
09-62    12-10-2009  TSO Table F
09-65    10-11-2009  TSO Table J
10-06    2-25-2010   TSO Table C
10-08    2-25-2010   TSO Table J
10-10    4-8-2010    TSO Table C
10-15    3-11-2010   TSO Table J
10-24    4-22-2010   TSO Table C
10-26    5-13-2010   TSO Table E
10-29    5-13-2010   TSO Table D
10-38    7-8-2010    TSO Table J
10-40    7-22-2010   628.01  -
                     628.08
10-42    7-22-2010   TSO Table C
10-45    7-8-2010    TSO Table J
10-46    8-12-2010   TSO Table E
10-53    9-9-2010    TSO Table C
10-56    9-9-2010    TSO Table I
10-64    9-9-2010    TSO Table C
10-67    10-28-2010  TSO Table I
10-68    11-8-2010   TSO Table I
10-69    11-8-2010   Adopting Ordinance
10-72    10-28-2010  TSO Table J
10-82    12-20-2010  TSO Table C
10-91    12-20-2010  TSO Table J
11-08    2-24-2011   860.14
11-15    3-24-2011   TSO Table J
11-19    5-12-2011   1060.06
11-21    5-26-2011   TSO Table E
11-26    6-9-2011    452.03
11-34    12-22-2011  TSO Table C
11-38    7-14-2011   TSO Table J
11-43    7-28-2011   860.13
11-49    8-25-2011   TSO Table J
11-54    9-22-2011   TSO Table J
11-55    10-13-2011  TSO Table J
11-69    12-22-2011  TSO Table C
11-70    1-26-2011   TSO Table F
12-13    2-27-2012   890.081
12-17    2-9-2012    864.04
12-70    9-27-2012   TSO Table C
12-72    10-11-2012  TSO Table C
13-17    3-28-2013   252.06
13-31    4-11-2013   TSO Table C
                     866.02 ,
                     866.03 ,
13-43    7-25-2013   866.04 ,
                     866.05 ,
                     866.08
13-60    9-12-2013   TSO Table I
                     477.01  -
13-62    9-12-2013   477.03 ,
                     477.99
13-67    10-31-2013  1280.02
13-78    12-12-2013  TSO Table J
13-91    2-13-2014   TSO Table E
14-04    1-27-2014   TSO Table J
14-05    4-10-2014   TSO Table C
14-08    3-13-2014   TSO Table J
14-12    3-27-2014   660.16, Repeals 660.17
14-15    4-10-2014   TSO Table F
14-43    11-24-2014  TSO Table J
14-46    12-17-2014  TSO Table E
14-47    12-17-2014  TSO Table J
15-02    1-22-2015   TSO Table J
15-33    9-24-2015   TSO Table J
15-30    8-27-2015   628.01 -
                     628.08
                     890.01 -
15-40    12-10-2015  890.20,
                     890.97 -
                     890.99
16-03    1-28-2016   TSO Table J
16-19    3-24-2016   TSO Table J
16-20    5-12-2016   1255.01,
                     1255.02
16-21    5-12-2016   1255.03
16-35    8-11-2016   TSO Table J
16-42    11-21-2016  452.16
16-52    1-12-2017   TSO Table J
16-56    1-12-2017   TSO Table J
17-05    3-23-2017   1044.07
17-10    3-23-2017   452.16
17-11    3-23-2017   1612.01
17-19    6-8-2017    TSO Table E
17-31    8-24-2017   TSO Table J
17-35    8-14-2017   TSO Table C
17-44    10-26-2017  1474.20
17-51    1-11-2018   868.03
17-52    12-28-2017  TSO Table J
17-54    12-28-2018  864.04
18-02    1-25-2018   TSO Table J
18-06    2-8-2018    TSO Table J
18-11    6-28-2018   892.01
18-16    4-12-2018   TSO Table C
18-17    7-26-2018   TSO Table I
18-20    4-12-2018   TSO Table C
18-23    5-14-2018   220.01
18-28    6-14-2018   660.16
18-31    8-9-2018    1060.02
18-34    8-9-2018    TSO Table F
18-43    9-27-2018   1610.14
18-51    11-8-2018   1044.12
18-54    10-25-2018  TSO Table J
                     1484.01 -
18-55    10-25-2018  1484.07,
                     1484.99
18-56    10-25-2018  TSO Table C
18-61    11-19-2018  TSO Table J
18-79    12-15-2018  234.06
18-80    12-15-2018  1044.07
18-81    12-15-2018  234.06
18-83    12-15-2018  234.06
19-04    1-24-2019   TSO Table J
19-07    2-14-2019   TSO Table J
19-09    3-14-2019   1046.01 -
                     1046.34
19-14    3-28-2019   234.06
19-19    3-14-2019   TSO Table J
19-42    7-25-2019   TSO Table J
19-43    7-25-2019   TSO Table J
19-44    7-25-2019   TSO Table J
19-48    7-25-2019   642.39
19-49    8-8-2019    TSO Table J
19-64    10-10-2019  TSO Table B
19-68    11-14-2019  TSO Table J
19-75    12-12-2019  892.01
19-76    12-12-2019  1484.09
19-79    12-12-2019  TSO Table J
19-81    12-26-2019  TSO Table J
19-84    12-26-2019  TSO Table J
20-01    1-9-2020    TSO Table J
20-02    1-9-2020    TSO Table J
20-05    1-27-2020   TSO Table J
20-07    2-13-2020   TSO Table J
20-12    2-27-2020   TSO Table J
20-13    3-12-2020   1484.08
20-19    4-23-2020   240.09
20-22    3-26-2020   TSO Table C
20-23    3-26-2020   TSO Table J
20-31    5-4-2020    1046.35
20-32    5-14-2020   1045.01
20-33    5-14-2020   TSO Table J
20-34    6-11-2020   234.06
20-35    5-28-2020   TSO Table J
                     1052.01 -
20-39    7-9-2020    1052.12,
                     1052.99
20-41    6-25-2020   238.02
20-42    6-25-2020   TSO Table J
20-51    7-23-2020   TSO Table J
                     477.01,
20-55    9-10-2020   477.04,
                     477.99
20-56    9-10-2020   234.03
20-59    9-3-2020    TSO Table J
20-65    10-8-2020   TSO Table J
20-67    11-12-2020  TSO Table J
20-70    11-12-2020  TSO Table J
20-74    11-23-2020  TSO Table J
21-01    1-14-2021   TSO Table J
21-02    1-28-2021   TSO Table J
21-08    3-11-2021   Repeals 220.03(a)
21-10    3-25-2021   TSO Table H
21-11    3-11-2021   1256.01,
                     1259.01
21-16    4-8-2021    TSO Table J
21-19    - -2021     TSO Table J
21-25    5-13-2021   TSO Table F
21-35    7-22-2021   1046.03
21-39    6-24-2021   618.17
21-43    10-28-2021  1250.05
21-44    7-8-2021    618.22
21-50    9-9-2021    Repeals 220.03(b)
21-63    12-23-2021  TSO Table J
21-66    12-23-2021  1282.09
21-67    12-23-2021  TSO Table J
22-03    1-27-2022   TSO Table J
22-10    3-10-2022   TSO Table J
22-15    3-24-2022   252.07
22-18    4-6-2022    TSO Table E
22-19    4-6-2022    TSO Table F
22-22    4-14-2022   TSO Table J
22-23    4-28-2022   TSO Table J
22-24    4-28-2022   234.06
22-26    5-12-2022   812.01
22-29    6-9-2022    TSO Table J
22-49    9-22-2022   234.05
22-50    10-13-2022  1252.04
22-52    10-13-2022  TSO Table J
22-53    10-13-2022  TSO Table J
22-55    10-27-2022  TSO Table J
22-56    11-21-2022  896.01
22-59    11-10-2022  TSO Table J
22-60    11-10-2022  TSO Table J
22-63    11-21-2022  252.08
                     1262.02,
22-65    2-23-2022   1266.02,
                     1276.03
22-66    11-21-2022  TSO Table J
22-67    3-9-2023    TSO Table I
22-68    3-9-2023    1269.01 -
                     1269.05
23-02    1-26-2023   TSO Table J
23-21    3-23-2023   TSO Table J
23-24    5-22-2023   654.04
23-26    4-13-2023   TSO Table J
23-28    4-13-2023   234.05
23-29    4-13-2023   234.05
23-32    4-17-2023   TSO Table J
23-33    4-17-2023   TSO Table J
23-43    - -         TSO Table E
23-45    6-22-2023   896.01
23-46    6-22-2023   252.09
23-50    7-27-2023   TSO Table J
23-51    8-24-2023   Repeals 860.12
23-52    8-24-2023   TSO Table J
23-58    9-28-2023   TSO Table C
23-68    10-26-2023  TSO Table E
23-69    10-26-2023  TSO Table J
23-73    11-9-2023   234.05
23-77    12-14-2023  TSO Table J
23-78    12-14-2023  274.01 -
                     274.04
23-82    2-8-2023    1258.02
24-01    1-11-2024   440.01
24-03    1-25-2024   TSO Table J
24-05    2-8-2024    TSO Table J
24-08    2-22-2024   TSO Table B
24-12    3-28-2024   TSO Table B
24-15    4-25-2024   666.24
24-18    5-20-2024   TSO Table J
24-21    5-20-2024   TSO Table J
24-23    5-20-2024   TSO Table J
24-42    11-19-2024  TSO Table C
24-43    11-19-2024  TSO Table J
24-45    11-19-2024  TSO Table J
24-46    11-19-2024  TSO Table J
                    
                    
 
 
