City of Lebanon, Ohio
Code of Ordinances
2024 S-24 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance No. 2024-050, passed 5-14-24
State legislation current through 2-28-24
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 7191
ORDINANCE REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING, AND COMPILING THE LEBANON
CODIFIED ORDINANCES
   WHEREAS, the present Lebanon Codified Ordinances are incomplete and
inadequate and the manner of classification and indexing thereof is
insufficient to meet the immediate needs of the City; and
   WHEREAS, the Ohio Revised Code authorizes the City to revise, amend,
restate, codify and to compile its ordinances and to incorporate the ordinances
into one ordinance in book form; and
   WHEREAS, this Council has authorized a compilation, revision and
codification of the ordinances of the City of a general and permanent nature
and the publication of the ordinances in book form.
   WHEREAS, this Ordinance supersedes and replaces Ordinance No. 6874 which was
read but not enacted; and
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF LEBANON, OHIO:
   Section 1.   The Lebanon Codified Ordinances as herein revised, amended,
restated, codified, and compiled in book form are adopted as and shall
constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the City of Lebanon, Ohio" (the "Code").
   Section 2.   The Code as adopted herein shall consist of the following parts
and titles, to-wit:
   PART ONE - ADMINISTRATIVE CODE
         TITLE ONE      General Provisions
         TITLE THREE   City Organization and Administration
         TITLE FIVE      Health and Judicial
   PART THREE - TRAFFIC CODE
         TITLE ONE      Administration
         TITLE THREE   Street and Traffic Control Devices
         TITLE FIVE      Vehicles
         TITLE SEVEN   Parking
         TITLE NINE      Pedestrians, Bicycles, Motorcycles and Snowmobiles
   PART FIVE - GENERAL OFFENSES CODE
   PART SEVEN - BUSINESS REGULATION CODE
   PART NINE - STREETS AND PUBLIC SERVICES CODE
         TITLE ONE      Street and Sidewalk Areas
         TITLE THREE   Utilities
         TITLE FIVE      Other Public Services
   PART ELEVEN - PLANNING AND ZONING CODE
         TITLE ONE      Planning
         TITLE THREE   Subdivision Regulations
         TITLE FIVE      Zoning Code
   PART THIRTEEN - BUILDING CODE
         TITLE ONE      Building Code
         TITLE THREE   Housing Code
   PART FIFTEEN - FIRE PREVENTION CODE
   TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   PARALLEL REFERENCES
   INDEX
   Section 3. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in the
Code are repealed from and after the effective date of this Ordinance except as
they are included and reordained in whole or in part in the Code; provided such
repeal shall not affect any offense committed or penalty incurred or any right
established prior to the effective date of the Code, nor shall such repeal
affect the provisions of ordinances levying taxes, appropriating money,
annexing or detaching territory, establishing franchises or granting special
rights to certain persons, authorizing public improvements, authorizing the
issuance of bonds or borrowing of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of
real or personal property, granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication
of land to public use, naming or vacating or setting the boundaries of streets,
alleys or other public places, nor to any other ordinance of a temporary or
special nature or pertaining to subjects not contained therein.
   Section 4.   The Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by this Council and the Clerk is hereby authorized and
ordered to file a copy of the Code in the Office of the Clerk.
   Section 5.   The Code shall be in full force and effect upon the effective
date of adoption of this Ordinance, its publication and filing thereof in the
Office of the Clerk, and the Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts
and places of the ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and
regulations therein contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is
properly signed, attested, recorded and approved and that any public hearings
and notices thereof as required law have been given.
   Section 6.   This Ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure
necessary for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety,
welfare, and morals of the City of Ohio, and for the further reason that the
ordinances of the City of Lebanon are in immediate need of proper
classification and indexing then this Ordinance shall take effect immediately
upon its adoption.
                                    Jackson Hedges /s/
                                    Mayor
PASSED: MARCH 12, 1996
ATTESTED:
Debbie Biggs /s/
Clerk of Council
ORDINANCE NO. 8436
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENTED AND REFORMATTED CODE OF
ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF LEBANON, OHIO, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed a supplemented and reformatted Code of Ordinances of the City of
Lebanon, copyright 2001, which contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature included in and enacted since the prior codification and
supplements, thereto, through Ordinance No. 8291, passed 8-28-01, and State
legislation current through 5-7-01; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Ohio Revised Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Council of the City of Lebanon to accept
these updated sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State
of Ohio; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF LEBANON, OHIO:
   SECTION 1. That the supplemented and reformatted Code of Ordinances of the
City of Lebanon, Ohio, under copyright 2001 and containing local legislation
current through Ordinance No. 8291, passed 8-28-01 and State legislation
current through 5-7-01, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation
of Cincinnati, Ohio, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if set
out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. Such supplemented and reformatted Code of Ordinances shall be
deemed published as of the date of its adoption and approval by this Council
and the Clerk is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of the said Code
in the Office of the Clerk.
   SECTION 3. This Ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure
necessary for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety,
morals and welfare of the City of Lebanon, and shall take effect immediately
upon its adoption.
Amy Brewer /s/
Mayor
Passed: March 12, 2002
Attest:
  /s/
Clerk of Council
Sponsor
James Reinhard
Council member
ORDINANCE NO. 8774
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF LEBANON, OHIO, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2002 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Lebanon,
which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the code of Ordinances of the City of
Lebanon; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Ohio Revised Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Council of the City of Lebanon to accept
these updated sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State
of Ohio; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF LEBANON, OHIO:
   SECTION 1. That the 2002 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Lebanon, Ohio, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Council and the Clerk of the City of Lebanon, Ohio
is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the copy of the
Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk.
   SECTION 3. This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of the City of Lebanon, and shall take effect immediately upon
its adoption.
Amy Brewer /s/
Mayor
Passed: June 10, 2003
Attest:
/s/
Clerk of Council
Sponsor
Mayor Amy Brewer
Council member
CHARTER OF LEBANON, OHIO
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Section
Preamble
Article I: Incorporation — Form of Government — Powers
   
1.01     Incorporation
   
1.02     Powers
   
1.03     Manner of exercising powers
   
1.04     Form of government
Article II: The Council
   
2.01     Number, selection, term
   
2.02     Qualifications
   
2.03     Vacancies — filling of
   
2.04     Beginning of term of office
   
2.05     Salary
   
2.06     Organization and meetings
   
2.07     Mayor and Vice-Mayor
   
2.08     Salary of Mayor
   
2.09     Clerk of Council
   
2.10     Rules and journal
   
2.11     Powers of the Council
Article III: Ordinances and Resolutions
   
3.01     Action of Council
   
3.02     Enactment of ordinances
   
3.03     Effective date
   
3.04     Publication of ordinances
   
3.05     Initiative and referendum
   
3.06     Adoption of standard codes by reference
Article IV: Village Manager
   
4.01     Appointment of Manager
   
4.02     Manager's duties
   
4.03     Absence or disability of Manager
   
4.04     Removal of the Manager
   
4.05     Relations between Council and Manager
Article V: Administrative Departments
   
5.01     Creation of Departments
   
5.02     Department heads
   
5.03     Departmental divisions
   
5.04     Administrative code
   
5.05     Department of Law
   
5.06     Department of Finance
   
5.07     Department of Safety
   
5.08     Department of Service
   
5.09     Sale of municipally owned utility
Article VI: Taxation and Borrowing
   
6.01     Levying taxes
   
6.02     Submission of extra levy to vote
   
6.03     Power to incur debt, issue bonds or notes
   
6.04     Mortgage revenue bonds
   
6.05     Special assessments
   
6.06     Tax anticipation notes
   
6.07     Emergency borrowing
   
6.08     Procedure in bond issues
Article VII: Finance
   
7.01     Annual tax budget
   
7.02     Revision of tax budget
   
7.03     Other procedures
   
7.04     Fiscal year
Article VIII: Boards and Commissions
Civil Service Commission
   
8.01     Civil Service
   
8.02     The Civil Service Commission
   
8.03     Rules and regulations
   
8.04     Promotion
   
8.05     Probation period
   
8.06     Planning Commission
   
8.07     Powers and duties
   
8.08     Board of Zoning Appeals
   
8.09     Powers and duties
   
8.10     Recreation Board
   
8.11     Other boards and commissions
   
8.12     Manager — ex officio member
Article IX: Nominations and Elections
   
9.01     Municipal elections
   
9.02     Conduct of elections
   
9.03     Nominations
   
9.04     Ballots
   
9.05     Election
   
9.06     Recall
Article X: General Provisions
   
10.01     Oath of office
   
10.02     Official bonds
   
10.03     Personal interest
   
10.04     Removal from office: disqualification
   
10.05     Amendments to the Charter
   
10.06     Severability clause
Article XI: Transitional Provisions
   
11.01     Fiscal succession
   
11.02     Continuation of ordinances
   
11.03     Continuation of officers
   
11.04     Continuance of employees
   
11.05     Transfer of records and property
   
11.06     Continuance of contracts and public improvements
   
11.07     Pending actions and proceedings
   
11.08     When Charter takes effect
PREAMBLE
   We, the people of the Village of Lebanon, Warren County, Ohio, in order to
secure for ourselves the benefits of local self-government under the
Constitution of the State of Ohio, do ordain and establish this Charter for the
government of the municipality of Lebanon.
ARTICLE I: INCORPORATION — FORM OF GOVERNMENT — POWERS
SECTION 1.01. INCORPORATION.
   The present municipality, as its limits are now or may hereafter be
established, shall be and continue to be a municipal corporation of the State
of Ohio in perpetuity, under the name of the Village of Lebanon. When the
municipality shall, under the Constitution and laws of Ohio, become a city, it
shall be known as the City of Lebanon.
   The provisions of this Charter shall apply with equal force to this
municipality, either as a Village or as a city.
SECTION 1.02. POWERS.
   Except as prohibited by the Constitution of this State or restricted by this
Charter, the Village of Lebanon shall have and may exercise all municipal
powers, functions, rights, privileges and immunities of every name and nature
whatsoever. The enumeration of particular powers in this Charter shall not be
deemed to be exclusive, and in addition to the powers enumerated herein or
implied hereby or appropriate to the exercise of such powers, it is intended
that the Village shall have and may exercise all powers which, under the
Constitution of this State or under the laws of the State of Ohio, it would be
competent for this Charter specifically to enumerate.
SECTION 1.03. MANNER OF EXERCISING POWERS.
   All powers of the corporation shall be vested in an elective Council which
shall enact local ordinances and resolutions, adopt budgets, determine general
policies and appoint a Manager who shall see that the policies and legislation
adopted by the Council are enforced. All powers of the corporation shall be
exercised in the manner prescribed by this Charter, or, if the manner be not
prescribed, then in such manner as may be prescribed by ordinance or by general
law.
SECTION 1.04. FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government provided under this Charter shall be known as the
“Council-Manager Plan.”
ARTICLE II: THE COUNCIL
SECTION 2.01. NUMBER, SELECTION, TERM.
   The Village Council shall consist of seven members, elected at large, for
four (4) year overlapping terms. At the first municipal election after the
adoption of this Charter the four (4) candidates receiving the largest number
of votes shall be elected to four year terms of office. and the three (3)
candidates receiving the next highest number of votes shall be elected for a
two (2) year term of office. Thereafter all members of Council shall be elected
for a four (4) year term of office. All elections of Council members shall be
on a non-partisan ballot.
SECTION 2.02. QUALIFICATIONS.
   Any qualified elector, who is a resident of the municipality, shall be
eligible to serve as a member of Council when elected as hereinafter provided.
No member of Council shall hold any other public office other than Notary
Public or member of the National Guard or Reserve in the Armed Forces. A
Councilman who ceases to be a qualified elector, or who accepts and enters upon
the performance of the duties of an incompatible office, or who is absent,
without excuse by the other members of Council, from meetings of the Council
during two (2) consecutive months, shall automatically vacate his office on the
Council.
(Amended on 11-6-01)
SECTION 2.03. VACANCIES — FILLING OF.
   Any vacancy in the Council shall be filled within thirty (30) days by vote
of a majority of the remaining members of Council by the selection of a
qualified elector who has resided in the municipality for at least two (2)
years immediately preceding his appointment. Such person so chosen shall serve
the balance of the unexpired term.
SECTION 2.04. BEGINNING OF TERM OF OFFICE.
   The term of office of Council members shall begin on the 1st Monday in
December following the regular municipal election, to be held the first Tuesday
after the first Monday in November in the odd numbered years.
SECTION 2.05. SALARY.
   The salary of Council members, other than the Mayor, shall be at the rate of
$300.00 per annum until changed by ordinance. No change in salary shall ever
take effect unless enacted by Council prior to ninety (90) days before election
to office.
SECTION 2.06. ORGANIZATION AND MEETINGS.
   Following each municipal election Council shall meet within five (5) days
after the beginning of the term of office of the newly elected members of
Council for the purpose of organizing. At such meeting the newly elected
members of Council shall take the oath of office and the Council shall proceed
to elect a Mayor and Vice-Mayor and transact such other business as may come
before it. Thereafter, regular meetings shall be held as prescribed in the
Council rules, but not less frequently than twice each month. All meetings of
Council shall be open to the public, except that the Council may, by a majority
vote of all of the members present, enter into an executive session only for
those purposes permitted by the general laws of the State of Ohio. A majority
of the members shall constitute a quorum at all meetings.
SECTION 2.07. MAYOR AND VICE-MAYOR.
   The Council shall select biennially, from among its own members, one to
serve as Mayor and one as Vice-Mayor for a term of two years and until their
successors are chosen and qualified. The Mayor shall preside at Council
meetings, when present, and shall have a vote on all matters which come before
Council, but shall have no power of veto. He shall be the ceremonial head of
the municipality, but shall exercise no administrative authority. The Vice-
Mayor shall perform the duties of the Mayor when the Mayor is absent.
SECTION 2.08. SALARY OF MAYOR.
   The Mayor shall be paid a salary at the rate of $400 per annum, until
changed by ordinance.
SECTION 2.09. CLERK OF COUNCIL.
   There shall be a Clerk of Council, whose duty it will be to give notice of
Council meetings, keep the journal, advertise public hearings, record in
separate books all ordinances and resolutions enacted by Council and have the
same published in the manner provided by this Charter. The Auditor, appointed
pursuant to the provisions of this Charter, shall also serve as Clerk of
Council, and shall perform the duties of that office hereinbefore designated
and such other duties as may be assigned to him by this Charter or by
ordinance.
SECTION 2.10. RULES AND JOURNAL.
   The Council shall be the sole judge of the election and qualifications of
its own members. The Council shall determine its own rules of procedure in
conformity with the provisions of this Charter and shall keep a journal of its
proceedings which shall be a public record.
SECTION 2.11. POWERS OF COUNCIL.
   Council shall have authority to:
   Adopt ordinances and resolutions on any subject within the scope of its
powers and provide penalties for the violation thereof;
   Establish the internal organization, staffing and compensation of the
departments, boards and commissions created by this Charter;
   Set up such additional departments, boards, or commissions as it may deem
necessary and determine their powers and duties;
   Adopt and modify the master plan and official map of the municipality;
   Regulate the use of private real estate in the municipality by establishing
zones, limiting the uses in each zone, and limiting the height of buildings and
the intensity of land use;
   Adopt a subdivision platting ordinance and approve subdivision plats which
conform thereto;
   Enact a comprehensive building code;
   Adopt an annual appropriation ordinance based upon the annual budget;
   Appoint and remove the Village Manager, establish his salary, and appoint an
acting Village Manager when necessary;
   Appoint and remove the Auditor and establish his salary;
   Appoint and remove the Village Attorney and establish his salary.
   Inquire into the conduct of any municipal officer or employee in the
performance of his public functions;
   Make investigations of any office, department or agency of the municipality;
   Employ a public accountant to make an audit of the financial affairs of the
Village whenever such audit is deemed necessary;
   Provide for the employment of engineering and other professional services on
a consulting basis when deemed necessary;
   Issue subpoenas for witnesses and the production of books and papers which
may be necessary in the conduct of any hearing or investigation.
ARTICLE III: ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS
SECTION 3.01. ACTION OF COUNCIL.
   The action of Council shall be by ordinance or resolution. On all matters of
a general or permanent nature, or granting a franchise, or levying a tax, or
appropriating money, or contracting an indebtedness, or issuing bonds or notes,
or for the purchase, lease or transfer of property, action shall be taken
formally, by ordinance, in the manner hereinafter provided. Action on all other
matters of a temporary or informal nature may be taken by resolution.
SECTION 3.02. ENACTMENT OF ORDINANCES.
   Each proposed ordinance shall be introduced in writing by a member of the
Council, and, in addition to the title, shall contain an opening clause
substantially reading as follows, “Be it ordained by the Council of the City of
Lebanon, Ohio.” The action proposed to be taken shall be fully and clearly set
forth in the body of the ordinance. Each ordinance shall contain one subject
only, which shall be clearly stated in the title. No ordinance shall be passed
without the concurrence of a majority of all the members elected to Council,
except that emergency ordinances, as hereinafter provided, shall require
concurrence of five (5) members elected to Council for passage. Absent a
declaration of emergency, the title of every ordinance shall be read aloud at a
regular or special meeting of Council on two different days before passage of
the ordinance, but the ordinance may be passed at the same meeting during which
the second reading takes place. If an emergency is declared as hereinafter
provided, or if by a vote of five (5) members elected to council the reading on
two different days is dispensed with, the title of the ordinance may be read
one time and passed on the day of such reading. Final passage of all ordinances
and resolutions shall be certified by the Mayor or Vice Mayor and the Clerk of
Council. No ordinance passed by this Council before the effective date of this
section shall be declared invalid, ineffective, or unenforceable for the sole
reason that only the title was read, or it was not otherwise “fully and
distinctly read” in full, whether once or twice, as set forth in the prior
section
3.02 of this Charter.
(Amended 11-6-01)
SECTION 3.03. EFFECTIVE DATE.
   Ordinances provided for appropriations for current expenses of the
municipality, or for public improvements petitioned for by the owners of a
majority of the foot frontage of property benefitted and to be specially
assessed for the cost thereof, or for raising revenue, or ordinances wherein an
emergency is declared to exist, shall become effective immediately upon passage
or at such later date as may be provided therein, and such ordinances shall not
be subject to referendum. All other ordinances shall take effect thirty days
after passage. An emergency ordinance as referred to herein is one which must
be passed and made effective at once or in less than thirty days to meet an
emergency in the operation of the Village government, or which is necessary for
the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety, morals or
welfare. Each emergency ordinance must contain therein a separate section
setting forth the reason for the emergency. No ordinance granting a franchise
or fixing a rate to be charged by a public utility shall be passed as an
emergency measure.
SECTION 3.04. PUBLICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   After passage, ordinances required by law to be published shall be published
in summary form, one time, in a newspaper of general circulation in the
Village. Such summary shall consist of a brief statement of the purpose and
effect of the ordinances. A copy of each ordinance shall be posted fifteen (15)
days in a public place in the Village hall to be designated by Council.
SECTION 3.05. INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM.
   Except as otherwise provided in this Charter ordinances may be proposed and
submitted to popular vote by initiative and referendum under the procedure set
forth in Sections 731.28 to 731.40, both inclusive, of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
   Whenever the Council is required to pass more than one ordinance or
resolution to complete the legislation necessary to complete and pay for any
public improvement, the referendum shall apply only to the first ordinance or
resolution to be passed and not to any subsequent ordinance or resolution in
the series relating thereto.
SECTION 3.06. ADOPTION OF STANDARD CODES BY REFERENCE.
   The Council may adopt model or standard codes prepared and published by
public or private agencies on such matters as building construction, plumbing,
heating, ventilating, air conditioning, electric wiring, smoke regulation, fire
prevention and other similar regulatory subjects by reference to the date and
source of the code without reproducing the same in full in the ordinance. At
least six copies of all such codes shall be kept in the office of the Clerk of
Council for reference and consultation by interested persons during regular
office hours and additional copies shall always be available for sale, at cost,
by the Clerk of Council. Any standard code adopted in this manner shall not be
required to be published at length.
ARTICLE IV: VILLAGE MANAGER
SECTION 4.01. APPOINTMENT OF MANAGER.
   The Council shall appoint by majority vote of all the members elected
thereto, an officer of the Village who shall have the title of Manager. The
Manager shall be chosen solely on the basis of his executive and administrative
qualifications, as judged by the adequacy of his training and experience. For
the period of five (5) years after the effective date of this Charter, the
person selected as manager, shall, at the time of his appointment be an
elector, and must have resided for one year within an area extending not more
than three (3) miles outside the corporation limits of the Village of Lebanon.
Thereafter, at the time of his appointment, the Manager need not be a resident
of the Village or State, but during his tenure of office he shall reside in the
municipality. No Council member or member of the Charter Commission shall be
eligible for appointment as Manager or head of a department during the term for
which he has been elected or for two years thereafter.
SECTION 4.02. MANAGER'S DUTIES.
   The Village Manager shall be the chief executive and administrative officer
of the municipality. He shall be responsible to the Council for the proper
administration of all affairs of the municipality, and, to that end, subject to
the provisions of this Charter, he shall have authority and shall be required
to:
   1.Insure that this Charter and the ordinances and resolutions of the Village
are faithfully observed and enforced;
   2.   Appoint and remove all officers and employees of the Village except
those selected or appointed by Council, as otherwise provided in this Charter;
   3.   Prepare the tax budget and annual budget, submit them to the Council
for approval, and administer the appropriations made by the Council;
   4.   Prepare and submit monthly reports to the Council. Prepare and submit
to the Council and the public annually, not later than March 31st, a complete
report on the finances and administrative activities of the municipality for
the preceding year; which report shall be deemed to satisfy the requirements of
Section 117.19, R.C. of Ohio without separate publication of the financial
statement. Such annual report shall be published in the manner provided by
ordinance.
   5.   Formulate and arrange contracts, franchises and agreements subject to
the approval of Council. Sign all contracts, bonds and notes on behalf of the
Village.
   6.   Attend meetings of Council. He shall have the right to participate in
the discussion of all matters coming before Council but shall have no vote.
   7.   Serve as an ex-officio member (without vote) of all boards and
commissions authorized under this Charter, except the Civil Service Commission.
   8.   Delegate to subordinate officers and employees of the municipality any
duties conferred upon him by this Charter or by action of Council and hold them
responsible for the faithful discharge of such duties.
   9.   Perform such other duties, not inconsistent with this Charter, as may
be required by the Council.
SECTION 4.03. ABSENCE OR DISABILITY OF MANAGER.
   The Manager may designate, by letter filed with the Clerk of Council, any
qualified administrative officer of the Village to perform his duties during
his temporary absence or disability. If such designation has not been made and
the Manager is unable to perform his duties or to make such designation, the
Council may, by resolution, appoint any qualified administrative officer of the
municipality to perform the duties of the Manager until he shall return or his
disability cease.
SECTION 4.04. REMOVAL OF THE MANAGER.
   The Village Manager shall serve for an indefinite term, subject to removal
by the Council at any time by a majority vote of all the members elected
thereto. At least thirty (30) days before such removal shall become effective
the Council shall adopt a preliminary resolution stating the reasons for the
removal. The Manager may reply in writing and may request a public hearing,
which shall be held not earlier than twenty (20) days nor later than thirty
(30) days after the filing of the request, before the full Council. After such
public hearing, if one is requested, and after full consideration, the Council
may adopt a final resolution of removal. The Council may, at the time the
preliminary resolution is passed, suspend the Manager from duty and designate
an Acting Manager, but shall cause forthwith the payment of any salary due the
Manager to the date of his suspension. Unless such suspension and removal is
for misconduct of the Manager involving moral turpitude, he shall be paid his
salary for the period of suspension and thirty (30) days following the removal
from office. In the case of voluntary resignation of the Manager, the Council
and the Manager shall agree upon the effective date of the resignation.
SECTION 4.05. RELATIONS BETWEEN COUNCIL AND MANAGER.
   Except for the purpose of inquiry or investigation the members of Council
shall deal with the administrative employees of the municipality solely through
the Manager. No member of the Council shall take the initiative in the
appointment or removal of officers or employees subordinate to the Manager. In
the event any member of Council is found by the Council to have violated this
section, Council shall declare his seat vacant.
ARTICLE V: ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENTS
SECTION 5.01. CREATION OF DEPARTMENTS.
   The administrative functions of the Village shall be carried on by a
Department of Finance, a Department of Law, a Department of Safety, a
Department of Service and such other departments as may be created by
ordinance, after consultation with the Manager.
SECTION 5.02. DEPARTMENT HEADS.
   Each Village department shall be headed by a full time or part time
director. With the exception of the Departments of Finance and Law the Manager
shall appoint and remove all department heads, subject to the approval of the
Council. The head of the Departments of Finance and Law shall be appointed by
the Council in accordance with the provisions of this Charter. Each department
head shall be an administrative officer of the Village. Two or more departments
may be headed by the same person and the Village Manager may serve as the
director of one or more departments in addition to his duties as Manager, when
approved by Council.
SECTION 5.03. DEPARTMENTAL DIVISIONS.
   The work of each department shall be distributed among such divisions
thereof as may be established by the administrative code. Pending the adoption
of such a code of the Council, the Village Manager may establish temporary
divisions by administrative order.
SECTION 5.04. ADMINISTRATIVE CODE.
   Subject to the provisions of this Charter, and after consultation with the
Village Manager, the Council shall adopt an administrative code which shall
provide in detail the organization of the municipal government, define the
powers and duties of each organization unit and determine the administrative
procedures to be followed. Amendments to and revisions of the administrative
code shall be made by the Council only after consultation with the Village
Manager. Where the administrative code is silent the officers and employees of
the Village shall have and may exercise all powers and duties provided for
similar officers and employees by the state law. However, provisions of the
administrative code shall supersede those of the state law in case of conflict.
SECTION 5.05. DEPARTMENT OF LAW.
   The Director of the Department of Law shall be known as the Village
Attorney. He shall be an attorney-at-law, admitted to practice law in the State
of Ohio. He shall perform such duties as may be assigned to the office of city
solicitor by law, as well as those imposed by the administrative code. The
Village Attorney shall be appointed by Council for an indefinite term of
office.
SECTION 5.06. DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE.
   The Department of Finance shall perform those functions customarily
performed by the auditor and the treasurer under the general laws of Ohio. The
director of the Department of Finance shall be assigned the title of Village
Auditor. The Village Auditor shall be appointed by Council for an indefinite
term of office. He shall be the fiscal officer of the Village, shall be
responsible for the accounting, collection and custody of public funds and
shall control disbursements. He shall countersign all bonds and notes issued by
the Village and shall perform such other functions as may be assigned by
ordinance or by order of the Village Manager.
SECTION 5.07. DEPARTMENT OF SAFETY.
   The Department of Safety shall have and perform such functions relative to
police and fire protection as may be assigned by ordinance or by order of the
Village Manager. Notwithstanding any provisions of state law, the Council may
establish a unified police and fire service in which both types of service are
rendered by the same personal. The head of this department shall be designated
as the Director of Safety.
SECTION 5.08. DEPARTMENT OF SERVICE.
   The Department of Service shall have the custody, care, and maintenance of
the public buildings, grounds, streets, sewers, municipal utilities, and
cemeteries owned by the Village. The head of this department shall be known as
the Director of Service. He shall perform such functions and duties with
reference to the service departments as may be assigned by ordinance or by
order of the Village Manager, in addition to those prescribed in the
administrative code.
SECTION 5.09. SALE OF MUNICIPALLY OWNED UTILITY.
   No utility owned by the Village of Lebanon shall ever be sold without first
submitting the question of such sale to the electors for approval. If a
majority of the electors voting, vote in favor of selling such utility, the
Council may proceed with the sale.
ARTICLE VI: TAXATION AND BORROWING
SECTION 6.01. LEVYING TAXES.
   The Council shall have the power to levy taxes in the manner provided by the
Constitution and general laws of Ohio, subject to the limitations provided
therein.
SECTION 6.02. SUBMISSION OF EXTRA LEVY TO VOTE.
   The Council may, at any time prior to the 15th day of September in any year,
declare by resolution, adopted by a vote of two-thirds (2/3) of all the members
thereof, that the amount of taxes which may be raised within the limitations of
this Charter will be insufficient to provide an adequate amount for the
necessary requirements of the Village for current operating expenses, and other
expenses payable from the general fund of the Village, and such permanent
improvements and equipment as shall have an estimated useful life of five (5)
years or more. Such resolution shall declare that it is necessary to levy taxes
in excess of such limitation, in addition to the levies authorized and limited
by this Charter, for the municipal purpose or purposes specified in such
resolution. Such resolution shall specify the additional rate which it is
necessary to levy, the purpose or purposes thereof, the number of years during
which such rate shall be in effect and the date of the proposed election
thereof. Such resolution shall be effective upon its adoption and shall be
certified within five (5) days thereafter to the election authorities, who
shall place such question upon the ballot at the next succeeding November
election. If a majority of those voting thereon vote for the approval of such
additional levy, the Council shall, for a period not in excess of that
prescribed in such resolution, make such levy, or such part thereof as it finds
necessary, pursuant to such approval and certify the same to the County
Auditor, to be placed on the tax list and collected as other taxes.
SECTION 6.03. POWER TO INCUR DEBT, ISSUE BONDS OR NOTES.
   Council may, by ordinance, authorize and issue any and all types of bonds or
notes for any purpose permitted by the Constitution and general laws of Ohio
then in effect. In issuing such bonds or notes, Council shall be bound by the
definitions, limitations and procedures prescribed by the Constitution and
general laws of Ohio then in effect, except as otherwise then provided in this
Charter.
SECTION 6.04. MORTGAGE REVENUE BONDS.
   The Council may, by ordinance, issue mortgage revenue bonds for any purpose
and in any total amount authorized by the state Constitution or laws of Ohio.
SECTION 6.05. SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   Special assessments may be levied by Council to pay any part of the cost of
any public work or improvement authorized by ordinance or resolution. Such
assessments shall be made and levied in accordance with the provisions and
subject to the limitations prescribed by the Constitution and general laws of
Ohio then in effect.
SECTION 6.06. TAX ANTICIPATION NOTES.
   The Council may, by ordinance, issue notes in anticipation of the collection
of taxes on whatever conditions may seem reasonable. Such notes shall be paid
from the tax receipts of the year in which they are issued.
SECTION 6.07. EMERGENCY BORROWING.
   The Council may, by ordinance, borrow money and issue notes in case of
public emergency as authorized by Section 133.29 of the Ohio Revised Code.
SECTION 6.08. PROCEDURE IN BOND ISSUES.
   The procedure followed in authorizing and issuing bonds and notes and
applying the proceeds shall be in accordance with the provisions of the Uniform
Bond Law of the State of Ohio in effect at the time.
ARTICLE VII: FINANCE
SECTION 7.01. ANNUAL TAX BUDGET.
   On or before the first day of June in each year the Village Manager shall
submit to the Council a tax budget for the ensuing fiscal year. For that
purpose, at such time as he shall determine, he shall obtain from the head of
each department or agency of the Village plans for the work to be undertaken by
such department during the next fiscal year, together with estimates of the
cost of performing such work. The Department of Finance shall supply him with
estimates of available revenue. From these data, the city manager [i.e., the
Village Manager] shall prepare the consolidated estimates for the annual tax
budget. The Council shall consider these estimates and adopt them, with or
without amendments, as the tax budget of the Village for the ensuing year, and
transmit them, on or before the 15th day of July, to the County Budget
Commission in the form required by law.
SECTION 7.02. REVISION OF TAX BUDGET.
   The Village Manager shall prepare and submit to the Council each year a
budget so revised that the total contemplated work program and expenditures
from each fund during the ensuing fiscal year shall not exceed the total
recommended appropriations from each fund and the total estimated resources
certified by the County Budget Commission and the County Auditor. Such revised
budget shall serve as the basis for the annual appropriation ordinance.
SECTION 7.03. OTHER PROCEDURES.
   In all other respects the procedure for the preparation, hearing,
advertising and adoption of the budget and the appropriation of municipal funds
shall be governed by the general laws of the State of Ohio pertaining to such
matters.
SECTION 7.04. FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the Village shall be the Calendar year, beginning January
1st and ending December 31st each year.
ARTICLE VIII: BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION
SECTION 8.01. CIVIL SERVICE.
   Appointment and promotions in the administrative service of the Village
shall be made according to merit, to be ascertained, so far as practicable, by
open competitive examination.
Exempt Positions.
   1.   All officers elected by the people.
   2.   Clerk of Council.
   3.   The Village Manager.
   4.   The Secretary to Manager.
   5.   The Directors of Departments.
   6.   The Secretary to the Directors.
   7.   Chief of Police.
   8.   Fire Chief.
   9.   Members of Boards and Commissions appointed by the Council.
   10.   Unskilled labor.
   11.   Temporary employees of exceptional professional or scientific
qualifications engaged as consultants for special work by the Village.
   12.   Seasonal and part time employees.
Classified Service. The classified service shall comprise all positions not
specifically included in this Charter in the unclassified service as exempt
positions.
SECTION 8.02. THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.
   There shall be a Civil Service Commission consisting of three members, not
more than two (2) of whom shall belong to the same political party, who shall
be appointed by the Council. Of the members first appointed, one shall hold
office for a term of two (2) years, one for a term of four (4) years, and the
other for a term of six (6) years. Their successors shall be appointed for
terms of six years. The Council shall fill all vacancies by appointment for the
unexpired term.
SECTION 8.03. RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   No officer or employee in classified service shall be demoted or removed
except for cause and after hearing. The Council shall provide by ordinance for
the enforcement of this provision and also for appeals to the Civil Service
Commission from suspensions, demotions and removals by the Manager. The
Commission shall provide rules for the determination of merit and fitness as
the basis for appointment and promotion of classified personnel covered by
civil service.
SECTION 8.04. PROMOTION.
   The Commission shall provide for promotion to all positions in the
classified service based on competitive examination and on records of merit,
efficiency, character, conduct and seniority. Promotional examinations may be
restricted to present employees, or, if recommended by the Manager, they may be
opened to qualified candidates from outside the city service, by resolution of
the Council.
SECTION 8.05. PROBATION PERIOD.
   An original appointment of a new employee shall not be deemed complete until
a period of probation not to exceed six (6) months has elapsed. Such
probationary employee may be discharged at any time within the said period of
six (6) months upon the recommendation of the head of the department in which
said probationer is employed, with the approval of the Manager.
SECTION 8.06. PLANNING COMMISSION.
   There shall be a Village Planning Commission consisting of five (5) members,
one of whom shall be the Mayor, and four citizen members who have resided in
the Village for a period of two (2) years, to be appointed by Council from
among the qualified electors of the Village. The four (4) citizen members shall
serve four year overlapping terms of office. The first appointments to the four
(4) year term of office under this Charter shall be made as follows: two
members shall be appointed to a two (2) year and two (2) members to a four (4)
year term; thereafter the four (4) citizen members shall be appointed for a
four (4) year term of office.
SECTION 8.07. POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Planning Commission may act as the Platting Commission of the
municipality. As such, it shall provide for planning and regulations covering
the platting of all lands which are subject to control by the municipality, and
shall cause an official map of such territories to be made. The Commission
shall carry out the municipal planning function, including the preparation of a
master plan, and make such investigations, reports and recommendations relating
to planning and the physical development of the Village as it finds necessary
and desirable. Regular meetings shall be held at least once each month.
SECTION 8.08. BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   The Council may appoint a Board of Zoning Appeals to consist of three
electors of the Village to serve for a term of three years. Of those first
appointed under this Charter, one shall serve one (1) year, one shall serve two
(2) years, and one shall serve three (3) years. The Board shall establish its
own rules of procedure and keep a record of its proceedings in all matters
coming before the Board. No resolution overruling an action under or
interpretation of the zoning ordinance by any administrative officer of the
Village shall be adopted except by the affirmative vote of three (3) members of
this Board.
SECTION 8.09. POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board shall have the power to hear and determine appeals from refusal of
building permits and to permit exceptions to and variations from the zoning
regulations in individual cases as may be required to afford justice and avoid
unreasonable hardship to property owners. The standards in all instances to be
applied by the Board shall be established by ordinance of Council.
SECTION 8.10. RECREATION BOARD.
   There shall be a Recreation Board established by the City Council.
SECTION 8.11. OTHER BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS.
   Council may create or abolish such other advisory boards, commissions and
committees as may be deemed necessary.
SECTION 8.12. MANAGER — EX OFFICIO MEMBER.
   The Village Manager shall be an ex officio member of all boards and
commissions created by or under authority of this Charter, except the Civil
Service Commission.
ARTICLE IX: NOMINATIONS AND ELECTIONS
SECTION 9.01. MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS.
   The regular election for the choice of members of the Council shall be held
on the first Tuesday after the first Monday in November in the odd numbered
years. This shall be known as the municipal election. The Council may, by
resolution, order a special election at any time, the purpose of which shall be
set forth in the resolution.
SECTION 9.02. CONDUCT OF ELECTIONS.
   Both regular and special municipal elections shall be conducted by the Board
of Elections of Warren County, Ohio, under the provisions of this Charter.
Where the Charter is silent, the provisions of the state election law shall be
followed.
SECTION 9.03. NOMINATIONS.
   No primary election shall be held for the nomination of candidates for the
Council. Nominations for the office of Council member shall be made by petition
signed by not less than fifty (50) nor more than one hundred (100) electors of
the Village. Petitions shall be the standard forms for the nomination of
individual non-partisan candidates for such office. Group petitions shall not
be used. Petitions shall be filed with the Board of Elections at least ninety
(90) days before the day of the election.
SECTION 9.04. BALLOTS.
   The full names of all candidates nominated shall be printed on the official
ballot without party designation. If two candidates with the same surname, or
with names so similar as to be likely to cause confusion, are nominated, the
addresses of their places of residence shall be placed below their names on the
ballot. The names of all candidates shall be rotated on the ballot as provided
by law.
SECTION 9.05. ELECTION.
   The candidates for member of Council at the regular municipal election,
equal in number to the places to be filled on Council, who received the highest
number of votes shall be declared elected.
SECTION 9.06. RECALL.
   Any member of Council may be removed from office before the expiration of
his term by the qualified voters of the Village. The procedure for such recall
shall be that provided in Section 705.92 of the Ohio Revised Code.
ARTICLE X: GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION 10.01. OATH OF OFFICE.
   Every officer and employee of the Village shall, before entering upon his
duties, take and subscribe to the following oath or affirmation which shall be
filed and kept in the office of the Clerk of Council:
   “I solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support the Constitution of the
United States and of the State of Ohio and will obey the laws thereof and that
I will, in all respects, uphold and enforce the provisions of the Charter and
Ordinances of this Village, and will faithfully discharge the duties of
                        upon which I am about to enter.”
SECTION 10.02. OFFICIAL BONDS.
   All officers and employees of the Village, whose duties require them to
handle municipal and other public money or property, shall furnish a corporate
surety bond issued by a company authorized to do business in Ohio, to protect
the Village against loss due to their acts. The amount of the bond in each case
shall be determined by Council and the premium on such bonds shall be paid from
the funds of the Village. All such bonds shall be filed with the Clerk of
Council.
SECTION 10.03. PERSONAL INTEREST.
   No member of the Council, or any officer or employee of the Village, shall
have any financial interest, direct or indirect, in any contract with or sale
to the Village of any materials, supplies, or services, or any land or interest
in land. A person who knowingly and willfully violates this section shall be
guilty of malfeasance in office and upon conviction thereof shall be removed
from office. Any contract or agreement made in violation of this section shall
be voidable at the election of the Council.
SECTION 10.04. REMOVAL FROM OFFICE: DISQUALIFICATION.
   Whenever, in this Charter, certain acts on the part of Village officials are
described as constituting malfeasance in office, the procedure for complaint,
trial and judgment thereon shall be that prescribed in Sections 733.72 to
733.77 of the Ohio Revised Code.
SECTION 10.05. AMENDMENTS TO THE CHARTER.
   Any section of this Charter may be amended as provided in Article XVIII,
Section 9, of the Ohio Constitution, by submission of proposed amendments to
the electors of the municipality. Such amendments may be initiated either by a
two-thirds (2/3) vote of the Council or by petition to the Council of ten (10)
percent of the electors.
SECTION 10.06. SEVERABILITY CLAUSE.
   If any section or part of section of this Charter shall be held invalid by a
court of competent jurisdiction, such holding shall not affect the remainder of
this Charter, which would have been adopted without the invalid portion if such
invalidity could have been known at the time of its original adoption.
ARTICLE XI: TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS
SECTION 11.01. FISCAL SUCCESSION.
   The Village of Lebanon, under this Charter, is hereby declared to be the
only legal successor of the Village of Lebanon under the general law and as
such the Village has title to all property, real and personal, owned by its
predecessor, including all moneys on deposit and all taxes in the process of
collection, together with all accounts receivable and rights of action. The
Village is also liable for all outstanding orders, contracts and debts of its
predecessor, and for any other obligations for which it may be held liable, as
such successor, by any court of competent jurisdiction.
SECTION 11.02. CONTINUATION OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances of the Village of Lebanon in effect at the time of the
adoption of this Charter, shall remain in effect, except as superseded by the
provisions of this Charter, until they are amended or repealed.
SECTION 11.03. CONTINUATION OF OFFICERS.
   All persons holding office at the time this Charter takes effect shall
continue in office and in the performance of their duties until provision shall
have been made, in conformity with the Charter, for the performance of such
duties by a successor, or the office is abolished.
SECTION 11.04. CONTINUANCE OF EMPLOYEES.
   Every employee of the Village government when this Charter takes effect
shall be retained in his employment and shall thereafter be subject in all
respects to the provisions of this Charter.
SECTION 11.05. TRANSFER OF RECORDS AND PROPERTY.
   All public records and property in the custody of officers and employees of
the Village shall be transferred and delivered promptly to their successors
upon termination of tenure of office or employment.
SECTION 11.06. CONTINUANCE OF CONTRACTS AND PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   All contracts entered into by the Village or for its benefit, prior to the
taking effect of this Charter, shall continue in full force and effect. Public
improvements for which legislative steps have been taken under laws existing at
the time this Charter takes effect shall be completed, as nearly as
practicable, under the provisions of such laws.
SECTION 11.07. PENDING ACTIONS AND PROCEEDINGS.
   No action or proceeding, civil or criminal pending at the time when this
Charter shall take effect, brought by or against the city or any office, agency
or officer thereof, shall be abated or affected by anything herein contained,
but all such actions shall be prosecuted or defended under the laws in effect
when they were filed.
SECTION 11.08. WHEN CHARTER TAKES EFFECT.
   This Charter shall be voted upon at the special election held October 4th,
1960. If approved by the voters, the Charter shall go into effect for the
purpose of electing the first Council hereunder, on July 1, 1961. The first
Council shall be nominated under the provisions of this Charter and shall be
elected on the first Tuesday after the first Monday in November, 1961. At the
first election the four (4) candidates for Council receiving the highest number
of votes shall be elected to serve until the 1st Monday in December 1965. The
three (3) candidates receiving the next highest number of votes shall be
elected to serve until the 1st Monday in December, 1963. At the expiration of
the terms of office of the first Council members elected under this Charter,
the term of office of the members of Council shall be four (4) years. The term
of office of the Council members and other Village officials elected at the
municipal election in November 1959 shall cease and terminate on the 1st Monday
in December, 1961, at which time the first Council elected under this Charter
shall take office, and this Charter shall go into effect for all municipal
purposes.
   We the undersigned regularly elected and qualified members of the Charter
Commission of the Village of Lebanon, State of Ohio, hereby approve the
foregoing Charter and submit it to the voters of the Village of Lebanon at the
special election to be held on October 4, 1960, pursuant to the provisions of
Article XVIII, Section 8, of the Constitution of the State of Ohio.
   Done in the Village of Lebanon, this Eleventh day of July in the year 1960.
   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, we have hereunto subscribed our names:
Sam Kaufmann /s/   
Maurice Hollingshead /s/   
George Leichty /s/   
George Krager /s/   
Alfred S. Hardy /s/   
James D. Templeton /s/   
James M. Herig /s/   
Albert L. Herrick /s/   
Paul E. Fisher /s/   
R. E. Van Camp /s/   
Ernest Girod /s/   
Robert S. Rosell /s/   
                     Harold O. Risinger /s/         
                     Karl S. Baker /s/               
                     Chairman
                     Marvin E. Young /s/            
                     Vice Chairman
                     Mildred B. Wingle /s/            
                     Secretary
PART ONE - ADMINISTRATIVE CODE
TITLE ONE - General Provisions
   
Chapter 101 - Codified Ordinances
   
Chapter 103 - Official Standards
TITLE THREE - City Organization and Administration
   
Chapter 111 - Conformity and Applicability; Bonds
   
Chapter 113 - City Manager
   
Chapter 115 - Department of Finance
   
Chapter 119 - Department of Law
   
Chapter 121 - Department of Safety
   
Chapter 123 - Department of Service
   
Chapter 127 - Department of Planning and Development
   
Chapter 129 - Advisory Boards and Commissions
   
Chapter 131 - Purchasing
   
Chapter 133 - Employment Provisions
   
Chapter 135 - Ethics
   
Chapter 137 - Donations Policy for City-sponsored Events
TITLE FIVE - Health and Judicial
   
Chapter 141 - Health Service
   
Chapter 142   Vaccinations
   
Chapter 143 - Municipal Court
   
Chapter 151 - Income Tax Regulations Effective Through December 31, 2015
   
Chapter 152 -   Income Tax Regulations Effective Beginning January 1, 2016
   
Chapter 153 - Hotel-Motel Tax
   
Chapter 155 - Motor Vehicle License Tax
   
Chapter 157 - Urban Redevelopment Tax Increment Equivalent Fund
   
Chapter 159 - Tax Abatement Program
   
Chapter 160 - Investment Policy
TITLE ONE - General Provisions
   
Chapter 101   Codified Ordinances
   
Chapter 103   Official Standards
CHAPTER 101: CODIFIED ORDINANCES
Section
   
101.01     Designation; citation; headings
   
101.02     General definitions
   
101.03     Rules of construction
   
101.04     Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
101.05     Construction of section references
   
101.06     Conflicting provisions
   
101.07     Separability
 
   
101.99     General penalty
Statutory reference:
   Codification in book form, see R.C. § 731.23
   Statute of limitations on prosecutions, see R.C. § 2901.13
Cross-reference:
   City Attorney to draft ordinances, resolutions and the like, see §
119.01
   Ordinances and resolutions, see Charter
Art. III
   Posting, see §
103.04
   Prior ordinances; applicability, see §
111.02
§ 101.01 DESIGNATION; CITATION; HEADINGS.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the municipality
as revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections shall be known and designated as the
Codified Ordinances of Lebanon, Ohio, 1994, for which designation “codified
ordinances” or “this code” may be substituted. Code, title, chapter and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the codified
ordinances.
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to such
components of the codified ordinances unless otherwise specified. Any component
code may be referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code.”
Sections may be referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the
number, such as “§ 101.01.”
§ 101.02 GENERAL DEFINITIONS.
   As used in the codified ordinances, unless otherwise expressly provided or
the context otherwise requires:
   AND may be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANOTHER or PERSON. When used to designate the owner of property which is the
subject of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other
owner of property.
   COUNCIL. The legislative authority of the municipality.
   COUNTY. Warren County, Ohio.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of incorporeal nature.
   MUNICIPALITY or CITY.  The City of Lebanon, Ohio.
   OATH. Includes an affirmation.
   OWNER (when applied to property). Includes any part owner, joint owner or
tenant in common of the whole or part of such property.
   PERSON or WHOEVER.  Includes all persons, natural and artificial, and
includes but is not limited to private corporations, partners, principals,
agents and employees, and all officials, public or private.
   PREMISES (as applied to property).  Land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests. Personal
Property includes all property except real. Real Property includes lands,
tenements and hereditaments.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county, state
or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The State of Ohio, or any department, division, commission, board,
educational or other institution of the State of Ohio.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts and all other public thoroughfares within the municipality.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT (as applied to premises). Includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of such
premises, alone or with others.
   WRITING. Includes printing.
§ 101.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   General Rule. All words and phrases shall be construed and understood
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in the law shall be construed and understood according to such peculiar
and appropriate meaning.
   (B)   Tense; Gender; Plural. As used in the codified ordinances, unless the
context otherwise requires:
      (1)   Tense: Words in the present tense include the future tense.
      (2)   Gender: Words in the masculine gender include the feminine and
neuter genders.
      (3)   Plural: Words in the plural number include the singular number, and
words in the singular number include the plural number.
   (C)   Calendar; Computation of Time.
      (1)   The time within which an act is required by law to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and including the last day, except that when
the last day falls on Sunday or a legal holiday, then the act may be done on
the next succeeding day which is not a Sunday or a legal holiday.
      (2)   When a public office, in which an act required by law is to be
performed, is closed to the public for the entire day which constitutes the
last day for doing such act or before its usual closing time on such day, then
such act may be performed on the next succeeding day which is not a Sunday or a
legal holiday. If any legal holiday falls on Sunday, the next succeeding day is
a legal holiday.
      (3)   When an act is to take effect or become operative from and after a
day named, no part of that day shall be included.
      (4)   In all cases where the law shall require any act to be done in a
reasonable time or reasonable notice to be given, such reasonable time or
notice shall mean such time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance
of such duty or compliance with such notice.
   (D)   Authority. When the law requires an act to be done which may by law be
done by an agent as well as the principal, such requirement shall be construed
to include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (E)   Joint Authority. All words purporting to give joint authority to three
or more municipal officers or other persons shall be construed as giving such
authority to a majority of such officers or other persons, unless it shall be
otherwise expressly declared in the law giving the authority or inconsistent
with state statute or Charter provisions.
   (F)   Exceptions. The rules of construction shall not apply to any law which
shall contain any express provision excluding such construction, or when the
subject matter or context of such law may be repugnant thereto.
§ 101.04 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   When a law which repealed a former law is repealed, the former law is
not thereby revived.
   (B)   When a provision of the codified ordinances is repealed or amended,
such repeal or amendment does not affect actions, prosecutions or proceedings,
civil or criminal. When the repeal or amendment is related to the remedy, it
does not affect pending actions, prosecutions or proceedings, unless so
expressed, nor does any repeal or amendment affect causes of such action,
prosecution or proceeding, existing at the time of such amendment or repeal,
unless otherwise expressly provided in the amending or repealing law.
   (C)   When a provision of the codified ordinances is repealed, such repeal
does not:
      (1)   Affect any rights or liabilities which exist, have accrued or have
been incurred by virtue of such repealed provisions;
      (2)   Affect an action or proceeding for the enforcement of any rights or
liabilities existing or arising thereunder;
      (3)   Relieve any person from punishment for an act committed in
violation of such repealed provision;
      (4)   Affect an indictment or prosecution for a violation of such
repealed provision.
   (D)   For the purposes of this section, such repealed provision shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding such repeal, provided this
does not affect the limitation of actions, prosecutions or proceedings imposed
by any state statute.
§ 101.05 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   When reference is made to any section or group of sections of the
codified ordinances, such reference shall extend to and include any amendment
of or supplement to the section or group of sections so referred to or any
section or sections hereafter enacted in lieu thereof; and unless otherwise
provided, whenever a reference to a section or group of sections is made in any
amendment or supplement to any section of the codified ordinances hereafter
enacted, such reference shall be deemed to refer to the section or sections as
the same shall then stand or as thereafter amended.
   (B)   Whenever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, such reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in such
reference.
   (C)   References in the codified ordinances to action taken or authorized
under designated sections of the codified ordinances include, in every case,
action taken or authorized under the applicable legislative provision which is
superseded by the codified ordinances.
§ 101.06 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be construed so as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 101.07 SEPARABILITY.
   Each section of the codified ordinances and every part of each section is an
independent section and part of a section, and the holding of any section or a
part thereof to be constitutional, void or ineffective for any cause does not
affect the validity or constitutionality of any other section or part thereof.
§ 101.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whenever, in the codified ordinances or in any ordinance of the
municipality, any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an
offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever the doing of any act is required or the
failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is
otherwise provided, whoever violates any such provision shall be punished by a
fine not exceeding $50. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each
day during or on which a continuing violation occurs.
CHAPTER 103: OFFICIAL STANDARDS
Section
   
103.01     Official time
   
103.02     Official seal
   
103.03     Datum line
   
103.04     Posting of official documents
   
103.05   Official city flag
   
103.06   Public records request policy
Statutory reference:
   State legal holidays, see R.C. §§ 1.14 and 5.20 et seq.
Cross-reference:
   Computation of time, see §
101.03(C)
   Oath of Office, see Charter §
10.01
   Publication and posting of ordinances, see Charter §
3.04
§ 103.01 OFFICIAL TIME.
   Council hereby adopts Eastern Standard Time as the official time of the city
to govern the various municipal offices and affairs of the city; except that
during periods of the year when Eastern Daylight Savings Time is in effect
throughout the State of Ohio through application of federal or state laws, then
the official time of the city shall be Eastern Daylight Savings Time.
§ 103.02 OFFICIAL SEAL.
   The official seal of the city shall be circular in form, having a Cedar of
Lebanon in the center with a plow embedded in the ground at the left base of
the cedar, and the inscription on the outer circumference shall read “The City
of Lebanon, Ohio.”
§ 103.03 DATUM LINE.
   The sea level datum as established by the United States Coast and Geodetic
Survey shall be established as official datum for the city, and in all
ordinances and parts of ordinances heretofore adopted concerning or mentioning
vertical location of points, 433.18 feet shall be added to the elevations
described therein.
§ 103.04 POSTING OF OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS.
   In addition to publication as required by Charter § 3.04, all ordinances,
resolutions or other official documents of Council and regulations of the City
Manager shall be posted on the north wall of the first floor of the city
building for 15 days.
§ 103.05 OFFICIAL CITY FLAG.
   Council hereby adopts the official flag for the city of Lebanon, as set
forth below.
(Res. 8915, passed 3-9-04)
[Click_here_to_view_image.]
§ 103.06 PUBLIC RECORDS REQUEST POLICY.
   The records request policy establishes office procedures for responding to
requests for public records. This policy supersedes any and all previous
records request policies.
   (A)   Mission statement. It is the policy of the city that openness leads to
a better informed citizenry, which leads to better government and better public
policy. Consistent with the premise that government at all levels exists first
and foremost to serve the interests of the people, it is the mission and intent
of the city to at all times fully comply with and abide by both the spirit and
the letter of Ohio's Public Records Act and Open Meetings Act.
   (B)   Defining public records.
      (1)   All records of the city are public unless they are specifically
exempt from disclosure under the Ohio Revised Code, or are confidential
attorney-client work product or communications. All records must be organized
and maintained so that they are readily available for inspection and copying.
      (2)   Public records are defined to include the following: Any document -
paper, electronic (including, but not limited to, e-mail), or other format -
that is created or received by, or comes under the jurisdiction of the Office
of the Ohio Attorney General that documents the organization, functions,
policies, decisions, procedures, operations, or other activities of the office.
   (C)   Response timeframe.
      (1)   Public records are to be available for inspection during regular
business hours, with the exception of published holidays. Public records must
be made available for inspection promptly. Copies of public records must be
made available within a reasonable period of time. "Prompt" and "reasonable"
take into account the volume of records requested; the proximity of the
location where the records are stored; and the necessity for any legal review
of the records requested.
      (2)   Each request should be evaluated for an estimated length of time
required to gather the records. Routine requests for records should be
satisfied immediately, if that is feasible. Routine requests include, but are
not limited to, meeting minutes (both in draft and final form), budgets, salary
information, forms and applications and personnel rosters. If fewer than 20
pages of copies are requested or if the records are readily available in an
electronic format that can be e-mailed or downloaded easily, these should be
made as quickly as the equipment allows.
      (3)   All requests for public records must either be satisfied or be
acknowledged in writing within three business days following the office's
receipt of the request.
      (4)   If a request is made by a member of the media, the recipient of the
request must notify the City Manager's Office.
   (D)   Handling requests.
      (1)   Although no specific language is required to make a request, the
requestor must at least identify the records requested with sufficient clarity
to allow the office to identify, retrieve, and review the records. If it is not
clear what records are being sought, the office must contact the requestor for
clarification, and should assist the requestor in revising the request by
informing the requestor of the manner in which the office keeps its records.
      (2)   The requestor does not have to put a records request in writing,
and does not have to provide his or her identity or the intended use of the
requested public record. It is this city's general policy that this information
is not to be requested.
      (3)   In processing the request, the office does not have an obligation
to create new records or perform new analysis of existing information. An
electronic record is deemed to exist so long as a computer is already
programmed to produce the record through simple sorting, filtering, or
querying. Although not required by law, the office will attempt to accommodate
the requestor by generating new records, in order to make otherwise public
records available and protect records that are legitimately exempt from
disclosure, when it is feasible and practical under the circumstances.
      (4)   In processing a request for inspection of a public record, an
office employee must accompany the requestor during inspection to make certain
original records are not taken or altered.
      (5)   If a request is for records that may be exempt or prohibited from
disclosure, or if the request presents a high probability of litigation or any
other unique issue, the recipient of the request must contact the City
Manager's Office as the request is being processed. The City Manager's Office
and, if necessary, the City Attorney will assist in processing the request.
      (6)   A copy of the most recent edition of the Ohio Sunshine Laws manual
is available to all employees of the city via the internet for the purpose of
keeping employees educated as to the city's obligations under the public
records law.
   (E)   Electronic records.
      (1)   Documents in electronic mail format or sent via a hand-held
communications device (such as a BlackBerry) are public records when their
content relates to the business of the city. E-mail and instant messages are to
be treated in the same fashion as records in other formats.
      (2)   Records in private e-mail accounts used to conduct public business
are subject to disclosure, and all employees or representatives of the city are
required to copy their e-mails that relate to public business to their business
e-mail accounts and retain them in accordance with applicable records retention
schedules.
   (F)   Confidential and privileged records.
      (1)   Any record that is deemed to be a confidential communication
between an attorney and client or created in preparation for trial shall be
clearly marked at the top of the first page and at the bottom of each following
page with a notation indicating that the record is either a "Confidential
Attorney-Client Communication" or "Confidential Attorney Work Product." If the
record is in e-mail format, the notation should be included in the "subject"
field.
      (2)   All civil investigatory records and criminal law enforcement
records shall be prominently stamped with a "Confidential" notation.
   (G)   Denial or redaction of a request.
      (1)   If the requestor makes an ambiguous or overly broad request or has
difficulty in making a request for public records, the request may be denied,
but the denial must provide the requestor an opportunity to revise the request
by informing the requestor of the manner in which records are maintained and
accessed by the office.
      (2)   Any denial of public records requested must include an explanation,
including legal authority. If the initial request was made in writing, the
explanation must also be in writing. If portions of a record are public and
portions are exempt, the exempt portions are to be redacted and the rest
released. All redactions shall be plainly visible. If there are redactions,
each redaction must be accompanied by a supporting explanation, including legal
authority.
   (H)   Copying and mailing costs.
      (1)   Those seeking public records may be charged only the actual cost of
making copies, not labor:
         (a)   The charge for paper copies is $.05 per page.
         (b)   The charge for downloaded computer files to a compact disc is $1
per disc.
      (2)   A requestor may be required to pay in advance for costs involved in
providing the copy. The requestor may choose whether to have the record
duplicated upon paper, upon the same medium in which the public record is kept,
or any other medium on which the record can be duplicated.
      (3)   If a requestor asks that documents be mailed to them, they will be
charged the actual cost of the postage and mailing supplies. There is no charge
for documents e-mailed.
(Res. 9659, passed 2-12-08)
TITLE THREE - City Organization and Administration
   
Chapter 111   Conformity and Applicability; Bonds
   
Chapter 113   City Manager
   
Chapter 115   Department of Finance
   
Chapter 119   Department of Law
   
Chapter 121   Department of Safety
   
Chapter 123   Department of Service
   
Chapter 127   Department of Planning and Development
   
Chapter 129   Advisory Boards and Commissions
   
Chapter 131   Purchasing
   
Chapter 133   Employment Provisions
   
Chapter 135   Ethics
   
Chapter 137   Donations Policy for City-sponsored Events
CHAPTER 111: CONFORMITY AND APPLICABILITY; BONDS
Section
   
111.01     Conformity with Charter
   
111.02     Applicability of prior ordinances
   
111.03     Surety bonds
   
111.04     Organization chart
Statutory reference:
   Blanket bonds, see R.C. § 3.06
Cross-reference:
   Administrative code, see Charter § 5.04
   Auditor’s bond, see §
115.01
   City Manager’s bond, see §
113.01 
   Official bonds, see Charter §
10.02
§ 111.01 CONFORMITY WITH CHARTER.
   This administrative code shall implement the city Charter, and the
provisions hereof shall be so construed. Should any provision of this
administrative code be found to be in conflict with the Charter, the Charter
provisions shall control. Any such conflict of any provision of this code shall
render only the conflicting provision hereof invalid, and all other provisions
of this code, not in conflict with the Charter, shall remain in force and
effect. Should any provision of this code be susceptible of two
interpretations, one of which is in conflict with the Charter and the other of
which is in conformity with the Charter, such provision shall be given that
interpretation conforming to the Charter.
§ 111.02 APPLICABILITY OF PRIOR ORDINANCES.
   Existing ordinances of the city in conflict with the Charter and with this
administrative code are hereby repealed. To the extent that this code may not
make provision for any matter required by the Charter to be provided by
ordinance, the provisions of existing ordinances on such matter shall remain in
effect and be deemed to be a part of this code.
§ 111.03 SURETY BONDS.
   In accordance with Charter §
10.02, all employees of the city whose duties require them to handle public
money or property shall furnish a corporate surety bond to protect the city
against loss due to their acts. The bond shall be in the amount of $50,000 for
each officer or employee, except where different amounts are provided for in
this administrative code. Officers and employees who can legally be covered by
a blanket bond may be so covered.
(Am. Ord. 6139, passed 11-24-87)
§ 111.04 ORGANIZATION CHART.
   As provided for in Section 2.11 of the City of Lebanon Charter, the City of
Lebanon Organization Chart as depicted in Exhibit A of Ordinance 2017-013 shall
be the official organization chart of the government of the city.
(Am. Ord. 5668, passed 3-26-85; Am. Ord. 8467, passed 5-28-02; Am. Ord. 8756,
passed 6-10-03; Am. Ord. 2017-013, passed 2-28-17)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5ce83735ebc24dce64e46cc05b772d2a1e46bb9f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-11773.jpg]
 
CHAPTER 113: CITY MANAGER
Section
   
113.01     Duties of City Manager; bond
   
113.02     Rules and regulations of City Manager
   
113.03     Work division and assignment
   
113.04     Division into Department Heads
   
113.05     Duties of Department Director
   
113.06     Responsibilities of Directors of Departments of Service, Planning
and Development, and Safety
Cross-reference:
   Authority to place traffic control devices; other powers, see §§
303.02 and
305.03
   City Manager, see Charter
Art. IV
   City Manager to authorize purchases, see §
131.01
   Payrolls to be submitted to City Manager for approval, see §
115.02
   Power to remove, discharge employees, see
Ch. 133
   Resisting or abusing officials, see §
508.11
§ 113.01 DUTIES OF CITY MANAGER; BOND.
   (A)   The City Manager shall be the chief executive and administrative
officer of the city. He or she shall perform the duties required of him or her
by the Charter, and such additional duties as may be prescribed herein.
   (B)   The City Manager shall furnish bond in the amount of $50,000.
§ 113.02 RULES AND REGULATIONS OF CITY MANAGER.
   The City Manager may prescribe such general rules and regulations as he or
she may deem necessary or expedient for the general conduct of the
administrative departments which report to him or her. The head of each
department shall in like manner prescribe such rules and regulations as he or
she may deem necessary and expedient for the proper conduct of his or her
department, not inconsistent with rules and regulations prescribed by the City
Manager.
§ 113.03 WORK DIVISION AND ASSIGNMENT.
   (A)   The division of the city services into departments and divisions is an
administrative and budgetary convenience, and it does not imply that the work
effort or employee assignment is permanent or is based on any other
consideration than that convenience. The City Manager may assign work or
employees as necessary to any department to expedite results or to meet
seasonal or periodic requirements.
   (B)   At all times the work hours of employees shall be recorded and charged
against the department/division where they are working, regardless of where
they are predominantly assigned. Likewise, if a department performs work
regularly assigned to another department, the time shall be recorded and
charged to the department regularly assigned the work.
§ 113.04 DIVISION INTO DEPARTMENT HEADS.
   The administrative service of the city shall be divided under the City
Manager, into the following departments with the following heads:
Department            Head
Department of Finance      City Auditor
Department of Law         City Attorney
Department of Safety         Director of Safety
Department of Service      Director of Service
Department of Planning      Director of Planning
and Development          and Development
(Am. Ord. 5203, passed 4-22-80; Am. Ord. 5391, passed 4-13-82)
§ 113.05 DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT DIRECTOR. 
   The directors of the Departments of Service, Planning and Development, and
Safety shall perform all duties required of their office by the Charter, by
law, by this code and ordinances of the city, and shall perform other duties
not in conflict as may be assigned by the City Manager.
§ 113.06 RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS OF DEPARTMENTS OF SERVICE, PLANNING AND
DEVELOPMENT, AND SAFETY.
   (A)   The directors of the Departments of Service, Planning and Development,
and Safety shall:
      (1)   Be immediately responsible to the City Manager for the effective
administration of their departments and all activities assigned thereto;
      (2)   Be responsible for the safe, effective and efficient efforts of all
employees assigned to their departments;
      (3)   Keep informed as to the latest practices in their particular field
and inaugurate, with the approval of the City Manager, new practices as appear
to be of benefit to the service and to the public;
      (4)   Submit monthly reports of the activities of their departments;
      (5)   Establish and maintain a system of records and reports in
sufficient detail to furnish all information necessary for proper control of
departmental activities and to form a basis for the reports required by the
City Manager;
      (6)   Maintain records and reports required by the City Auditor for the
accounting of income, expenses and labor;
      (7)   Have power, when authorized by the City Manager and subject to the
civil service regulations, to appoint and remove their subordinates; and
      (8)   Be responsible for the proper custody and maintenance of all city
property and equipment used in their departments.
   (B)   The directors of the Departments of Service, Planning and Development,
and Safety and the employees assigned to those departments are not authorized
to receive or disburse city funds.
CHAPTER 115: DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE
Section
   
115.01   Duties of City Auditor
   
115.02   Payrolls
   
115.03   Treasury Investment Fund
   
115.04   Division of Taxation
Cross-reference:
   Department of Finance estimates for budget, see Charter §
7.01
   Department of Finance, see Charter §
5.06
   Surety bonds for city employees handling city funds, see §
111.03
   Taxation and borrowing, see Charter
Art. VI
§ 115.01 DUTIES OF CITY AUDITOR.
   (A)   The City Auditor shall direct the Department of Finance and serve as
Clerk of Council. He or she shall be the Chief Financial Officer and Tax
Commissioner. He or she shall perform the duties required by the Charter for
those positions, those duties prescribed herein, and the administrative duties
of a Department Director;
   (B)   The City Auditor shall furnish bond in the amount of $50,000.
   (C)   The following specific duties are assigned to the City Auditor:
      (1)   Assure that all city expenditures meet the intent of each
appropriation; that Council was aware of the intent and that each expenditure
is reasonable for the goods and services provided therefor.
      (2)   Keep a full and accurate record of all monies received and
disbursed on behalf of the city and of all monies due to and from the city upon
contracts and orders upon which the city is obligated and otherwise.
      (3)   Receive and have custody of all monies paid to the city and
disburse all city monies in accordance with the Charter and ordinances, signing
all warrants upon the City Treasury in making such disbursements.
      (4)   Render a monthly report to the City Manager and to Council,
reflecting the financial condition of the city, showing receipts, encumbrances
and balances of all funds. The City Auditor shall also be responsible to the
City Manager with respect to preparing projected expense input for the annual
budget, submitting requests for material or service purchases, and all
supervisory and personnel functions.
      (5)   Certify that funds are available according to law to pay monies
provided by all contracts, agreements or other obligations for the expenditure
of the city funds.
      (6)   Make payment of the interest and principal on the bonded debt when
due, and keep accurate records of such debt and of such payments thereon.
      (7)   Prepare the city payrolls.
      (8)   Provide for the safekeeping of securities and other documents for
payment of money to the city and maintain custody of all documents evidencing
investments of the city.
      (9)   Prepare and submit such reports as may be required by law.
      (10)   Provide for purchasing and invoice reconciliation.
      (11)   Establish a system for facility, equipment and supply inventory
accounting.
§ 115.02 PAYROLLS.
   Payrolls shall be submitted to the City Manager for approval, when prepared
by the City Auditor, and upon the City Manager’s approval thereof, the City
Auditor shall issue his or her warrants in payment thereof when due. It shall
not be necessary for the City Auditor to encumber in advance or to certify as
to the availability of funds appropriated for personal services except those
obtained on a contractual basis, provided that upon issuance of such warrants
the City Auditor shall immediately cause the appropriate funds to be encumbered
to the extent of the warrants issued.
§ 115.03 TREASURY INVESTMENT FUND.
   (A)   Investment of surplus funds.   The City Auditor shall prepare monthly
a statement of monies in the Treasury or in process of collection and a
schedule showing the proper requirements of money for the use of the city for
the ensuing six-month period, together with a recommendation as to whether any
monies in the Treasury shall be invested. The Manager and Auditor, together
with the City Attorney, shall constitute the “Investment Committee.” The
Auditor shall invest, in accordance with the requirements of applicable laws
and the directives of the Investment Committee, so much of the money as the
Investment Committee recommends.
   (B)   Treasury investment account. The City Auditor shall maintain an
account to be known as the Treasury Investment Account, in which shall be
entered all transactions relating to the investment of Treasury funds as herein
provided, and shall furnish to the Investment Committee, a duplicate of all
items entered thereon, showing all bonds or other securities purchased or sold
for the Treasury account, with the number, maturity, date, and interest
coupons, and whenever any such securities or interest coupons are due he or she
shall issue his or her order for their collection in the same manner as other
receipts are collected.
   (C)   Custody of securities. All securities belonging to the city purchased
in accordance with the provisions of this section shall be in the custody of
the City Auditor and shall be kept by him or her in a safety deposit box as are
other securities owned by the city, and properly segregated from other
securities. The box shall be opened only in the presence of the Investment
Committee.
§ 115.04 DIVISION OF TAXATION.
   The Division of Taxation shall be under the direction of the Deputy Tax
Commissioner who shall report to the City Auditor. The Deputy Tax Commissioner
shall perform the following duties:
   (A)   Administer the earnings tax of the city in accordance with the
provisions of
Chapter 151 of this code;
   (B)   Keep a full, proper and accurate account of all transactions performed
by the Division of Taxation;
   (C)   Collect, account for and transfer to the City Auditor, all monies
collected in administering
Chapter 151 of this code;
   (D)   Perform such other duties not in conflict, as may be assigned by the
City Auditor.
(Ord. 5204, passed 4-22-80; Am. Ord. 6139, passed 11-24-87)
CHAPTER 119: DEPARTMENT OF LAW
Section
   
119.01   Department of Law
   
119.02   Bond Counsel
Cross-reference:
   Bonds, see Charter §§
6.03 et seq.
   Municipal Court, see
Ch. 143
§ 119.01 DEPARTMENT OF LAW.
   The Department of Law shall be under the direction of the City Attorney. In
addition to the City Attorney, there may be one or more assistant City
Attorneys who shall serve as City Prosecutors in the Lebanon Municipal Court.
All such attorneys shall be licensed to practice law in Ohio. The City Attorney
shall perform duties as required by the Charter and provided for in §§
113.05 and
113.06, and the following:
   (A)   Attend all meetings of Council and when requested he or she shall
attend meetings of Council committees, boards and commissions.
   (B)   Provide legal services to Council, the City Manager, the City Auditor,
boards and commissions, and the administrative officers and departments on all
matters of law involving the city, and Council members, officers and
departments in the performance of their official duties.
   (C)   Draft or approve all ordinances, contracts, terms and conditions of
purchase, resolutions and other documents of a legal nature to be made and
entered into by the city, and approve the form thereof.
   (D)   Represent the city before all courts sitting within the state in
actions at law in which the city is a party.
   (E)   Assist in the preparation of documents and transcripts for the
issuance of bonds and notes of the city.
   (F)   Participate in negotiations.
(Am. Ord. 6139, passed 11-24-87)
§ 119.02 BOND COUNSEL.
   Whenever City Council proposes to issue bonds or notes to finance public
improvements, or for any other purpose authorized by the laws of the state, the
City Attorney, with the approval of the City Council, may engage the services
of any firm of recognized bond attorneys to assist the City Attorney in causing
such bonds and notes to be issued and to render approving opinions thereon to
purchasers of such bonds and notes.
(Am. Ord. 6139, passed 11-24-87)
CHAPTER 121: DEPARTMENT OF SAFETY
Section
   
121.01     Director of Safety; composition of department
   
121.02   Division of Police
   
121.03   Division of Fire
   
121.04   Chiefs of Police and Fire
   
121.05   Volunteer Firefighter’s Dependents’ Fund Board
   
121.06   Hazard mitigation plan adopted
Statutory reference:
   Fire Chief, see R.C. § 737.09
   Fire Division, composition and control, see R.C. §§ 715.05, 737.08, 737.21
   Police Chief, see R.C. § 737.06
   Police Division, composition and control, see R.C. §§ 715.05, 737.05
Cross-reference:
   Department and Director of Safety, see Charter §
5.01
   Personating an officer, see §
507.04
   Police protection, circuses and carnivals, see §
701.03
   Police to enforce traffic code, see §
303.01
§ 121.01 DIRECTOR OF SAFETY; COMPOSITION OF DEPARTMENT.
   The Department of Safety shall be under the direction of the Director of
Safety. It shall be composed of the Division of Police and the Division of
Fire. The Director of Safety shall be accountable to the City Manager. The
Director of Safety shall perform duties as provided for in §§
113.05 and
113.06.
§ 121.02 DIVISION OF POLICE.
   The Police Division shall perform the following duties in providing police
services to the city:
   (A)   Be responsible for the preservation of the public peace and order, the
prevention and detection of crime, the apprehension of offenders of law and
ordinances, the protection of persons and property and the enforcement of the
criminal laws of the United States, the state and the ordinances of the city.
   (B)   Be responsible for making collections from all municipal parking
meters and accounting therefor to the City Auditor.
§ 121.03 DIVISION OF FIRE.
   The Division of Fire shall consist of an organized group of career, part-
time and volunteer firefighters and emergency medical technicians operating
within three Bureaus: Bureau of Fire Prevention, Bureau of Fire Suppression and
the Emergency Medical Services Bureau. The Division of Fire shall provide the
following services to the city:
   (A)   Be responsible for the prevention of fire through the presentation of
public education programs, act as an information referral service for the
members of the community concerning fire safety and recommend legislation for
the adoption and maintenance of the Lebanon Fire Code. The Fire Prevention
Bureau is responsible for fire code compliance inspections.
   (B)   Be responsible for the control and extinguishment of fires within the
city and within other areas in accordance with any agreements which the city
may now have or may enter into, and for the protection of lives and property
endangered by fire.
   (C)   Be responsible for the operation of the Emergency Medical Services
Bureau equipment and provide the services normally associated with emergency
medical care.
   (D)   Be responsible for operation of rescue and extrication equipment and
perform the services normally incidental to the use of this equipment.
   (E)   Be responsible for response and on-scene coordination for all
hazardous materials incidents occurring within the city limits.
(Am. Ord. 5442, passed 1-11-83; Am. Ord. 6497, passed 5-22-90)
§ 121.04 CHIEFS OF POLICE AND FIRE.
   The Police Chief and Fire Chief shall each be in charge of his or her
respective division and of the personnel thereof. Each shall be accountable to
the Director of Safety. Each shall perform the following duties:
   (A)   Formulate and recommend to the Director of Safety for approval,
policies, procedures, rules and regulations for the government and operation of
their division and their personnel.
   (B)   Be responsible for the performance by his or her division of the
duties assigned to it by the Charter, by law and by this administrative code.
   (C)   Have control of the assignment of all personnel within his or her
division.
   (D)   Provide for the training and instruction of personnel within his or
her division.
   (E)   Perform such other duties as the Director of Safety may prescribe.
§ 121.05 VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTER’S DEPENDENTS’ FUND BOARD.
   Under provisions of R.C. Chapter 146, a Volunteer Firefighter’s Dependents’
Fund Board is established to be constituted and to have such powers and duties
as are set forth in the Ohio Revised Code.
§ 121.06 HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN ADOPTED.
   The City hereby adopts the Warren County Ohio Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan
as an official plan.
(Res. 9601, passed 10-9-07)
CHAPTER 123: DEPARTMENT OF SERVICE
Section
   
123.01     Director of Service; composition of department
   
123.02     Division of Electric
   
123.03     Division of Water and Wastewater
   
123.04     Division of Public Works
   
123.05    Division of Engineering Services
   
123.06    Division of Telecommunications
   
123.07    Division of Information Technology
Statutory reference:
   Power to erect electric works, see R.C. § 743.34
   Power to furnish light, power and heat, see R.C. §§ 715.06 and 717.01
   Power to provide and regulate water system, see R.C. §§ 715.08, 717.01,
743.01
Cross-reference:
   Building Inspector to enforce housing code, see §
1323.01
   Control of trees, see §
907.02
   Department and Director of Service, see Charter §
5.08
   Garbage and rubbish rules and regulations, see §
917.09 
   Sewer rules and regulations, see §
913.05
   Street excavation permit, see §
901.02
   Water rules and regulations, see §
911.03
§ 123.01 DIRECTOR OF SERVICE; COMPOSITION OF DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The Department of Service shall be under the direction of the Deputy
City Manager, who shall serve and be known as the Director of Service, and who
shall be accountable to the City Manager. He or she shall perform duties as set
forth in §§
113.05 and
113.06 and be responsible for the following duties:
      (1)   Administer the collection, processing, and distribution of utility
billing information. Set up all new utility accounts and close inactive
accounts.
      (2)   Administer utility disconnection notices and utility termination.
      (3)   Direct Service Work Orders to the appropriate department and track
progress.
      (4)   Maintain all utility and applicable permitting information.
      (5)   Process comprehensive and building permits for activity in the
city.
      (6)   Oversee the building maintenance personnel and all associated
responsibilities.
      (7)   Oversee the city's recreation program.
   (B)   The Department of Service shall include the following divisions:
      (1)   Division of Electric.
      (2)   Division of Water and Wastewater.
      (3)   Division of Public Works.
      (4)   Division of Engineering Services.
      (5)   Division of Telecommunications.
      (6)   Division of Information Technology.
(Am. Ord. 5207, passed 4-22-80; Am. Ord. 6139, passed 11-24-87; Am. Ord. 8755,
passed 6-10-03)
§ 123.02 DIVISION OF ELECTRIC.
   The Division of Electric shall be under the direction of the Director of
Electric Operations, who shall be accountable to the Deputy City Manager. The
Division shall perform the following functions:
   (A)   Operate, maintain and repair the municipal electrical system of the
city, including buildings used by the Division of Electric, generating
equipment, distribution lines, meters and all equipment pertaining to the
performance of its function; produce and distribute electricity to all
consumers.
   (B)   Furnish, maintain and operate a street lighting system and, for all
municipal buildings and installations, the necessary lighting and electrical
wiring.
   (C)   Maintain accurate records of all operations and of the quantity and
kind of electricity sold to consumers. Make available to the Department of
Finance the information necessary to render invoices to customers for
electrical consumption.
   (D)   Coordinate and manage electrical infrastructure improvements and
expansions.
   (E)   Prepare and submit all reports required by law.
   (F)   Perform such other duties as may be assigned by the Deputy City
Manager or by the City Manager.
(Ord. 7431, passed 8-26-97; Am. Ord. 8755, passed 6-10-03)
§ 123.03 DIVISION OF WATER AND WASTEWATER.
   The Division of Water and Wastewater shall be under the direction of the
Director of Water and Wastewater Operations, who shall be accountable to the
Deputy City Manager. The Division shall perform the following functions:
   (A)   Operate, maintain and repair the water treatment plant and lands,
including the wells, well field, aerator, filters, clear well, and all
facilities connected with water supply and treatment.
   (B)   Maintain, operate and repair the water distribution system of the city
including all distribution lines, customer meters, standpipes, fire hydrants,
distribution pumping systems, the water maintenance building and storage
building, and all other appurtenances of the distribution system.
   (C)   Maintain accurate records of all operations, including quantities of
water used by consumers.
   (D)   When directed by the City Manager or Deputy City Manager, furnish,
operate and maintain for all municipal buildings and installations the
necessary pipe, fixtures and services pertaining to water and sewerage.
   (E)   Make available to the Department of Finance, the information necessary
to render invoices to customers for water used and for sewer services.
   (F)   Operate, maintain and repair the sewage treatment plant and lands, and
all facilities thereto appertaining.
   (G)   Maintain accurate records of all operations, including quantities of
wastewater effluent pumped and quantities of sewage treated.
   (H)   Operate, maintain and repair the sewage collection system of the city,
including the sewers, manholes and all appurtenances to such system.
   (I)   Prepare and submit all reports required by law.
   (J)   Perform such other duties as the Deputy City Manager or the City
Manager may require.
(Ord. 5207, passed 4-22-80; Am. Ord. 6139, passed 11-24-87; Am. Ord. 8755,
passed 6-10-03)
§ 123.04 DIVISION OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   The Division of Public Works shall be under the direction of the Public
Works Superintendent who shall be accountable to the Deputy City Manager. The
Division shall perform the following functions:
   (A)   Maintain, repair, construct, improve and extend the public streets and
storm sewer systems of the city.
   (B)   Erect, construct, apply and maintain all street signs and traffic
control signs and markings within the public right-of-way.
   (C)   Provide maintenance or construction service for any department of the
city where and as directed, including installation of underground utilities,
building construction, and street, curb and gutter, and storm sewers.
   (D)   Maintain and repair or when authorized, arrange for maintenance and
repair of all cars, trucks and motorized equipment owned or controlled by the
city.
   (E)   Maintain accurate and complete records on all motorized equipment
owned or controlled by the city.
   (F)   Maintain all public park and open space, including, but not limited
to, mowing, landscaping, playground equipment, recreational facilities, and
playing field maintenance.
   (G)   Maintain and operate all cemeteries under the control of the city.
   (H)   Maintain accurate records of all cemetery operations.
   (I)   Provide for necessary services in connection with burials.
   (J)   Perform such other duties as the Deputy City Manager or the City
Manager may direct.
(Ord. 8755, passed 6-10-03)
§ 123.05 DIVISION OF ENGINEERING SERVICES.
   The Division of Engineering Services shall be under the direction of the
City Engineer, who shall be a registered civil engineer, licensed to practice
in Ohio by the State Board of Registration for Engineers and Surveyors. He or
she shall be accountable to the Deputy City Manager. This Division shall
perform the following duties:
   (A)   Administer the subdivision regulations and provide for the inspection
of all construction performed thereunder.
   (B)   Maintain accurate records of all utility installations, streets, and
other items of public construction. Serve as custodian of subdivision plats.
   (C)   Prepare and keep current the official city map and zoning map.
   (D)   Assign lot numbers and house numbers.
   (E)   Render engineering advice to Council, to the Deputy City Manager, and
to the various departments of the city; prepare plans and specifications for
other departments as may be required by the Deputy City Manager and the City
Manager.
   (F)   Prepare and keep current the official traffic control map.
   (G)   Provide traffic engineering services for the city.
   (H)   Provide plan review for all construction plans, plats, drawings,
specifications, and other required materials submitted in connection with
applications and/or public improvement projects.
   (I)   Maintain complete and accurate file records of all operations
pertaining to all construction under the jurisdiction of the division.
   (J)   Perform such other duties as may be assigned by the City Engineer, the
Deputy City Manager, or the City Manager.
(Am. Ord. 6139, passed 11-24-87; Am. Ord. 8755, passed 6-10-03)
§ 123.06 DIVISION OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS.
   The Division of Telecommunications shall be under the direction of the
Director of Telecomm-unication Operations, who shall be accountable to the
Deputy City Manager. The Division shall be responsible for the following
functions:
   (A)   Construct, operate and maintain a cable television and
telecommunications utility for the city; including, but not limited to, cable
television, internet, automated meter reading, and telephone.
   (B)   Maintain accurate records of all operations.
   (C)   Submit reports to the Deputy City Manager or the City Manager, as
requested.
   (D)   Prepare and submit all reports required by law.
   (E)   Perform any and all other functions required by the Deputy City
Manager and/or the City Manager.
(Am. Ord. 6139, passed 11-24-87; Am. Ord. 8755, passed 6-10-03)
§ 123.07 DIVISION OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY.
   The Division of Information Technology shall be under the direction of the
Information Technology Coordinator, who shall be accountable to the Deputy City
Manager. The Division shall be responsible for the following functions:
   (A)   Maintain, install, and upgrade all information technology hardware and
software,including, but not limited to, computers, printers, servers, modems,
switches, etc.
   (B)   Provide user support and troubleshooting for computer hardware and
application needs.
   (C)   Research and provide technical expertise for information technology
related issues.
   (D)   Configure and maintain all user account features. Maintain the city's
information security system.
   (E)   Provide regular backups of data.
   (F)   Submit reports to the Deputy City Manager or the City Manager, as
requested.
   (G)   Perform any and all other functions required by the Deputy City
Manager and/or the City Manager.
(Ord. 8755, passed 6-10-03)
CHAPTER 127: DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
Section
   
127.01   Department of Planning and Development; composition
   
127.02   Division of Planning
   
127.03   Division of Building and Zoning Inspections
Cross-reference:
   Duties of Director of Planning, see §
113.06
§ 127.01 DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT; COMPOSITION.
   The Department of Planning and Development shall be under the direction of
the Director of Planning and Development who shall be accountable to the City
Manager. He or she shall perform the duties as set forth in §§
113.02 and
113.06. The Department of Planning and Development shall include the following
divisions:
   (A)   Division of Planning;
   (B)   Division of Building and Zoning Inspections.
(Ord. 5393, passed 4-13-82; Am. Ord. 6139, passed 11-24-87; Am. Ord. 8755,
passed 6-10-03)
§ 127.02 DIVISION OF PLANNING.
   The Division of Planning shall be under the direction of the City Planner
who shall be accountable to the Director of Planning. This Department shall
administer any urban renewal or neighborhood development project which may be
undertaken by the city. This Division shall also assist Planning Commission in
a staff capacity and shall perform other duties as may be assigned by ordinance
or by the Director of Planning and Development.
(Ord. 5393, passed 4-13-82; Am. Ord. 6139, passed 11-24-87)
§ 127.03 DIVISION OF BUILDING AND ZONING INSPECTIONS.
   The Division of Building and Zoning Inspections is responsible for the
administration and enforcement of the local zoning code, the local building and
housing codes, and the Ohio Basic Building Code.
(Ord. 8755, passed 6-10-03)
CHAPTER 129: ADVISORY BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
   
129.01   Planning Commission
   
129.02   Board of Review
   
129.03   Other advisory boards
   
129.04   Members to vacate
   
129.05   Board of Festivals and Tourism
   
129.06   Shade Tree Commission
   
129.07   [Reserved]
   
129.08   [Reserved]
   
129.09   Investment Committee
   
129.10   Lebanon Recreation Board
Cross-reference:
   Board of Zoning Appeals Building duties, see
Ch. 1303
   Generally, see Charter §§
8.08 and
8.09
   Zoning duties, see Ch. 1151
   Duties of Board of Review, see §
151.13
   Planning Commission, see
Ch. 1101; Charter §§
8.06 and
8.07
   Recreation Board, see Charter §
8.10
§ 129.01 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   The Planning Commission shall carry out the municipal planning function,
including the preparation of a master plan, and make such investigations,
reports and recommendations relating to planning and the physical development
of the city as it finds necessary and desirable. The Planning Commission shall
review all subdivision plats in accordance with the subdivision regulations,
and shall make recommendation to Council concerning the approval of such plats.
The Planning Commission shall have authority to approve, disapprove or approve
with qualifications all subdivision preliminary and final plats within the
city. The Planning Commission shall perform such other duties as are required
by the zoning code and the subdivision regulations.
(Am. Ord. 6139, passed 11-24-87)
§ 129.02 BOARD OF REVIEW.
   The Board of Review shall be constituted and appointed, and shall perform
the duties as provided for in §
151.13 of this code.
(Am. Ord. 6139, passed 11-24-87)
§ 129.03 OTHER ADVISORY BOARDS.
   Advisory boards established by Council in accordance with the authority of §
8.11 of the Charter shall follow the following process and rules:
   (A)   Purpose/Duties. The purpose(s), duties and term of existence of each
advisory board shall be identified and defined in legislation establishing each
advisory board.
   (B)   Term of Office. The term of office of each member appointed by Council
to each advisory board shall be periods of four years. Members appointed to
serve on an advisory board shall be qualified electors of the city and submit a
written request to be appointed. No person may serve on more than one advisory
board or hold elective city office at the same time. Vacancies due to
resignations, loss of eligibility, removal or for any other reason shall be
filled by Council within 60 calendar days and appointments shall be for the
unexpired term. Members shall serve at the pleasure of Council. The formation
of a new board/commission will consist of a minimum of five individuals whose
terms will be staggered one for one- year, two for two-years, one for three-
years and one for four-years.
   (C)   Relations with Council. Each advisory board shall report to and advise
a standing committee of Council designated in the legislation establishing the
board. The Council member serving as chair of the standing committee of Council
shall serve as an ex-officio member of all advisory boards.
   (D)   Reports. Each advisory board shall submit a written report to Council
at least twice each year describing its activities, recommendations, and
accomplishment of programs.
   (E)   Officers. Each advisory board shall select a chairperson and secretary
from among its members to serve terms of one year each. The election shall take
place at the first meeting each year. The secretary of each advisory board
shall prepare the minutes of each meeting. The minutes shall be filed with the
office of the City Manager and copied to the City Council.
   (F)   Regular Meetings. Each advisory board shall meet each month after
normal business hours on a designated weekday except the second and fourth
Tuesdays of each month. All meetings shall be open to the public and held at a
public facility. A majority of the board members shall constitute a quorum at
all meetings.
   (G)   Special Meetings. The chairperson may call a special meeting and the
secretary of the board shall have a notice of the special meeting delivered to
each board member and the City Manager at least 48 hours prior to the special
meeting. Only matters set forth in the notice of the meeting shall be discussed
at the special meeting.
   (H)   Procedure. Except as set forth herein, Robert’s Rules of Order shall
apply to the conduct of all meetings of advisory boards.
   (I)   This section shall have no effect upon the Library Board or other
boards as may be established by the Charter.
(Am. Ord. 6139, passed 11-24-87; Am. Ord. 7730, passed 11-9-99; Am. Ord. 2015-
003, passed 2-10-15)
§ 129.04 MEMBERS TO VACATE.
   A member of any advisory board or commission established pursuant to the
authority of Article VIII of the Charter who ceases to be a qualified elector,
or who accepts and enters upon the performance of the duties of an incompatible
office, or who is absent, without excuse by the other members of his or her
advisory board or commission from three consecutive meetings, shall
automatically vacate his or her office on the advisory board or commission.
(Ord. 6635, passed 8-13-91)
§ 129.05 BOARD OF FESTIVALS AND TOURISM.
   There is hereby established a Board of Festivals and Tourism consisting of
seven members, electors of the city, appointed by Council for a term of four
years. Of the members first appointed under this section, two shall hold office
for two years, two shall hold office for three years, and three shall hold
office for four years. The Board of Festivals and Tourism shall provide for the
development of tourism for the city and the development and supervision of
festivals in the city. The Board shall make such investigations, reports and
recommendations relating to tourism and festivals as it finds necessary and
desirable.
(Ord. 6469, passed 2-13-90)
§ 129.06 SHADE TREE COMMISSION.
   (A)   Membership/Name. There is hereby established a Shade Tree Commission.
The Shade Tree Commission shall consist of seven members appointed by Council
in accordance with §
129.03 of this chapter. The Shade Tree Commission shall report to the Parks and
Recreation Committee of City Council.
   (B)   Purpose. The Shade Tree Commission shall research, investigate and
benchmark parks, open spaces, landscaping and the planting, care and
preservation of trees and shall recommend programs for consideration by City
Council.
   (C)   Duties. The Shade Tree Commission shall:
      (1)   Review and inventory all parks and open space within the city,
including location, size, condition and benefit to the community.
      (2)   Research literature, experts, and other sources to determine
current best practices for maintenance and development of city parks and open
spaces and for landscaping and tree care.
      (3)   Study the practices of other municipalities for ideas and benchmark
the city’s status against the best of other locations.
      (4)   Network with citizens to solicit ideas and measure public opinion
regarding the city’s parks and open spaces.
      (5)   Identify areas of need for parks or open spaces in the city and
identify parcels for use for parks and open spaces.
      (6)   Formulate recommendations for long- term development and care of
the city’s parks, open spaces, landscaping and trees.
      (7)   Perform such other duties that Council may from time to time define
in writing for the Commission.
   (D)   Resources. The City Manager shall provide reasonable staff resources
to facilitate the duties of the Shade Tree Commission. Reimbursement for
Commission member travel expenses may be considered for pre-approved research
and benchmarking.
(Ord. 6767, passed 8-25-92; Am. Ord. 7731, passed 11-9-99; Am. Ord. 8015,
passed 12-28-00)
§ 129.07 [RESERVED]
Editor’s note:
   This section was repealed by Ordinance No. 2015-003, passed February 10,
2015.
§ 129.08 [RESERVED]
Editor’s note:
   This section was repealed by Ordinance No. 9279, passed February 28, 2006.
§ 129.09 INVESTMENT COMMITTEE.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Investment Committee for the city.
   (B)   The members of the Committee shall be the City Manager, City Auditor
and City Attorney.
   (C)   The Committee shall advise the Council on financial and other matters
and perform such other functions as requested by the Council.
(Ord. 7300, passed 10-22-96)
§ 129.10 LEBANON RECREATION BOARD.
   (A)   Membership/Name/Purpose. The Lebanon Recreation Board is established
to research, investigate and benchmark recreation and park facilities and
programs and to make recommendations to City Council. The Recreation Board
shall consist of nine members appointed by Council in accordance with
§ 129.03 of this chapter, and one non-voting member to be designated by the
Turtlecreek Township Trustees. The Recreation Board shall report to the Parks
and Recreation Committee of Council.
   (B)   Duties. The Lebanon Recreation Board shall:
      (1)   Identify and review all city parks and recreation programs and
determine the demographics served by the programs, the quality of the programs,
and the benefits to the community.
      (2)   Research literature, experts and other sources to determine current
best practices for city parks and recreation programs.
      (3)   Study the practices of other municipalities for ideas and benchmark
the city’s status against the best of other locations.
      (4)   Network with citizens to solicit ideas and measure public opinion
regarding the city’s parks and recreation programs.
      (5)   Identify areas of need for parks and recreation programs in the
city and citizens or groups of citizens with parks and/or recreation program
needs.
      (6)   Formulate recommendations for long- term development and
improvement of the city’s parks and recreation programs.
      (7)   Perform other related duties that Council may from time to time
define in writing for the Board.
   (C)   Resources. The City Manager shall provide reasonable staff resources
to facilitate the duties of the Recreation Board. Reimbursement for board
member travel expenses may be considered for pre-approved research and
benchmarking trips.
(Ord. 7732, passed 11-9-99; Am. Ord. 8016, passed 12-28-00; Am. Ord. 8760,
passed 6-10-03)
CHAPTER 131: PURCHASING
Section
   
131.01     Purchasing
   
131.02     Requisition
   
131.03     Purchase order
   
131.04     Receiving verification
   
131.05     Invoice justification
   
131.06     Payment of funds
   
131.07     Formal bidding
   
131.08     Opening and tabulation of bids; awards of contracts
   
131.09     Purchase of commodities from state bids
   
131.10     Emergencies and exceptions
   
131.11     Disposition of property
   
131.12     Requirements for professional design services
   
131.13   Requirements for professional services
   
131.14   Requests for proposals (RFP) procedures
   
131.15   Requests for qualifications (RFQ) procedures
§ 131.01 PURCHASING.
   (A)   The Department of Finance shall serve as the central purchasing
division of the city. Purchasing of commodities and services and administration
of contracts shall be under the control and supervision of the City Auditor,
and with the approval of the City Manager, the City Auditor may adopt
operational procedures governing the purchasing system. The Purchasing Agent
shall work under the supervision of the City Auditor and shall be responsible
for the daily operations of the Purchasing Division.
   (B)   The purchase order and invoice justification functions shall be
established in the Department of Finance. The City Manager and City Auditor
shall define and enforce procedures and rules to carry out the following
principles. If a purchase order is secured after the purchase has been made and
sufficient justification is not presented, the purchase may not be approved for
payment (see “Emergency Purchases”).
   (C)   Every undertaking by the city involving the expenditure of money
greater than $1,000 shall be in writing in the form of a purchase order, pay
voucher or contract, as appropriate. Invoices for less than or equal to $1,000
can be approved by the department head, as defined by the Lebanon Charter and
Codified Ordinances, by providing the specific line item in the department’s
annual budget and vendor number on a pay voucher submitted with the invoice to
the Finance Department. It will be the department head’s responsibility to
ensure the line item in the department’s annual budget has sufficient funds to
cover the invoice amount. If it is known that expenditure amounts to a specific
vendor will total more than $1,000 over any three month period, then a purchase
order shall be obtained. Any department head that exceeds the appropriation in
a line item of the annual budget by excessive or uncontrolled spending without
a purchase order may be subject to disciplinary action up to and including
termination. No office or employee of the city shall have the authority to
enter into any oral agreement for any purpose. The City Manager shall authorize
every purchase order over $1,000.
   (D)   Pay vouchers shall be prepared using the forms supplied by the Finance
Department. The form must be completed in its entirety and submitted to the
Finance Department. All checks will be mailed to the vendor directly. If a
check is requested to be forwarded to a specific department, this request will
need to be specified in writing on the pay voucher.
   (E)   The City Auditor shall sign each purchase order certifying that the
estimated amounts required to meet the obligations of the city by such contract
or purchase order has been lawfully appropriated in the city treasury, or in
the process of collection to the credit of the fund involved, free from any
prior encumbrance. In the case of a contract to continue beyond any current
year and to involve expenditures of money in future years, the City Auditor
shall certify as to the money estimated to be paid by the city during the term
of said contract or agreement in the event the project carries forward into
subsequent years.
(Ord. 9626, passed 11-27-07; Am. Ord. 2015-006, passed 1-27-15)
§ 131.02 REQUISITION.
   A requisition is designed to assist city personnel in initiating the first
step in the purchasing process. A requisition shall be used as follows:
   (A)   The requirements of a department in connection with a purchase shall
first be determined by the department head, under the supervision of the City
Manager and consistent with the department's budget as set forth in the city's
annual appropriation ordinance.
   (B)   Each department is responsible for obtaining at least three quotes for
items and/or services to be purchased if the total cost of such items and/or
services exceeds $2,500. Formal advertising, receipt and consideration of bids,
as well as formal City Council approval is required for all purchases exceeding
$75,000, unless otherwise set forth herein.
   (C)   If the purchase and or service was through formal advertisement and
receipt by the city of a formal bid, the department shall indicate the bid
number on the requisition description. Purchases from "blanket bids," in which
prices for goods or services which may or may not be ultimately purchased
during a specified time period are received from various vendors, shall also
indicate the bid number.
   (D)   Requisitions for purchases shall be prepared by an authorized member
of a department utilizing the on-line computer requisition system which shall
include a description of the items or services to be purchased, the quantity of
items or services to be purchased, the per unit cost of items to be purchased
or hourly rate of services to be rendered, vendor, budget line item account
number and if applicable, the source and a summary of any quotes obtained.
   (E)   An authorized member of a department shall advise the purchasing agent
of the need to purchase supplies, services and/or other commodities and any and
all relevant time factors involved.
   (F)   A department head shall only assign account numbers to the appropriate
purchase, and determine that sufficient appropriation exists in that account
number. If there are not sufficient funds appropriated in the departmental
budget to make a necessary purchase of items or services, the department head
shall request that the City Auditor move needed amounts from other line items
of the department's annual appropriation to the line item where funds are
required, or may request supplemental appropriation consideration by City
Council.
   (G)   If the purchase is from the state bid list, the description on the
purchase order shall indicate the state bid number and a copy of the
documentation shall be attached to the requisition prior to the purchase order
being created. Purchases from the state bid list are not required to be
advertised, and no other quotes from other vendors are required for purchases
from the state bid list as noted in §
131.09.
   (H)   A requisition shall be initiated with sufficient time to allow
adequate review and preparation by the Purchasing Division and authorization
process by the City Manager and City Auditor, and if required, adoption by City
Council.
   (I)   All purchases for goods or services totaling over $75,000 shall be
approved by City Council.
   (J)   The Purchasing Agent shall review all requisitions and shall verify in
writing that all information stated on the requisition is correct, funds are
available to make the purchase without exceeding the line item amount approved
in the annual budget ordinance and that the account number is valid and
appropriate.
(Ord. 9626, passed 11-27-07; Am. Ord. 2013-040, passed 4-9-13; Am. Ord. 2015-
006, passed 1-27- 15; Am. Ord. 2023-105, passed 11-28-23)
§ 131.03 PURCHASE ORDER.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a requisition for $2,500 or more, the purchasing agent
or properly authorized departmental employee shall obtain quotes from at least
three suppliers who can meet the requirements of the requisition. If the
purchasing agent believes in good faith that the three quotes obtained are
insufficient or has an articulable reason to believe there may be a better
price, he or she may seek or direct that more than three quotes are necessary.
If the probable cost exceeds $75,000, refer to §
131.07 titled "Formal Bidding." If the cost is less than $75,000, the purchase
may be awarded to the lowest and best quote among the informal bidders. The
purpose of the executed purchase order is the city's order authorizing the
vendor to deliver the specified supplies, services or construction and that
unencumbered money has been duly appropriated by the City Council and that such
monies are available to satisfy the city's obligations relative to the
purchase. Information contained on the purchase order shall be stated clearly
to correspond with vendors' information. Only the Finance Department shall
prepare purchase orders. The City Manager shall promulgate and adopt rules and
discipline in order to enforce this policy. It is the stated intent of this
policy and this chapter to obtain for the city the lowest prices for all
purchases and to avoid any opportunity for favoritism toward any supplier or
collusion with any supplier, to the detriment of the city.
   (B)   If the purchasing agent or authorized member of any department cannot
obtain three quotes after reasonable attempt for any order, then he or she
shall document the circumstances of the efforts to obtain such quotes and shall
forward this document to the Finance Department for attachment to the purchase
order and the purchasing agent shall award the order to the lowest and best
vendor to supply a quote.
(Ord. 9626, passed 11-27-07; Am. Ord. 2015-006, passed 1-27-15; Am. Ord. 2023-
105, passed 11-28-23)
§ 131.04 RECEIVING VERIFICATION.
   All incoming freight (with the exception of administrative supplies or
special equipment) is handled through Central Receiving. All other departments
may receive shipping for items other than large freight. All departments
receiving shipments shall immediately inspect all incoming packages/shipments
for damages, dents, scratches, or general damages of any nature. If damage is
apparent, the shipping bill will be so noted prior to the departments
authorized personnel signing the receiving bill.
(Ord. 9626, passed 11-27-07)
§ 131.05 INVOICE JUSTIFICATION.
   The City Auditor shall authorize the Purchasing Agent or other staff member
of the Finance Department to compare and ensure that each authorized invoice or
statement from a vendor matches the information set forth in a purchase order.
If there is any material difference in commodity, quantity, or price, the
documents shall be submitted to the City Manager and the City Auditor for
reconciliation and approval. The words “miscellaneous” or other vague
descriptions including but not limited to “operational supplies”, “material for
operations” and or “supplies for department” will not be considered adequate as
descriptions on purchase orders exceeding $1,000.
(Ord. 9626, passed 11-27-07; Am. Ord. 2015-006, passed 1-27-15)
§ 131.06 PAYMENT OF FUNDS.
   The City Auditor or designated employee in the Department of Finance shall,
for each properly authorized invoice or reconciled statement, promptly issue
the city's warrant in payment.
(Ord. 9626, passed 11-27-07; Am. Ord. 2015-006, passed 1-27-15)
§ 131.07 FORMAL BIDDING.
   (A)   Where the probable amount of a contract for goods, material, labor and
the like are likely to exceed $75,000, the department requesting to purchase
goods, material, labor and the like will submit a request for legal
advertisement to the City Manager. The City Manager will cause a legal
advertisement to be placed in the following manner:
      (1)   Notice shall be published once a week for not less than two
consecutive weeks preceding the day of the opening of bids in a newspaper of
general circulation within the county for any purchase, lease, lease with
option or agreement to purchase, or construction contract in excess of $75,000.
The City Manager may also cause notice to be inserted in trade papers or other
publications designated by it or to be distributed by electronic means,
including posting the notice on the City of Lebanon's internet site on the
world-wide web. If the City Manager posts the notice on the City of Lebanon's
internet site on the world-wide web, the City Manager may eliminate the second
notice otherwise required to be published in a newspaper of general circulation
within the county, provided that the first notice published in such a newspaper
meets all of the following requirements:
         (a)   It is published at least two weeks before the opening of bids.
         (b)   It includes a statement that the notice is posted on the City of
Lebanon's internet site on the world-wide web.
         (c)   It includes the internet address of the City of Lebanon's
internet site on the world-wide web.
         (d)   It includes instructions describing how the notice may be
accessed on the City of Lebanon's internet site on the world-wide web.
      (2)   Notices shall state all of the following:
         (a)   A general description of the subject of the proposed contract
and the time and place where the plans and specifications or itemized list of
supplies, facilities, or equipment and estimated quantities can be obtained or
examined;
         (b)   The time and place where bids will be opened;
         (c)   The time and place for filing bids;
         (d)   The terms of the proposed purchase;
         (e)   Conditions under which bids will be received;
         (f)   The existence of a system of preference, if any, for products
mined and produced in Ohio and the United States adopted pursuant to R.C. §
307.90.
      (3)   The City Manager shall also maintain in a public place in the City
of Lebanon's offices or other suitable public place a bulletin board upon which
it shall post and maintain a copy of such notice for at least two weeks
preceding the day of the opening of the bids.
The annual appropriation ordinance shall be sufficient authority for the
expenditure without passage of any supplementary or specific appropriation
ordinance by Council. If, however, the contemplated purchase shall not have
been included in the annual appropriation ordinance, a supplementary
appropriation ordinance shall be initiated by the department and forwarded to
the City Auditor.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the foregoing division, if the purchasing agent has
advertised for articles or services in an appropriate publication and on the
City of Lebanon website as required above, and no qualified bids are received
in response thereto, the City Manager may proceed, with approval by the City
Council, to contract for the articles or services with any person or entity who
shall provide the required goods, material labor or the like in the best manner
at the lowest price. The city hereby specifically reserves the right to reject
any or all bids received if, in the reasonable discretion of the city,
purchasing goods, material or labor pursuant to such bids will not be in the
best interests of the City of Lebanon and will not promote the general health,
safety or welfare of the citizens of Lebanon, Ohio
(Ord. 2017-024, passed 3-14-17; Am. Ord. 2023- 105, passed 11-28-23)
§ 131.08 OPENING AND TABULATION OF BIDS; AWARDS OF CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Where formal bidding is employed by reason of the probable amount of
the expenditure, the bids shall be opened and tabulated by the City Manager or
his or her designee at the time and place specified in the advertisement for
bids. Such an investigation of the responsibility of the bidders shall be made
as the City Manager may deem necessary, and the department director shall then
award the contract to the lowest and best responsible bidder, unless the City
Manager has determined that the interest of the city would be better served by
rejecting all bids and ordering a new advertisement, in which case he or she
may so order. Should the lowest and best bid price be greater than 110% of the
engineer's estimate for the protect, the City Manager has the authority to
reject all bids. In order to determine the lowest and best bid, the following
criteria, although not exclusive and not to be given any specific weight, shall
be specifically examined and evaluated:
      (1)   Current financial stability of the bidder,
      (2)   Available work force of the bidder,
      (3)   Available equipment of the bidder,
      (4)   Bidder's conduct and performance on previous contracts,
      (5)   Bidder's experience and management skills on projects of similar
scope and complexity,
      (6)   Bidders ability to execute the contract work properly and on
schedule,
      (7)   Number of change orders submitted by the bidder on previous
contracts,
      (8)   Number of OSHA violations issued over the last five years,
      (9)   Number of OSHA investigations over the last five years.
   (B)   Upon the determination of the lowest and best bid, the department head
or his designee shall forward a staff summery sheet in a form to be prescribed
by the City Manager, to the City Manager, which summary sheet shall include the
account numbers to be charged on the requisition and a recommendation for
supplemental appropriation if applicable, and a copy of the bid proposal page
from the vendor being awarded the bid. This information will be assigned to the
next work session of Council for legislative consideration. Once Council has
authorized the purchase by ordinance approval, the department director or
assignee shall enter the requisition for the bid based on the effective date or
language included on the ordinance.
   (C)   By signing the purchase order, the City Auditor ensures the
certification and availability of funds for the project. The agreement used for
the bid purchase shall include on the signature page an “approved as the form
by the City Attorney” area for signature.
(Ord. 9626, passed 11-27-07; Am. Ord. 2015-006, passed 1-27-15)
§ 131.09 PURCHASE OF COMMODITIES FROM STATE BID.
   Departments may procure needed commodities and personal property from the
State of Ohio Official Bid Listing if he or she finds that such purchases can
be made at prices less than would be obtained by taking bids as provided by law
for purchases from private individuals. It shall not be necessary to advertise
for bids, but departments may make purchases upon such formal ties and such
terms as are required by the State of Ohio government, irrespective of the
amount of money involved. All the pertinent information from the state bid list
for the item shall be included in the description on the purchase order.
(Ord. 9626, passed 11-27-07)
§ 131.10 EMERGENCIES AND EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The need to purchase supplies, materials, or equipment, or contract
for services on short noticeshall not constitute an emergency, since every city
employee will be expected to carry out their duties with all dispatch
appropriate to the situation. The need to issue a purchase order or contract
outside the normal business hours would presume that the suppliers would
normally also be closed for business. In every such case, the City Manager
shall approve a requisition and shall make a reasonable attempt to call in the
Purchasing Supervisor to issue a purchase order. In the absence of the
Purchasing Supervisor, the City Manager may authorize the purchase as an
“emergency.” Any emergency purchases over $75,000 required for operational
situations will be reported to Council in a timely fashion. Whenever the City
Manager anticipates not being available for emergencies, he or she shall name a
department director to act in his or her absence.
   (B)   If any employee acquires any supplies, materials, or equipment or
contracts for services outside the procedures outlined herein, the City Auditor
shall not issue the city's warrant for payment, and the employee may be subject
to disciplinary action which could include employee paying for the item
ordered. A typical example of this occurrence would be an employee ordering a
office supply (non emergency) and receiving the invoice prior to entering a
requisition or even turning the invoice into the Finance Department for payment
without a purchase order having been issued.
(Ord. 9626, passed 11-27-07; Am. Ord. 2013-040, passed 4-9-13; Am. Ord. 2023-
105, passed 11-28- 23)
§ 131.11 DISPOSITION OF PROPERTY.
   The City Manager shall be responsible for the disposition of unsuitable,
unused, worn out, surplus, and obsolete property of the city including all
lost, abandoned, stolen, seized, and forfeited property held by the Police
Division. The disposition of such property shall be subject to the following
conditions:
   (A)   Property (including coins or currency) which has been lost, abandoned,
stolen, or lawfully seized forfeited to the municipality, and which is in the
custody of the Police Division, shall be safely kept pending the time it is
disposed of pursuant to this section.
   (B)   The Police Division shall make a reasonable effort to locate the
persons entitled to possession of property in its custody, and notify them in
writing when and where the property may be identified and claimed. In the
absence of evidence recognizing persons entitled to custody, it is sufficient
notice to advertise its existence in a newspaper of general circulation in the
county, briefly describing the nature of the property in custody, and inviting
persons to view and establish their right to it.
   (C)   A person loses any right he or she may have to possession of property
which was the subject of or was used in a conspiracy or attempt to commit an
offense, other than a traffic offense, and such person has been judicially
determined to be a conspirator, accomplice, or offender with respect to the
offense, or when in light of the nature of the property or the circumstances of
the person, it is unlawful for him or her to acquire or possess it.
   (D)   Unclaimed and forfeited property in the custody of the Police Division
shall be disposed of as follows:
      (1)   Property that consists of drugs shall be destroyed under order from
the court having jurisdiction and by order of the City Manager, or placed in
the custody of the Secretary of the treasury of the United States for disposal
or use for medical or scientific purposes under applicable federal law. A
record of the place where the controlled substances were seized, of the kinds
and quantities of controlled substances so destroyed, and of the time, place
and manner of destruction, shall be kept, and a return under oath, reporting
the destruction, shall be made by the officer who destroys them to the court of
jurisdiction and City Manager.
      (2)   Property consisting of firearms and dangerous ordinance adaptable
to and suitable for police work may be given to the Police Division for that
purpose.
      (3)   All other firearms and dangerous ordinance, weapons, and cutlery
shall be destroyed with evidence of destruction certified to the City Manager.
      (4)   Property consisting of obscene materials shall be destroyed.
      (5)   Property adaptable to and suitable for use by any city department
or division can be converted to such city uses upon proper determination by the
City Manager and not less than 180 days after its initial retention by the
Police Division, and after notice of such conclusion has been published once
per week for a period of three weeks in a newspaper of general circulation in
the county.
      (6)   Coins, currency and other found property for which the rightful
owner cannot be determined and for which no claims have been registered shall
be returned to the finder of such coins, currency and other found property
after 30 days after a preponderance of the evidence indicates that the rightful
owner cannot be determined. The finder is responsible to make application for
the return of the property.
      (7)   All other unclaimed or forfeited property shall be sold at a public
auction or on line auction not less than 180 days after its initial retention
by the Police Division, and after notice of such public auction has been
published once per week for a period of three weeks in a newspaper of general
circulation in the county.
   (E)   The proceeds from police-held property disposed of pursuant to this
section shall be placed in the general fund of the city after the costs of
conducting the auction are deducted.
   (F)   All other property owned by the municipality, whose use is obsolete or
no longer appropriate to its original purpose, as determined by the City
Manager, may be included as a saleable item in the auction specified in the
division (D) (7) above, and the proceeds derived from the sales shall be added
to the fund from which the original purchase expenditure came, if it can be
determined. If the original cannot be determined, then the proceeds shall be
added to the general fund after the costs of conducting the auction are
deducted.
   (G)   All other property owned by the municipality, having a fair market
value whose use is obsolete, no longer appropriate to its original purpose, or
otherwise surplus to the needs of the city, as determined by the City Manager,
may be disposed of under terms and conditions which the City Manager determines
to be in the best interest of the city. The proceeds, if any, derived from the
disposal thereof shall be added to the fund from which the original purchase
expenditure of the particular item came, if it can be determined. If the
original cannot be determined, then the proceeds shall be added to the general
fund.
   (H)   All real property owned by the municipality within the areas
designated industrial use may be sold under terms and conditions which the City
Manager determines to be in the best interests of the city, subject to the
approval of City Council. The proceeds derived from such sales shall be added
to the Industrial Park Fund or to the fund the land was originally purchased.
(Ord. 9626, passed 11-27-07)
§ 131.12 REQUIREMENTS FOR PROFESSIONAL DESIGN SERVICES.
   The requirements set forth in R.C. § 153.65 through 153.71 are modified by
the standards set forth in this section.
   (A)   "Professional design services" means services within the scope of
practice of an architect or landscape architect registered under Ohio R.C.
Chapter 4703 or a professional engineer or surveyor registered under Ohio R.C.
Chapter 4733.
   (B)   Public notice (request for qualifications or RFQ). Public notice of
all professional design services contracts with an estimated design cost in
excess of $75,000 shall be made as provided in §
131.14 and each public notice shall set forth: the date, time and place for
professional design firms to respond, but not less than 15 days following the
date of the first advertisement; a general description of the proposed project;
a statement of the design services required; and a description of the
qualifications required for the project. The selection of professional design
services with an estimated cost of less than $75,000 does not require the use
of the RFQ process, or the obtaining of multiple quotes, and may be selected
based on the ability of the design firm to provide the required services in a
satisfactory, timely, and cost effective manner.
(Ord. 9626, passed 11-27-07; Am. Ord. 2015-006, passed 1-27-15; Am. Ord. 2023-
105, passed 11-28-23)
§ 131.13 REQUIREMENTS FOR PROFESSIONAL SERVICES.
   (A)   “Professional services” shall mean personal services of a specialized
nature requiring the exercise of peculiar skill or aptitude.
   (B)   Professional service contracts shall be the responsibility of the City
Manager, who may contract for such services without competitive procedures and
without requiring a performance surety. Prior to executing any professional
services contract, where the amount to be paid by the city is likely to be in
excess of $75,000, the City Manager, must first obtain legislative authority of
City Council, in the form of an ordinance authorizing and directing the City
Manager to execute an agreement or contract with a professional services
provider. Any professional services contract entered into in violation of this
section is voidable by the city.
(Ord. 2015-006, passed 1-27-15; Am. Ord. 2023- 105, passed 11-28-23)
§ 131.14 REQUESTS FOR PROPOSALS (RFP) PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Competitive proposals may be used to procure supplies, services, and
construction when the city purchasing agent determines that the use of
competitive bidding is either not practical or not advantageous to the city.
All possible steps shall be taken to ensure competition in the competitive
proposal process.
   (B)   Any supplies, services, or construction work of the city contracted
through a request for competitive proposal process that involves an expenditure
of $2,500 or less may be awarded after it is announced and without advertising
and/or contract or bidding procedures. Procurement requirements shall not be
artificially divided so as to fall within the authority contained in this
section. For purchases of $2,500 or less through a request for services/
competitive proposal process, notice and award must be given to the lowest and
best response relevant to the subject of the request for services/proposal,
unless determined by the purchasing agent to be impractical or not in the best
interest of the city. In such cases, the city may offer the agreement or
contract to the next lowest and best response, or the city may reject all
responses.
   (C)   For purchases in excess of $2,500 up to $75,000 made through a
competitive proposal process, two responses must ordinarily be obtained from
potential providers. The contract for supplies, services, professional services
or construction shall be offered to the response that is the most advantageous
received by the city. If the responder submitting the response fails to enter
into an agreement or contract to provide supplies, services, professional
services or construction within a reasonable time, then the agreement or
contract may be offered to the responder that submitted the next most
advantageous response, or the city may reject all responses.
   (D)   For purchases of supplies, services, professional services or
construction in excess of $75,000 legislative approval of the City Council must
be obtained in the form of an ordinance authorizing and directing the City
Manager to execute a contract or agreement with the responder that submitted
the most advantageous response prior to the city entering into a contract or
agreement with a provider.
(Ord. 2015-006, passed 1-27-15; Am. Ord. 2023- 105, passed 11-28-23)
§ 131.15 REQUEST FOR QUALIFICATION (RFQ) PROCEDURES.
   (A)   An information packet for the public notice will be developed by the
city containing the following items:
      (1)   Description of the services required.
      (2)   Project limits.
      (3)   General information.
      (4)   Detailed scope of work for the requested services.
      (5)   Proposed schedule.
      (6)   Contents for submitted response will typically include the
following items. The city reserves the right to modify the information
requested based on the specific nature of the services to be provided. The city
will have the authority to limit the number of pages submitted.
         (a)   Technical approach to the provided scope of work for project.
         (b)   Listing of previous projects within the last five years in
similar scope and complexity.
         (c)   Construction cost estimates and actual bid prices of projects in
division (A)(6)(a) above if available, and if applicable to the services
required.
         (d)   Organizational chart of the firms design team members.
         (e)   Current workload of the office performing the services and of
each team member working on the project.
         (f)   Qualifications of each team member working on the project.
Depending on the project, specific qualifications may be required.
         (g)   Description of firms construction cost estimating methodology
and approach, if applicable to the services required.
         (h)   Description of firms QA/QC procedures.
         (i)   Listing (narrative) of the major advantages for selection of the
firm and the criteria that sets them apart from other firms.
         (j)   Work hour estimates per tasks indicated in division (B) of this
section.
         (k)   Overhead rates (direct and indirect).
         (l)   Liability and errors/omissions insurance certificates.
         (m)   Worker's compensation certificates.
         (n)   Sealed envelope containing a fee for items indicated in division
(B) of this section.
   (B)   Selection process.
      (1)   The city will evaluate, score, and then rank the qualification
packets submitted based on the following minimum criteria:
         (a)   Overall quality of submittal;
         (b)   Similar project experience;
         (c)   Project team personnel qualifications;
         (d)   Reference checks and/or past performance.
The above items will have scoring values assigned to equal 100 total points.
Based on project complexity, additional criteria may be needed and/or criteria
deleted and scoring values changed for each criterion with the total score
still equal to 100.
      (2)   Following staff evaluation, scoring, and ranking of the submitted
qualifications packet, the sealed envelopes containing the fee will be opened.
      (3)   The contract will be awarded to the firm with the highest ranked
qualifications packet unless the project complexity will require a further
evaluation of the top ranked firms through an interviewing process. Interviews
may be conducted with the top ranked firms prior to staff making a
recommendation to the City Council as to which firm will be awarded the
contract.
(Ord. 2015-006, passed 1-27-15)
CHAPTER 133: EMPLOYMENT PROVISIONS
Section
   
133.01     Compensation schedule
   
133.02     Approved positions and titles and allocation to grades
   
133.03     Employment, advancement, promotions and position classification
   
133.04     Hours of work
   
133.05     Pay days and computation of rates
   
133.06     Overtime and standby pay
   
133.07     Vacations
   
133.08     Sick leave
   
133.081    Injury leave
   
133.082    Military leave
   
133.083    Funeral leave
   
133.084    Family and medical leave
   
133.09     Training and military leaves of absence
   
133.10     Holidays and personal days
   
133.11     Longevity program
   
133.12     Life insurance
   
133.13     (Reserved)
   
133.14     Uniforms
   
133.15     Discipline, discharge, and appeal procedures
   
133.16     (Reserved)
   
133.17     Non-disciplinary separation
   
133.171    Re-employment
   
133.172    Exit interview
   
133.18     Collective bargaining
   
133.19     Drug-free work place
   
133.20     College degree reimbursement
   
133.21     Pay incentive plan
 
   
133.99     Supplementary rules
Statutory reference:
   Public Employees Retirement System, see R.C. Chapter 145
Cross-reference:
   Civil Service Commission, see Charter
Art. VIII
   Oath of office, see Charter §
10.01
   Personal interest, see Charter §
10.03
§ 133.01 COMPENSATION SCHEDULE.
   City Council shall establish a pay schedule for the employees of the city
which shall fix the total regular pay for the respective classes of service, as
provided for in §
133.02 herein.
(Ord. 6140, passed 11-24-87; Am. Ord. 6689, passed 1-28-92; Am. Ord. 6830,
passed 4-13-93; Am. Ord. 7014, passed 12-13-94; Am. Ord. 7015, passed 12-13-94;
Am. Ord. 7138, passed 11-28-95; Am. Ord. 7139, passed 11-28-95; Am. Ord. 7152,
passed 12-26-95; Am. Ord. 7316, passed 12-10-96; Am. Ord. 7317, passed 12-10-
96; Am. Ord. 7455, passed 12-23-97; Am. Ord. 7456, passed 12-23-97; Am. Ord.
7574, passed 12-28-98; Am. Ord. 7575, passed 12-28-98; Am. Ord. 7744, passed
12-28-99; Am. Ord. 7756, passed 12-28-99; Am. Ord. 7757, passed 12-28-99; Am.
Ord. 8036, passed 12-28-00; Am. Ord. 8037, passed 12-28-00; Am. Ord. 8227,
passed 6-26-01; Am. Ord. 8395, passed 12-11-01; Am. Ord. 8396, passed 12-11-01;
Am. Ord. 8466, passed 5-28-02; Am. Ord. 9808, passed 12-23-08; Am. Ord. 2009-
044, passed 5-26-09; Am. Ord. 2021-112, passed 12-14-21)
§ 133.02 APPROVED POSITIONS AND TITLES AND ALLOCATION TO GRADES.
   The following positions and job titles are defined for the City of Lebanon
and are assigned to the indicated pay grades. No positions or job titles shall
be created or changed except by amendment of this chapter. All jobs are defined
as exempt or nonexempt as defined by the Federal Fair Labor Standards Act.
   (A)   Exempt positions. The following approved positions are classified as
exempt and will be paid under the exempt salary structure:
Title               Grade
Deputy City Manager      9
Director of Electric Operations   9
Chief of Police         9
Fire Chief            9
Director of Water & Wastewater Operations   9
Director of Public Works      9
Director of Community Development   9
City Engineer         8
Director of Court Administration and Probation   8
Deputy Director of Electric Operations   8
Electric Deputy Director of Engineering   8
City Planner            7
Assistant City Engineer      7
Collection and Distribution Systems Superintendent   7
Wastewater Treatment Plant Superintendent   7
Information Technology Manager   7
Police Captain         7
Battalion Chief          7
Assistant to the City Manager   7
Recreation and Natural Resource Coordinator   6
Deputy City Auditor         6
Senior Finance/Budget Analyst   6
Geographic Information System Administrator   6
Customer Service Supervisor   6
Chief Probation Officer      6
Clerk of Courts         6
Bailiff               6
Studio Production Manager   6
Human Resources Manager   6
   (B)   Nonexempt positions. The following approved positions are classified
as nonexempt and will be paid under the nonexempt pay plan:
Title               Grade
Police Sergeant         6
Fire Lieutenant         6
Electric Crew Leader      6
Wastewater Treatment Plant Chief Operator   6
Streets, Parks or Cemetery Supervisor   5
Electronic Substation Technician   5
Police Officer            5
Fire Fighter - Paramedic      5
Chief Mechanic         5
Senior Engineering Technician   5
Senior Customer Service Representative   5
Lineworker First Class      5
Purchasing Supervisor      5
Senior Administrative Assistant/Finance   5
Probation Officer II         5
Senior Environmental Technician   5
Deputy Tax Commissioner    5
Court Security Officer      5
Electric Equipment Operator II   5
Administrative Assistant/Police   4
Administrative Assistant/Electric   4
Administrative Assistant/Legal   4
Administrative Assistant Payroll and Personne   l   4
Administrative Assistant/Purchasing   4
Administrative Assistant      4
Senior Account Clerk      4
Building Maintenance Supervisor   5
Engineering Technician      4
Power Plant Mechanic II      4
Mechanic            4
Municipal Service Worker Crew Leader   4
Senior Dispatcher         4
Meter Technician II         4
Administrative Assistant/Fire   4
Chief Deputy Court Clerk      4
Electric Equipment Operator I   4
Business Tax Auditor      4
Electric Locator         4
Customer Service Representative II   3
Deputy Court Clerk II      3
Account Clerk II         3
Dispatcher            3
Electric Storekeeper      3
Electric Locator         3
Environmental Technician III   3
Municipal Service Worker III   3
Secretary II            3
Power Plant Mechanic I      3
Lineworker Trainee         3
Meter Technician I         3
Probation Officer I         3
Code Enforcement Inspector   3
Fire Marshal            3
Senior Custodian         3
Municipal Service Worker II   2
Environmental Technician II   2
Account Clerk I         2
Secretary I            2
Deputy Court Clerk I      2
Customer Service Representative I   2
Fire Fighter/EMT         2
Municipal Service Worker I      1
Custodian            1
Environmental Technician I   1
(Ord. 6140, passed 11-24-87; Am. Ord. 6367, passed 5-23-89; Am. Ord. 6689,
passed 1-28-92; Am. Ord. 6830, passed 4-13-93; Am. Ord. 7152, passed 12-26-95;
Am. Ord. 7744, passed 12-28-99; Am. Ord. 8468, passed 5-28-02; Am. Ord. 8515,
passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 8747, passed 5-27-03; Am. Ord. 8916, passed 4-13-04;
Am. Ord. 8946, passed 5-25-04; Am. Ord. 9264, passed 1-24-06; Am. Ord. 9336,
passed 6-13-06; Am. Ord. 9456, passed 1-9-07; Am. Ord. 9489, passed 3-27-07;
Am. Ord. 9544, passed 6-26-07; Am. Ord. 9798, passed 12-9-08; Am. Ord. 2009-
110, passed 11-10-09; Am. Ord. 2010-098, passed 9-29-10; Am. Ord. 2012-041,
passed 5-8-12; Am. Ord. 2013-001, passed 1-22-13; Am. Ord. 2013-019, passed 2-
26-13; Am. Ord. 2013-036, passed 3-26- 13; Am. Ord. 2015-005, passed 1-27-15;
Am. Ord. 2015-025, passed 2-24-15; Am. Ord. 2015-069, passed 6-23-15; Am. Ord.
2015-117, passed 11-24- 15; Am. Ord. 2016-007, passed 2-9-16; Am. Ord. 2016-
115, passed 1-10-17; Am. Ord. 2017-043, passed 5-23-17; Am. Ord. 2017-103,
passed 11-14- 17; Am. Ord. 2018-031, passed 4-10-18; Am. Ord. 2019-051, passed
7-9-19; Am. Ord. 2021-112, passed 12-14-21; Am. Ord. 2022-051, passed 5-10-22;
Am. Ord. 2022-120, passed 11-9-22; Am. Ord. 2023-011, passed 2-14-23)
§ 133.03 EMPLOYMENT, ADVANCEMENT, CLASSIFICATION PROMOTIONS AND POSITION
CLASSIFICATION.
   (A)   The City Manager shall appoint, in the manner prescribed by the
Charter and ordinances, all officers and employees of the city, except those
elected to office or appointed by Council.
   (B)   (1)   The City Manager shall be the personnel administrator for the
city. He or she may utilize the services of other city employees or outside
professionals for recruiting, testing, interviewing, and other similar
activities, but he or she shall not delegate the responsibility for their
activities. All such activities shall be conducted in a manner to avoid
discrimination, or the appearance of discrimination, against any applicant on
the basis of race, color, religion, sex, age, national origin, or disability.
      (2)   Recruiting efforts shall be such as to assure that notices of any
vacancy or intent to hire are disseminated to as many potential candidates as
possible. Notices shall be posted, advertisements published, or information
disseminated in places and ways to reach the attention of both sexes and of
minority groups and qualified candidates with disabilities.
      (3)   The personal preferences of co-workers shall not be cause for
rejecting qualified applicants for employment.
   (C)   Generally, new nonexempt employees shall be paid the minimum rate of
pay for the job. Exceptions may be granted by the City Manager in the following
cases:
      (1)   The minimum rate for each job is based on an employee meeting the
minimum qualifications stated in the job specification. If it becomes necessary
to appoint an employee of lesser qualifications, the employee shall be started
at a grade and step determined by the City Manager. The employee shall be
evaluated at the end of six months, and if he or she has not attained the
minimum qualifications, he or she shall not be retained in the job.
      (2)   The City Manager may appoint a new employee to a pay step above the
minimum if it is determined that the employee has exceptional training,
experience and qualifications.
      (3)   However, all such exceptions shall be reported to Council.
   (D)   Any employee entering the municipal service, or incumbent employee
receiving promotion or advancement, shall be considered a probationary employee
for a period of six months, after which time an evaluation of the employee’s
work performance will be made and the employee shall be retained in the job
class, transferred to another job class, or dismissed.
   (E)   After initial adjustments as authorized by Council as part of the
adoption of a revised pay plan, an employee shall be eligible for advancement
in pay or promotion according to the provisions of the following subsections:
      (1)   (a)   Advancements from one step to a succeeding step may be
granted, if funds are available, following a performance evaluation to be
conducted twice yearly by the employee’s supervisor and reviewed by the
department or division head and approved by the City Manager.
         (b)   Increases, should there be any, shall become effective at the
start of the next pay period following certification of the merit increase to
the Department of Finance by the City Manager.
      (2)   The City Manager may temporarily replace any regular employee on
sick leave, vacation, or leave of absence, or may temporarily fill a vacancy by
appointing another regular employee to the position on an “acting” basis. The
City Manager may temporarily increase the employee’s salary for the time
served.
      (3)   A promotion is considered as an advancement from one pay grade to a
higher pay grade with a change in job title. An employee promoted from one job
to another in a higher pay grade shall enter the new job at the first pay step,
unless the City Manager determines the employee falls under the exemptions
stated in division (C) of this section.
      (4)   Discrimination against any employee on the basis of race, color,
religion, sex, age, national origin, or disability is forbidden in
consideration for pay advancement or promotion.
   (F)   The Council shall periodically conduct classification reviews. Between
such reviews, the City Manager shall have responsibility for administering the
classification plan of the city.
(Ord. 6140, passed 11-24-87; Am. Ord. 6689, passed 1-28-92; Am. Ord. 6830,
passed 4-13-93; Am. Ord. 7152, passed 12-26-95; Am. Ord. 7744, passed 12-28-99;
Am. Ord. 2021-112, passed 12-14-21)
§ 133.04 HOURS OF WORK.
   (A)   With the exception of the Fire Division discussed in division (B) of
this section, the standard work period for municipal employees is seven days.
Most municipal employees will be scheduled for 40 hours in a work period.
Working hours do not include time allowed for meals. The City Manager shall
designate the time to begin and the time to end work each day as well as meal
periods. The City Manager shall designate which combination of work days
constitute the work period and this designation may vary by department,
division, bureau, or individual employee and may be altered from time to time
to best meet the needs of the city service.
   (B)   All pay computations shall be based upon the standard work period for
each employee. Members of the Fire Division shall be compensated in accordance
with the Fair Labor Standards Act regulations governing fire protection
employees of public agencies. Under these regulations, members of the Fire
Division shall be compensated based on a standard work period of 14 days.
(Ord. 6140, passed 11-24-87; Am. Ord. 6689, passed 1-28-92; Am. Ord. 6830,
passed 4-13-93; Am. Ord. 7152, passed 12-26-95; Am. Ord. 7744, passed 12-28-99;
Am. Ord. 8837, passed 9-23-03; Am. Ord. 2021-112, passed 12-14-21)
§ 133.05 PAY DAYS AND COMPUTATION OF RATES.
   (A)   Pay days shall be every other Friday, with annual pay being based on
26 pay periods each year.
   (B)   Bi-weekly pay will be computed by multiplying the hourly rates, as
established by Council, by each employee's actual hours worked.
   (C)   Pay will be prorated on the basis of actual hours worked times the
hourly rate of part-time employees, employees terminating service, or other
appropriate causes.
(Ord. 6140, passed 11-24-87; Am. Ord. 6689, passed 1-28-92; Am. Ord. 6830,
passed 4-13-93; Am. Ord. 7152, passed 12-26-95; Am. Ord. 7744, passed 12-28-99;
Am. Ord. 8837, passed 9-23-03; Am. Ord. 2021-112, passed 12-14-21)
§ 133.06 OVERTIME AND STANDBY PAY.
   (A)   Jobs classified as “exempt” shall not be eligible for overtime pay.
   (B)   Overtime pay shall be paid at the rate of 1½ times the standard pay
rate for all nonexempt employees.
   (C)   Overtime pay rates are applicable to those hours worked beyond a
standard work week of an employee, as designated by the City Manager. City-
recognized holidays, sick leave, and approved vacation time shall be considered
the same as time worked for the purpose of computing overtime.
(Ord. 6140, passed 11-24-87; Am. Ord. 6689, passed 1-28-92; Am. Ord. 6830,
passed 4-13-93; Am. Ord. 7152, passed 12-26-95; Am. Ord. 7744, passed 12-28-99;
Am. Ord. 8916, passed 4-13-04; Am. Ord. 8837, passed 9-23-03; Am. Ord. 8879,
passed 12-9-03; Am. Ord. 9052, passed 12-14-04; Am. Ord. 2021-112, passed 12-
14-21)
§ 133.07 VACATIONS.
   (Entire section replaced with employee handbook language)
   Eligibility and Accrual. After satisfactory completion of the probationary
period, all employees are eligible to request vacation leave. Unless otherwise
set forth in a collective bargaining agreement or employment contract,
employees shall accrue vacation according to the following:
   (A)   (1)   FULL TIME EMPLOYEES. Regular employees working on average 40
hours or more per  week. When an employee has completed one year of
uninterrupted employment, the base vacation accrual of 96 hours shall be
credited on the first pay period of each year. After successfully completing
the six-month probationary period, employee shall be credited the 24 hours that
they have accrued during their probationary period. The length of service
vacation shall be credited on the employee's anniversary date.
 
Uninterrupted Service                 Vacation
0 - less than one year                4 hours/month
After 1 year but less than 5 years    8 hours/month
After 5 years but less than 10 years  120 hours/year
After 10 years but less than 15 years 136 hours/year
After 15 but less than 25 years       160 hours/year
26+ years                             176 hours/year
 
   (B)   Service credit. An employee of the city, who was formerly employed by
the State of Ohio, a political subdivision thereof, or another public employer,
is entitled to use such prior service for the exclusive purpose of computing an
employee’s rate of vacation accrual based upon such prior service. Upon
employment, each such full-time city employee requesting consideration under
this section shall furnish the Personnel Department with certification of the
period of time of such previous employment.
   (C)   Scheduling and approval. Vacation scheduling is subject to the
Department/Division Head and the operational needs of the various departments/
divisions.
      (1)   Vacation requests must be filed with the Department/Division Head
before vacation is taken. Employees must follow proper notice requirements as
designated by the department/division rules and regulations.
      (2)   Any holidays that occur during a vacation period are not counted as
vacation time.
      (3)   Sick leave will not be approved for illnesses occurring while on
vacation status. Unused sick leave accumulations may not be converted to
vacation leave.
   (D)   Maximum vacation accrual. Staff members may accrue vacation up to two
times their annual accrual rate. Staff members may not carry a vacation balance
in excess of two times their annual accrual rate beyond December 31 of each
year. If a staff member has accrued vacation in excess of two times their
annual rate, the staff member’s vacation balance will be revised effective
January 1 of each year to reflect a balance not to exceed two times the annual
accrual rate.
      (1)   Staff members may submit an excess vacation time carryover request
form to the Personnel Department no later than October 1 of each year to
request permission to carryover vacation hours in excess of two times the
annual rate. The request will include the following information:
         (a)   Amount of vacation hours to be carried over;
         (b)   The amount of vacation hours used in the current year; and
         (c)   The specific reason why the staff member is unable to consume
the excess vacation.
      (2)   Upon receipt of the excess vacation time carryover request form,
the staff member’s supervisory chain will take the following actions:
         (a) Validate the request based on operational reasons; or
         (b)   Jointly develop a vacation use plan with the staff member to
ensure that the excess vacation is consumed prior to December 31. Any excess
vacation carryover must be approved by the City Manager.
      (3)   For existing staff members who have in excess of the maximum
accrual amount, year-end vacation balances may not exceed the balance accrued
at the time this policy is adopted.
   (E)   Payment for unused vacation leave.
      (1)   An employee who has been employed by the city for a period of at
least one year and who resigns, retires, goes on disability, or dies is
entitled to compensation at his or her current rate of pay for any earned but
unused vacation leave to his or her credit at the time of separation, provided
that the following has occurred:
         (a)   The employee has successfully passed the probationary period;
         (b)   The employee is not dismissed for cause;
         (c)   The employee gave at least two weeks notice of resignation; and
         (d)   The employee has returned all city property and completed an
exit interview.
      (2)   The employee will be compensated for unused vacation accrued at
their monthly rate for the months worked during the calendar year that the
employee terminates employment. Employee will not be reimbursed for vacation
time that was credited the first pay period of that year in advance of what
would have been accrued monthly for the months actually worked. Unused vacation
time that was carried over from previous years in accordance with Section 400
of this policy.
   (F)   Vacation buy back. An employee may request additional vacation pay in
lieu of taking vacation leave. Approval of vacation buy back is subject to the
following conditions:
      (1)   Employee shall have completed at least seven years of service.
      (2)   Employee shall have already taken a minimum of 50% of their annual
vacation accrual for the calendar year, and all personal days.
      (3)   Employees not otherwise covered by a collective bargaining
agreement may apply for a maximum of seven days of vacation pay each year in
lieu of taking vacation.
      (4)   Vacation buy back must be requested by October 1 each year.
(Ord. 6140, passed 11-24-87; Am. Ord. 6477, passed 2-13-90; Am. Ord. 6535,
passed 10-9-90; Am. Ord. 6689, passed 1-28-92; Am. Ord. 6830, passed 4-13-93;
Am. Ord. 7152, passed 12-26-95; Am. Ord. 7744, 12-28-99; Am. Ord. 8837, passed
9-23-03; Am. Ord. 9052, passed 12-14-04; Am. Ord. 2010-071, passed 6-22-10; Am.
Ord. 2021-112, passed 12-14-21)
§ 133.08 SICK LEAVE.
   (Entire section replaced with employee handbook language)
   (A)   An employee may request sick leave for absences resulting from illness
as described below, provided they follow the policy herein. Sick leave may be
requested for the following reasons:
      (1)   Illness or injury of the employee, a member of his or her immediate
family, or a member of the employee's household, where his or her attendance is
reasonably necessary;
      (2)   Exposure of employee, a member of his or her immediate family, or a
member of the employee’s household to a contagious disease which would have the
potential of jeopardizing the health of the employee or the health of others;
      (3)   Medical, dental, or optical examinations or treatment of an
employee, a member of his or her immediate family, or a member of the
employee’s household;
      (4)   Pregnancy, childbirth, and/or related medical conditions; or
      (5)   Any other reason that would fulfill the requirements of the Family
and Medical Leave Act.
   (B)   For the purposes of this policy, “immediate family” is defined as
only: mother, father, brother, sister, child, legal spouse, grandparent,
grandchild, stepchild, foster child, legal guardian or other person who stands
in the place of a parent with the approval of the City Manager.
   (C)   The city maintains the right to investigate any employee’s absence.
Employees may be required to furnish proof of illness as evidenced by a
physician’s statement, or other satisfactory written statements of the employee
as required by the City Manager or designee All absences of three or more days
may require a physician’s excuse.
   (D)   All full-time employees of the city who work on average a 40-hour work
week shall accrue 4.6 hours of sick leave per pay period. Designated Fire
Division full-time personnel who work on average 104 hours over a 14-day period
shall accrue sick leave at the rate of 0.0575 hours of sick leave for regular
hours worked.
   (E)   Any employee requesting sick leave must inform his or her supervisor
within the prescribed time frame established by the department/division rules
and regulations. The employee must give a satisfactory reason for his or her
sick leave and location of convalescence, if different than the home address.
   (F)   Vacation leave and compensatory time (if applicable) may be used for
sick leave purposes at the employee’s request and with the approval of the City
Manager. Employees who are unable to return to work after exhausting all paid
leave may apply for an unpaid leave of absence or may be eligible for unpaid
Family Medical Leave.
   (G)   Medical/dental appointments are excusable absences and are valid
reasons for use of earned sick leave. Employees are expected to schedule
medical and dental appointments to minimize interference with office hours. To
keep lost production time to a minimum, the employee should schedule
appointments for early or late in the day. Employees are expected to request
only as much time as is needed to attend the scheduled appointment, including
reasonable travel time.
   (H)   Any employee returning from sick leave may be required, prior to
returning to work, to submit a physician’s certification of the employee’s
ability to perform the essential functions of the position. The city reserves
the right to require an employee to remain on sick leave until such time as the
employee is fully released to perform all of his/her essential functions.
Return to limited or light duty will be permitted only upon the recommendation
from the Department/Division Head and approval by the City Manager.
   (I)   Employees absent on sick leave shall be paid at their regular hourly,
daily, or bi-weekly rate as when they were working.
   (J)   If sick leave is denied and as a result the employee has been
overpaid, such overpayment shall be deducted from the employee's next pay
check, and the employee's sick leave balance shall be restored.
   (K)   An employee fraudulently obtaining sick leave, abusing sick leave, or
falsifying sick leave records, shall be subject to disciplinary action or
discharge in accordance with policies outlined in this manual.
(Ord. 6140, passed 11-24-87; Am. Ord. 6471, passed 2-13-90; Am. Ord. 6570,
passed 1-22-91; Am. Ord. 6689, passed 1-28-92; Am. Ord. 6830, passed 4-13-93;
Am. Ord. 7152, passed 12-26-95; Am. Ord. 7744, passed 12-28-99; Am. Ord. 8837,
passed 9-23-03; Am. Ord. 9052, passed 12-14-04; Am. Ord. 2021-112, passed 12-
14-21)
§ 133.081 INJURY LEAVE.
   (Entire section replaced with employee handbook language)
   Injury leave may be granted by the City Manager in lieu of Worker's
Compensation lost income benefits. Such leave may be granted to an employee who
becomes unable to perform his or her job duties due to an injury or illness
that occurs in the discharge or performance of his or her official duties,
except where such injury or illness is the result of gross negligence or
intentional self-injury.
   (A)   Should an employee be injured during the course of employment with the
city, he or she shall report the incident to his or her supervisor immediately,
and his or her supervisor shall notify his or her Department/Division Head and
complete a report of injury form (Appendix). This report shall be completed,
regardless of the apparent seriousness of the injury, and regardless whether
medical attention is required. Such report shall be forwarded to the
Department/Division Head and the Personnel Department no later than 48 hours
after the accident. An employee injured in a work related accident may be
required by the Department/Division Head to see a physician.
   (B)   Should the Department/Division Head require it or should an employee’s
injury require medical attention, a Worker's Compensation medical claim form
shall be completed by the attending physician. This completed report should be
forwarded to the Ohio Bureau of Workers' Compensation through the City
Personnel Office.
   (C)   The Department/Division Head must be advised and continually updated
if an employee continues to be absent due to a work-related injury. Employees
are responsible for providing their expected date of return to work (if known).
   (D)   Any documents received from the injured employee, his or her
physician, hospital, or the State, regarding a Workers' Compensation claim must
be immediately forwarded to the Personnel Department.
   (E)   Employees who are injured in the line of duty and must leave work
before completing their workday period shall be paid at their regular rate of
pay, for the balance of time left in their scheduled work day.
   (F)   Injury leave / salary continuation shall be paid at the employee’s
normal hourly rate for a period not to exceed 12 weeks.
   (G)   In the case of injuries where there is a question as to the
circumstances, employees must use any combination of paid or unpaid leave
during the absence. At the time the injury is determined to be job-related by
the city and the Bureau of Worker’s Compensation, the employee's leave may be
reinstated and injury leave substituted for the time absent.
   (H)   Family and Medical Leave will begin on the first day of injury leave
for eligible employees. City contributions toward the cost of benefits will be
maintained during injury leave. Requests for additional injury leave will be
considered on a case by case basis.
   (I)   An employee returning from leave may be required to provide a
physician’s certification of his or her ability to return to work.
   (J)   Employees may be required to submit to medical and/or psychological
examination in order to determine the employee’s capability to perform the
essential functions of the employee’s position with or without reasonable
accommodation. Such examination shall be conducted by a licensed practitioner
chosen by the city. The cost of such examination shall be paid by the city.
(Ord. 9052, passed 12-14-04; Am. Ord. 2021-112, passed 12-14-21)
§133.082 MILITARY LEAVE.
   (A)   Any full-time permanent public employee who is a member of the Ohio
organized militia, or a member of other reserve components of the armed forces
of the United States, including the Ohio National Guard, is entitled to a leave
of absence from his or her respective position without loss of pay for such
time as he or she are performing service in the uniformed services, as defined
in R.C. § 5903.01, for periods not to exceed 22 eight-hour work days or 176
hours in any one calendar year for each year in which he or she is performing
service in the uniformed services. CALENDAR YEAR means the year beginning on
the first day of January and ending on the last day of December.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided herein, all full- time permanent public
employees who are entitled to leave under this section and are called or
ordered to active military duty for a period in excess of 22 eight- hour work
days or 176 hours in any one calendar year in which the employee performed
service in the uniformed services, as a result of an executive order issued by
the President of the United States, an act of Congress, and/or executive order
from the Governor of Ohio, during the period so called to act, to a leave of
absence, and to be paid, during each monthly pay period of that absence, the
following:
      (1)   One hundred percent of the difference between his or her gross
monthly pay as an employee of the city and the sum of his or her gross monthly
military pay and allowances for a period of up 12 months of active duty
military service;
      (2)   Seventy percent of the difference between his or her gross monthly
pay as an employee of the city and the sum of his or her gross monthly military
pay and allowances for an additional 12-month period of active duty military
service which is performed consecutively to the initial 12 months of service.
   (C)   No employee shall receive such payments if the sum of his or her gross
military pay and allowances received in a month exceeds his or her gross
monthly wage or salary as a city employee or if the employee is receiving leave
without loss of pay pursuant to division (A) of this section for up to 176
hours of active duty within the calendar year.
   (D)   Health insurance benefits as specified in the city's employment
provisions will be maintained for a period of up 12 months of active duty
military service, and these benefits may be extended for an additional 12
months of active duty service at the discretion of the City Manager. The
accrual of sick and vacation time as specified in the city's employment
provisions will not take place during periods of active duty service without
loss of pay in excess of 176 hours per calendar year as set forth in division
(A) of this section.
   (E)   Each employee who is entitled to military leave under this section
shall submit to the city the published order calling the employee to active
military service, prior to being granted leave, and provide the city with a
copy of all military pay statements for each month of active duty service prior
to receiving the pay and benefits outlined in this section.
   (F)   Failure of any employee to report for duty with the city at the
completion of any leave of absence, or period of active duty military service,
without the consent of the City Manager, shall be sufficient grounds for
dismissal from the city service.
   (G)   Any full-time permanent public employee of the city whose employment
is governed by a collective bargaining agreement with the provision for the
performance of service in the uniformed services shall abide by the terms of
the collective bargaining agreement with respect to the performance of such
service, except that no collective bargaining agreement may afford fewer rights
and benefits than are conferred under this section.
(Ord. 9052, passed 12-14-04; Am. Ord. 2021-112, passed 12-14-21)
§ 133.083 FUNERAL LEAVE.
   (A)   Any full-time employee may be granted up to three days of paid funeral
leave, upon approval of the department head and the City Manager, in the event
of a death of an employee's immediate family. For the purpose of this section,
IMMEDIATE FAMILY is defined as the spouse, parent, son or daughter, brother or
sister, stepchild, stepparent, legal guardian or other person who stands in
place of the employee's parent.
   (B)   Funeral leave of one day may be granted when a death occurs to any
other relative or friend of an employee upon prior written approval of the
department head and the City Manager. Funeral leave shall not be charged to the
sick leave balance of the employee.
(Ord. 9052, passed 12-14-04; Am. Ord. 2021-112, passed 12-14-21)
§ 133.084 FAMILY AND MEDICAL LEAVE.
   All policies regarding Family Medical Leave (FML) shall be in accordance
with applicable laws.
   (A)   Eligible employees. Employees are eligible for Family Medical Leave
(FML) if they meet the following criteria:
      (1)   Employee has been employed by the city for at least 12 months;
      (2)   Employee has been in paid work status with at least 1,250 hours of
service during the 12-month period immediately preceding the start of the
leave. Paid vacation, sick leave, and other paid time off does not count toward
the 1,250 hours of service.
   (B)   Eligible leave. Employees who meet the above criteria are eligible for
up to 12 weeks of FML in any 12-month period for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Birth of a child, and to care for a newborn child;
      (2)   Placement of a child by way of adoption or foster care;
      (3)   The employee having a serious health condition that makes them
unable to perform the functions of his or her job;
      (4)   To care for the employee's spouse, son, daughter, or parent who has
a serious health condition;
      (5)   Due to a qualifying exigency because the eligible employee’s
spouse, son, daughter, or parent is a covered military member on active duty,
or has been notified of an impending call or order to active duty, in the Armed
Forces in support of a contingency operation; and to care for a “covered
service member” who has a serious injury or illness if the employee is the
spouse, son, daughter, parent or next of kin of the service member.
   (C)   Definitions.
      CHILD. A son or daughter, including a child 18 years or over, who is
incapable of self-care because of a mental or physical disability.
      FOSTER CARE. Placement of a child with the employee through a formal
agreement for substitute care requiring state action, rather than an informal
arrangement to take care of another person's child.
      PARENT. Biological parent or an individual who stands in the place of a
parent to the employee.
      SERIOUS HEALTH CONDITION. An illness, injury, impairment, or physical/
mental condition that involves a period of incapacity or treatment that
requires absence from employment for more than three calendar days and involves
care by a health care provider. SERIOUS HEALTH CONDITION also includes
continuing treatment of chronic or long-term incurable conditions and pre-
natal care.
      SPOUSE. Husband or wife, including common law marriages where/when
recognized.  Unmarried domestic partners do not qualify for Family Medical
Leave to care for their partner.
   (D)   Request/notification of leave. When feasible, employees must submit a
written request for leave 30 days prior to the requested leave start date. In
situations involving medical emergencies, etc., employees are to submit their
request as soon as possible, but not later than four days after the beginning
of the emergency situation.
      (1)   Request for leave will include a brief description of the need for
leave, identify whom the leave is for, what relationship the individual is to
the employee (e.g. employee, spouse, parent, and the like), and length of leave
requested. Along with the request, the employee will also furnish the City
Manager with medical certification of the serious health condition from the
physical/health care provider. The medical certification shall include the
identity of the individual with the serious health condition, date on which the
condition began, probable duration of the condition, and whether the employee
is unable to perform the essential functions of his or her job. Based upon the
request for leave and the medical provider's certification, the City Manager
shall authorize or deny the request, or may, at the city's expense, require the
employee to obtain a second medical opinion to confirm the leave request.
      (2)   The City Manager may designate that an employee's leave qualifies
for and will be counted as Family Medical Leave. The City Manager must make
such designation prior to the starting of the leave unless sufficient
information as to the reason for the leave is not available until after the
leave began.
   (E)   (1)   Approval/denial of leave request. The City Manager shall notify
the employee orally or in writing within two business days as to the approval
or denial of his or her FML request. Oral notice will be followed by written
confirmation by payday following. The city shall note the starting and ending
dates of leave, reinstatement procedures and utilization of accumulated paid
leave. The city's insurance carrier/consultant shall notify the employee as to
the status of insurance coverage and the employee's contributions, if
applicable, when notified by the city.
      (2)   Utilization of accumulated paid leave. Employees shall take any
accumulated paid leave during the 12-week period and the remainder of leave, if
any, will be on an unpaid basis.
   (F)   Leave period. An eligible employee may take up to 12 work weeks of FML
leave during a 12-month period. The 12-month period shall be measured from the
date of the employee's first Family and Medical Leave begins. Employees may
request intermittent or reduced leave schedules to accommodate medically
necessary treatment in connection with a serious health condition. Intermittent
or reduced leave may not exceed the total hours an employee would have worked
during their regular 12-week schedule. If intermittent or reduced leave is
approved, the City Manager may require the employee to schedule the leave so as
not to unduly disrupt the city's operations, or the employee may be placed in
an alternate position which better accommodates the intermittent leave
schedule. When both spouses are employed by the city, they are entitled to an
aggregate total of 12 weeks of FML for childbirth, adoption placement or foster
care. This limitation does not apply to FML taken by either spouse to care for
the other spouse, a child, or parent with a serious health condition.
   (G)   Insurance coverage. Employees are entitled to maintain the same health
benefits during the FML leave. Employees are responsible for continuing to pay
any share of the health care costs that they were responsible for prior to the
leave. Failure of the employee to timely pay their portion of health care costs
may result in discontinuation of coverage. Should an employee fail to return to
work after his or her FML expires, the city may recover from the employee the
city's share of health insurance premiums paid during the period of unpaid FML
leave. Insurance premiums may not be recovered if the employee fails to return
to work due to the continuation, recurrence or onset of a serious health
condition or circumstances beyond the employee's control.
   (H)   Under the Uniformed Service Employment and Reemployment Rights Act
(USERRA), members of the uniformed services returning to work after military
service will receive credit for any months and hours of service that they would
have been employed but for the period of military service in determining FMLA
eligibility.
   (I)   Qualifying employees are entitled to both the Family (Military) Leave
of Absence and the Active Duty Family Leave in accordance with all applicable
Federal laws. The City will require certification and verification for both
Active Duty Leave and certification for Covered Service member status. There is
no recertification for Active Duty or Covered Service member leave.
   (J)   Reinstatement. Employees returning from FML shall be placed in their
same position or equivalent positions with equivalent pay, benefits and
conditions. Employees whose FML was for their own personal medical conditions
must, prior to reinstatement, submit medical certification to the city as to
their ability to return to work, subject to a second medical opinion as deemed
necessary by the city or a third medical opinion as provided in the Family and
Medical Leave Act.
   (K)   Employees whose FML was for their own personal medical conditions
must, prior to reinstatement, submit medical certification to the city as to
their ability to return to work, subject to a second medical opinion as deemed
necessary by the city or a third medical opinion as provided in the Family and
Medical Leave Act.
(Ord. 9052, passed 12-14-04; Am. Ord. 2021-112, passed 12-14-21)
§ 133.09 TRAINING AND MILITARY LEAVES OF ABSENCE.
   (A)   The City Manager, upon the recommendation of the department or
division head, may grant a leave with pay for an employee to take authorized
training for the city service or for such other reason which will, in the
judgment of the Manager, be beneficial to the public service. An employee who
is granted such leave must continue his or her employment with the city for two
years from the end of the leave. If not, the employee shall pay back to the
city a proportionate share of the cost of the leave and any fees incurred in
connection with such leave. The proportion shall be a fraction, the numerator
of which is the difference between 24 months and the number of months worked
after the leave and the denominator is 24 months. This fraction shall be
multiplied by the total cost of the leave and the training.
   (B)   The City Manager may grant leave without pay for a period not to
exceed 90 days for an employee who will receive training in subjects related to
the public service, or for other reasons beneficial to the public service. In
extraordinary circumstances, one extension, not to exceed 90 days may be
granted by the Manager with the concurrence of the appropriate department or
division head.
   (C)   Failure of any employee to report at the expiration of any leave of
absence, without consent of the City Manager, shall be sufficient grounds for
dismissal from the city service.
(Ord. 6140, passed 11-24-87; Am. Ord. 6689, passed 1-28-92; Am. Ord. 6830,
passed 4-13-93; Am. Ord. 7152, passed 12-26-95; Am. Ord. 7744, passed 12-28-99;
Am. Ord. 8698, passed 3-25-03; Am. Ord. 9052, passed 12-14-04; Am. Ord. 2021-
112, passed 12-14-21)
§ 133.10 HOLIDAYS AND PERSONAL DAYS.
   (Entire section replaced with employee handbook language)
   (A)   All full-time personnel, who are not governed by a collective
bargaining agreement which contains a holiday and/or personal days provision,
and who are actively working and performing services for the city, shall
receive the following paid holidays as set forth in this policy:
 
New Year's Day         Veterans Day
Martin Luther King Day Thanksgiving Day
Presidents Day         Day after Thanksgiving Day
Memorial Day           Christmas Day
Independence Day       Labor Day
Day preceding or following Christmas
 
   (B)   The Public Safety Department may have departmental/divisional policies
that differ from certain provisions of this policy to better suit their unique
schedules. In such a case, those departmental/divisional policies will govern.
   (C)   Holidays that fall on Saturday will be observed on the previous
Friday. Holidays that fall on Sunday will be observed the following Monday.
   (D)   The City Manager is authorized to declare additional holidays in the
event such holidays are established by executive order for federal or state
employees or in times of national exigency. Holiday pay for a salaried exempt
employee is included in his/her salary for the week. Holiday pay for an hourly
non-exempt employee, other than full-time employees of the Fire Division, will
be paid at the employee’s regular rate of pay for eight hours per observed
holiday. Holiday pay for an employee represented by a union, where the
collective bargaining agreement expressly addresses holiday pay, will be
governed by that particular holiday pay provision.
   (E)   Employees on unpaid leave of absence, or other non-pay status, are not
eligible for holiday pay during their leave period. An employee scheduled to
return from an unpaid leave of absence on the day after a holiday will not be
paid for that preceding holiday.
   (F)   Where the city determines it is necessary for an hourly non-exempt
employee to work on any of these holidays, that employee shall be paid at the
rate of 1-1/2 times his/her regular rate of pay for all actual hours worked on
the holiday. In addition to receiving 1-1/2 times their regular rate of pay for
all actual hours worked, hourly non-exempt employees scheduled to work on a
paid holiday also will receive eight hours of holiday pay, as set forth above.
   (G)   All full-time personnel, who are not governed by a collective
bargaining agreement which contains a holiday and/or personal days provision,
shall be granted three personal emergency days each calendar year. Pay for each
personal emergency shall be eight hours of pay at the regular rate of pay for
an hourly non-exempt employee and will be included in the salary of a salaried
exempt employee.
   (H)   Personal emergency days for all eligible employees shall not be
carried over from year to year. If not used, they are forfeited.
(Ord. 6140, passed 11-24-87; Am. Ord. 6689, passed 1-28-92; Am. Ord. 6830,
passed 4-13-93; Am. Ord. 7152, passed 12-26-95; Am. Ord. 7744, passed 12-28-99;
Am. Ord. 8546, passed 10-8-02; Am. Ord. 8837, passed 9-23-03; Am. Ord. 8865,
passed 11-25-03; Am. Ord. 9052, passed 12-14-04; Am. Ord. 2021-112, passed 12-
14-21)
§ 133.11 LONGEVITY PROGRAM.
   (A)   Each full-time employee who has at least five years or more of
continuous service with the city shall be paid based on the following schedule:
 
5 years  $220
10 years $345
15 years $470
20 years $600
25 years $725
30 years $850
 
   (B)   These payments will be in addition to the employee’s regular wage or
salary as established by the appropriate pay plan or other applicable
ordinance. This payment shall be made in December of each year, with December 1
being the date used for determining the number of years of service in active
pay status. The requirement that service for longevity credit be continuous in
nature shall only apply to service beginning after January 1, 1981.
   (C)   Employees on unpaid leave shall not receive credit for such time for
purposes of computing any benefit that is determined by longevity. To implement
this provision, the anniversary date of any employee who has taken an unpaid
leave shall be advanced forward the same number of days as the leave continued.
   (D)   Employees who retire shall receive a prorated portion of their
longevity pay based on the number of years of service to the city at the date
of retirement.
(Ord. 6140, passed 11-24-87; Am. Ord. 6689, passed 1-28-92; Am. Ord. 6830,
passed 4-13-93; Am. Ord. 7152, passed 12-26-95; Am. Ord. 7744, passed 12-28-99;
Am. Ord. 9052, passed 12-14-04; Am. Ord. 9724, passed 6-10-08; Am. Ord. 2021-
112, passed 12-14-21)
§ 133.12 HEALTH INSURANCE AND LIFE INSURANCE.
   (Entire section replaced with employee handbook language)
   Employees shall reference the City's Health Benefit Plan Summary that is
available in the Personnel Department.
   (A)   The City Manager is authorized and directed to enter into health and
life insurance contracts in order to provide benefits outlined below.
   (B)   All full-time employees of the city shall be eligible for health
insurance and life insurance as provided by the city upon such terms,
conditions, and requirements, and in such amounts as the city shall authorize.
Part-time employees who work an average of fewer than 30 hours per week shall
not be eligible for city provided health insurance.
   (C)   Employees are responsible for keeping the insurance carrier current on
any changes affecting their coverage through the Personnel Department (e.g.,
marriages, births, etc.)
   (D)   The City Manager reserves all rights as to the determination of
insurance carriers. The city shall reserve the right to limit the amount of
premiums for which the city will be liable, and to set the amount of premiums
for which employees may be responsible.
   (E)   Specifics on eligibility of an employee for coverage and rejection of
an employee for coverage can be found in the actual insurance plan.
   (F)   Life Insurance. For each full-time employee, the cost of a term life
insurance policy representing $50,000.00 of life insurance shall be paid by the
city.
(Ord. 6140, passed 11-24-87; Am. Ord. 6477, passed 2-13-90; Am. Ord. 6689,
passed 1-28-92; Am. Ord. 6830, passed 4-13-93; Am. Ord. 7152, passed 12-26-95;
Am. Ord. 7744, passed 12-28-99; Am. Ord. 8462, passed 5-28-02; Am. Ord. 9052,
passed 12-14-04; Am. Ord. 2015-004, passed 1-27- 15; Am. Ord. 2021-112, passed
12-14-21)
§ 133.13 (RESERVED).
§ 133.14 UNIFORMS.
   The policies set forth below shall be superseded by any requirements set
forth in collective bargaining agreements. The employee will receive only the
uniform articles he or she will be required to wear by the employee's
supervisor.
   (A)   No employee shall wear or use any uniform or city-owned equipment
except while on duty for the city or traveling to or from their job. All
uniforms remain the property of the city, and the cost of any lost or
unreturned uniforms shall be reimbursed to the city. Departments shall
establish standards for uniforms. Said standards shall be approved by the City
Manager.
   (B)   A new full-time employee of a division using uniforms will receive
uniforms upon employment in accordance with department/divisional policies, at
no cost to the employee.
   (C)   For those employees whose job responsibilities require the use of work
boots, the city will provide a pair of work boots as needed. The vendor
providing the work boots shall be determined by the City Purchasing Agent.
Boots worn out or damaged in the course of regular use shall be authorized by
the department head for replacement.
   (D)   Carharts, rain gear, helmets, gloves and other necessary clothing
items will be issued to employees as the need warrants and at the supervisor's
discretion. The City of Lebanon places a strong emphasis on safety and will
strive to ensure that all employees are provided with the proper gear to safely
facilitate their job responsibilities.
   (E)   Uniforms worn out or damaged in the course of regular use will be
replaced by the city. The old clothing articles shall be returned to the
supervisor.
   (F)   Upon retirement, resignation, or termination of employment with the
city, the employee shall return all uniforms, boots, gear, and other items paid
for by the city to the department head. All costs of uniforms and/or gear not
returned to the city shall be reimbursed to the city by the employee.
(Ord. 6140, passed 11-24-87; Am. Ord. 6689, passed 1-28-92; Am. Ord. 6830,
passed 4-13-93; Am. Ord. 7152, passed 12-26-95; Am. Ord. 7744, passed 12-28-99;
Am. Ord. 8837, passed 9-23-03; Am. Ord. 9052, passed 12-14-04; Am. Ord. 2021-
112, passed 12-14-21)
§ 133.15 DISCIPLINE, DISCHARGE, AND APPEAL PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Disciplinary action. The city recognizes the following disciplinary
actions:
      (1)   Oral reprimand;
      (2)   Written reprimand;
      (3)   Suspension with notice in writing;
      (4)   Demotion with notice in writing;
      (5)   Dismissal.
   (B)   Grounds for action.
      (1)   Grounds for disciplinary action shall include, but not be limited
to, the following employee offenses:
         (a)   Group 1 offenses: infractions of a relatively minor nature and
cause only a minimal disruption to the organization in terms of a decrease in
productivity, efficiency, and/or morale.
         (b)   Group 2 offenses: infractions of a more serious nature than
Group 1 offenses which cause a more serious and longer lasting disruption to
the organization in terms of decreased organizational productivity, efficiency,
and/or morale.
         (c)   Group 3 offenses: infractions of a very serious or possibly
criminal nature, which cause a critical disruption to the organization in terms
of decreased productivity, efficiency and/or morale. If left undisciplined,
Group 3 offenses are likely to cause long-lasting and critically adverse
consequences for the organization.
      (2)   The City Manager is hereby authorized to promulgate rules and
regulations which further define and clarify the specifics of behavior
constituting Group 1, Group 2, and Group 3 offenses.
   (C)   Manner of disciplinary action.
      (1)   Oral reprimand. An oral reprimand shall be given in a manner that
will not unduly embarrass the employee before other employees or the public;
      (2)   Written reprimand. A written reprimand shall be prepared and signed
by the department or division head or the employee’s immediate supervisor. The
written reprimand shall be made in triplicate: the original shall go to the
employee; one copy shall be sent to the City Manager; and the department or
division head or supervisor shall retain one copy.
      (3)   Suspension. Pursuant to the pre- disciplinary hearing procedures
outlined below in division (D), where the City Manager feels that there is just
cause for suspension, he or she may suspend the employee for up to 30 days
without pay.
      (4)   Demotion. Pursuant to the pre- disciplinary hearing procedures
outlined below in division (D), where the City Manager feels that there is just
cause for demotion, he or she may order the employee demoted. An employee may
also be demoted due to lack of work.
      (5)   Dismissal. Pursuant to the pre-disciplinary hearing procedures
outlined below in division (D), where the City Manager feels that there is just
cause for dismissal, he or she may order the employee dismissed.
   (D)   Pre-disciplinary hearing.
      (1)   Whenever the City Manager or a supervisor feels that there may be
just cause for discipline, including a suspension, demotion, or dismissal, the
affected employee shall be granted a pre-disciplinary hearing before the City
Manager or the City Manager's designee. The employee shall be notified 24 hours
in advance of the nature of the charges which may be the basis for disciplinary
action and the date, time and place of the hearing.
      (2)   The employee may present any oral or written statement, or
documents which explain whether or not the alleged violation occurred.
Representatives or witnesses may also present oral or written statements on
behalf of the employee. The employee shall provide the hearing officer with a
list of witnesses to present evidence at the pre-disciplinary hearing as far in
advance of the hearing as reasonably possible. Failure to notify the hearing
officer of the appearance of a witness may be grounds for continuance of the
pre-disciplinary hearing. The employee is responsible for securing the
attendance of a witness on his or her behalf. The employee may also waive, in
writing, the opportunity to appear and be heard at the pre-disciplinary
hearing.
      (3)   The City Manager, or his or her designee, may inquire of the
employee to respond to allegations which are the basis of the potential
disciplinary action. Failure to truthfully respond to such inquiry may be the
basis for further disciplinary action.
      (4)   A written report will be prepared by the City Manager, or his or
her designee, concluding whether or not the alleged violation occurred and what
disciplinary action, if any, is appropriate. The employee shall receive a copy
of this report and a notice of disciplinary action as determined by the City
Manager.
      (5)   Whenever a supervisor has reason to believe that an employee has
committed a violation of a municipal ordinance or a state or federal statute,
he or she shall report the matter to the City Manager who may, in his or her
discretion, suspend the affected employee pending a pre-disciplinary hearing
before the City Manager.
   (E)   Appeal procedures.
      (1)   Any employee who has a grievance shall first make such grievance
known to the appropriate department or division head. Grievances shall be heard
in a manner prescribed by the City Manager.
      (2)   If the grievance cannot be resolved by the department or division
head, the employee may request a conference by making a written request to the
City Manager. The City Manager shall advise the employee and the department
head of the time and place of the conference.
      (3)   The City Manager shall consider the grievance and within ten
working days, render a written decision on the grievance to the aggrieved
employee, if the employee so requests.
      (4)   (a)   Any employee in the classified service who has been
suspended, demoted or discharged for cause may also file an appeal with the
Civil Service Commission of the city. Any such appeal must be filed in writing
by delivering copies thereof to the Chairperson of the Civil Service Commission
and to the City Manager within five working days of the date of notice to the
employee of suspension, demotion or discharge.
         (b)   Upon receipt of an appeal as provided for above, the Chairperson
of the Civil Service Commission shall set a time, place and date for a hearing
and shall notify both the appellant and the City Manager thereof, such hearing
shall be held not later than 15 working days after receipt of the employee’s
appeal.
         (c)   Both the employee and the City Manager shall be allowed to
present testimony either personally or through witnesses. In addition, the
Civil Service Commission shall, within ten working days after such hearing,
present to the city its recommendation in writing. The City Manager, after
considering the recommendation of the Civil Service Commission, shall make a
final determination in each case which has been appealed not later than ten
working days after receipt of the Civil Service Commission's written
recommendations.
         (d)   If no appeal is filed within the time specified, the original
order of the City Manager shall be considered final.
         (e)   Appeals to the Civil Service Commission from employees of the
Lebanon City School District who are covered by Civil Service shall be subject
to the provisions of (D)(4) of this section except that wherever the words
“City Manager” are used, it shall mean “Superintendent of the Lebanon City
School District.”
      (5)   No employee shall be penalized in any manner for instituting an
appeal under these procedures.
      (6)   A probationary employee shall not be entitled to an appeal before
the Civil Service Commission as otherwise provided for regular employees under
this section.
      (7)   Provisions of this section shall apply equally to part-time
employees
(Ord. 6140, passed 11-24-87; Am. Ord. 6689, passed 1-28-92; Am. Ord. 6830,
passed 4-13-93; Am. Ord. 7152, passed 12-26-95; Am. Ord. 7744, passed 12-28-99;
Am. Ord. 9052, passed 12-14-04; Am. Ord. 2012-058, passed 6-26-12; Am. Ord.
2021-112, passed 12-14-21)
§ 133.16 (RESERVED).
§ 133.17 NON-DISCIPLINARY SEPARATION.
   (A)   Layoff; general policy.  
      (1)   Layoffs may occur when one of the following reasons can be
demonstrated:
         (a)   Lack of work;
         (b)   Lack of funds.
      (2)   Every effort will be made to transfer employees to a vacant
position in another department/ division rather than lay them off. However,
when the employee is not qualified to hold another position, department/
division heads will make their recommendations for layoff to the City Manager.
An employee who is laid off as a result of a reduction in force will be given
preference in filling any position which opens within one year of the date of
the layoff, and for which the employee is qualified.
   (B)   Resignation. 
      (1)   Employees who plan to voluntarily resign shall notify their
department/division head at least ten working days in advance of the effective
date of separation. Failure to provide notice of resignation at least ten
working days in advance will result in the forfeiture of accrued vacation pay
and termination of health benefits immediately following the last day worked,
unless otherwise approved by the City Manager.
      (2)   Any employee who resigns is encouraged to give his or her reasons
for resigning and to discuss with his or her supervisor and/or the personnel
department any working conditions which he or she feels may be unsatisfactory.
A formal letter of resignation will be required. The city hereby accepts
resignations upon receipt, and will rely on having received them. Resignations
may not, therefore, be revoked without permission. A copy of the letter of
resignation shall be forwarded to the Personnel Department. Failure to give
proper notification shall result in ineligibility for reinstatement and may
become a matter of public record.
   (C)   Retirement plans.  
      (1)   All employees of the city, except for those specifically exempted
by statute, are required to participate in the Ohio Employees Retirement System
(OPERS), or the Ohio Police and Fire Pension Fund. If employees have any
questions regarding this program, they should contact the Personnel Department
for more information.
      (2)   An employee who retires from employment with the city shall be
entitled to receive payment for accumulated sick leave of 50% of such
accumulated sick leave for up to 1040 hours accumulated and 10% for over 1040
accumulated sick leave hours. The employee shall also receive payment for all
accumulated vacation. In the event an employee dies while being employed by the
city and said employee qualifies for his or her respective retirement/pension
fund, said employee's estate shall be paid for such accumulated time. Payment
of accumulated leave shall be paid at the employee's rate of pay at the time of
death or retirement.
      (3)   In order to properly recognize the dedicated service of city
personnel retiring from service, retiring staff members will be provided with a
city-purchased retirement gift with a value not to exceed that which is
specified in the Administrative Order.
      (4)   Only full-time service with the city will be credited. Cash
payments cannot be used in lieu of the retirement gift.
   (D)   Disability separation. This section outlines the conditions under
which disability separation may be granted, and procedures for administering
its use. It is intended to outline the procedures to be followed after
determining that no reasonable accommodation can be made.
      (1)   Voluntary reduction. When an employee becomes physically unable to
perform the essential functions of his or her position even with a reasonable
accommodation, but is still able to perform the duties of a vacant lower level
position, he or she may voluntarily request reduction to the lower level
position. This typically shall involve a reduction in the employee's wages.
Such request shall be in writing and shall state the reason for the request.
The city reserves the right to have the employee examined by a physician to
determine the nature and extent of the employee's physical condition, at the
sole expense of the city.
      (2)   Involuntary disability separation or termination for failure to
report for work. If an employee becomes unable to perform the essential job
duties of the employee's position, subject to the Americans with Disabilities
Act, and if the employee has exhausted Family and Medical Leave, the City
Manager may involuntarily separate the employee. If an employee on extended
illness leave is unable to return to work when the employee's extended illness
leave is exhausted, then the City Manager may grant an involuntary disability
separation to the employee if the employee cooperates under this procedure.
However, if the employee refuses to submit to examination or to provide proof
of disability, grounds for terminating employment shall be neglect of duty,
nonfeasance, unauthorized leave of absence, and failure of good behavior for
failure to report for work without approved leave.
      (3)   Medical examination. The City Manager may require that an employee
submit to a medical or psychological examination in order to determine the
employee's capability to perform the essential job duties of the employee's
position, or to perform the essential job duties of the position with or
without a reasonable accommodation based on the employee's education, training,
or experience. Such examination shall be conducted by a licensed practitioner.
Prior to examination, the city will supply the examining practitioner with
facts relating to the perceived disabling illness, injury, or condition, and
must supply additional information, including physical and mental requirements
of the employee's position, duty statements, and/or position descriptions. The
cost of the examination shall be paid by the city. Both the city and the
employee shall receive the results of that examination and related documents
subject to R.C. § 1347.08(C)(1).
      (4)   Right to pre-separation conference; rights of appeal.  
         (a)   The City Manager or designee shall institute a pre-separation
proceeding when it has received the results of a medical or psychological
examination and initially determines that an employee is incapable of
performing the essential job duties of the employee's assigned position with or
without a reasonable accommodation, and initially determines that the employee
is not eligible, or is no longer eligible, for a leave of absence without pay
due to a disabling injury, illness, or condition. Under those proceedings, a
conference shall be scheduled, and advance written notice shall be provided to
the employee. If the employee does not waive the right to that conference, then
at the conference the employee has a right to examine the city's evidence of
disability, to rebut that evidence, and to present testimony and evidence on
the employee's own behalf.
         (b)   If the City Manager or designee determines, after weighing the
testimony presented and evidence admitted at the pre-separation conference,
that the employee is capable of performing his or her essential job duties,
then the pre-separation conference shall cease and the employee shall be
considered to be fit to perform his or her essential job duties. If the City
Manager or designee determines, after weighing the testimony presented and the
evidence admitted at the pre- separation conference, that the employee is
unable to perform his or her essential job duties, then the City Manager shall
separate the employee from employment for non-disciplinary reasons.
(Ord. 6140, passed 11-24-87; Am. Ord. 6689, passed 1-28-92; Am. Ord. 6830,
passed 4-13-93; Am. Ord. 7152, passed 12-26-95; Am. Ord. 7744, passed 12-28-99;
Am. Ord. 9052, passed 12-14-04; Am. Ord. 2021-112, passed 12-14-21)
§ 133.171 RE-EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   An employee who has resigned from city service and is subsequently re-
employed will be credited with prior city service for the purpose of computing
vacation, sick leave benefits, or other benefits, excluding longevity, that may
be in effect.
   (B)   Any employee who resigns while disciplinary action is pending shall
not be eligible for re-employment.
(Ord. 9052, passed 12-14-04; Am. Ord. 2021-112, passed 12-14-21)
§ 133.172 EXIT INTERVIEW.
   Upon resignation, or otherwise voluntarily terminated employment, an
employee shall be required to complete an exit interview questionnaire, and may
meet with the Personnel Department personally to discuss the questionnaire.
(Ord. 9052, passed 12-14-04; Am. Ord. 2021-112, passed 12-14-21)
§ 133.18 COLLECTIVE BARGAINING.
   (A)   The City Manager is authorized to enter into written agreements with
representatives certified under the provisions of R.C. Chapter 4117 concerning
wages, terms and conditions of employment, but such agreements will not be
binding unless and until the Council has accepted the terms by passing
necessary legislation.
   (B)   The City Manager is authorized and directed to establish appropriate
regulations prohibiting solicitation with respect to union activities or dues
collection during working time and in general to regulate the conduct of any
union business so as not to interfere unduly with the operations of the city.
   (C)   It is the intent of the city that collective bargaining shall result
in a collective bargaining agreement without the intervention of the Council.
(Ord. 6140, passed 11-24-87; Am. Ord. 6689, passed 1-28-92; Am. Ord. 6830,
passed 4-13-93; Am. Ord. 7152, passed 12-26-95; Am. Ord. 7744, passed 12-28-99;
Am. Ord. 2021-112, passed 12-14-21)
§ 133.19 DRUG-FREE WORK PLACE .
   (A)   Definitions. For purposes of this policy all definitions will be
consistent with R.C. § 3719.01.
      ALCOHOL. The intoxicating agent in beverage alcohol, ethyl alcohol, or
lower molecular weight alcohols including methyl and isopropyl alcohol.
      CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Any controlled substance contained in Schedules I
through V of Section 202 of the Controlled Substance Act (21 U.S.C. 812); or as
defined in R.C. § 3719.01.
      CONVICTION. Any finding of guilt, including a plea of no contest or the
imposition of a sentence, or both, by any judicial body charged with the
responsibility to determine violations of the federal or state criminal drug
statues.
      CRIMINAL DRUG STATUTE. A criminal statute which states that a person may
not manufacture, distribute, dispense, use, possess, provide or administer any
controlled substance.
   (B)   Drug-free policy. It is the policy of the city to maintain a safe and
productive workplace free of alcohol and drugs and free of those individuals
who use drugs and alcohol.
      (1)   The unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession or
use of alcohol or a controlled substance by any employee which takes place in
whole or in part in the workplace is strictly prohibited and will result in
criminal prosecution and employee discipline which may include termination from
employment.
      (2)   Any employee convicted of a violation of any federal, state or
municipal criminal drug statute must notify the city of that fact within five
calendar days of the conviction. Notification by the employee does not excuse
that employee from possible disciplinary action under the city's Personnel
Manual. Any employee convicted of a work-related drug offense, who fails to
report the conviction as required will be:
         (a)   Terminated from employment;
         (b)   Forever barred from future employment with the city; and
         (c)   Held personally liable in a civil action for any loss of federal
funds resulting from the failure to report the conviction.
      (3)   Any employee who reports for duty in an altered or impaired
condition which is the result of the illegal use of controlled substances or
the abuse of legal substances, will be subject to disciplinary action or
discharge. Employees are prohibited from consuming alcohol and/or using
controlled substances while on duty during scheduled work hours, while on city
property or during any breaks and/or lunch periods. An exception may be made
where the onsumption of alcohol is necessary for the performance of the
employee's job duties (i.e. undercover operation for a narcotics officer). Any
decision to take disciplinary action may be held in abeyance pending the
completion by the employee of a rehabilitation program.
      (4)   Using illegal substances or other substances which can cause an
impairment in the workplace can lead to serious consequences. Drugs in the
workplace are dangerous to all and pose a danger to those we serve. Anything
that alters mental processes, alertness, reaction time, judgment or physical
ability can have a disastrous effect on our ability to serve the citizens of
Lebanon.
      (5)   An employee who is taking prescription drugs or over-the-counter
drugs that could hamper his or her ability to safely perform their job
responsibilities shall report this to his or her supervisor.
   (C)   Drug testing policy.
      (1)   Employee drug testing. The city reserves the right to set standards
for employment and to require employees, as a condition of continued
employment, to submit to physical examinations including breath or urine tests
for alcohol, illegal drugs or the misuse of legal drugs where there is
reasonable suspicion that an employee's work performance is or could be
affected by the condition.
      (2)   In a case in which a supervisor has reasonable suspicion to believe
that the employee has used or is under the influence of alcohol and/or a
controlled substance, the supervisor may require the employee to go to a
medical clinic, at the city's expense, to provide breath or urine specimens.
For purposes of this policy, REASONABLE SUSPICION means suspicion based on
personal observation by an employer representative. City representatives should
document such reasonable suspicion by making written notations which may
include descriptions of inexplicable or abnormal behavior, appearance, speech
or breath.
      (3)   If requested, the employee will sign a waiver and consent form
authorizing the clinic to examine a specimen of breath or urine and release the
test results to the city.
      (4)   A refusal to sign a waiver and consent form or to provide either
specimen will constitute insubordination and a presumption of impairment and
may result in discharge.
      (5)   Any employee tested in accordance with the above procedure may, if
the test results are positive, request that the split sample be tested at the
employee's expense. An employee's request for a second analysis must be made
within 72 hours of the employee's receipt of positive test results; otherwise
the employee will be deemed to have waived his or her right to a second
analysis and he or she will be disciplined on the basis of the positive results
from the first container. If the second analysis is performed and the results
are negative, the negative result will control; no disciplinary action will be
taken, and if the employee has been suspended he or she will be reinstated
immediately to his or her former position. However, if the results from the
second analysis are positive, the employee will be disciplined as determined by
the City Manager, up to and including discharge.
      (6)   The results of any such test will constitute medical information
and will remain confidential in accordance with applicable state and federal
laws.
      (7)   Any employee testing positive for drugs and/or alcohol will be
subject to disciplinary action or discharge.
   (8)   In addition to such disciplinary measures as the city may impose, any
employee who tests positive for drugs or alcohol must be evaluated by a
substance abuse professional (SAP) designated by the city and must participate
in the assistance program prescribed by the SAP. The employee may also have to
sign a Last Chance Agreement with the city; although the City Manager may
decide that the Last Chance Agreement is not an option and can immediately
dismiss the employee. If the employee refuses to complete the evaluation or
prescribed assistance program or to sign the agreement, he or she shall be
discharged immediately. Upon completion of the prescribed assistance program,
the employee will be reinstated to his or her former position but will be
subject to random drug and/or alcohol testing for six months following his or
her return to work or as determined by the SAP. A subsequent positive test for
drugs and/or alcohol while on the job or when reporting to work, under random
testing or reasonable suspicion testing, shall be cause for immediate
discharge.
      (9)   Prior to hiring a new employee, the city shall require those
applicants conditionally selected for employment to pass a physical
examination, which includes testing to determine the use of illegal drugs. If
illegal drugs are detected, the offer of employment shall be automatically
withdrawn.
   (D)   Smoking/tobacco policy.
      (1)   The city is committed to providing a healthy environment for its
employees and therefore designates all city-owned buildings and vehicles as No
Smoking/No Tobacco. Employees are not permitted to smoke in any city-owned
facility other than at a designated smoking area. Further, various departments
may have additional prohibitions on smoking and tobacco use.
      (2)   Smoking and tobacco may be permitted in outside areas designated by
department heads.
(Ord. 6689, passed 1-28-92; Am. Ord. 6830, passed 4-13-93; Am. Ord. 7152,
passed 12-26-95; Am. Ord. 7744, passed 12-28-99; Am. Ord. 9052, passed 12-14-
04; Am. Ord. 2021-112, passed 12-14-21)
§ 133.20 COLLEGE DEGREE REIMBURSEMENT.
   (A)   Subject to budgetary constraints, any full- time employee who has
completed the probationary period is eligible for participation in the Tuition
Reimbursement Program. Courses must not interfere with the employee's job
responsibilities. The courses of study must be taken from an accredited
institution.
   (B)   Regular courses that result in a certification, degree, or the like
that are not specifically identified as required training in the employee's job
description shall be classified as falling under the Tuition Reimbursement
Program. Any uncertainty as to what constitutes training and what constitutes a
tuition reimbursement eligible program shall be clarified and authorized in
writing by the Personnel Department and/or the City Manager prior to the
employee entering the program.
   (C)   Employee requests for future tuition reimbursement assistance must be
made during the previous budget cycle to assist the department in developing
their annual budget.
   (D)   The course of study must be reasonably related to the employee's job,
and the employee must seek approval for participation in the reimbursement
program from the City Manager prior to the start of actual course work.
Reimbursement will be made at the conclusion of the course work, and after
submission by the employee of documents showing completion and passing grades.
Reimbursement covers actual tuition and general lab fees, as well as necessary
books. Reimbursement will be based on the following schedule:
 
Grade Received           Reimbursement Amount
A                        90%
B                        80%
C                        60%
P (for pass/fail courses 50%
Lower than C             0%
 
   (E)   An employee who resigns or whose services are terminated by the city
while the course is in progress will not be compensated for any courses he or
she is currently enrolled in.
   (F)   Employees who work for the city less than three years after being
reimbursed for course work must repay a portion of the money he or she received
for the course(s). Repayment will be based on the following schedule:
 
Date of Termination           Repayment Percent
0-12 months following course  100%
13-36 months following course 50%
 
   (G)   Repayment due for course work shall be withheld from the employee's
last paycheck.
   (H)   The annual cap of tuition reimbursement per employee is $4,000.
(Ord. 6830, passed 4-13-93; Am. Ord. 7152, passed 12-26-95; Am. Ord. 7744,
passed 12-28-99; Am. Ord. 9052, passed 12-14-04; Am. Ord. 9790, passed 11-24-
08; Am. Ord. 2021-112, passed 12-14-21)
§ 133.21 PAY INCENTIVE PLAN.
   The City Auditor is hereby authorized and directed to adopt the Pay
Incentive Plan recommended by the Pay Incentive Committee. The Pay Incentive
Plan is set forth as an attachment to Ordinance No. 7991 and incorporated
herein by reference.
(Ord. 7991, passed 11-14-00; Am. Ord. 2021-112, passed 12-14-21)
§ 133.99 SUPPLEMENTARY RULES.
   The City Manager is authorized to adopt rules and regulations necessary to
carry out the intent of this chapter; provided that the rules and regulations
shall not conflict with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 6140, passed 11-24-87; Am. Ord. 6689, passed 1-28-92; Am. Ord. 6830,
passed 4-13-93; Am. Ord. 7152, passed 12-26-95; Am. Ord. 7744, passed 12-28-99;
Am. Ord. 2021-112, passed 12-14-21)
CHAPTER 135: ETHICS
Section
   
135.01     Definitions
   
135.02     Bribery [Repealed]
   
135.03     Intimidation [Repealed]
   
135.04     Theft in office; restitution; withholding of retirement benefits
   
135.05     Having an unlawful interest in a public contract
   
135.06     Soliciting or receiving improper compensation
Statutory reference:
   Offenses against justice and administration, see R.C. Chapter 2921
§ 135.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Any elected or appointed officer, employee, or agent of the
city whether in a temporary or permanent capacity, including members of
Council.
   VALUABLE THING or VALUABLE BENEFIT. Includes, but is not limited to, a
contribution.
(R.C. § 2921.01) (Ord. 6141, passed 11-24-87; Am. Ord. 6291, passed 11-22-88;
Am. Ord. 6832, passed 4-13-93; Am. Ord. 7152, passed 12-26-95)
§ 135.02 BRIBERY. [REPEALED]
Editor’s note:
   This section was repealed in conjunction with the 1995 revision of the Code
of Ordinances. The offense of bribery is now a felony under state law, and
shall be prosecuted under the provisions of R.C. § 2921.02.
(Ord. 6141, passed 11-24-87; Am. Ord. 6291, passed 11-22-88; Am. Ord. 6832,
passed 4-13-93; Am. Ord. 7152, passed 12-26-95)
§ 135.03 INTIMIDATION. [REPEALED]
Editor’s note:
   This section was repealed in conjunction with the 1995 revision of the Code
of Ordinances. The offense of intimidation is now a felony under state law, and
shall be prosecuted under the provisions of R.C. § 2921.03.
(Ord. 6141, passed 11-24-87; Am. Ord. 6291, passed 11-22-88; Am. Ord. 6832,
passed 4-13-93; Am. Ord. 7152, passed 12-26-95)
§ 135.04 THEFT IN OFFICE; RESTITUTION; WITHHOLDING OF RETIREMENT BENEFITS.
   No public official shall commit any theft offense, as defined in R.C. §
2913.01(K), when either of the following applies:
   (A)   The offender uses his or her office in aid of committing the offense,
or permits or assents to its use in aid of committing the offense.
   (B)   The property or service involved is owned by the city.
(Ord. 6141, passed 11-24-87; Am. Ord. 6291, passed 11-22-88; Am. Ord. 6832,
passed 4-13-93; Am. Ord. 7152, passed 12-26-95)
§ 135.05 HAVING AN UNLAWFUL INTEREST IN A PUBLIC CONTRACT.
   (A)   No public official shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Authorize or employ the authority of the public official’s office
to secure authorization of any public contract in which the public official, a
member of the public official’s family, or any of the public official’s
business associates has an interest.
      (2)   Authorize or employ the authority or influence of the public
official’s office to secure the investment of public funds in any share, bond,
mortgage, or other security with respect to which the public official, a member
of the public official’s family, or any of the public official’s business
associates either has an interest, is an underwriter, or receives any
brokerage, origination, or servicing fees.
      (3)   During the public official’s term of office or within one year
thereafter, occupy any position of profit in the prosecution of a public
contract authorized by the public official or by a legislative body,
commission, or board of which the public official was a member at the time of
authorization, unless the contract was let by competitive bidding to the lowest
and best bidder.
      (4)   Have an interest in the profits or benefits of a public contract
entered into by or for the use of the political subdivision or governmental
agency or instrumentality with which the public official is connected.
      (5)   Have an interest in the profits or benefits of a public contract
that is not let by competitive bidding when required by law, and that involves
more than $150.
   (B)   In the absence of bribery or a purpose to defraud, a public official,
member of a public official’s family, or any of a public official’s business
associates shall not be considered as having an interest in a public contract
or the investment of public funds, if all of the following apply:
      (1)   The interest of the person is limited to owning or controlling
shares of the corporation, or being a creditor of the corporation or other
organization, which is the contractor on the city contract involved, or which
is the issuer of the security in which public funds are invested;
      (2)   The shares owned or controlled by the person do not exceed 5% of
the outstanding shares of the corporation, and the amount due the person as
creditor does not exceed 5% of the total indebtedness of the corporation or
other organization;
      (3)   The person, prior to the time the public contract is entered into,
files with the city an affidavit giving that person’s exact status in
connection with the corporation or other organization.
   (C)   This section does not apply to a public contract in which a public
official, member of a public official’s family, or one of a public official’s
business associates has an interest, when all of the following apply:
      (1)   The subject of the public contract is necessary supplies or
services for the city;
      (2)   The supplies or services are unobtainable elsewhere for the same or
lower cost, or are being furnished to the city as part of a continuing course
of dealing established prior to the public official’s becoming associated with
the city;
      (3)   The treatment accorded the city is either preferential to or the
same as that accorded other customers or clients in similar transactions;
      (4)   The entire transaction is conducted at arm’s length, with full
knowledge by the city of the interest of the public official, member of the
public official’s family, or business associate, and the public official takes
no part in the deliberations or decision of the city with respect to the city
contract.
   (D)   Division (A)(4) of this section does not prohibit participation by a
public employee in any housing program funded by public monies if the public
employee otherwise qualifies for the program and does not use the authority or
influence of the public employee’s office or employment to secure benefits from
the program and if the monies are to be used on the primary residence of the
public employee. Such participation does not constitute an unlawful interest in
a public contract in violation of this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of having an unlawful interest
in a public contract. Violation of division (A)(1) or (2) of this section is a
felony of the fourth degree, to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
Violation of division (A)(3), (4) or (5) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
   (F)   It is not a violation of this section for the City Attorney to appoint
assistants and employees in accordance with R.C. §§ 733.621 and 2921.421, or
the Lebanon Code of Ordinances.
   (G)   Any public contract in which a public official, a member of the public
official’s family, or any of the public official’s business associates has an
interest in violation of this section is void and unenforceable. Any contract
securing the investment of public funds in which a public official, a member of
the public official’s family, or any of the public official’s business
associates has an interest, is an underwriter, or receives any brokerage,
origination or servicing fees and that was entered into in violation of this
section is void and unenforceable.
   (F)   As used in this section, CITYCONTRACT means any of the following:
         (a)   The purchase or acquisition, or a contract for the purchase or
acquisition, of property or services by or for the use of the city, or any
agency or instrumentality of the city, including the employment of an
individual by the city or any agency or instrumentality of the city;
      (2)   A contract for the design, construction, alteration, repair, or
maintenance of any city property.
(R.C. § 2921.42) (Ord. 6141, passed 11-24-87; Am. Ord. 6291, passed 11-22-88;
Am. Ord. 6832, passed 4-13-93; Am. Ord. 7152, passed 12-26-95)
§ 135.06 SOLICITING OR RECEIVING IMPROPER COMPENSATION.
   (A)   No public official shall knowingly solicit or accept and no person
shall knowingly promise or give to a public official either of the following:
      (1)   Any compensation, other than as allowed by R.C. § 102.03(G), (H),
(I), or other provisions of law, to perform the public servant’s official
duties, to perform any other act or service in the public official’s public
capacity, for the general performance of the duties of the public official’s
public office or public employment, or as a supplement to the public official’s
public compensation;
      (2)   Additional or greater fees or costs than are allowed by law to
perform the public servant’s official duties.
   (B)   No public official for the public servant’s own personal or business
use and no person for the person’s own personal or business use or for the
personal or business use of a public official, shall solicit or accept anything
of value in consideration of either of the following:
      (1)   Appointing or securing, maintaining, or renewing the appointment of
any person to any public office, employment, or agency;
      (2)   Preferring, or maintaining the status of, any public employee with
respect to compensation, duties, placement, location, promotion, or other
material aspects of employment.
   (C)   No person for the benefit of a political party, campaign committee,
legislative campaign fund, a political action committee, or political
contributing entity shall coerce any contribution in consideration of either of
the following:
      (1)   Appointing or securing, maintaining, or renewing the appointment of
any person to any public office, employment, or agency;
      (2)   Preferring, or maintaining the status of, any public employee with
respect to compensation, duties, placement, location, promotion, or other
material aspects of employment.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of soliciting improper
compensation, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (E)   A public official who is convicted of a violation of this section is
disqualified from holding any public office, employment, or position of trust
in the city for a period of seven years from the date of conviction.
   (F)   Divisions (A), (B) and (C) of this section do not prohibit a person
from making voluntary contributions to a political party, campaign committee,
legislative campaign fund, political action committee, or political
contributing entity or prohibit a political party, campaign committee,
legislative campaign fund, political action committee, or political
contributing entity from accepting voluntary contributions.
(R.C. § 2921.43) (Ord. 6141, passed 11-24-87; Am. Ord. 6291, passed 11-22-88;
Am. Ord. 6832, passed 4-13-93; Am. Ord. 7152, passed 12-26-95)
CHAPTER 137: DONATIONS POLICY FOR CITY-SPONSORED EVENTS
Section
   
137.01   Policy for budget
   
137.02   Criteria for support
   
137.03   Considerations in a funding request
§ 137.01 POLICY FOR BUDGET.
   All organizations shall submit the request for donations to the City Council
no later than December 31 for the next calendar year.
(Ord. 8665, passed 2-11-03; Am. Ord. 9800, passed 12-9-08)
§ 137.02 CRITERIA FOR SUPPORT.
   (A)   Any organization seeking support or funding from the city shall be
designated not-for-profit, and incorporated under the general corporation laws
of the State of Ohio.
   (B)   Organizations must provide a copy of their classification as a 501(c)
(3) status organization from the United States Department of the Treasury.
   (C)   Donation requests shall include as a minimum:
      (1)   A detailed description of the program or event that will benefit
from the donation.
      (2)   A description of the positive impact the program or event will have
on the quality of life of the community including the number of residents who
will be positively impacted.
      (3)   An explanation of the financial impact the donation will have on
the organization's ability toexecute the program or event. This explanation
shall include a summary of the organizations budget and major sources of
funding.
(Ord. 8665, passed 2-11-03)
§ 137.03 CONSIDERATIONS IN A FUNDING REQUEST.
   The City Council shall consider the following in a funding request.
   (A)   The social and cultural impact upon the community, as well as the
number of people that are being positively impacted by the organization making
the request.
   (B)   The availability of other local support for the requesting
organization and the direct impact the donation will have on the organizations
ability to execute its program or event.
(Ord. 8665, passed 2-11-03)
TITLE FIVE - Health and Judicial
   
Chapter 141   Health Services
   
Chapter 142 -Vaccinations
   
Chapter 143   Municipal Court
   
Chapter 151   Income Tax Regulations Effective Through December 31, 2015
   
Chapter 152 -Income Tax Regulations Effective Beginning January 1, 2016
   
Chapter 153   Hotel-Motel Tax
   
Chapter 155   Motor Vehicle License Tax
   
Chapter 157   Urban Redevelopment Tax Increment Equivalent Fund
   
Chapter 159   Tax Abatement Program
   
Chapter 160   Investment Policy
CHAPTER 141: HEALTH SERVICES
Editor’s note:
   The city and Warren County have a joint City-County Health District which
provides all health services for the city and county. See Resolution 947.
Statutory reference:
   Enforcement of orders, see R.C. §§ 3707.02, 3707.48 et seq. and 3707.99(C)
   General duties, see R.C. §§ 3709.22 et seq. and 3709.36
   Powers and nuisances, see R.C. Chapter 3707 and R.C. § 3709.36
   Quarantine and communicable diseases, see R.C. §§ 3707.04 et seq.
Cross-reference:
   Health, safety and sanitation, see
Ch. 517
CHAPTER 142: VACCINATIONS
Section
   
142.01   Vaccinations, prohibitions, and exceptions
§ 142.01 VACCINATIONS, PROHIBITIONS, AND EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)    Definitions. As used in this section:
      INDIVIDUAL. An adult or minor, state resident or otherwise.
      PERSON. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1.59.
      POLITICAL SUBDIVISION. The City of Lebanon, Ohio.
      VACCINE, VACCINATION, and IMMUNIZATION means any product manufactured to
create acquired immunity to COVID 19 or any variant of COVID 19 or the process
of administering such a product.
      VACCINE STATUS. Whether or not an individual has received a specific
vaccination or series of vaccinations.
   (B)   (1)   It is the policy of the city that individuals have a right to
direct their own health care decisions, free from coercion or penalty, and with
informed consent, for themselves, their children, their family, and anyone for
whom they stand in loco parentis.
      (2)   The city shall not mandate, require, or otherwise request an
individual to receive a vaccine.
   (C)   It is the policy of the city that individuals have a right to expect
that their personal privacy rights remain protected, specifically private
health information.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, the city
shall not do any of the following:
         (a)   Mandate, require, or otherwise request an individual to disclose
the individual's vaccine status;
         (b)   Mandate, require, or otherwise request participation in a
vaccine passport system, vaccine registry, or other mechanism that is designed
for the purpose of tracking an individual's vaccine status;
         (c)   Disclose an individual's vaccination status.
      (2)   Exceptions.
         (a)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to the city's
health care provider or insurer as it pertains to patient care, treatment, or
billing. In such case, an individual's vaccine status shall be considered and
treated as protected health information pursuant to R.C. Chapter 3798.
      (3)   The City of Lebanon, Ohio shall not make public an individual's
vaccine status.
   (D)   It is the policy of the city that individuals have a right to expect
that their personal health choices shall not result in discriminatory
treatment. The city shall not do any of the following:
      (1)   Deny service or access to, segregate, require a vaccine status
label for, require disease or immunity testing of, penalize as a result of, or
otherwise discriminate against an individual based on their refusal to receive
a specific vaccination or series of vaccinations, subscribe to a vaccine or
immunity passport or tracking system, or provide proof of vaccination for,
immunity to, or testing of a specific contagious or infectious disease or
diseases;
      (2)   Provide any disposition, service, financial aid, or benefit to an
individual that is different from, or is provided in a different manner than,
that provided to other individuals based on the individual's refusal to receive
a specific vaccination or series of vaccinations, subscribe to a vaccine or
immunity passport or tracking system, or provide proof of vaccination for,
immunity to, or testing of a specific contagious or infectious disease or
diseases;
      (3)   Restrict an individual in any way in the enjoyment of any advantage
or privilege enjoyed by others receiving any disposition, service, financial
aid, or benefit provided to other individuals based on the individual's refusal
to receive a specific vaccination or series of vaccinations, subscribe to a
vaccine or immunity passport or tracking system, or provide proof of
vaccination for, immunity to, or testing of a specific contagious or infectious
disease or diseases;
      (4)   Treat an individual differently from others in determining whether
that individual satisfies any admission, enrollment, quota, eligibility,
membership, or other requirement or condition that individuals are required to
meet in order to be provided any disposition, service, financial aid, or
benefit available to other members of the general public;
      (5)   Deny an individual an opportunity to participate in a program
through the provision of service or otherwise afford that individual an
opportunity to do so that is different from that afforded to other members of
the general public;
      (6)   Create, impose, or allow to be imposed any device or method of
identification that acts as, or might be considered to be, a vaccine passport
that would be required of any citizen seeking to travel, to enter any public
space or private property, or to do any business within this state.
   (E)   It is the policy of the City of Lebanon, Ohio that the health choice
and privacy of individuals are paramount and shall remain so under all
circumstances, even in the presence of emergencies.
      (1)   The City of Lebanon, Ohio shall not issue any order or proclamation
or take other action that violates any provision of this section, under the
pretense of an emergency, including a resolution or ordinance declaring a state
of emergency.
      (2)   The City of Lebanon, Ohio shall not issue any order or proclamation
or take other action that encourages any person, public official or employee,
or employer to violate any provision of this section.
(Ord. 2021-087, passed 9-14-21)
CHAPTER 143: MUNICIPAL COURT
Editor’s note:
   The Lebanon Municipal Court was established under provisions of R.C. Chapter
1901, and has jurisdiction within the City of Lebanon and Turtlecreek Township.
Statutory reference:
   Power to establish schedule of fees and costs, see R.C. § 1901.26
Cross-reference:
   City Attorney to prosecute cases, see §
119.01
CHAPTER 151: INCOME TAX REGULATIONS
EFFECTIVE THROUGH DECEMBER 31, 2015
Section
   
151.01     Purpose
   
151.02     Definitions
   
151.03     Imposition of tax
   
151.04     Effective period
   
151.05     Return and payment of tax
   
151.06     Collection at source
   
151.07     Declarations
   
151.08     Appointment and duties of the Tax Commissioner
   
151.09     Investigative powers of the Tax Commissioner; divulging confidential
information
   
151.10     Interest and penalties
   
151.11     Collection of unpaid taxes and refunds of overpayments
   
151.12     Violations; penalties
   
151.13     Board of Review
   
151.14     Allocation of funds
   
151.15     Credit for tax paid to another municipality
   
151.16     Saving clause
   
151.17     Reports required of owners or managers of property
 
   
151.99     Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Municipal income taxes, see R.C. Chapter 718
§ 151.01 PURPOSE.
   To provide funds for the purposes of general municipal operations,
maintenance, new equipment, extension and enlargement of municipal services and
facilities, and capital improvements of the city, there shall be, and is
hereby, levied a tax on salaries, wages, commissions and other compensation,
and on net profits as hereinafter provided.
§ 151.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   As used in this chapter, the following words shall have the meaning
ascribed to them in this section, except as and if the context indicates or
requires a different meaning.
   ASSOCIATION. A partnership, limited partnership, or any other form of
unincorporated enterprise, owned by two or more persons.
   BOARD OF REVIEW. The Board created by and constituted as provided for in §
151.13 of this chapter.
   BUSINESS. An enterprise, activity, profession, or undertaking of any nature
conducted for profit or ordinarily conducted for profit, whether by an
individual, partnership, association, corporation, or any other entity,
including but not limited to the renting or leasing of property, real,
personal, or mixed.
   CORPORATION. A corporation or joint stock association organized under the
laws of the United States, the State of Ohio, or any other state, territory, or
foreign country or dependency.
   DOMICILE. A principal residence that the taxpayer intends to use for an
indefinite time and to which, whenever the taxpayer is absent, the taxpayer
intends to return. A taxpayer has only one domicile even though a taxpayer may
have more than one residence.
   EMPLOYEE. One who works for wages, salary, commission, or other types of
compensation in the services of any employer.
   EMPLOYER. An individual, partnership, association, corporation, governmental
body, unit, or agency, or any other entity, whether or not organized for
profit, who or that employs one or more persons on a salary, wage, commission,
or other compensation basis.
   FISCAL YEAR. An accounting period of 12 months ending on any day other than
December 31.
   GROSS RECEIPTS. Total income of taxpayers from whatever source received.
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Lebanon, Ohio.
   NET PROFITS. The net gain from all operations including those pertaining to
capital gains and losses of a business, profession, or enterprise after
provision for all ordinary and necessary expense, except taxes imposed by this
chapter and federal and other taxes based on income, paid or accrued in
accordance with the accounting system used by the taxpayer for federal income
tax purposes, and, in the case of an association, without deduction of salaries
paid to partners or other owners.
   NONRESIDENT. A person, whether an individual, association, corporation, or
other entity, domiciled outside the city.
   PERSON. Every natural person, partnership, fiduciary, association,
corporation, or other entity. Whenever used in any clause prescribing and
imposing a penalty, the term “person” as applied to any association shall
include the partners or members thereof, and as applied to a corporation, the
officers thereof.
   PLACE OF BUSINESS. Any bona fide office (other than a mere statutory
office), factory, warehouse, or other space which is occupied and used by the
taxpayer in carrying on any business activity, individually or through one or
more of his or her employees, regularly in attendance.
   QUALIFYING WAGES. 
      (1)   An employer is required to withhold only on QUALIFYING WAGES, which
are wages as defined in IRC Section 3121(a), generally the Medicare Wage in Box
5 of the Form W-2, with an exception to include exempt employees hired before
April 1, 1986.
         (a)   Cafeteria plans. IRC Section 125 wages are not included in the
definition of Medicare wages and do not need to be deducted from Box 5.
         (b)   Stock options. Income from the exercise of stock options is
included in the definition
of QUALIFYING WAGES.
         (c) Non-qualified deferred compensation plan. Income from non-
qualified plans are included in the definition of QUALIFYING WAGES at the time
they are deferred. Distributions received after January 1, 2004 will no longer
be subject to local taxation.
      (d)   401(k), 457 and Supplemental Unemployment Compensation Benefits.
These items all should be included in Box 5 and subject to withholding
requirements.
      (e)   Disqualifying disposition of an incentive stock option. Employer is
not required to withhold, but the income is considered QUALIFYING WAGES and the
recipient is liable for the tax.
   (2)   The taxpayer or employer is required to give an explanation when Box 5
is not the largest wage figure on the W-2.
   RESIDENT. A person, whether an individual, association, corporation, or
other entity, domiciled in the city.
   TAX YEAR. The calendar year, or the fiscal year upon the basis of which net
profits are to be computed under this chapter and, in the case of a return for
a fractional part of a year, the period for which such return is required to be
made.
   TAX COMMISSIONER. The Tax Commissioner of the city or the person executing
the duties of the aforesaid Commissioner.
   TAXABLE INCOME. Qualifying wages, including sick and vacation pay, bonuses,
commissions, incentive payments, settlements, stock options, grievance pay,
severance pay, any pay as part of an employee buyout or wage continuation plan
and other compensation paid by an employer or employers, compensation for
personal services, gambling winnings, other income defined by statute as
taxable, and/or adjusted federal taxable income from the operation of a
business, profession or other enterprise or activity adjusted in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter.
   TAXPAYER.  A person, whether an individual, partnership, association,
corporation or other entity, required by this chapter to file a return or pay a
tax.
   (B)   The singular shall include the plural, and the masculine shall include
the feminine and the neuter.
(Am. Ord. 8021, passed 12-28-00; Am. Ord. 8882, passed 12-9-03; Am. Ord. 9337,
passed 6-13-06)
§ 151.03 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   (A)   Subject to provisions of §
151.16 of this chapter, an annual tax, for the purpose specified in §
151.01, shall be, and is hereby, levied on and after January 1, 2016, at the
rate of 1.25% per annum upon the following:
      (1)   On all salaries, wages, including sick and vacation pay,
commissions, and other compensation earned during the effective period of this
chapter by residents.
         (a)   Stock options or other compensation received in the form of
property are taxable when included on Form W-2 or Form 1099 for federal
purposes.
         (b)   Nonqualified pension plan contributions of (or premiums paid by)
the taxpayer’s employer in the case of nonqualified plans are taxable when made
and reported on IRS Form W-2 or Form 1099.
         (c)   Gambling winnings. On all income received as gambling winnings
as reported on Internal Revenue Service Form W-2G, Form 5754 and/or any other
form required by the Internal Revenue Service that reports winnings from
gambling. Gambling includes, but is not limited to, bingo, keno, slot machines,
casino games, horse racing, dog racing, jai alai, sweepstakes, wagering pools,
lotteries, prizes and any other wagering transactions.
      (2)   On all salaries, wages, including sick and vacation pay,
commissions, and other compensation earned, during the effective period of this
chapter, by non-residents for work done or service performed in the
municipality, or as a result of employment with an employer in the
municipality.
      (3)   (a)   On the portion attributable to the municipality of the net
profits earned during the effective period of this chapter of all resident
associations, unincorporated businesses, professions, or other entities,
derived from sales made, work done, or services performed or rendered, or
business or other activities conducted in the municipality.
         (b)   On a resident partner’s or owner’s share of the net profits
earned during the effective period of this chapter of a resident association or
other unincorporated entity not attributable to the municipality and not levied
against such association or other unincorporated entity.
      (4)   (a)   On the portion attributable to the municipality of the net
profits, earned during the effective period of this chapter, of all non-
resident associations, unincorporated businesses, professions, or other
entities, derived from sales made, work done, or services performed or rendered
or business or other activities conducted in the municipality, whether or not
such association or other unincorporated entity has an office or place of
business in the municipality.
         (b)   On a resident partner’s or owner’s share of the net profits
earned during the effective period of this chapter of a non-resident
association or other unincorporated entity not attributable to the
municipality, and not levied against such association or other unincorporated
entity.
      (5)   On the net profits earned during the effective period of this
chapter of all corporations derived from sales made, work done, or services
performed or rendered, and business or other activities conducted in the
municipality whether or not such corporations have an office or place of
business in the municipality.
      (6)   A husband and wife may file a joint return either when engaged in
the same or separate businesses, but may not deduct business losses of either
from compensation paid by an employer.
   (B)   Allocation of net profits. Where a person conducts a business both
within and outside the municipality, the portion of the entire net profits of
such business to be allocated as having been made within the municipality may
be determined from the records of such business, if such a business has bona
fide records which disclose with reasonable accuracy what portion of its net
profits is attributable to that part of its activities conducted within the
municipality, or at the option of the taxpayer may be determined by the
following formula, which shall be used if the taxpayer has no bona fide records
showing net profits from Lebanon business activities, subject, however, to the
provisions of division (D)(2) hereof.
      (1)   Multiply the entire net profits of the business apportionment
percentage to be determined by:
         (a)   Ascertaining the percentage which the average net book value of
the real and tangible personal property owned or used in the business and
situated within the municipality, during the period covered by the return, is
of the average net book value of all the real and tangible personal property
owned or used in the business, wherever situated, during such period.
         (b)   Ascertaining the percentage which the gross receipts of the
business from sales made and services performed in the municipality, during the
period covered by the return, are of the total gross receipts from all sales
and services, wherever made or performed, during such period.
         (c)   Ascertaining the percentage which the total wages, salaries,
commissions, and other compensation paid, during the period covered by the
return to employees for services performed in the municipality is of the total
wages, salaries, commissions, and other compensation paid during such period to
all employees within and outside the municipality.
         (d)   Adding together the percentages determined in accordance with
subparagraphs (a), (b), and (c) above or such of the aforesaid percentages as
are applicable to the particular taxpayer and dividing the total so obtained by
the number of percentages used in deriving such total.
      (2)   A factor is applicable even though it may be allocable entirely in
or outside the municipality. Provided, however, that in the event a just and
equitable result cannot be obtained under the formula provided for herein, the
Board of Review, upon application of the taxpayer or the Tax Commissioner,
shall, under uniform regulations adopted by the Board, have the authority to
substitute other factors or methods calculated to effect a fair and proper
allocation.
   (C)   Operating loss carry forward.
      (1)   The portion of a net operating loss, based on income taxable under
this chapter, sustained in the taxable years of 2004, 2005 and 2006, will
expire with the filing of tax year 2005. No operating loss will be allowed as a
carry forward or back beginning after December, 2006.
      (2)   The portion of a net operating loss sustained shall be allocated to
the municipality in the same manner as provided herein for allocating net
profits to the municipality.
      (3)   The Tax Commissioner shall provide by rules and regulations the
manner in which such net operating loss carry-forward shall be determined.
   (D)   Consolidated returns.
      (1)   Filing of consolidated returns may be permitted or required in
accordance with rules and regulations prescribed by the Tax Commissioner.
      (2)   In the case of a corporation that carried on transactions with its
stockholders or with other corporations related by stock ownership,
interlocking directorates, or some other method, the Tax Commissioner shall
require such information, in addition to the return hereinafter provided for,
as he or she may deem necessary to ascertain whether net profits are properly
allocated to the municipality. If the Tax Commissioner finds that net profits
are not properly allocated to the municipality by reason of transactions with
stockholders or with other corporations related by stock ownership,
interlocking directorates, or some other method, he or she may require the
filing of a consolidated return or adjust such transactions so as to produce a
fair and proper allocation of net profits to the municipality.
   (E)   Exceptions.  
      (1)   The tax provided for herein shall not be levied upon the military
pay or allowances of members of the armed forces of the United States, or
commissioned officers of the Public Health Service, or upon the net profits of
any civic, charitable, religious, fraternal, or other organization specified in
R.C. § 718.01 to the extent that such net profits are exempted from municipal
income taxes under such section.
      (2)   Twelve-day occasional entry rule.  
         (a)   The tax provided for herein shall not be levied upon the
compensation of an individual if all of the following apply:
            1.   The individual does not reside in the city.
            2.   The compensation is paid for personal services performed by
the individual in the city on 12 or fewer days during the calendar year.
            3.   In the case of an individual who is an employee, the principal
place of business of the individual’s employer is located outside the city and
the individual pays tax on compensation described in division (E)(2)(a)2. of
this section to the municipality, if any, in which the employer’s principal
place of business is located, and no portion of that tax is refunded to the
individual.
            4.   The individual is not a professional entertainer or
professional athlete, the promoter of a professional entertainment or sports
event, or an employee of such promoter, all as reasonably may be defined by the
city.
      (b)   For the purposes of the 12-day calculation, DAY means any part of a
24-hour calendar day where compensation is earned in the city.
      (c)   Beginning with the 13th day, the individual shall no longer be
considered an occasional entrant and is liable for the taxes on income earned
for the first 12 days.
      (d)   Income tax withheld by a nonresident employer and paid to the city
as a result of the employer being subject to the $150 de minimus provision set
forth at §
151.06(G) cannot be refunded to an individual under the 12-day occasional entry
provision.
(Am. Ord. 3030, passed 7-13-76; Am. Ord. 7751, passed 12-28-99; Am. Ord. 8021,
passed 12-28-00; Am. Ord. 8882, passed 12-9-03; Am. Ord. 9337, passed 6-13-06;
Am. Ord. 2015-082, passed 7-27-15)
§ 151.04 EFFECTIVE PERIOD.
   The tax imposed by this chapter shall be levied, collected, and paid with
respect to all income and net profits, subject to the tax, earned on or after
January 1, 2016.
(Am. Ord. 2015-082, passed 7-27-15)
§ 151.05 RETURN AND PAYMENT OF TAX.
   (A)   Each person who engaged in business, or whose salary, wages,
commissions, or other compensation are subject to the tax imposed by this
chapter shall, whether or not a tax be due thereon, make and file, on or before
April 15 in each year, beginning with the tax year 2004, a return with the Tax
Commissioner. A taxpayer on a fiscal year accounting basis for federal income
tax purposes shall, beginning with his or her first fiscal year, any part of
which falls within the effective period of this chapter, file his or her return
within four months from the end of such fiscal year or period. The Tax
Commissioner is hereby authorized to provide by regulation that the return of
an employer or employers, showing the amount of tax deducted by such employer
or employers from the salaries, wages, commissions, or other compensation of an
employee, and paid by him, her or them to the Tax Commissioner shall be
accepted as the return required of any employee whose sole income, subject to
tax under this chapter, is such salary, wages, commissions, or other
compensation.
   (B)   The return shall be filed with the Tax Commissioner on a form or forms
furnished by or obtainable upon request from the Tax Commissioner setting
forth:
      (1)   The aggregate amounts of salaries, wages, commissions, and other
compensation earned; and gross income from any business, profession, or other
activity, less allowable expenses incurred in the acquisition of such gross
income, earned during the preceding year and subject to such tax;
      (2)   The amount of the tax imposed by this chapter on such earnings and
profits;
      (3)   Such other pertinent statements, information returns, or other
information as the Tax Commissioner may require, including a statement that the
figures used in the return are the figures used in the return for federal
income tax, adjusted to set forth only such income as is taxable under the
provision of this chapter.
   (C)   The extended due date of the municipal income tax return shall be the
last day of the month following the month to which the due date of the federal
income tax return has been extended.
   (D)   (1)   The taxpayer making a return shall at the time of filing thereof
pay to the Tax Commissioner the amount of taxes shown as due thereon; provided,
however, that where any portion of the tax so due shall have been deducted at
the source, pursuant to the provisions of §
151.06 of this chapter; or where any portion of such tax shall have been paid
by the taxpayer, pursuant to the provisions of §
151.07 of his chapter; or where an income tax, creditable against the Lebanon
tax pursuant to §
151.15 hereof, has been paid to another municipality, credit for the amount so
paid shall be deducted from the amount shown to be due and only the balance, if
any, shall be due and payable at the time of filing such return.
      (2)   A taxpayer who has overpaid the amount of tax to which the
municipality is entitled under the provisions of this chapter may have such
overpayment applied against any subsequent liability hereunder or, at his or
her election indicated on the return, such overpayment, or part thereof, shall
be refunded, provided that no additional taxes or refunds of less than $5 shall
be collected or refunded.
   (E)   Amended returns.
      (1)   Where necessary an amended return must be filed in order to report
additional income and pay any additional tax due, or claim a refund of tax
overpaid, subject to the requirements and limitations contained in §§
151.11 and
151.15. Such amended returns shall be on a form obtainable on request from the
Tax Commissioner.
   (2)   Within three months from the final determination of any federal tax
liability affecting the taxpayer’s Lebanon tax liability, such taxpayer shall
make and file an amended Lebanon return showing income subject to the municipal
tax based upon such final determination of federal tax liability, and pay any
additional tax shown due thereon or make claim for refund of any overpayment.
   (F)   No taxpayer shall be required to file an annual income tax return or
report prior to the filing date for the corresponding tax reporting period as
prescribed for such a taxpayer under the Internal Revenue Code.
(Am. Ord. 3030, passed 7-13-76; Am. Ord. 5345, passed 8-25-81; Am. Ord. 7751,
passed 12-28-99; Am. Ord. 8551, passed 10-8-02; Am. Ord. 9062, passed 11-23-04;
Am. Ord. 9486, passed 3-27-07)
§ 151.06 COLLECTION AT SOURCE.
   (A)   Each employer having withholdings liability of less than $500 per
quarter and located within, or doing business within, the municipality, who
employs one or more persons on a salary, wage, commission, or other
compensation basis shall deduct at the time of the payment of such salaries,
wages, commissions, or other compensation, the tax of 1.25% of the gross
salaries, wages, commissions, or other compensation due by such employer to
each such employee and shall, on or before the last day of April, July,
October, and January of each year, after the effective date of this chapter,
make a return and pay to the Tax Commissioner the amount of taxes so deducted
during the preceding calendar quarter. Such return shall be on a form or forms
prescribed by or acceptable to the Tax Commissioner and shall be subject to the
rules and regulations prescribed therefor by the Tax Commissioner.
   (B)   Each employer having withholdings liability exceeding $500 per quarter
and located within, or doing business within the municipality, who employs one
or more persons on a salary, wage, commission or other compensation basis shall
deduct at the time of payment of such salaries, wages, commissions or other
compensation the tax of 1.25% of the gross salaries, wages, commissions, or
other compensation due by said employer to each employee and shall, on or
before the fifteenth day of each month of each year, after the effective date
of this chapter, make a return and pay to the Tax Commissioner the amount of
taxes so deducted during the preceding month.
   (C)   Each employer in collecting such tax shall be deemed to hold the same
until payment is made by such employer to the municipality, as a trustee for
the benefit of the municipality, and any such tax collected by such employer
from his or her employees shall, until the same is paid to the municipality, be
deemed a trust fund in the hands of such employer. Each employer shall be
liable for the payment of the tax required to be deducted and withheld, whether
or not such tax, in fact, has been withheld.
   (D)   It shall be the responsibility, jointly and severally, of the
president and treasurer of each corporation required to withhold the tax from
wages of its employees under this section, to see that all such taxes so
withheld are paid to the municipality in accordance with the provisions of this
section. In the event taxes withheld by a corporation from the salaries of its
employees are not paid to the municipality in accordance with the provisions of
this section, the president and treasurer of such corporation shall each be
criminally liable under the provision of § 151.12 hereof.
   (E)   On or before February 28 of each year, each employer shall file a
withholding return, on a form or forms prescribed by and obtainable from the
Tax Commissioner, setting forth the names and addresses of all employees from
whose compensation the tax was withheld during the preceding calendar year, and
the amount of tax withheld from the listed employees, and such other
information as may be required by the rules and regulations adopted by the Tax
Commissioner.
   (F)   Provided, however, that no person shall be required to withhold the
tax on the wages or other compensation paid domestic servants employed
exclusively in or about such person’s residence. However, such domestic
servants shall be responsible for filing and paying their own returns and
taxes.
   (G)   One hundred fifty dollar de minimus rule.
      (1)   If not currently required to withhold city income tax, a
nonresident employer, agent of such an employer, or other payer that is not
situated in the city shall not be required to deduct and withhold taxes from
the taxable income of an individual unless the total amount of tax required to
be deducted and withheld for the city on account of all of the employer's
employees or all of the payer's payees exceeds $150 for a calendar year.
      (2)   If the total amount of tax required to be deducted and withheld on
account of all of the nonresident employer's employees or all of the other
payer's payees exceeds $150 for a calendar year, the employer, agent of such
employer, or other payer must deduct and withhold taxes in that calendar year
and in each ensuing year even if the amount required to be deducted and
withheld in each of those ensuing years is $150 or less, until such time that
the tax so deducted and withheld is $150 or less for three consecutive years.
      (3)   A nonresident employer, agent of such an employer, or other payer
that is not situated in the city and is exempt from withholding pursuant to
division (G) of this section shall report all taxable income paid to its
employees or agents working in the city on an annual basis. This report shall
be due on or before April 30 of each year, and shall include a calculation of
the total compensation earned in the city by all employees during the preceding
calendar year.
(Am. Ord. 7751, passed 12-28-99; Am. Ord. 8021, passed 12-28-00; Am. Ord. 8882,
passed 12-9-03; Am. Ord. 9062, passed 11-23-04; Am. Ord. 2015-082, passed 7-27-
15)
§ 151.07 DECLARATIONS.
   (A)   Every person who anticipates any taxable income which is not subject
to §
151.06 hereof, or who engages in any business, profession, enterprise, or
activity, shall file a declaration setting forth such estimated income or the
estimated profit or loss from such business activity, together with the
estimated tax due thereon, if any.
   (B)   (1)   Beginning with the year 2005, such declaration shall be filed on
or before April 30 of each year during the life of this chapter, or within four
months of the date the taxpayer first becomes subject to the provisions of this
section.
      (2)   Those taxpayers reporting on a fiscal year basis shall file a
declaration within four months after the start of each fiscal year or period.
   (C)   (1)   Such declaration shall be filed upon a form furnished by or
obtainable from the Tax Commissioner. Credit shall be taken in such declaration
for Lebanon tax to be withheld from any portion of such income taxes to be paid
to another taxing municipality for which credit is allowed against Lebanon tax
under §
151.15 hereof.
      (2)   Except as hereinafter specified, a declaration of estimated tax to
be paid the municipality shall be accompanied by a payment of at least one-
fourth of the estimated tax, less credit for taxes withheld or paid to another
municipality, and at least a similar amount shall be paid on or before the last
day of the seventh, tenth, and thirteenth months after the beginning of the tax
year.
      (3)   A declaration may be amended at any time, provided, however, that
in case an amended declaration is filed, the unpaid balance shown due thereon
shall be paid in equal installments on or before the remaining payment dates.
   (D)   An amended declaration must be filed on or before January 31 of any
year, or in the case of a taxpayer on a fiscal year accounting basis, on or
before the date fixed by regulation of the Tax Commissioner, if it appears that
the original declaration made for such year underestimated the taxpayer’s
income by 30% or more. At such time a payment which, together with prior
payments, is sufficient to pay taxpayer’s entire estimated liability, shall be
made. If, upon the filing of the return, on or before January 31, or the date
fixed by regulation, whichever is applicable, the difference between 90% of
such taxpayer’s tax liability and the amount of estimated tax he or she
actually paid on or before January 31, or the date fixed by regulation
whichever is applicable, shall be subject to the interest and penalty
provisions of §
151.10 hereof.
   (E)   On or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month of the calendar or
fiscal year following that for which the declaration was filed, an annual
return shall be filed and any balance which may be due the municipality shall
be paid therewith in accordance with the provisions of §
151.05 hereof.
(Am. Ord. 5345, passed 8-25-81; Am. Ord. 8551, passed 10-8-02; Am. Ord. 9062,
passed 11-23-04)
§ 151.08 APPOINTMENT AND DUTIES OF THE TAX COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   Under the provisions of §
5.01 of Article V of the Charter of the city, there is hereby created a
department to be known as the Division of Taxation. Such Division shall consist
of a Tax Commissioner and such other deputies, assistants, and clerks as
Council, on the recommendation of the City Manager, shall approve.
         (b)   It shall be the duty of the Tax Commissioner to collect and
receive the tax imposed by this chapter in the manner prescribed therein, and
to keep an accurate record thereof, and to report all monies so received.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the Tax Commissioner to enforce payment of
all income taxes owing the municipality, to keep accurate records for a minimum
of five years, showing the amount due from each taxpayer required to file a
declaration or make any return, including a return of taxes withheld, and to
show the dates and amounts of payments thereof.
   (B)   The Tax Commissioner is hereby charged with the enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter, and is hereby empowered, subject to the approval of
the Board of Review, to adopt and promulgate and to enforce rules and
regulations authorized or required by this chapter, relating to any matter or
thing pertaining to the collection and payment of taxes and the administration
and enforcement of the provisions of this chapter, including provisions for the
re-examination and correction of returns.
   (C)   In any case where a taxpayer has failed to file a return or has filed
a return which does not show the proper amount of tax due, the Tax Commissioner
may determine the amount of tax appearing to be due the municipality from the
taxpayer and may send to such taxpayer a written statement showing the amount
of tax so determined, together with interest and penalties thereon, if any.
(Am. Ord. 5205, passed 4-22-80)
§ 151.09 INVESTIGATIVE POWERS OF THE TAX COMMISSIONER; DIVULGING CONFIDENTIAL
INFORMATION.
   (A)   The Tax Commissioner, or any of his or her authorized agents, is
hereby authorized to examine the books, papers, records, and federal income tax
returns of any employer, or taxpayer, or any person subject to, or whom the Tax
Commissioner believes is subject to the provisions of this chapter, for the
purpose of verifying the accuracy of any return made, or if no return was made,
to ascertain the tax or withholdings due under this chapter. Every such
employer, supposed employer, taxpayer or supposed taxpayer is hereby directed
and required to furnish, upon written request of the Tax Commissioner, or his
or her duly authorized agent or employee, the means, facilities, and
opportunity for making such examinations and investigations as are hereby
authorized.
   (B)   The Tax Commissioner is hereby authorized to order any person,
presumed to have knowledge of the facts, to appear at the office of the Tax
Commissioner and to examine such person, under oath, concerning any income
which was or should have been returned for taxation, or withheld, or any
transaction tending to affect such income, and for this purpose may compel the
production of books, papers, records, and federal income tax returns, and the
attendance of all persons before him or her, whether as parties or witnesses,
whenever he or she believes such persons have knowledge of such income or
information pertinent to such inquiry.
   (C)   The refusal to produce books, papers, records, and federal income tax
returns, or the refusal to submit to such examination by any employer or person
subject, or presumed to be subject, to the tax, or by any officer, agent, or
employee of a person subject to the tax or required to withhold tax, or the
failure of any person to comply with the provisions of this section or with an
order or subpoena of the Tax Commissioner authorized hereby, shall be deemed a
violation of this chapter punishable as provided in § 151.12 hereof.
   (D)   Every taxpayer shall retain all records necessary to compute his or
her tax liability for a period of five years from the date his or her return is
filed, or the taxes required to be withheld are paid.
   (E)   Any information gained as a result of any returns, investigations,
hearings, or verifications required or authorized by this chapter shall be
confidential, and no disclosure thereof shall be made except to municipal,
county, state, or federal taxing agencies, or except for official purposes, or
except in accordance with proper judicial order. Any person divulging such
information in violation of this section shall be fined not more than $500 and
imprisoned not more than six months, or both, for each offense. Each disclosure
shall constitute a separate offense. In addition to the above penalty, any
employee in the municipality who violates the provisions of this section
relative to the disclosure of confidential information shall be guilty of an
offense punishable by immediate dismissal.
§ 151.10 INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   All taxes imposed and money withheld or required to be withheld by
employers under the provisions of this chapter remaining unpaid after they
become due, shall bear interest at the rate of ½% per month.
   (B)   In addition to interest as provided in division (A) hereof, penalties
for failure to pay taxes and to withhold and remit taxes pursuant to the
provision of this chapter are hereby imposed as follows:
      (1)   In the case of taxpayers failing to pay the full amount of tax due,
a penalty of the higher of $5, or 1% per month or fraction thereof, of the
amount of the unpaid tax, if the tax is paid during the first six months after
such tax becomes due; a penalty of 2% per month, or fraction thereof, of the
unpaid tax, if such tax is paid between the seventh and twelfth months after
such tax became due; and a penalty of 4% per month, or fraction thereof, of the
amount of the unpaid tax, if such tax is paid later than 12 months after it
became due. The percentages herein specified when used shall apply from the
first month of delinquency.
      (2)   In the case of employers who fail to withhold and remit to the Tax
Commissioner the taxes to be withheld from employees, a penalty of the higher
of $10, or 2% per month, or fraction thereof, of the unpaid withholding, if
paid during the first three months after it was due; a penalty of 4% per month,
or fraction thereof, of the unpaid withholding, if paid during the fourth to
sixth month, inclusive, after it was due; and a penalty of 5% per month or
fraction thereof, of the unpaid withholding, if paid later than six months
after it was due. The percentages herein specified when used shall apply from
the first month of delinquency.
   (C)   Exceptions. A penalty shall not be assessed on an additional tax
assessment made by the Tax Commissioner when a return has been filed in good
faith and the tax paid thereon within the time prescribed by the Tax
Commissioner; and provided further that, in the absence of fraud, neither
penalty nor interest shall be assessed on any additional tax assessment
resulting from a federal audit, providing an amended return is filed and the
additional tax is paid within three months after final determination of the
federal tax liability.
   (D)   Upon an appeal from the refusal of the Tax Commissioner to recommend
abatement of penalty and interest, the Board of Review may abate such penalty
or interest, or both.
§ 151.11 COLLECTION OF UNPAID TAXES AND REFUNDS OF OVERPAYMENTS.
   (A)   All taxes imposed by this chapter shall be collectible, together with
any interest and penalties thereon, by suit as other debts of like amount are
recoverable. No additional assessment shall be made after three years from the
time of payment of any tax due hereunder; provided, however, there shall be no
period of limitation on an additional assessment in the case of a return that
omits gross income in excess of 25% of that required to be reported, or in the
case of filing a false or fraudulent return with intent to evade the tax, or in
the case of failure to file a return. In those cases in which the Commissioner
of Internal Revenue and the taxpayer have executed a waiver of the federal
statute of limitations the period within which an additional assessment may be
made by the Tax Commissioner shall be extended one year from the time of the
final determination of the federal tax liability.
   (B)   Taxes erroneously paid shall not be refunded unless a claim for refund
is made within three years from the date on which such payment was made or the
return was due, or within three months after final determination of the federal
tax liability, whichever is later.
   (C)   Non-refundable credit. If the tax is paid to a wrong municipality and
the correct locality is pursuing the payment of the tax, that city must allow a
non-refundable credit for those taxes paid incorrectly, but not refundable to
the taxpayer because of statute.
(Am. Ord. 8882, passed 12-9-03)
§ 151.12 VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person who shall:
      (1)   Fail, neglect, or refuse to make any return or declaration required
by this chapter;
      (2)   Make an incomplete, false, or fraudulent return;
      (3)   Fail, neglect, or refuse to pay the tax, penalties, or interest
imposed by this chapter;
      (4)   Fail, neglect, or refuse to withhold the tax from his or her
employees and remit such withholding tax to the Tax Commissioner;
      (5)   Refuse to permit the Tax Commissioner or any duly authorized agent
or employee to examine his or her employer’s books, records, papers, and
federal income tax returns;
      (6)   Fail to appear before the Tax Commissioner and to produce his or
her employer’s books, records, papers, or federal income tax return upon order
or subpoena of the Tax Commissioner;
      (7)   Refuse to disclose to the Tax Commissioner any information with
respect to such person’s or such person’s employer’s income or net profits;
      (8)   Fail to comply with the provisions of this chapter or any order or
subpoena of the Tax Commissioner;
      (9)   Fail, neglect, or refuse to make any payment on the estimated tax
for any year as required by §
151.07;
      (10)   Fail, as president or treasurer of a corporation, to cause the tax
withheld from the wages of the employees of such corporation pursuant to this
chapter to be paid to the municipality in accordance with the provisions of §
151.06 hereof; or
      (11)   Attempt to do anything whatever to avoid the payment of the whole
or any part of the tax, penalties, or interest imposed by this chapter; shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $1,000, or
imprisoned not more than six months, or both, for each offense.
   (B)   All criminal prosecutions under this section must be commenced within
three years, and all civil actions within five years following the date on
which the final return for a taxable year was due, or five years from the time
of any other offense complained of.
   (C)   The failure of any employer, taxpayer, or person to receive or procure
a return, declaration, or other required form shall not excuse him or her from
making any information return, return, or declaration, from filing such form,
or from paying the tax.
   (D)   The term PERSON as used in this section shall, in addition to the
meaning prescribed in §
151.02 of this chapter, include in the case of an association or corporation
not having any partner, member, or officer within the municipality, any
employee or agent of such association or corporation who can be found within
the corporate limits of the municipality.
   (E)   In addition to any penalties set forth above, the Tax Commissioner
shall impose a $25 late filing fee upon any person filing a late return
contrary to §
151.05.
(Am. Ord. 7751, passed 12-28-99; Am. Ord. 8882, passed 12-9-03)
§ 151.13 BOARD OF REVIEW.
   (A)   A Board of Review consisting of three persons appointed by Council, is
hereby created. Board members shall receive such compensation as Council may
determine.
   (B)   A majority of the members of the Board shall constitute a quorum. The
Board shall adopt its own procedural rules and shall keep a record of its
transactions. All hearings by the Board shall be conducted privately unless the
taxpayer requests a public hearing, and the provision of §
151.09 hereof with reference to the confidential character of information
required to be disclosed by the chapter shall apply to such matters as may be
heard before the Board on appeal.
   (C)   Any person dissatisfied with any ruling or decision of the Tax
Commissioner which is made under the authority conferred by this chapter may
appeal therefrom to the Board of Review within 30 days from the announcement of
such ruling or decision by the Tax Commissioner, and the Board shall, on
hearing, have jurisdiction to affirm, reverse, or modify any such ruling or
decision, or any part thereof.
(Am. Ord. 8882, passed 12-9-03)
§ 151.14 ALLOCATION OF FUNDS.
   The funds collected under the provisions of this chapter shall be deposited
in the general fund, the Capital Improvement Fund and the General Obligation
Bond Retirement Fund in accordance with the following as of January 1, 2010:
   (A)   Each year, there shall first be deposited in the general fund an
amount for administrative costs which shall be equal to the total appropriated
by Council in the annual appropriation chapter for the Department of Taxation
less the difference between the amount appropriated for the Department of
Taxation for the previous year and the actual amount expended for the
Department of Taxation for the previous year.
   (B)   The amount of tax receipts collected under this chapter less
administrative costs as determined under division (A) above shall be the “net
available tax receipts.”
   (C)   Fifty-six percent of the net available tax receipts shall also be
deposited in the General Fund.
   (D)   Thirty-three percent of the net available tax receipts shall also be
deposited in the Capital Improvement Fund.
   (E)   The remaining 11% net available tax receipts shall be deposited in the
General Obligation Bond Retirement Fund, until there shall be no general
obligation bond indebtedness at which time the percentages of net available tax
receipts which shall be deposited in the general fund and the Capital
Improvement Fund shall each be 50% respectively.
(Am. Ord. 6150, passed 11-24-87; Am. Ord. 9100, passed 2-8-05; Am. Ord. 9332,
passed 5-23-06; Am. Ord. 9543, passed 6-26-07; Am. Ord. 2009-048, passed 5-26-
09)
§ 151.15 CREDIT FOR TAX PAID TO ANOTHER MUNICIPALITY.
   (A)   Where a resident of the municipality is subject to a municipal income
tax in another municipality, he or she shall not pay a total municipal income
tax on the same income greater than the tax imposed at the higher rate.
Effective for the tax years beginning after 2001, the city will also allow
credit for county income tax paid.
   (B)   Every individual taxpayer who resides in the municipality and who
receives salaries, wages, commissions, or other compensation or net profits
from sales made, work done, or services performed or rendered outside of the
municipality, if it be made to appear that he or she has paid a municipal
income tax on such income, taxable under this chapter, to another municipality,
shall be allowed a credit against the tax imposed by this chapter in the amount
of the tax so paid by him or her or in his or her behalf to such other
municipality. The credit shall not exceed the tax assessed by this chapter on
such income earned in such other municipality or municipalities where such tax
is paid.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the provisions contained in §
151.11 hereof, or any other provisions inconsistent herewith, a claim for
refund or credit under this section shall be made in such manner as the Tax
Commissioner may by regulation provide. No such claim for refund or credit
shall be allowed unless made on or before the date of filing the taxpayer’s
final return unless such taxpayer’s employer files with the Tax Commissioner a
list showing the tax withheld from such taxpayer’s wages, salaries, or
commissions for other municipalities.
   (D)   The Tax Commissioner is hereby authorized to provide by regulation
that a resident, working in another municipality imposing a tax on earned
income shall not be required to file a declaration under §
151.05 of this chapter or return under §
151.07 of this chapter, if the administrator of the income tax of such other
municipality advises the Tax Commissioner that a tax of 1% or greater is being
deducted from the wages of such resident and is being paid to such other
municipality, and if the wages or other compensation subject to such
withholding are such resident’s only income taxable under this chapter.
(Am. Ord. 5345, passed 8-25-81; Am. Ord. 5429A, passed 11-15-82; Am. Ord. 8788,
passed 7-8-03; Am. Ord. 8882, passed 12-9-03)
§ 151.16 SAVING CLAUSE.
   This chapter shall not apply to any person, firm or corporation, or to any
property as to whom or which it is beyond the power of Council to impose the
tax herein provided for. If any sentence, clause, section, or part of this
chapter, or any tax against or exception granted any individual or any of the
several groups of persons, or forms of income specified herein is found to be
unconstitutional or illegal or invalid, such unconstitutionality, illegality,
or invalidity shall affect only such clause, sentence, section, or part of this
chapter and shall not affect or impair any of the remaining provisions,
sentences, clauses, sections, or other parts of this chapter. It is hereby
declared to be the intention of Council of the municipality that this chapter
would have been adopted had such unconstitutional, illegal, or invalid
sentence, or part thereof, not been included therein.
§ 151.17 REPORTS REQUIRED OF OWNERS OR MANAGERS OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   The owner, manager or person in control who rents or leases to other
persons, real estate for any purpose in the city shall file a report within 30
days of the first day of any calendar quarter to the Tax Commissioner as to the
identity and addresses of all tenants, lessees or occupants not individually
billed for utilities by the city. The report shall be amended only upon any
change of tenant, lessee or occupant.
   (B)   Any owner, manager or person in control of any such real estate who
fails to report such lessees, tenants or occupants of any premises under his or
her control within 30 days of the first day of each calendar quarter shall be
fined not more than $100 for a first offense and not less than $150 for each
subsequent offense, for the failure to report the name and address of each
tenant, lessee or occupant as required hereinabove.
(Ord. 5292, passed 4-14-81)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   To comply with the numbering of the Model Ordinance of the Ohio Municipal
League, all penalties are set forth in §
151.12 hereof.
(Ord. 1461, passed 12-16-69)
CHAPTER 152: INCOME TAX REGULATIONS
EFFECTIVE BEGINNING JANUARY 1, 2016
Section
   
152.01   Authority to levy tax; purposes of tax; rate
   
152.011   Authority to levy tax
   
152.012   Purposes of tax; rate
   
152.013   Allocation of funds
   
152.014   Statement of procedural history; state mandated changes to municipal
income tax
   
152.02   Effective date
   
152.03   Definitions
   
152.04   Income subject to tax for individuals
   
152.041   Determining municipal taxable income for individuals
   
152.042   Domicile
   
152.043   Exemption for member or employee of General Assembly and certain
judges
   
152.05   Collection at source
   
152.051   Collection at source; withholding from qualifying wages
   
152.052   Collection at source; occasional entrant
   
152.053   Collection at source; casino and VLT
   
152.06   Income subject to net profit tax
   
152.061   Determining municipal taxable income for taxpayers who are not
individuals
   
152.062   Net profit; income subject to net profit tax; alternative
apportionment
   
152.063   Consolidated federal income tax return
   
152.064   Tax credit for businesses that foster new jobs in Ohio
   
152.065   Tax credits to foster job retention
   
152.07   Declaration of estimated tax
   
152.08   Credit for tax paid
   
152.081   Credits for taxes paid to other municipalities
   
152.082   Refundable credit for qualifying loss
   
152.083   Credit for person working in joint economic development district or
zone
   
152.084   Credit for tax beyond statute for obtaining refund
   
152.09   Annual return
   
152.091   Return and payment of tax
   
152.092   Return and payment of tax; individuals serving in combat zone
   
152.093   Use of Ohio Business Gateway; types of filings authorized
   
152.094   Extension of time to file
   
152.095   Amended returns
   
152.096   Refunds
   
152.10   Penalty, interest, fees and charges
   
152.11   Audit
   
152.12   Rounding
   
152.13   Authority and powers of the Tax Administrator
   
152.131   Authority of Tax Administrator; administrative powers of the Tax
Administrator
   
152.132   Authority of Tax Administrator; compromise of claim and payment over
time
   
152.133   Authority of Tax Administrator; right to examine
   
152.134   Authority of Tax Administrator; requiring identifying information
   
152.14   Confidentiality
   
152.15   Fraud
   
152.16   Opinion of the Tax Administrator
   
152.17   Assessment; appeal based on presumption of delivery
   
152.18   Local Board of Tax Review; appeal to Local Board of Tax Review
   
152.19   Actions to recover; statute of limitations
   
152.20   Adoption of rules
   
152.21   Rental and leased property
   
152.96   Collection after termination of chapter
   
152.97   Savings clause
   
152.98   Intent to conform to R.C. Chapter 718
   
152.99   Violations; penalty
§ 152.01 AUTHORITY TO LEVY TAX; PURPOSES OF TAX; RATE.
§ 152.011 AUTHORITY TO LEVY TAX.
   (A)   The tax on income and the withholding tax established by this chapter
are authorized by Article XVIII, Section 3 of the Ohio Constitution. The tax on
income and the withholding tax established by this chapter are deemed to be
levied in accordance with, and to be consistent with, the provisions and
limitations of R.C. Chapter 718. This chapter is deemed to incorporate the
provisions of R.C. Chapter 718.
   (B)   The tax is an annual tax levied on the income of every person residing
in or earning or receiving income in the municipal corporation, and shall be
measured by municipal taxable income. The municipality shall tax income at a
uniform rate. The tax is levied on municipal taxable income, as defined herein.
(Ord. 2015-112, passed 11-10-15)
§ 152.012 PURPOSES OF TAX; RATE.
   (A)   To provide funds for the purposes of general municipal operations,
maintenance, new equipment, extension and enlargement of municipal services and
facilities and capital improvements, the city, being the municipality, hereby
levies an annual municipal income tax on municipal taxable income as
hereinafter provided.
   (B)   The annual tax is levied at a rate of 1%. The tax is levied at a
uniform rate on all persons residing in or earning or receiving municipal
taxable income in the municipality.
(Ord. 2015-112, passed 11-10-15)
§ 152.013 ALLOCATION OF FUNDS.
   The funds collected under the provisions of this chapter shall be deposited
in the General Fund, the Capital Improvement Fund and the General Obligation
Bond Retirement Fund in accordance with the following as of January 1, 2023:
   (A)   Each year, there shall first be deposited in the General Fund an
amount for administrative costs which shall be equal to the total appropriated
by Council in the annual appropriation ordinance for the Department of Taxation
less the difference between the amount appropriated for the Department of
Taxation for the previous year and the actual amount expended for the
Department of Taxation for the previous year.
   (B)   The amount of tax receipts collected under this chapter less
administrative costs as determined under division (A) of this section shall be
the "net available tax receipts".
   (C)   Fifty-four percent of the net available tax receipts shall also be
deposited in the General Fund.
   (D)   Forty-one percent of the net available tax receipts shall be deposited
in the Capital Improvement Fund.
   (E)   The remaining 5% of the net available tax receipts shall be deposited
in the General Obligation Bond Retirement Fund, until there shall be no general
obligation bond indebtedness at which time the percentages of net available tax
receipts which shall be deposited in the General Fund and the Capital
Improvement Fund shall each be 50% respectively.
(Ord. 2015-112, passed 11-10-15; Am. Ord. 2016-079, passed 8-23-16; Am. Ord.
2017-078, passed 8-23-16; Am. Ord. 2020-002, passed 1-28-20; Am. Ord. 2022-131,
passed 11-15-22)
§ 152.014 STATEMENT OF PROCEDURAL HISTORY; STATE MANDATED CHANGES TO MUNICIPAL
INCOME TAX.
   (A)   Significant and wide-ranging amendments to R.C. Chapter 718 were
enacted by Am Sub H.B. 5, passed by the 130th General Assembly, and signed by
Governor Kasich on December 19, 2014, and H.B. 5 required municipal
corporations to conform to and adopt the provisions of R.C. Chapter 718 in
order to have the authority to impose, enforce, administer and collect a
municipal income tax.
   (B)   As mandated by H.B. 5, municipal income tax Ordinance No. 2015-112,
effective January 1, 2016, comprehensively replaces
Chapter 151 on a going-forward basis for taxable years commencing on and after
January 1, 2016 in accordance with the provisions of R.C. Chapter 718 to allow
the municipality to continue the income tax and withholding tax administration
and collection efforts on behalf of the municipality.
(Ord. 2015-112, passed 11-10-15)
§ 152.02 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   Ordinance No. 2015-112, effective January 1, 2016, and corresponding
changes to R.C. Chapter 718, apply to municipal taxable years beginning on or
after January 1, 2016. All provisions of this chapter apply to taxable years
beginning 2016 and succeeding taxable years.
   (B)   Ordinance No. 2015-112 does not repeal the existing sections of
Chapter 151 for any taxable year prior to January 1, 2016, but rather replaces
Chapter 151 on a going-forward basis effective January 1, 2016. For municipal
taxable years beginning before January 1, 2016, the municipality shall continue
to administer, audit, and enforce the income tax of the municipality under R.C.
Chapter 718 and ordinances and resolutions of the municipality as that chapter
and those ordinances and resolutions existed before January 1, 2016.
(Ord. 2015-112, passed 11-10-15)
§ 152.03 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)    Any term used in this chapter that is not otherwise defined in this
chapter has the same meaning as when used in a comparable context in laws of
the United States relating to federal income taxation or in R.C. Title LVII,
unless a different meaning is clearly required. Except as provided in R.C. §
718.81, if a term used in this chapter that is not otherwise defined in this
chapter is used in a comparable context in both the laws of the United States
relating to federal income tax and in R.C. Title LVII and the use is not
consistent, then the use of the term in the laws of the United States relating
to federal income tax shall control over the use of the term in R.C. Title
LVII.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, the singular shall include the plural,
and the masculine shall include the feminine and the gender-neutral.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 718.81, as used in this
chapter:
      (1)   ADJUSTED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME. For a person required to file as a
C corporation, or for a person that has elected to be taxed as a C corporation
under division (C)(22)(d) of this section, means a C corporation's federal
taxable income before net operating losses and special deductions as determined
under the Internal Revenue Code, adjusted as follows:
         (a)   Deduct intangible income to the extent included in federal
taxable income. The deduction shall be allowed regardless of whether the
intangible income relates to assets used in a trade or business or assets held
for the production of income.
         (b)   Add an amount equal to 5% of intangible income deducted under
division (C)(1)(a) of this section, but excluding that portion of intangible
income directly related to the sale, exchange, or other disposition of property
described in section 1221 of the Internal Revenue Code;
         (c)   Add any losses allowed as a deduction in the computation of
federal taxable income if the losses directly relate to the sale, exchange, or
other disposition of an asset described in section 1221 or 1231 of the Internal
Revenue Code;
         (d)   1.   Except as provided in division (C)(l)(d)2. of this section,
deduct income and gain included in federal taxable income to the extent the
income and gain directly relate to the sale, exchange, or other disposition of
an asset described in section 1221 or 1231 of the Internal Revenue Code;
            2.   Division (C)(l)(d)1. of this section does not apply to the
extent the income or gain is income or gain described in section 1245 or 1250
of the Internal Revenue Code;
         (e)   Add taxes on or measured by net income allowed as a deduction in
the computation of federal taxable income;
         (f)   In the case of a real estate investment trust or regulated
investment company, add all amounts with respect to dividends to, distributions
to, or amounts set aside for or credited to the benefit of investors and
allowed as a deduction in the computation of federal taxable income;
         (g)   Deduct, to the extent not otherwise deducted or excluded in
computing federal taxable income, any income derived from a transfer agreement
or from the enterprise transferred under that agreement under R.C. § 4313.02;
         (h)    Deduct exempt income to the extent not otherwise deducted or
excluded in computing adjusted federal taxable income.
         (i)   Deduct any net profit of a pass-through entity owned directly or
indirectly by the taxpayer and included in the taxpayer's federal taxable
income unless an affiliated group of corporations includes that net profit in
the group's federal taxable income in accordance with division §
152.063(E)(3)(b).
         (j)   Add any loss incurred by a pass-through entity owned directly or
indirectly by the taxpayer and included in the taxpayer's federal taxable
income unless an affiliated group of corporations includes that loss in the
group's federal taxable income in accordance with §
152.063(E)(3)(b).
         If the taxpayer is not a C corporation, is not a disregarded entity
that has made the election described in division (C)(46)(b) of this section, is
not a publicly traded partnership that has made the election described in
division (C)(22)(d) of this section, and is not an individual, the taxpayer
shall compute adjusted federal taxable income under this section as if the
taxpayer were a C corporation, except guaranteed payments and other similar
amounts paid or accrued to a partner, former partner, shareholder, former
shareholder, member, or former member shall not be allowed as a deductible
expense unless such payments are in consideration for the use of capital and
treated as payment of interest under section 469 of the Internal Revenue Code
or United States Treasury regulations. Amounts paid or accrued to a qualified
self-employed retirement plan with respect to a partner, former partner,
shareholder, former shareholder, member, or former member of the taxpayer,
amounts paid or accrued to or for health insurance for a partner, former
partner, shareholder, former shareholder, member, or former member, and amounts
paid or accrued to or for life insurance for a partner, former partner,
shareholder, former shareholder, member, or former member shall not be allowed
as a deduction.
         Nothing in division (C)(1) of this section shall be construed as
allowing the taxpayer to add or deduct any amount more than once or shall be
construed as allowing any taxpayer to deduct any amount paid to or accrued for
purposes of federal self-employment tax.
      (2)   (a)   ASSESSMENT. A written finding by the Tax Administrator that a
person has underpaid municipal income tax, or owes penalty and interest, or any
combination of tax, penalty, or interest, to the municipality that commences
the person's time limitation for making an appeal to the Local Board of Tax
Review pursuant to §
152.18, and shall have ASSESSMENT written in all capital letters at the top of
such finding.
         (b)   ASSESSMENT does not include notice(s) denying a request for
refund issued under §
152.096(B)(3), a billing statement notifying a taxpayer of current or past-due
balances owed to the municipal corporation, a Tax Administrator's request for
additional information, a notification to the taxpayer of mathematical errors,
or a Tax Administrator's other written correspondence to a person or taxpayer
that does not meet the criteria prescribed by division (C)(2)(a) of this
section.
      (3)   AUDIT. The examination of a person or the inspection of the books,
records, memoranda, or accounts of a person, ordered to appear before the Tax
Administrator, for the purpose of determining liability for a municipal income
tax.
      (4)   CALENDAR QUARTER. The three-month period ending on the last day of
March, June, September, or December.
      (5)   CASINO OPERATOR and CASINO FACILITY. Have the same meanings as in
R.C. § 3772.01.
      (6)   CERTIFIED MAIL, EXPRESS MAIL, UNITED STATES MAIL, POSTAL SERVICE,
and similar terms include any delivery service authorized pursuant to R.C. §
5703.056.
      (7)   COMPENSATION. Any form of remuneration paid to an employee for
personal services.
      (8)   DISREGARDED ENTITY. A single member limited liability company, a
qualifying subchapter S subsidiary, or another entity if the company,
subsidiary, or entity is a disregarded entity for federal income tax purposes.
      (9)   DOMICILE. The true, fixed and permanent home of the taxpayer to
which, whenever absent, the taxpayer intends to return.
      (10)   EXEMPT INCOME. All of the following:
         (a)   The military pay or allowances of members of the Armed Forces of
the United States or members of their reserve components, including the
national guard of any state;
         (b)   1.   Except as provided in division (C)(10)(b)2. of this
section, intangible income;
            2.   A municipal corporation that taxed any type of intangible
income on March 29, 1988, pursuant to Section 3 of S.B. 238 of the 116th
General Assembly, may continue to tax that type of income if a majority of the
electors of the municipal corporation voting on the question of whether to
permit the taxation of that type of intangible income after 1988 voted in favor
thereof at an election held on November 8, 1988.
         (c)   Social Security benefits, railroad retirement benefits,
unemployment compensation, pensions, retirement benefit payments, payments from
annuities, and similar payments made to an employee or to the beneficiary of an
employee under a retirement program or plan, disability payments received from
private industry or local, state, or federal governments or from charitable,
religious or educational organizations, and the proceeds of sickness, accident,
or liability insurance policies. As used in division (C)(10)(c) of this
section, UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION does not include supplemental unemployment
compensation described in section 3402(o)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code.
         (d)   The income of religious, fraternal, charitable, scientific,
literary, or educational institutions to the extent such income is derived from
tax-exempt real estate, tax-exempt tangible or intangible property, or tax-
exempt activities.
         (e)   Compensation paid under R.C. §
3501.28 or 3501.36 to a person serving as a precinct election official to the
extent that such compensation does not exceed $1,000 for the taxable year. Such
compensation in excess of $1,000 for the taxable year may be subject to
taxation by a municipal corporation. A municipal corporation shall not require
the payer of such compensation to withhold any tax from that compensation.
         (f)   Dues, contributions, and similar payments received by
charitable, religious, educational, or literary organizations or labor unions,
lodges, and similar organizations.
         (g)   Alimony and child support received.
         (h)   Awards for personal injuries or for damages to property from
insurance proceeds or otherwise, excluding compensation paid for lost salaries
or wages or awards for punitive damages.
         (i)   Income of a public utility when that public utility is subject
to the tax levied under R.C. §
5727.24 or 5727.30. This division (i) of this definition does not apply for
purposes of R.C. Chapter 5745.
         (j)   Gains from involuntary conversions, interest on federal
obligations, items of income subject to a tax levied by the state and that a
municipal corporation is specifically prohibited by law from taxing, and income
of a decedent's estate during the period of administration except such income
from the operation of a trade or business.
         (k)   Compensation or allowances excluded from federal gross income
under section 107 of the Internal Revenue Code.
         (l)   Employee compensation that is not qualifying wages as defined in
division (C)(33) of this section.
         (m)   Compensation paid to a person employed within the boundaries of
a United States Air Force base under the jurisdiction of the United States Air
Force that is used for the housing of members of the United States Air Force
and is a center for Air Force operations, unless the person is subject to
taxation because of residence or domicile. If the compensation is subject to
taxation because of residence or domicile, tax on such income shall be payable
only to the municipal corporation of residence or domicile.
         (n)   1.   Except as provided in divisions (C)(10)(n)2., 3., and 4. of
this section, qualifying wages described in §
152.052(B)(1) or (E) to the extent the qualifying wages are not subject to
withholding for the municipality under either of those divisions.
            2.   The exemption provided in division (C)(10)(n)1. of this
section does not apply with respect to the municipal corporation in which the
employee resided at the time the employee earned the qualifying wages.
            3.   The exemption provided in division (C)(10)(n)1. of this
section does not apply to qualifying wages that an employer elects to withhold
under §
152.052(D)(2).
            4.   The exemption provided in division (C)(10)(n)1. of this
section does not apply to qualifying wages if both of the following conditions
apply:
               A.   For qualifying wages described in §
152.052(B)(1), the employee's employer withholds and remits tax on the
qualifying wages to the municipal corporation in which the employee's principal
place of work is situated, or, for qualifying wages described in §
152.052(E), the employee's employer withholds and remits tax on the qualifying
wages to the municipal corporation in which the employer's fixed location is
located;
               B.   The employee receives a refund of the tax described in
division (C)(10)(n)4.A. of this section on the basis of the employee not
performing services in that municipal corporation.
         (o)   1.   Except as provided in division (C)(10)(o)2. or 3. of this
section, compensation that is not qualifying wages paid to a nonresident
individual for personal services performed in the municipality on not more than
20 days in a taxable year.
            2.   The exemption provided in division (C)(10)(o)1. of this
section does not apply under either of the following circumstances:
               A.   The individual's base of operation is located in the
municipality.
               B.   The individual is a professional athlete, professional
entertainer, or public figure, and the compensation is paid for the performance
of services in the individual's capacity as a professional athlete,
professional entertainer, or public figure. For purposes of division (C)(10)
(o)2.B. of this section, PROFESSIONAL ATHLETE, PROFESSIONAL ENTERTAINER, and
PUBLIC FIGURE have the same meanings as in §
152.052.
            3.   Compensation to which division (C)(10)(o) of this section
applies shall be treated as earned or received at the individual's base of
operation. If the individual does not have a base of operation, the
compensation shall be treated as earned or received where the individual is
domiciled.
            4.   For purposes of division (C)(10)(o) of this section, BASE OF
OPERATION means the location where an individual owns or rents an office,
storefront, or similar facility to which the individual regularly reports and
at which the individual regularly performs personal services for compensation.
         (p)   Compensation paid to a person for personal services performed
for a political subdivision on property owned by the political subdivision,
regardless of whether the compensation is received by an employee of the
subdivision or another person performing services for the subdivision under a
contract with the subdivision, if the property on which services are performed
is annexed to a municipal corporation pursuant to R.C. § 709.023 on or after
March 27, 2013, unless the person is subject to such taxation because of
residence. If the compensation is subject to taxation because of residence,
municipal income tax shall be payable only to the municipal corporation of
residence.
         (q)   Income the taxation of which is prohibited by the Constitution
or laws of the United States.
         (r)   For tax years 2024 and after, the income of individuals under 18
years of age.
         Any item of income that is exempt income of a pass-through entity
under division (C)(10) of this section is exempt income of each owner of the
pass-through entity to the extent of that owner's distributive or proportionate
share of that item of the entity's income.
      (11)   FORM 2106. Internal Revenue Service form 2106 filed by a taxpayer
pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      (12)   GENERIC FORM. An electronic or paper form that is not prescribed
by a particular municipal corporation and that is designed for reporting taxes
withheld by an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer, estimated
municipal income taxes, or annual municipal income tax liability, including a
request for refund.
      (13)   INCOME.
         (a)   1.   For residents, all income, salaries, qualifying wages,
commissions, and other compensation from whatever source earned or received by
the resident, including the resident's distributive share of the net profit of
pass-through entities owned directly or indirectly by the resident and any net
profit of the resident, except as provided in division (C)(22)(d) of this
section.
            2.   For the purposes of division (C)(13)(a)1. of this section:
               A.   Any net operating loss of the resident incurred in the
taxable year and the resident's distributive share of any net operating loss
generated in the same taxable year and attributable to the resident's ownership
interest in a pass-through entity shall be allowed as a deduction, for that
taxable year and the following five taxable years, against any other net profit
of the resident or the resident's distributive share of any net profit
attributable to the resident's ownership interest in a pass-through entity
until fully utilized, subject to division (C)(13)(a)4. of this section;
               B.   The resident's distributive share of the net profit of each
pass-through entity owned directly or indirectly by the resident shall be
calculated without regard to any net operating loss that is carried forward by
that entity from a prior taxable year and applied to reduce the entity's net
profit for the current taxable year.
            3.   Division (C)(13)(a)2. of this section does not apply with
respect to any net profit or net operating loss attributable to an ownership
interest in an S corporation unless shareholders' distributive shares of net
profits from S corporations are subject to tax in the municipal corporation.
            4.   Any amount of a net operating loss used to reduce a taxpayer's
net profit for a taxable year shall reduce the amount of net operating loss
that may be carried forward to any subsequent year for use by that taxpayer. In
no event shall the cumulative deductions for all taxable years with respect to
a taxpayer's net operating loss exceed the original amount of that net
operating loss available to that taxpayer.
         (b)   In the case of nonresidents, all income, salaries, qualifying
wages, commissions, and other compensation from whatever source earned or
received by the nonresident for work done, services performed or rendered, or
activities conducted in the municipality, including any net profit of the
nonresident, but excluding the nonresident's distributive share of the net
profit or loss of only pass-through entities owned directly or indirectly by
the nonresident.
         (c)   For taxpayers that are not individuals, net profit of the
taxpayer.
         (d)   Lottery, sweepstakes, gambling and sports winnings, winnings
from games of chance, and prizes and awards. If the taxpayer is a professional
gambler for federal income tax purposes, the taxpayer may deduct related
wagering losses and expenses to the extent authorized under the Internal
Revenue Code and claimed against such winnings. Credit for tax withheld or paid
to another municipal corporation on such winnings paid to the municipal
corporation where winnings occur is limited to the credit as specified in §
152.081.
      (14)   INTANGIBLE INCOME. Income of any of the following types: income
yield, interest, capital gains, dividends, or other income arising from the
ownership, sale, exchange, or other disposition of intangible property
including, but not limited to, investments, deposits, money, or credits as
those terms are defined in R.C. Chapter 5701, and patents, copyrights,
trademarks, trade names, investments in real estate investment trusts,
investments in regulated investment companies, and appreciation on deferred
compensation. INTANGIBLE INCOME does not include prizes, awards, or other
income associated with any lottery winnings, gambling winnings, or other
similar games of chance.
      (15)   INTERNAL REVENUE CODE. Has the meaning given to it in R.C. §
5747.01.
      (16)   LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY. A limited liability company formed
under R.C. Chapter 1705 or under the laws of another state.
      (17)   LOCAL BOARD OF TAX REVIEW and BOARD OF TAX REVIEW. The entity
created under §
152.18.
      (18)   MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. In general terms, a status conferred upon a
local government unit, by state law giving the unit certain autonomous
operating authority such as the power of taxation, power of eminent domain,
police power and regulatory power, and includes a joint economic development
district or joint economic development zone that levies an income tax under
R.C. §§ 715.691, 715.70, 715.71, or 715.74. The municipality is a municipal
corporation.
      (19)   (a)   MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME.
            1.    For a person other than an individual, income apportioned or
sitused to the municipality under §
152.062, as applicable, reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward
available to the person for the municipality.
            2.   A.   For an individual who is a resident of the municipality
other than a qualified municipal corporation, income reduced by exempt income
to the extent otherwise included in income, then reduced as provided in
division (C)(19)(b) of this section, and further reduced by any pre-2017 net
operating loss carryforward available to the individual for the municipality.
               B.   For an individual who is a resident of a qualified
municipal corporation, Ohio adjusted gross income reduced by income exempted,
and increased by deductions excluded, by the qualified municipal corporation
from the qualified municipal corporation's tax on or before December 31, 2013.
If a qualified municipal corporation, on or before December 31, 2013, exempts
income earned by individuals who are not residents of the qualified municipal
corporation and net profit of persons that are not wholly located within the
qualified municipal corporation, such individual or person shall have no
municipal taxable income for the purposes of the tax levied by the qualified
municipal corporation and may be exempted by the qualified municipal
corporation from the requirements of R.C. § 718.03.
            3.   For an individual who is a nonresident of the municipality,
income reduced by exempt income to the extent otherwise included in income and
then, as applicable, apportioned or sitused to the municipality under §
152.062, then reduced as provided in division (C)(19)(b) of this section, and
further reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward available to
the individual for the municipality.
         (b)   In computing the municipal taxable income of a taxpayer who is
an individual, the taxpayer may subtract, as provided in division (C)(19)
(a)2.A. or 3. of this section, the amount of the individual's employee business
expenses reported on the individual's form 2106 that the individual deducted
for federal income tax purposes for the taxable year, subject to the limitation
imposed by section 67 of the Internal Revenue Code. For the municipal
corporation in which the taxpayer is a resident, the taxpayer may deduct all
such expenses allowed for federal income tax purposes. For a municipal
corporation in which the taxpayer is not a resident, the taxpayer may deduct
such expenses only to the extent the expenses are related to the taxpayer's
performance of personal services in that nonresident municipal corporation.
      (20)   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Lebanon, Ohio and its joint economic
development district (JEDD).
      (21)   NET OPERATING LOSS. A loss incurred by a person in the operation
of a trade or business. NET OPERATING LOSS does not include unutilized losses
resulting from basis limitations, at-risk limitations, or passive activity loss
limitations.
      (22)   (a)   NET PROFIT. For a person who is an individual means the
individual's net profit required to be reported on schedule C, schedule E, or
schedule F reduced by any net operating loss carried forward. For the purposes
of division (C)(22)(a) of this section, the net operating loss carried forward
shall be calculated and deducted in the same manner as provided in division (C)
(22)(c) of this section.
         (b)   NET PROFIT for a person other than an individual means adjusted
federal taxable income reduced by any net operating loss incurred by the person
in a taxable year beginning on or after January 1, 2017, subject to the
limitations of division (C)(22)(c) of this section.
         (c)   1.   The amount of such net operating loss shall be deducted
from net profit to the extent necessary to reduce municipal taxable income to
zero, with any remaining unused portion of the net operating loss carried
forward to no more than five consecutive taxable years following the taxable
year in which the loss was incurred, but in no case for more years than
necessary for the deduction to be fully utilized.
            2.   No person shall use the deduction allowed by division (C)(22)
(c) of this section to offset qualifying wages.
            3.   a.   For taxable years beginning in 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021, or
2022, a person may not deduct, for purposes of an income tax levied by a
municipal corporation that levies an income tax before January 1, 2016, more
than 50% of the amount of the deduction otherwise allowed by division (C)(22)
(c) of this section.
               b.   For taxable years beginning in 2023 or thereafter, a person
may deduct, for purposes of an income tax levied by a municipal corporation
that levies an income tax before January 1, 2016, the full amount allowed bv
division (C)(22)(c) of this section without regard to the limitation of
division (C)(22)(c)3.a. of this section.
            Nothing in division (C)(22)(c)3.a. of this section precludes a
person from carrying forward, for use with respect to any return filed for a
taxable year beginning after 2018, any amount of net operating loss that was
not fully utilized by operation of division (C)(22)(c)3.a. of this section. To
the extent than an amount of net operating loss that was not fully utilized in
one or more taxable years by operation of division (C)(22)(c)3.a. of this
section is carried forward for use with respect to a return filed for a taxable
year beginning in 2019, 2020, 2021, or 2022, the limitation described in
division (C)(22)(c)3.a. of this section shall apply to the amount carried
forward.
         (d)   For the purposes of this chapter, and notwithstanding division
(C)(22)(a) of this section, net profit of a disregarded entity shall not be
taxable as against that disregarded entity, but shall instead be included in
the net profit of the owner of the disregarded entity.
         (e)   1.   For purposes of this chapter, PUBLICLY TRADED PARTNERSHIP
means any partnership, an interest in which is regularly traded on an
established securities market. A PUBLICLY TRADED PARTNERSHIP may have any
number of partners.
            2.   For the purposes of this chapter, and not withstanding any
other provision of this chapter, the net profit of a publicly traded
partnership that makes the election described in division (C)(22)(e) of this
section shall be taxed as if the partnership were a C corporation, and shall
not be treated as the net profit or income of any owner of the partnership.
            3.   A publicly traded partnership that is treated as a partnership
for federal income tax purposes and that is subject to tax on its net profits
in the municipality may elect to be treated as a C corporation for municipal
income tax purposes. The election shall be made on the annual tax return. Once
the election is made, the election is binding for a five-year period beginning
with the first taxable year of the initial election. The election continues to
be binding for each subsequent five-year period unless the taxpayer elects to
discontinue filing municipal income tax returns as a C corporation for
municipal purposes under division (C)(22)(e)4. of this section.
            4.   An election to discontinue filing as a C corporation must be
made in the first year following the last year of a five-year election period
in effect under division (C)(22)(e)3. of this section. The election to
discontinue filing as a C corporation is binding for a five-year period
beginning with the first taxable year of the election and continues to be
binding for each subsequent five-year period unless the taxpayer elects to
discontinue filing municipal income tax returns as a partnership for municipal
purposes. An election to discontinue filing as a partnership must be made in
the first year following the last year of a five-year election period.
            5.   The publicly traded partnership shall not be required to file
the election with any municipal corporation in which the partnership is not
subject to taxation on its net profits, but division (C)(22)(e) of this section
applies to all municipal corporations in which an individual owner of the
partnership resides.
            6.   The individual owners of the partnership not filing as a C
corporation shall be required to file with their municipal corporation of
residence, and report partnership distribution of net profit.
      (23)   NONRESIDENT. An individual that is not a resident.
      (24)   OHIO BUSINESS GATEWAY. The online computer network system, created
under R.C. § 125.30, that allows persons to electronically file business reply
forms with state agencies and includes any successor electronic filing and
payment system.
      (25)   OTHER PAYER. Any person, other than an individual's employer or
the employer's agent, that pays an individual any amount included in the
federal gross income of the individual. OTHER PAYER includes casino operators
and video lottery terminal sales agents.
      (26)   PASS-THROUGH ENTITY. A partnership not treated as an association
taxable as a C corporation for federal income tax purposes, a limited liability
company not treated as an association taxable as a C corporation for federal
income tax purposes, an S corporation, or any other class of entity from which
the income or profits of the entity are given pass-through treatment for
federal income tax purposes. PASS-THROUGH ENTITY does not include a trust,
estate, grantor of a grantor trust, or disregarded entity.
      (27)   PENSION. Any amount paid to an employee or former employee that is
reported to the recipient on an IRS form 1099-R, or successor form. PENSION
does not include deferred compensation, or amounts attributable to nonqualified
deferred compensation plans, reported as FICA/Medicare wages on an IRS form W-
2, Wage and Tax Statement, or successor form.
      (28)   PERSON. Includes individuals, firms, companies, joint stock
companies, business trusts, estates, trusts, partnerships, limited liability
partnerships, limited liability companies, associations, C corporations, S
corporations, governmental entities, and any other entity.
      (29)   POSTAL SERVICE. The United States postal service.
      (30)   POSTMARK DATE, DATE OF POSTMARK, and similar terms include the
date recorded and marked in the manner described in division (B)(3) of R.C. §
5703.056.
      (31)   (a)   PRE-2017 NET OPERATING LOSS CARRYFORWARD. Any net operating
loss incurred in a taxable year beginning before January 1, 2017, to the extent
such loss was permitted, by a resolution or ordinance of the municipality that
was adopted by the municipality before January 1, 2016, to be carried forward
and utilized to offset income or net profit generated in such municipality in
future taxable years.
         (b)   For the purpose of calculating municipal taxable income, any
pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward may be carried forward to any taxable
year, including taxable years beginning in 2017 or thereafter, for the number
of taxable years provided in the resolution or ordinance or until fully
utilized, whichever is earlier.
      (32)   QUALIFIED MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. A municipal corporation that, by
resolution or ordinance adopted on or before December 31, 2011, adopted Ohio
adjusted gross income, as defined by R.C. § 5747.01, as the income subject to
tax for the purposes of imposing a municipal income tax. The municipality is
not a qualified municipal corporation.
      (33)   QUALIFYING WAGES. Wages, as defined in section 3121(a) of the
Internal Revenue Code, without regard to any wage limitations, adjusted as
follows:
         (a)   Deduct the following amounts:
            1.   Any amount included in wages if the amount constitutes
compensation attributable to a plan or program described in section 125 of the
Internal Revenue Code.
            2.   Any amount included in wages if the amount constitutes payment
on account of a disability related to sickness or an accident paid by a party
unrelated to the employer, agent of an employer, or other payer.
            3.   Any amount included in wages that is exempt income.
         (b)   Add the following amounts:
            1.   Any amount not included in wages solely because the employee
was employed by the employer before April 1, 1986.
            2.   Any amount not included in wages if the amount is an amount
described in section 401(k), 403(b), or 457 of the Internal Revenue Code.
Division (C)(33)(b)3. of this section applies only to employee contributions
and employee deferrals.
            3.   Any amount that is supplemental unemployment compensation
benefits described in section 3402(o)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code and not
included in wages.
            4.   Any amount received that is treated as self-employment income
for federal tax purposes in accordance with section 1402(a)(8) of the Internal
Revenue Code.
            5.   Any amount not included in wages if all of the following
apply:
               A.   For the taxable year the amount is employee compensation
that is earned outside of the United States and that either is included in the
taxpayer's gross income for federal income tax purposes or would have been
included in the taxpayer's gross income for such purposes if the taxpayer did
not elect to exclude the income under section 911 of the Internal Revenue Code;
               B.   For no preceding taxable year did the amount constitute
wages as defined in section 3121(a) of the Internal Revenue Code;
               C.   For no succeeding taxable year will the amount constitute
wages; and
               D.   For any taxable year the amount has not otherwise been
added to wages pursuant to either division (C)(33)(b) of this section or R.C. §
718.03, as that section existed before the effective date of H.B. 5 of the
130th General Assembly, March 23, 2015.
      (34)   RELATED ENTITY.
         (a)   An individual stockholder, or a member of the stockholder's
family enumerated in section 318 of the Internal Revenue Code, if the
stockholder and the members of the stockholder's family own directly,
indirectly, beneficially, or constructively, in the aggregate, at least 50% of
the value of the taxpayer's outstanding stock;
         (b)   A stockholder, or a stockholder's partnership, estate, trust, or
corporation, if the stockholder and the stockholder's partnerships, estates,
trusts, or corporations own directly, indirectly, beneficially, or
constructively, in the aggregate, at least 50% of the value of the taxpayer's
outstanding stock;
         (c)   A corporation, or a party related to the corporation in a manner
that would require an attribution of stock from the corporation to the party or
from the party to the corporation under division (C)(34)(d) of this section,
provided the taxpayer owns directly, indirectly, beneficially, or
constructively, at least 50% of the value of the corporation's outstanding
stock;
         (d)   The attribution rules described in section 318 of the Internal
Revenue Code apply for the purpose of determining whether the ownership
requirements in divisions (C)(34)(a) to (c) of this section have been met.
      (35)   RELATED MEMBER. A person that, with respect to the taxpayer during
all or any portion of the taxable year, is either a related entity, a component
member as defined in section 1563(b) of the Internal Revenue Code, or a person
to or from whom there is attribution of stock ownership in accordance with
section 1563(e) of the Internal Revenue Code except, for purposes of
determining whether a person is a related member under this division, "twenty
percent (20%)" shall be substituted for "five percent (5%)" wherever "five
percent (5%)" appears in section 1563(e) of the Internal Revenue Code.
      (36)   RESIDENT. An individual who is domiciled in the municipality as
determined under §
152.042.
      (37)   S CORPORATION. A person that has made an election under subchapter
S of Chapter 1 of Subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code for its taxable year.
      (38)   SCHEDULE C. Internal Revenue Service schedule C (form 1040) filed
by a taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      (39)   SCHEDULE E. Internal Revenue Service schedule E (form 1040) filed
by a taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      (40)   SCHEDULE F. Internal revenue service schedule F (form 1040) filed
by a taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      (41)   SINGLE MEMBER LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY. A limited liability
company that has one direct member.
      (42)   SMALL EMPLOYER. Any employer that had total revenue of less than
$500,000 during the preceding taxable year. For purposes of this division,
TOTAL REVENUE means receipts of any type or kind, including, but not limited
to, sales receipts; payments; rents; profits; gains, dividends, and other
investment income; commissions; premiums; money; property; grants;
contributions; donations; gifts; program service revenue; patient service
revenue; premiums; fees, including premium fees and service fees; tuition
payments; unrelated business revenue; reimbursements; any type of payment from
a governmental unit, including grants and other allocations; and any other
similar receipts reported for federal income tax purposes or under generally
accepted accounting principles. SMALL EMPLOYER does not include the federal
government; any state government, including any state agency or
instrumentality; any political subdivision; or any entity treated as a
government for financial accounting and reporting purposes.
      (43)   TAX ADMINISTRATOR. The individual charged by the municipality with
direct responsibility for administration of an income tax levied by a municipal
corporation in accordance with this chapter, and may include the following:
         (a)   A municipal corporation acting as the agent of another municipal
corporation;
         (b)   A person retained by a municipal corporation to administer a tax
levied by the municipal corporation, but only if the municipal corporation does
not compensate the person in whole or in part on a contingency basis;
         (c)   The Central Collection Agency (CCA) or the Regional Income Tax
Agency (RITA) or their successors in interest, or another entity organized to
perform functions similar to those performed by the Central Collection Agency
and the Regional Income Tax Agency.
         (d)   TAX ADMINISTRATOR does not include the tax commissioner. TAX
COMMISSIONER means the tax commissioner appointed under R.C. § 121.03.
      (44)   TAX RETURN PREPARER. Any individual described in section 7701(a)
(36) of the Internal Revenue Code and 26 C.F.R. 301.7701-15.
      (45)   TAXABLE YEAR. The corresponding tax reporting period as prescribed
for the taxpayer under the Internal Revenue Code.
      (46)   (a)   TAXPAYER. A person subject to a tax levied on income by a
municipal corporation in accordance with this chapter. TAXPAYER does not
include a grantor trust or, except as provided in division (C)(46)(b)1. of this
section, a disregarded entity.
         (b)   1.   A single member limited liability company that is a
disregarded entity for federal tax purposes may be a separate taxpayer from its
single member in all Ohio municipal corporations in which it either filed as a
separate taxpayer or did not file for its taxable year ending in 2003, if all
of the following conditions are met:
               A.   The limited liability company's single member is also a
limited liability company.
               B.   The limited liability company and its single member were
formed and doing business in one or more Ohio municipal corporations for at
least five years before January 1, 2004.
               C.   Not later than December 31, 2004, the limited liability
company and its single member each made an election to be treated as a separate
taxpayer under division (L) of R.C. § 718.01 as this section existed on
December 31, 2004.
               D.   The limited liability company was not formed for the
purpose of evading or reducing Ohio municipal corporation income tax liability
of the limited liability company or its single member.
               E.   The Ohio municipal corporation that was the primary place
of business of the sole member of the limited liability company consented to
the election.
            2.   For purposes of division (C)(46)(b)1.E. of this section, a
municipal corporation was the primary place of business of a limited liability
company if, for the limited liability company's taxable year ending in 2003,
its income tax liability was greater in that municipal corporation than in any
other municipal corporation in Ohio, and that tax liability to that municipal
corporation for its taxable year ending in 2003 was at least $400,000.
      (47)   TAXPAYERS' RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES. The rights provided to
taxpayers in R.C. §§ 718.11, 718.12, 718.19, 718.23, 718.36, 718.37, 718.38,
5717.011, and 5717.03 and any corresponding ordinances of the municipality, and
the responsibilities of taxpayers to file, report, withhold, remit, and pay
municipal income tax and otherwise comply with R.C. Chapter 718 and
resolutions, ordinances, and rules adopted by a municipal corporation for the
imposition and administration of a municipal income tax.
      (48)   VIDEO LOTTERY TERMINAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3770.21.
      (49)   VIDEO LOTTERY TERMINAL SALES AGENT. A lottery sales agent licensed
under R.C. Chapter 3770 to conduct video lottery terminals on behalf of the
state pursuant to R.C. § 3770.21.
(Ord. 2015-112, passed 11-10-15; Am. Ord. 2018-007, passed 2-13-18; Am. Ord.
2023-115, passed 11-28-23)
§ 152.04 INCOME SUBJECT TO TAX FOR INDIVIDUALS.
§ 152.041 DETERMINING MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME FOR INDIVIDUALS.
   (A)   Municipal taxable income for a resident of the municipality is
calculated as follows:
      (1)   Income reduced by exempt income to the extent such exempt income is
otherwise included in income, reduced by allowable employee business expense
deduction as found in §
152.03(C)(19)(b), further reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss
carryforward equals municipal taxable income.
         (a)   INCOME is defined in §
152.03(C)(13).
            1.   QUALIFYING WAGES is defined in §
152.03(C)(33).
            2.   NET PROFIT is included in income, and is defined in §
152.03(C)(22). This section also provides that the net operating loss
carryforward shall be calculated and deducted in the same manner as provided in
of §
152.03(C)(1)(h). Treatment of net profits received by an individual taxpayer
from rental real estate is provided in §
152.062(E).
            3.   Section 152.03(C)(13) provides the following: offsetting and
net operating loss carryforward treatment in §
152.03(C)(13)(a)2.A.; resident's distributive share of net profit from pass
through entity treatment in §
152.03(C)(13)(a)2.B.; treatment of S Corporation distributive share of net
profit in the hands of the shareholder in §
152.03(C)(13)(a)3.; restriction of amount of loss permitted to be carried
forward for use by taxpayer in a subsequent taxable year in §
152.03(C)(13)(a)4.
            4.   PASS THROUGH ENTITY is defined in §
152.03(C)(26).
         (b)   EXEMPT INCOME is defined in §
152.03(C)(10).
         (c)   Allowable employee business expense deduction is described in §
152.03(C)(19)(b), and is subject to the limitations provided in that section.
         (d)   PRE-2017 NET OPERATING LOSS CARRYFORWARD is defined in §
152.03(C)(31).
   (B)   Municipal taxable income for a nonresident of the municipality is
calculated as follows:
      (1)   Income reduced by exempt income to the extent such exempt income is
otherwise included in income, as applicable, apportioned or sitused to the
municipality as provided in §
152.062, reduced by allowable employee business expense deduction as found in §
152.03(C)(19)(b), further reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss
carryforward equals municipal taxable income.
         (a)   INCOME is defined in §
152.03(C)(13).
            1.   QUALIFYING WAGES is defined in §
152.03(C)(33).
            2.   NET PROFIT is included in income, and is defined in §
152.03(C)(22). This section also provides that the net operating loss
carryforward shall be calculated and deducted in the same manner as provided in
§
152.03(C)(1)(h). Net profit for a nonresident individual includes any net
profit of the nonresident, but excludes the distributive share of net profit or
loss of only pass through entity owned directly or indirectly by the
nonresident.
            3.   PASS THROUGH ENTITY is defined in §
152.03(C)(26).
         (b)   EXEMPT INCOME is defined in §
152.03(C)(10).
         (c)   Apportioned or sitused to the municipality as provided in §
152.062 includes the apportionment of net profit income attributable to work
done or services performed in the municipality. Treatment of net profits
received by an individual taxpayer from rental real estate is provided in §
152.062(E).
         (d)   Allowable employee business expense deduction as described in §
152.03(C)(19)(b), is subject to the limitations provided in that section. For a
nonresident of the municipality, the deduction is limited to the extent the
expenses are related to the performance of personal services by the nonresident
in the municipality.
         (e)   PRE-2017 NET OPERATING LOSS CARRYFORWARD is defined in §
152.03(C)(31).
(Ord. 2015-112. Passed 11-10-15.)
§ 152.042 DOMICILE.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   DOMICILE means the true, fixed and permanent home of the taxpayer
to which whenever absent, the taxpayer intends to return.
      (2)   An individual is presumed to be domiciled in the municipality for
all or part of a taxable year if the individual was domiciled in the
municipality on the last day of the immediately preceding taxable year or if
the Tax Administrator reasonably concludes that the individual is domiciled in
the municipality for all or part of the taxable year.
      (3)   An individual may rebut the presumption of domicile described in
division (A)(1) of this section if the individual establishes by a
preponderance of the evidence that the individual was not domiciled in the
municipality for all or part of the taxable year.
   (B)   For the purpose of determining whether an individual is domiciled in
the municipality for all or part of a taxable year, factors that may be
considered include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   The individual's domicile in other taxable years;
      (2)   The location at which the individual is registered to vote;
      (3)   The address on the individual's driver's license;
      (4)   The location of real estate for which the individual claimed a
property tax exemption or reduction allowed on the basis of the individual's
residence or domicile;
      (5)   The location and value of abodes owned or leased by the individual;
      (6)   Declarations, written or oral, made by the individual regarding the
individual's residency;
      (7)   The primary location at which the individual is employed;
      (8)   The location of educational institutions attended by the
individual's dependents as defined in section 152 of the Internal Revenue Code,
to the extent that tuition paid to such educational institution
is based on the residency of the individual or the individual's spouse in the
municipal corporation or state where the educational institution is located;
      (9)   The number of contact periods the individual has with the
municipality. For the purposes of this division, an individual has one contact
period with the municipality if the individual is away overnight from the
individual's abode located outside of the municipality and while away overnight
from that abode spends at least some portion, however minimal, of each of two
consecutive days in the municipality. For purposes of this section, the state's
contact period test or bright-line test and resulting determination have no
bearing on municipal residency or domicile.
   (C)   All applicable factors are provided in R.C. § 718.012.
(Ord. 2015-112, passed 11-10-15.)
§ 152.043 EXEMPTION FOR MEMBER OR EMPLOYEE OF GENERAL ASSEMBLY AND CERTAIN
JUDGES.
   (A)   Only the municipal corporation of residence shall be permitted to levy
a tax on the income of any member or employee of the Ohio General Assembly,
including the Lieutenant Governor, whose income is received as a result of
services rendered as such member or employee and is paid from appropriated
funds of the state.
   (B)   Only the municipal corporation of residence and the City of Columbus
shall levy a tax on the income of the Chief Justice or a justice of the Supreme
Court received as a result of services rendered as the Chief Justice or
Justice. Only the municipal corporation of residence shall levy a tax on the
income of a judge sitting by assignment of the Chief Justice or on the income
of a district court of appeals judge sitting in multiple locations within the
district, received as a result of services rendered as a judge.
(Ord. 2015-112. Passed 11-10-15.)
§ 152.05 COLLECTION AT SOURCE.
§ 152.051 COLLECTION AT SOURCE; WITHHOLDING FROM QUALIFYING WAGES.
   (A)   (1)   Each employer, agent of an employer, or other payer located or
doing business in the municipality shall withhold from each employee an amount
equal to the qualifying wages of the employee earned by the employee in the
municipality multiplied by the applicable rate of the municipality's income
tax, except for qualifying wages for which withholding is not required under §
152.052  or division (D) or (F) of this section. An employer, agent of an
employer, or other payer shall deduct and withhold the tax from qualifying
wages on the date that the employer, agent, or other payer directly,
indirectly, or constructively pays the qualifying wages to, or credits the
qualifying wages to the benefit of, the employee.
      (2)   In addition to withholding the amounts required under division (A)
(1) of this section, an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer may also
deduct and withhold, on the request of an employee, taxes for the municipal
corporation in which the employee is a resident.
   (B)   (1)   An employer, agent of an employer, or other payer shall remit to
the Tax Administrator of the municipality the greater of the income taxes
deducted and withheld or the income taxes required to be deducted and withheld
by the employer, agent, or other payer, along with any report that may be
required by the Tax Administrator to accompany such payment, according to the
following schedule:
         (a)   Any employer, agent of an employer, or other payer not required
to make payments under division (B)(1)(b) of this section of taxes required to
be deducted and withheld shall make quarterly payments to the Tax Administrator
not later than the 15th day of the month following the end of each calendar
quarter.
         (b)   Taxes required to be deducted and withheld shall be remitted
monthly to the Tax Administrator if the total taxes deducted and withheld or
required to be deducted and withheld by the employer, agent, or other payer on
behalf of the municipal corporation in the preceding calendar year exceeded
$2,399, or if the total amount of taxes deducted and withheld or required to be
deducted and withheld on behalf of the municipality in any month of the
preceding calendar quarter exceeded $200. Payment under division (B)(1)(b) of
this section shall be made so that the payment is received by the Tax
Administrator not later than 15 days after the last day of each month.
   (C)   An employer, agent of an employer, or other payer shall make and file
a return showing the amount of tax withheld by the employer, agent, or other
payer from the qualifying wages of each employee and remitted to the Tax
Administrator. Employers who are required by 26 USC 6302 and 26 CFR 31.6302-1,
or other federal statutes or regulations, to deposit payments electronically
for the purpose of paying federal taxes withheld on payments to employees shall
make payment by electronic funds transfer to the tax commissioner of the
municipal income taxes withheld on qualifying wages. Except as otherwise
provided in this division, the payment of taxes by electronic funds transfer
does not affect an employer's obligation to file the returns as required under
this section.
   (D)   An employer, agent of an employer, or other payer is not required to
withhold municipal income tax with respect to an individual's disqualifying
disposition of an incentive stock option if, at the time of the disqualifying
disposition, the individual is not an employee of either the corporation with
respect to whose stock the option has been issued or of such corporation's
successor entity.
   (E)   (1)   An employee is not relieved from liability for a tax by the
failure of the employer, agent of an employer, or other payer to withhold the
tax as required under this chapter or by the employer's, agent's, or other
payer's exemption from the requirement to withhold the tax.
      (2)   The failure of an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer to
remit to the municipality the tax withheld relieves the employee from liability
for that tax unless the employee colluded with the employer, agent, or other
payer in connection with the failure to remit the tax withheld.
   (F)   Compensation deferred before June 26, 2003, is not subject to any
municipal corporation income tax or municipal income tax withholding
requirement to the extent the deferred compensation does not constitute
qualifying wages at the time the deferred compensation is paid or distributed.
   (G)   Each employer, agent of an employer, or other payer required to
withhold taxes is liable for the payment of that amount required to be
withheld, whether or not such taxes have been withheld, and such amount shall
be deemed to be held in trust for the municipality until such time as the
withheld amount is remitted to the Tax Administrator.
   (H)    On or before the last day of February of each year, an employer shall
file a withholding reconciliation return with the Tax Administrator listing the
names, addresses, and Social Security numbers of all employees from whose
qualifying wages tax was withheld or should have been withheld for the
municipality during the preceding calendar year, the amount of tax withheld, if
any, from each such employee's qualifying wage, the total amount of qualifying
wages paid to such employee during the preceding calendar year, the name of
every other municipal corporation for which tax was withheld or should have
been withheld from such employee during the preceding calendar year, any other
information required for federal income tax reporting purposes on Internal
Revenue Service form W-2 or its equivalent form with respect to such employee,
and other information as may be required by the Tax Administrator. The W-
3 Reconciliation Return and required documentation may be filed utilizing paper
forms or electronically using the required format as provided by the Tax
Administrator.
   (I)   The officer or the employee of the employer, agent of an employer, or
other payer with control or direct supervision of or charged with the
responsibility for withholding the tax or filing the reports and making
payments as required by this section, shall be personally liable for a failure
to file a report or pay the tax due as required by this section. The
dissolutionof an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer does not
discharge the officer's or employee's liability for a failure of the employer,
agent of an employer, or other payer to file returns or pay any tax due.
   (J)   An employer is required to deduct and withhold municipal income tax on
tips and gratuities received by the employer's employees and constituting
qualifying wages only to the extent that the tips and gratuities are under the
employer's control. For the purposes of this division, a tip or gratuity is
under the employer's control if the tip or gratuity is paid by the customer to
the employer for subsequent remittance to the employee, or if the customer pays
the tip or gratuity by credit card, debit card, or other electronic means.
   (K)   A Tax Administrator shall consider any tax withheld by an employer at
the request of an employee when such tax is not otherwise required to be
withheld by this chapter to be tax required to be withheld and remitted for the
purposes of this section.
(Ord. 2015-112, passed 11-10-15; Am. Ord. 2021-113, passed 11-23-21; Am. Ord.
2023-115, passed 11-28-23)
§ 152.052 COLLECTION AT SOURCE; OCCASIONAL ENTRANT.
   (A)   The following terms as used in this section:
      (1)   Employer includes a person that is a related member to or of an
employer.
      (2)   PROFESSIONAL ATHLETE means an athlete who performs services in a
professional athletic event for wages or other remuneration.
      (3)   PROFESSIONAL ENTERTAINER means a person who performs services in
the professional performing arts for wages or other remuneration on a per-event
basis.
      (4)   PUBLIC FIGURE means a person of prominence who performs services at
discrete events, such as speeches, public appearances, or similar events, for
wages or other remuneration on a per-event basis.
      (5)   FIXED LOCATION means a permanent place of doing business in this
state, such as an office, warehouse, storefront, or similar location owned or
controlled by an employer.
      (6)   WORKSITE LOCATION means a construction site or other temporary
worksite in this state at which the employer provides services for more than 20
days during the calendar year. Worksite location does not include the home of
an employee.
      (7)   PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK means the fixed location to which an
employee is required to report for employment duties on a regular and ordinary
basis. If the employee is not required to report for employment duties on a
regular and ordinary basis to a fixed location, PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK means
the worksite location in this state to which the employee is required to report
for employment duties on a regular and ordinary basis. If the employee is not
required to report for employment duties on a regular and ordinary basis to a
fixed location or worksite location, PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK means the location
in this state at which the employee spends the greatest number of days in a
calendar year performing services for or on behalf of the employee's employer.
      If there is not a single municipal corporation in which the employee
spent the greatest number of days in a calendar year performing services for or
on behalf of the employer, but instead there are two or more municipal
corporations in which the employee spent an identical number of days that is
greater than the number of days the employee spent in any other municipal
corporation, the employer shall allocate any of the employee's qualifying wages
subject to division (B)(1)(a) of this section among those two or more municipal
corporations. The allocation shall be made using any fair and reasonable
method, including, but not limited to, an equal allocation among such municipal
corporations or an allocation based upon the time spent or sales made by the
employee in each such municipal corporation. A municipal corporation to which
qualifying wages are allocated under this division shall be the employee's
principal place of work with respect to those qualifying wages for the purposes
of this section.
      For the purposes of this division, the location at which an employee
spends a particular day shall be deemed in accordance with division (B)(2) of
this section, except that "location" shall be substituted for "municipal
corporation" wherever "municipal corporation" appears in that division.
   (B)   (1)   Subject to divisions (C), (E), (F), and (G) of this section, an
employer is not required to withhold municipal income tax on qualifying wages
paid to an employee for the performance of personal services in a municipal
corporation that imposes such a tax if the employee performed such services in
the municipal corporation on 20 or fewer days in a calendar year, unless one of
the following conditions applies:
         (a)   The employee's principal place of work is located in the
municipality.
         (b)   The employee performed services at one or more presumed worksite
locations in the municipality. For the purposes of this division, PRESUMED
WORKSITE LOCATION means a construction site or other temporary worksite in this
state at which the employer provides services that can reasonably be expected
by the employer to last more than 20 days in a calendar year. Services can
reasonably be expected by the employer to last more than 20 days if either of
the following applies at the time the services commence:
            1.   The nature of the services are such that it will require more
than 20 days of actual services to complete the services;
            2.   The agreement between the employer and its customer to perform
services at a location requires the employer to perform actual services at the
location for more than 20 days.
         (c)   The employee is a resident of the municipality and has requested
that the employer withhold tax from the employee's qualifying wages as provided
in §
152.051.
         (d)   The employee is a professional athlete, professional
entertainer, or public figure, and the qualifying wages are paid for the
performance of services in the employee's capacity as a professional athlete,
professional entertainer, or public figure within the municipality.
      (2)   For the purposes of division (B)(1) of this section, an employee
shall be considered to have spent a day performing services in a municipal
corporation only if the employee spent more time performing services for or on
behalf of the employer in that municipal corporation than in any other
municipal corporation on that day. For the purposes of determining the amount
of time an employee spent in a particular location, the time spent performing
one or more of the following activities shall be considered to have been spent
at the employee's principal place of work:
         (a)   Traveling to the location at which the employee will first
perform services for the employer for the day;
         (b)   Traveling from a location at which the employee was performing
services for the employer to any other location;
         (c)   Traveling from any location to another location in order to pick
up or load, for the purpose of transportation or delivery, property that has
been purchased, sold, assembled, fabricated, repaired, refurbished, processed,
remanufactured, or improved by the employee's employer;
         (d)   Transporting or delivering property described in division (B)(2)
(c) of this section, provided that, upon delivery of the property, the employee
does not temporarily or permanently affix the property to real estate owned,
used, or controlled by a person other than the employee's employer;
         (e)   Traveling from the location at which the employee makes the
employee's final delivery or pick-up for the day to either the employee's
principal place of work or a location at which the employee will not perform
services for the employer.
   (C)   If the principal place of work of an employee is located in a
municipal corporation that imposes an income tax, the exception from
withholding requirements described in division (B)(1) of this section shall
apply only if, with respect to the employee's qualifying wages described in
that division, the employer withholds and remits tax on such qualifying wages
to the municipal corporation in which the employee's principal place of work is
located.
   (D)   (1)   Except as provided in division (D)(2) of this section, if,
during a calendar year, the number of days an employee spends performing
personal services in a municipal corporation exceeds the 20-day threshold
described in division (B)(1) of this section, the employer shall withhold and
remit tax to that municipal corporation for any subsequent days in that
calendar year on which the employer pays qualifying wages to the employee for
personal services performed in that municipal corporation.
      (2)   An employer required to begin withholding tax for a municipal
corporation under division (D)(1) of this section may elect to withhold tax for
that municipal corporation for the first 20 days on which the employer paid
qualifying wages to the employee for personal services performed in that
municipal corporation.
      (3)   If an employer makes the election described in division (D)(2) of
this section, the taxes withheld and paid by such an employer during those
first 20 days to the municipal corporation in which the employee's principal
place of work is located are refundable to the employee.
   (E)   Without regard to the number of days in a calendar year on which an
employee performs personal services in any municipal corporation, an employer
shall withhold municipal income tax on all of the employee's qualifying wages
for a taxable year and remit that tax only to the municipal corporation in
which the employer's fixed location is located if the employer qualifies as a
small employer as defined in §
152.03. To determine whether an employer qualifies as a small employer for a
taxable year, a Tax Administrator may require the employer to provide the Tax
Administrator with the employer's federal income tax return for the preceding
taxable year.
   (F)   Divisions (B)(1) and (D) of this section shall not apply to the extent
that a Tax Administrator and an employer enter into an agreement regarding the
manner in which the employer shall comply with the requirements of §
152.051.
   (G)   In the case of a person performing personal services at a petroleum
refinery located in a municipal corporation that imposes a tax on income, an
employer is not required to withhold municipal income tax on the qualifying
wages of such a person if the person performs those services on 12 or fewer
days in a calendar year, unless the principal place of work of the employer is
located in another municipal corporation in this state that imposes a tax
applying to compensation paid to the person for services performed on those
days and the person is not liable to that other municipal corporation for tax
on the compensation paid for such services. For the purposes of this division,
a petroleum refinery is a facility with a standard industrial classification
code facility classification of 2911, petroleum refining.
      Notwithstanding division (D) of this section, if, during a calendar year,
the number of days an individual performs personal services at a petroleum
refinery exceeds 12, the employer shall withhold tax for the municipal
corporation for the first 12 days for which the employer paid qualifying wages
to the individual and for all subsequent days in the calendar year on which the
individual performed services at the refinery.
(Ord. 2015-112, passed 11-10-15)
§ 152.053 COLLECTION AT SOURCE; CASINO AND VLT.
   (A)   Any casino facility or a casino operator, as defined in Section 6(C)
(9) of Article XV, Ohio Constitution, and R.C. § 3772.01, respectively, or a
lottery sales agent conducting video lottery terminals sales shall withhold and
remit municipal income tax with respect to amounts other than qualifying wages
as provided in this section.
   (B)   If a person's winnings at a casino facility are an amount for which
reporting to the Internal Revenue Service of the amount is required by section
6041 of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, the casino operator shall deduct
and withhold municipal income tax from the person's winnings at the rate of the
tax imposed by the municipal corporation in which the casino facility is
located.
   (C)   Amounts deducted and withheld by a casino operator are held in trust
for the benefit of the municipal corporation to which the tax is owed.
      (1)   On or before the tenth day of each month, the casino operator shall
file a return electronically with the Tax Administrator of the municipality,
providing the name, address, and Social Security number of the person from
whose winnings amounts were deducted and withheld, the amount of each such
deduction and withholding during the preceding calendar month, the amount of
the winnings from which each such amount was withheld, the type of casino
gaming that resulted in such winnings, and any other information required by
the Tax Administrator. With this return, the casino operator shall remit
electronically to the municipality all amounts deducted and withheld during the
preceding month.
      (2)   Annually, on or before the 31st day of January, a casino operator
shall file an annual return electronically with the Tax Administrator of the
municipal corporation in which the casino facility is located, indicating the
total amount deducted and withheld during the preceding calendar year. The
casino operator shall remit electronically with the annual return any amount
that was deducted and withheld and that was not previously remitted. If the
name, address, or Social Security number of a person or the amount deducted and
withheld with respect to that person was omitted on a monthly return for that
reporting period, that information shall be indicated on the annual return.
      (3)   Annually, on or before the 31st day of January, a casino operator
shall issue an information return to each person with respect to whom an amount
has been deducted and withheld during the preceding calendar year. The
information return shall show the total amount of municipal income tax deducted
from the person's winnings during the preceding year. The casino operator shall
provide to the Tax Administrator a copy of each information return issued under
this division. The Administrator may require that such copies be transmitted
electronically.
      (4)   A casino operator that fails to file a return and remit the amounts
deducted and withheld shall be personally liable for the amount withheld and
not remitted. Such personal liability extends to any penalty and interest
imposed for the late filing of a return or the late payment of tax deducted and
withheld.
      (5)   If a casino operator sells the casino facility or otherwise quits
the casino business, the amounts deducted and withheld along with any penalties
and interest thereon are immediately due and payable. The successor shall
withhold an amount of the purchase money that is sufficient to cover the
amounts deducted and withheld along with any penalties and interest thereon
until the predecessor casino operator produces either of the following:
         (a)   A receipt from the Tax Administrator showing that the amounts
deducted and withheld and penalties and interest thereon have been paid;
         (b)   A certificate from the Tax Administrator indicating that no
amounts are due.
         If the successor fails to withhold purchase money, the successor is
personally liable for the payment of the amounts deducted and withheld and
penalties and interest thereon.
      (6)   The failure of a casino operator to deduct and withhold the
required amount from a person's winnings does not relieve that person from
liability for the municipal income tax with respect to those winnings.
   (D)   If a person's prize award from a video lottery terminal is an amount
for which reporting to the Internal Revenue Service is required by section 6041
of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, the video lottery sales agent shall
deduct and withhold municipal income tax from the person's prize award at the
rate of the tax imposed by the municipal corporation in which the video lottery
terminal facility is located.
   (E)   Amounts deducted and withheld by a video lottery sales agent are held
in trust for the benefit of the municipal corporation to which the tax is owed.
      (1)   The video lottery sales agent shall issue to a person from whose
prize award an amount has been deducted and withheld a receipt for the amount
deducted and withheld, and shall obtain from the person receiving a prize award
the person's name, address, and Social Security number in order to facilitate
the preparation of returns required by this section.
      (2)   On or before the tenth day of each month, the video lottery sales
agent shall file a return electronically with the Tax Administrator of the
municipality providing the names, addresses, and Social Security numbers of the
persons from whose prize awards amounts were deducted and withheld, the amount
of each such deduction and withholding during the preceding calendar month, the
amount of the prize award from which each such amount was withheld, and any
other information required by the Tax Administrator. With the return, the video
lottery sales agent shall remit electronically to the Tax Administrator all
amounts deducted and withheld during the preceding month.
      (3)   A video lottery sales agent shall maintain a record of all receipts
issued under division (E) of this section and shall make those records
available to the Tax Administrator upon request. Such records shall be
maintained in accordance with R.C. § 5747.17 and any rules adopted pursuant
thereto.
      (4)   Annually, on or before the 31st day of January, each video lottery
terminal sales agent shall file an annual return electronically with the Tax
Administrator of the municipal corporation in which the facility is located
indicating the total amount deducted and withheld during the preceding calendar
year. The video lottery sales agent shall remit electronically with the annual
return any amount that was deducted and withheld and that was not previously
remitted. If the name, address, or Social Security number of a person or the
amount deducted and withheld with respect to that person was omitted on a
monthly return for that reporting period, that information shall be indicated
on the annual return.
      (5)   Annually, on or before the 31st day of January, a video lottery
sales agent shall issue an information return to each person with respect to
whom an amount has been deducted and withheld during the preceding calendar
year. The information return shall show the total amount of municipal income
tax deducted and withheld from the person's prize award by the video lottery
sales agent during the preceding year. A video lottery sales agent shall
provide to the Tax Administrator of the municipal corporation a copy of each
information return issued under this division. The Tax Administrator may
require that such copies be transmitted electronically.
      (6)   A video lottery sales agent who fails to file a return and remit
the amounts deducted and withheld is personally liable for the amount deducted
and withheld and not remitted. Such personal liability extends to any penalty
and interest imposed for the late filing of a return or the late payment of tax
deducted and withheld.
   (F)   If a video lottery sales agent ceases to operate video lottery
terminals, the amounts deducted and withheld along with any penalties and
interest thereon are immediately due and payable. The successor of the video
lottery sales agent that purchases the video lottery terminals from the agent
shall withhold an amount from the purchase money that is sufficient to cover
the amounts deducted and withheld and any penalties and interest thereon until
the predecessor video lottery sales agent operator produces either of the
following:
      (1)   A receipt from the Tax Administrator showing that the amounts
deducted and withheld and penalties and interest thereon have been paid;
      (2)   A certificate from the Tax Administrator indicating that no amounts
are due.
      If the successor fails to withhold purchase money, the successor is
personally liable for the payment of the amounts deducted and withheld and
penalties and interest thereon.
   (G)   The failure of a video lottery sales agent to deduct and withhold the
required amount from a person's prize award does not relieve that person from
liability for the municipal income tax with respect to that prize award.
   (H)   If a casino operator or lottery sales agent files a return late, fails
to file a return, remits amounts deducted and withheld late, or fails to remit
amounts deducted and withheld as required under this section, the Tax
Administrator of a municipal corporation may impose the following applicable
penalty:
      (1)   For the late remittance of, or failure to remit, tax deducted and
withheld under this section, a penalty equal to 50% of the tax deducted and
withheld;
      (2)   For the failure to file, or the late filing of, a monthly or annual
return, a penalty of $500 for each return not filed or filed late. Interest
shall accrue on past due amounts deducted and withheld at the rate prescribed
in R.C. § 5703.47.
   (I)   Amounts deducted and withheld on behalf of a municipal corporation
shall be allowed as a credit against payment of the tax imposed by the
municipal corporation and shall be treated as taxes paid for purposes of §
152.07. This division applies only to the person for whom the amount is
deducted and withheld.
   (J)   The Tax Administrator shall prescribe the forms of the receipts and
returns required under this section.
(Ord. 2015-112, passed 11-10-15)
§ 152.06 INCOME SUBJECT TO NET PROFIT TAX.
§ 152.061 DETERMINING MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME FOR TAXPAYERS WHO ARE NOT
INDIVIDUALS.
   Municipal taxable income for a taxpayer who is not an individual for the
municipality is calculated as follows:
   (A)   Income reduced by exempt income to the extent otherwise included in
income, multiplied by apportionment, further reduced by any pre-2017 net
operating loss carryforward equals municipal taxable income.
      (1)   Income for a taxpayer that is not an individual means the net
profit of the taxpayer.
         (a)   NET PROFIT FOR A PERSON OTHER THAN AN INDIVIDUAL is defined in §
152.03(C)(22).
         (b)   ADJUSTED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME is defined in §
152.03(C)(1).
      (2)   EXEMPT INCOME is defined in §
152.03(C)(10).
      (3)   APPORTIONMENT means the apportionment as determined by §
152.062.
      (4)   PRE-2017 NET OPERATING LOSS CARRYFORWARD is defined in §
152.03(C)(31).
(Ord. 2015-112, passed 11-10-15)
§ 152.062 NET PROFIT; INCOME SUBJECT TO NET PROFIT TAX; ALTERNATIVE
APPORTIONMENT.
   This section applies to any taxpayer engaged in a business or profession in
the municipality unless the taxpayer is an individual who resides in the
municipality or the taxpayer is an electric company, combined company, or
telephone company that is subject to and required to file reports under R.C.
Chapter 5745.
   (A)    Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(1), net profit from a
business or profession conducted both within and without the boundaries of the
municipality shall be considered as having a taxable situs in the municipality
for purposes of municipal income taxation in the same proportion as the average
ratio of the following:
      (1)   The average original cost of the real property and tangible
personal property owned or used by the taxpayer in the business or profession
in the municipality during the taxable period to the average original cost of
all of the real and tangible personal property owned or used by the taxpayer in
the business or profession during the same period, wherever situated.
         As used in the preceding paragraph, tangible personal or real property
shall include property rented or leased by the taxpayer and the value of such
property shall be determined by multiplying the annual rental thereon by eight;
      (2)   Wages, salaries, and other compensation paid during the taxable
period to individuals employed in the business or profession for services
performed in the municipality to wages, salaries, and other compensation paid
during the same period to individuals employed in the business or profession,
wherever the individual's services are performed, excluding compensation from
which taxes are not-required to be withheld under §
152.052;
      (3)   Total gross receipts of the business or profession from sales and
rentals made and services performed during the taxable period in the
municipality to total gross receipts of the business or profession during the
same period from sales, rentals, and services, wherever made or performed.
   (B)   (1)   If the apportionment factors described in division (A) of this
section do not fairly represent the extent of a taxpayer's business activity in
the municipality, the taxpayer may request, or the Tax Administrator of the
municipality may require, that the taxpayer use, with respect to all or any
portion of the income of the taxpayer, an alternative apportionment method
involving one or more of the following:
         (a)   Separate accounting;
         (b)   The exclusion of one or more of the factors;
         (c)   The inclusion of one or more additional factors that would
provide for a more fair apportionment of the income of the taxpayer to the
municipality;
         (d)   A modification of one or more of the factors.
      (2)   A taxpayer request to use an alternative apportionment method shall
be in writing and shall accompany a tax return, timely filed appeal of an
assessment, or timely filed amended tax return. The taxpayer may use the
requested alternative method unless the Tax Administrator denies the request in
an assessment issued within the period prescribed by §
152.19(A).
      (3)   A Tax Administrator may require a taxpayer to use an alternative
apportionment method as described in division (B)(1) of this section only by
issuing an assessment to the taxpayer within the period prescribed by §
152.19(A).
      (4)   Nothing in division (B) of this section nullifies or otherwise
affects any alternative apportionment arrangement approved by a Tax
Administrator or otherwise agreed upon by both the Tax Administrator and
taxpayer before January 1, 2016.
   (C)   As used in division (A)(2) of this section, wages, salaries, and other
compensation includes only wages, salaries, or other compensation paid to an
employee for services performed at any of the following locations:
      (1)   A location that is owned, controlled, or used by, rented to, or
under the possession of one of the following:
         (a)   The employer;
         (b)   A vendor, customer, client, or patient of the employer, or a
related member of such a vendor, customer, client, or patient;
         (c)   A vendor, customer, client, or patient of a person described in
division (C)(1)(b) of this section, or a related member of such a vendor,
customer, client, or patient.
      (2)   Any location at which a trial, appeal, hearing, investigation,
inquiry, review, court-martial, or similar administrative, judicial, or
legislative matter or proceeding is being conducted, provided that the
compensation is paid for services performed for, or on behalf of, the employer
or that the employee's presence at the location directly or indirectly benefits
the employer;
      (3)   Any other location, if the Tax Administrator determines that the
employer directed the employee to perform the services at the other location in
lieu of a location described in division (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this section
solely in order to avoid or reduce the employer's municipal income tax
liability. If a Tax Administrator makes such a determination, the employer may
dispute the determination by establishing, by a preponderance of the evidence,
that the Tax Administrator's determination was unreasonable.
   (D)    For the purposes of division (A)(3) of this section, and except as
provided in division (I) of this section, receipts from sales and rentals made
and services performed shall be sitused to a municipal corporation as follows:
      (1)    Gross receipts from the sale of tangible personal property shall
be sitused to the municipal corporation only if, regardless of where title
passes, the property meets either of the following criteria:
         (a)   The property is shipped to or delivered within the municipal
corporation from a stock of goods located within the municipal corporation.
         (b)   The property is delivered within the municipal corporation from
a location outside the municipal corporation, provided the taxpayer is
regularly engaged through its own employees in the solicitation or promotion of
sales within such municipal corporation and the sales result from such
solicitation or promotion.
      (2)   Gross receipts from the sale of services shall be sitused to the
municipal corporation to the extent that such services are performed in the
municipal corporation.
      (3)   To the extent included in income, gross receipts from the sale of
real property located in the municipal corporation shall be sitused to the
municipal corporation.
      (4)   To the extent included in income, gross receipts from rents and
royalties from real property located in the municipal corporation shall be
sitused to the municipal corporation.
      (5)   Gross receipts from rents and royalties from tangible personal
property shall be sitused to the municipal corporation based upon the extent to
which the tangible personal property is used in the municipal corporation.
   (E)    The net profit received by an individual taxpayer from the rental of
real estate owned directly by the individual or by a disregarded entity owned
by the individual shall be subject to tax only by the municipal corporation in
which the property generating the net profit is located and the municipal
corporation in which the individual taxpayer that receives the net profit
resides. The Municipality may require at any time that a landlord provide a
listing of tenants that includes the tenant's name, address, dates of
residency, and current contact information.
      A municipal corporation shall allow such taxpayers to elect to use
separate accounting for the purpose of calculating net profit sitused under
this division to the municipal corporation in which the property is located.
   (F)   (1)   Except as provided in division (F)(2) of this section,
commissions received by a real estate agent or broker relating to the sale,
purchase, or lease of real estate shall be sitused to the municipal corporation
in which the real estate is located. Net profit reported by the real estate
agent or broker shall be allocated to a municipal corporation based upon the
ratio of the commissions the agent or broker received from the sale, purchase,
or lease of real estate located in the municipal corporation to the commissions
received from the sale, purchase, or lease of real estate everywhere in the
taxable year.
      (2)   An individual who is a resident of a municipal corporation that
imposes a municipal income tax shall report the individual's net profit from
all real estate activity on the individual's annual tax return for that
municipal corporation. The individual may claim a credit for taxes the
individual paid on such net profit to another municipal corporation to the
extent that such credit is allowed under §
152.081.
   (G)   If, in computing a taxpayer's adjusted federal taxable income, the
taxpayer deducted any amount with respect to a stock option granted to an
employee, and if the employee is not required to include in the employee's
income any such amount or a portion thereof because it is exempted from
taxation under §
152.03(C)(10)(l) and (C)(33)(a)4., by a municipal corporation to which the
taxpayer has apportioned a portion of its net profit, the taxpayer shall add
the amount that is exempt from taxation to the taxpayer's net profit that was
apportioned to that municipal corporation. In no case shall a taxpayer be
required to add to its net profit that was apportioned to that municipal
corporation any amount other than the amount upon which the employee would be
required to pay tax were the amount related to the stock option not exempted
from taxation.
      This division applies solely for the purpose of making an adjustment to
the amount of a taxpayer's net profit that was apportioned to a municipal
corporation under this section.
   (H)   When calculating the ratios described in division (A) of this section
for the purposes of that division or division (B) of this section, the owner of
a disregarded entity shall include in the owner's ratios the property, payroll,
and gross receipts of such disregarded entity.
   (I)   (1)   (a)   QUALIFYING REMOTE EMPLOYEE OR OWNER means an individual
who is an employee of a taxpayer or who is a partner or member holding an
ownership interest in a taxpayer that is treated as a partnership for federal
income tax purposes, provided that the individual meets both of the following
criteria:
            1.    The taxpayer has assigned the individual to a qualifying
reporting location.
            2.   The individual is permitted or required to perform services
for the taxpayer at a qualifying remote work location.
         (b)   QUALIFYING REMOTE WORK LOCATION means a permanent or temporary
location at which an employee or owner chooses or is required to perform
services for the taxpayer, other than a reporting location of the taxpayer or
any other location owned or controlled by a customer or client of the taxpayer.
QUALIFYING REMOTE WORK LOCATION may include the residence of an employee or
owner and may be located outside of a municipal corporation that imposes an
income tax in accordance with this chapter. An employee or owner may have more
than one qualifying remote work location during a taxable year.
         (c)   REPORTING LOCATION means either of the following:
            1.   A permanent or temporary place of doing business, such as an
office, warehouse, storefront, construction site, or similar location, that is
owned or controlled directly or indirectly by the taxpayer;
            2.   Any location in this state owned or controlled by a customer
or client of the taxpayer provided that the taxpayer is required to withhold
taxes under §
152.051, on qualifying wages paid to an employee for the performance of
personal services at that location.
         (d)   QUALIFYING REPORTING LOCATION means one of the following:
            1.   The reporting location in this state at which an employee or
owner performs services for the taxpayer on a regular or periodic basis during
the taxable year:
            2.   If no reporting location exists in this state for an employee
or owner under division (I)(1)(d)1. of this section, the reporting location in
this state at which the employee's or owner's supervisor regularly or
periodically reports during the taxable year:
            3.   If no reporting location exists in this state for an employee
or owner under division (I)(1)(c)1. or 2. of this section, the location that
the taxpayer otherwise assigns as the employee's or owner's qualifying
reporting location, provided the assignment is made in good faith and is
recorded and maintained in the taxpayer's business records. A taxpayer may
change the qualifying reporting location designated for an employee or owner
under this division at any time.
      (2)   For tax years ending on or after December 31, 2023, a taxpayer may
elect to apply the provisions of this division to the apportionment of its net
profit from a business or profession. For taxpayers that make this election,
the provisions of this section apply to such apportionment except as otherwise
provided in this division.
         A taxpayer shall make the election allowed under this division in
writing on or with the taxpayer's net profit return or, if applicable, a timely
filed amended net profit return or a timely filed appeal of an assessment. The
election applies to the taxable year for which that return or appeal is filed
and for all subsequent taxable years, until the taxpayer revokes the election.
         The taxpayer shall make the initial election with the tax
administrator of each municipal corporation with which, after applying the
apportionment provisions authorized in this division, the taxpayer is required
to file a net profit tax return for that taxable year. A taxpayer shall not be
required to notify the tax administrator of a municipal corporation in which a
qualifying remote employee's or owner's qualifying remote work location is
located, unless the taxpayer is otherwise required to file a net profit return
with that municipal corporation due to business operations that are unrelated
to the employee's or owner's activity at the qualifying remote work location.
         After the taxpayer makes the initial election, the election applies to
every municipal corporation in which the taxpayer conducts business. The
taxpayer shall not be required to file a net profit return with a municipal
corporation solely because a qualifying remote employee's or owner's qualifying
remote work location is located in such municipal corporation.
         Nothing in this division prohibits a taxpayer from making a new
election under this division after properly revoking a prior election.
      (3)   For the purpose of calculating the ratios described in this
section, all of the following apply to a taxpayer that has made the election
described in division (I)(2) of this section:
         (a)   For the purpose of division (A)(1) of this section, the average
original cost of any tangible personal property used by a qualifying remote
employee or owner at that individual's qualifying remote work location shall be
sitused to that individual's qualifying reporting location.
         (b)   For the purpose of division (A)(2) of this section, any wages,
salaries, and other compensation paid during the taxable period to a qualifying
remote employee or owner for services performed at that individual's qualifying
remote work location shall be sitused to that individual's qualifying reporting
location.
         (c)   For the purpose of division (A)(3) of this section, and
notwithstanding division (D) of this section, any gross receipts of the
business or profession from services performed during the taxable period by a
qualifying remote employee or owner for services performed at that individual's
qualifying remote work location shall be sitused to that individual's
qualifying reporting location.
      (4)   Nothing in this division prevents a taxpayer from requesting, or a
tax administrator from requiring, that the taxpayer use, with respect to all or
a portion of the income of the taxpayer, an alternative apportionment method as
described in division (B) of this section. However, a tax administrator shall
not require an alternative apportionment method in such a manner that it would
require a taxpayer to file a net profit return with a municipal corporation
solely because a qualifying remote employee's or owner's qualifying remote work
location is located in that municipal corporation.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, nothing in this
division is intended to affect the withholding of taxes on qualifying wages
pursuant to §
152.051.
(Ord. 2015-112, passed 11-10-15; Am. Ord. 2018-007, passed 2-13-18; Am. Ord.
2021-113, passed 11-23-21; Am. Ord. 2023-115, passed 11-28-23)
§ 152.063 CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL INCOME TAX RETURN.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   AFFILIATED GROUP OF CORPORATIONS means an affiliated group as
defined in section 1504 of the Internal Revenue Code, except that, if such a
group includes at least one incumbent local exchange carrier that is primarily
engaged in the business of providing local exchange telephone service in this
state, the affiliated group shall not include any incumbent local exchange
carrier that would otherwise be included in the group.
      (2)   CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL INCOME TAX RETURN means a consolidated return
filed for federal income tax purposes pursuant to section 1501 of the Internal
Revenue Code.
      (3)   CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME means the consolidated taxable
income of an affiliated group of corporations, as computed for the purposes of
filing a consolidated federal income tax return, before consideration of net
operating losses or special deductions. CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME
does not include income or loss of an incumbent local exchange carrier that is
excluded from the affiliated group under division (A)(1) of this section.
      (4)   INCUMBENT LOCAL EXCHANGE CARRIER has the same meaning as in R.C. §
4927.01.
      (5)   LOCAL EXCHANGE TELEPHONE SERVICE has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5727.01.
   (B)   (1)   For taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2016, a
taxpayer that is a member of an affiliated group of corporations may elect to
file a consolidated municipal income tax return for a taxable year if at least
one member of the affiliated group of corporations is subject to the municipal
income tax in that taxable year and if the affiliated group of corporations
filed a consolidated federal income tax return with respect to that taxable
year.
         (a)   The election is binding for a five-year period beginning with
the first taxable year of the initial election unless a change in the reporting
method is required under federal law;
         (b)   The election continues to be binding for each subsequent five-
year period unless the taxpayer elects to discontinue filing consolidated
municipal income tax returns under division (B)(2) of this section; or
         (c)   A taxpayer receives permission from the Tax Administrator. The
Tax Administrator shall approve such a request for good cause shown.
      (2)   An election to discontinue filing consolidated municipal income tax
returns under this section must be made in the first year following the last
year of a five-year consolidated municipal income tax return election period in
effect under division (B)(1) of this section. The election to discontinue
filing a consolidated municipal income tax return is binding for a five-year
period beginning with the first taxable year of the election.
      (3)    An election made under division (B)(1) or (B)(2) of this section
is binding on all members of the affiliated group of corporations subject to a
municipal income tax.
         When a taxpayer makes the election allowed under R.C. § 718.80, a
valid election made by the taxpayer under division (B)(1) or (B)(2) of this
section is binding upon the Tax Commissioner for the remainder of the five-year
period.
         When an election made under R.C. § 718.80 is terminated, a valid
election under R.C. § 718.86 is binding upon the Tax Administrator for the
remainder of the five-year period.
   (C)   A taxpayer that is a member of an affiliated group of corporations
that filed a consolidated federal income tax return for a taxable year shall
file a consolidated municipal income tax return for that taxable year if the
Tax Administrator determines, by a preponderance of the evidence, that
intercompany transactions have not been conducted at arm's length and that
there has been a distortive shifting of income or expenses with regard to
allocation of net profits to the municipal corporation. A taxpayer that is
required to file a consolidated municipal income tax return for a taxable year
shall file a consolidated municipal income tax return for all subsequent
taxable years unless the taxpayer requests and receives written permission from
the Tax Administrator to file a separate return or a taxpayer has experienced a
change in circumstances.
   (D)   A taxpayer shall prepare a consolidated municipal income tax return in
the same manner as is required under the United States Department of Treasury
regulations that prescribe procedures for the preparation of the consolidated
federal income tax return required to be filed by the common parent of the
affiliated group of which the taxpayer is a member.
   (E)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (E)(2), (E)(3), and
(E)(4) of this section, corporations that file a consolidated municipal income
tax return shall compute adjusted federal taxable income, as defined in §
152.03(C)(1), by substituting "consolidated federal taxable income" for
"federal taxable income" wherever "federal taxable income" appears in that
division and by substituting "an affiliated group of corporation's" for "a C
corporation's" wherever "a C corporation's" appears in that division.
      (2)   No corporation filing a consolidated municipal income tax return
shall make any adjustment otherwise required §
152.03(C)(1) to the extent that the item of income or deduction otherwise
subject to the adjustment has been eliminated or consolidated in the
computation of consolidated federal taxable income.
      (3)   If the net profit or loss of a pass-through entity having at least
80% of the value of its ownership interest owned or controlled, directly or
indirectly, by an affiliated group of corporations is included in that
affiliated group's consolidated federal taxable income for a taxable year, the
corporation filing a consolidated municipal income tax return shall do one of
the following with respect to that pass-through entity's net profit or loss for
that taxable year:
         (a)   Exclude the pass-through entity's net profit or loss from the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purpose of making the computations required in §
152.062, exclude the property, payroll, and gross receipts of the pass-through
entity in the computation of the affiliated group's net profit sitused to a
municipal corporation. If the entity's net profit or loss is so excluded, the
entity shall be subject to taxation as a separate taxpayer on the basis of the
entity's net profits that would otherwise be included in the consolidated
federal taxable income of the affiliated group.
         (b)   Include the pass-through entity's net profit or loss in the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purpose of making the computations required in §
152.062, include the property, payroll, and gross receipts of the pass-through
entity in the computation of the affiliated group's net profit sitused to a
municipal corporation. If the entity's net profit or loss is so included, the
entity shall not be subject to taxation as a separate taxpayer on the basis of
the entity's net profits that are included in the consolidated federal taxable
income of the affiliated group.
      (4)   If the net profit or loss of a pass-through entity having less than
80% of the value of its ownership interest owned or controlled, directly or
indirectly, by an affiliated group of corporations is included in that
affiliated group's consolidated federal taxable income for a taxable year, all
of the following shall apply:
         (a)   The corporation filing the consolidated municipal income tax
return shall exclude the pass-through entity's net profit or loss from the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purposes of making the computations required in §
152.062, exclude the property, payroll, and gross receipts of the pass-through
entity in the computation of the affiliated group's net profit sitused to a
municipal corporation;
         (b)   The pass-through entity shall be subject to municipal income
taxation as a separate taxpayer in accordance with this chapter on the basis of
the entity's net profits that would otherwise be included in the consolidated
federal taxable income of the affiliated group.
   (F)   Corporations filing a consolidated municipal income tax return shall
make the computations required under §
152.062 by substituting "consolidated federal taxable income attributable to"
for "net profit from" wherever "net profit from" appears in that section and by
substituting "affiliated group of corporations" for "taxpayer" wherever
"taxpayer" appears in that section.
   (G)   Each corporation filing a consolidated municipal income tax return is
jointly and severally liable for any tax, interest, penalties, fines, charges,
or other amounts imposed by a municipal corporation in accordance with this
chapter on the corporation, an affiliated group of which the corporation is a
member for any portion of the taxable year, or any one or more members of such
an affiliated group.
   (H)   Corporations and their affiliates that made an election or entered
into an agreement with a municipal corporation before January 1, 2016, to file
a consolidated or combined tax return with such municipal corporation may
continue to file consolidated or combined tax returns in accordance with such
election or agreement for taxable years beginning on and after January 1, 2016.
(Ord. 2015-112, passed 11-10-15; Am. Ord. 2018-007, passed 2-13-18)
§ 152.064 TAX CREDIT FOR BUSINESSES THAT FOSTER NEW JOBS IN OHIO.
   The municipality, by ordinance, may grant a refundable or nonrefundable
credit against its tax on income to a taxpayer to foster job creation in the
municipality. If a credit is granted under this section, it shall be measured
as a percentage of the new income tax revenue the municipality derives from new
employees of the taxpayer and shall be for a term not exceeding 15 years.
Before the municipality passes an ordinance granting a credit, the municipality
and the taxpayer shall enter into an agreement specifying all the conditions of
the credit.
(Ord. 2015-112, passed 11-10-15)
§ 152.065 TAX CREDITS TO FOSTER JOB RETENTION.
   The municipality, by ordinance, may grant a refundable or nonrefundable
credit against its tax on income to a taxpayer for the purpose of fostering job
retention in the municipality. If a credit is granted under this section, it
shall be measured as a percentage of the income tax revenue the municipality
derives from the retained employees of the taxpayer, and shall be for a term
not exceeding 15 years. Before the municipality passes an ordinance allowing
such a credit, the municipality and the taxpayer shall enter into an agreement
specifying all the conditions of the credit.
(Ord. 2015-112, passed 11-10-15)
§ 152.07 DECLARATION OF ESTIMATED TAX.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   ESTIMATED TAXES means the amount that the taxpayer reasonably
estimates to be the taxpayer's tax liability for a municipal corporation's
income tax for the current taxable year.
      (2)   TAX LIABILITY means the total taxes due to a municipal corporation
for the taxable year, after allowing any credit to which the taxpayer is
entitled, and after applying any estimated tax payment, withholding payment, or
credit from another taxable year.
   (B)   (1)   Every taxpayer shall make a declaration of estimated taxes for
the current taxable year, on the form prescribed by the Tax Administrator, if
the amount payable as estimated taxes is at least $200. For the purposes of
this section:
         (a)   Taxes withheld from qualifying wages shall be considered as paid
to the municipal corporation for which the taxes were withheld in equal amounts
on each payment date. If the taxpayer establishes the dates on which all
amounts were actually withheld, the amounts withheld shall be considered as
paid on the dates on which the amounts were actually withheld.
         (b)   An overpayment of tax applied as a credit to a subsequent
taxable year is deemed to be paid on the date of the postmark stamped on the
cover in which the payment is mailed or, if the payment is made by electronic
funds transfer, the date the payment is submitted. As used in this division,
DATE OF THE POSTMARK means, in the event there is more than one date on the
cover, the earliest date imprinted on the cover by the postal service.
         (c)   A taxpayer having a taxable year of less than 12 months shall
make a declaration under rules prescribed by the Tax Administrator.
         (d)   Taxes withheld by a casino operator or by a lottery sales agent
under R.C. § 718.031 are deemed to be paid to the municipal corporation for
which the taxes were withheld on the date the taxes are withheld from the
taxpayer's winnings.
      (2)   Taxpayers filing joint returns shall file joint declarations of
estimated taxes.
      (3)   The declaration of estimated taxes shall be filed on or before the
date prescribed for the filing of municipal income tax returns under §
152.091(G) or on or before the 15th day of the fourth month of the first
taxable year after the taxpayer becomes subject to tax for the first time.
      (4)   Taxpayers reporting on a fiscal year basis shall file a declaration
on or before the 15th day of the fourth month after the beginning of each
fiscal year or period.
      (5)   The original declaration or any subsequent amendment may be
increased or decreased on or before any subsequent quarterly payment day as
provided in this section.
   (C)   (1)   The required portion of the tax liability for the taxable year
that shall be paid through estimated taxes made payable to the municipality or
Tax Administrator, including the application of tax refunds to estimated taxes
and withholding on or before the applicable payment date, shall be as follows:
         (a)   On or before the 15th day of the fourth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, 22.5% of the tax liability for the taxable year;
         (b)   On or before the 15th day of the sixth month after the beginning
of the taxable year, 45% of the tax liability for the taxable year;
         (c)   On or before the 15th day of the ninth month after the beginning
of the taxable year, 67.5% of the tax liability for the taxable year;
         (d)    For an individual, on or before the 15th day of the first month
of the following taxable year, 90% of the tax liability for the taxable year.
For a person other than an individual, on or before the 15th day of the 12th
month of the taxable year, 90% of the tax liability for the taxable year.
      (2)   A taxpayer may amend a declaration under rules, if any, prescribed
by the Tax Administrator. When an amended declaration has been filed, the
unpaid balance shown due on the amended declaration shall be paid in equal
installments on or before the remaining payment dates. The amended declaration
must be filed on the next applicable due date as outlined in divisions (C)(1)
(a) through (d) of this section.
      (3)   On or before the 15th day of the fourth month of the year following
that for which the declaration or amended declaration was filed, an annual
return shall be filed and any balance which may be due shall be paid with the
return in accordance with §
152.091.
         (a)   For taxpayers who are individuals, or who are not individuals
and are reporting and filing on a calendar year basis, the annual tax return is
due on the same date as the filing of the federal tax return, unless extended
pursuant to division (G) of R.C. § 5747.08.
         (b)   For taxpayers who are not individuals, and are reporting and
filing on a fiscal year basis or any period other than a calendar year, the
annual return is due on the 15th day of the fourth month following the end of
the taxable year or period.
      (4)   An amended declaration is required whenever the taxpayer's
estimated tax liability changes during the taxable year. A change in estimated
tax liability may either increase or decrease the estimated tax liability for
the taxable year.
   (D)   (1)   In the case of any underpayment of any portion of a tax
liability, penalty and interest may be imposed pursuant to §
152.10 upon the amount of underpayment for the period of underpayment, unless
the underpayment is due to reasonable cause as described in division (E) of
this section. The amount of the underpayment shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   For the first payment of estimated taxes each year, 22.5% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment;
         (b)   For the second payment of estimated taxes each year, 45% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment;
         (c)   For the third payment of estimated taxes each year, 67.5% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment;
         (d)   For the fourth payment of estimated taxes each year, 90% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment.
      (2)   The period of the underpayment shall run from the day the estimated
payment was required to be made to the date on which the payment is made. For
purposes of this section, a payment of estimated taxes on or before any payment
date shall be considered a payment of any previous underpayment only to the
extent the payment of estimated taxes exceeds the amount of the payment
presently required to be paid to avoid any penalty.
   (E)   An underpayment of any portion of tax liability determined under
division (D) of this section shall be due to reasonable cause and the penalty
imposed by this section shall not be added to the taxes for the taxable year if
any of the following apply:
      (1)   The amount of estimated taxes that were paid equals at least 90% of
the tax liability for the current taxable year, determined by annualizing the
income received during the year up to the end of the month immediately
preceding the month in which the payment is due.
      (2)   The amount of estimated taxes that were paid equals at least 100%
of the tax liability shown on the return of the taxpayer for the preceding
taxable year, provided that the immediately preceding taxable year reflected a
period of 12 months and the taxpayer filed a return with the municipal
corporation under §
152.091 for that year.
      (3)   The taxpayer is an individual who resides in the municipality but
was not domiciled there on the first day of January of the calendar year that
includes the first day of the taxable year.
   (F)   A Tax Administrator may waive the requirement for filing a declaration
of estimated taxes for any class of taxpayers after finding that the waiver is
reasonable and proper in view of administrative costs and other factors.
(Ord. 2015-112, passed 11-10-15; Am. Ord. 2018-007, passed 2-13-18)
§ 152.08 CREDIT FOR TAX PAID.
§ 152.081 CREDITS FOR TAXES PAID TO OTHER MUNICIPALITIES.
   (A)   Every taxpayer domiciled in the municipality who is required to and
does pay, or has acknowledged liability for, a municipal tax to another
municipal corporation on or measured by the same income that is taxable income
under this chapter may claim a nonrefundable credit upon satisfactory evidence
of the tax paid to the other municipal corporation. Effective January 1, 2017,
resident taxpayers of the city shall receive .50% credit for income tax paid to
another municipality from the current 1% income tax due the city. In no event
shall the amount of the credit exceed .50% of the income subject to taxation as
herein provided and applicable to the allocation of funds as per §
152.013. Effective January 1, 2024, resident taxpayers of the city shall
receive 1% credit for income tax paid to another municipality from the
effective January 1, 2024, 1.50% income tax due the city. In no event shall the
amount of the credit exceed 1% of the income subject to taxation as herein
provided and applicable to the allocation of funds as per §
152.013. The January 1, 2024, credit change to 1% applies to income earned
after January 1, 2024. The .50% credit continues to apply to income earned
between January l, 2024, and December 31, 2023. Subject to division (C) of this
section, the credit shall not exceed the tax due the municipality under this
chapter.
   (B)   If tax or withholding is paid on income or wages to a municipal
corporation other than the municipality and the municipality also imposes or
assesses a tax on that same income or wages after the time period allowed for a
refund of the tax or withholding paid to the other municipal corporations, the
municipality shall allow a nonrefundable credit, against the tax or withholding
to the municipality with respect to such income or wages, equal to the tax or
withholding paid to the first municipal corporation with respect to such income
or wages.
      (1)   If the tax rate in the municipality is less than the tax rate in
the other municipal corporation, then the credit described herein shall be
calculated using the tax rate in effect in the municipality.
      (2)   If the tax rate in the municipality is greater than the tax rate in
the other municipal corporation, the tax due in excess of the credit afforded
is to be paid to the municipality of Lebanon, along with any penalty and
interest accruing thereto during the period of nonpayment.
   (C)   The municipality shall grant a credit against its tax on income to a
resident of the municipality who works in a county that imposes an income tax,
to the same extent that it grants a credit against its tax on income to its
residents who are employed in another municipal corporation.
(Ord. 2015-112, passed 11-10-15; Am. Ord. 2016-078, passed 8-23-16; Am. Ord.
2021-113, passed 11-23-21; Am. Ord. 2023-116, passed 11-28-2023)
§ 152.082 REFUNDABLE CREDIT FOR QUALIFYING LOSS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   NONQUALIFIED DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN means a compensation plan
described in section 3121(v)(2)(C) of the Internal Revenue Code.
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (A)(2)(b) of this section,
QUALIFYING LOSS means the excess, if any, of the total amount of compensation
the payment of which is deferred pursuant to a nonqualified deferred
compensation plan over the total amount of income the taxpayer has recognized
for federal income tax purposes for all taxable years on a cumulative basis as
compensation with respect to the taxpayer's receipt of money and property
attributable to distributions in connection with the nonqualified deferred
compensation plan.
         (b)   If, for one or more taxable years, the taxpayer has not paid to
one or more municipal corporations income tax imposed on the entire amount of
compensation the payment of which is deferred pursuant to a nonqualified
deferred compensation plan, then the QUALIFYING LOSS is the product of the
amount resulting from the calculation described in division (A)(2)(a) of this
section computed without regard to division (A)(2)(b) of this section and a
fraction the numerator of which is the portion of such compensation on which
the taxpayer has paid income tax to one or more municipal corporations and the
denominator of which is the total amount of compensation the payment of which
is deferred pursuant to a nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
         (c)   With respect to a nonqualified deferred compensation plan, the
taxpayer sustains a qualifying loss only in the taxable year in which the
taxpayer receives the final distribution of money and property pursuant to that
nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
      (3)   QUALIFYING TAX RATE means the applicable tax rate for the taxable
year for which the taxpayer paid income tax to a municipal corporation with
respect to any portion of the total amount of compensation the payment of which
is deferred pursuant to a nonqualified deferred compensation plan. If different
tax rates applied for different taxable years, then the QUALIFYING TAX RATE is
a weighted average of those different tax rates. The weighted average shall be
based upon the tax paid to the municipal corporation each year with respect to
the nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (D) of this section, a refundable
credit shall be allowed against the income tax imposed by a municipal
corporation for each qualifying loss sustained by a taxpayer during the taxable
year. The amount of the credit shall be equal to the product of the qualifying
loss and the qualifying tax rate.
      (2)   A taxpayer shall claim the credit allowed under this section from
each municipal corporation to which the taxpayer paid municipal income tax with
respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation plan in one or more taxable
years.
      (3)   If a taxpayer has paid tax to more than one municipal corporation
with respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation plan, the amount of the
credit that a taxpayer may claim from each municipal corporation shall be
calculated on the basis of each municipal corporation's proportionate share of
the total municipal corporation income tax paid by the taxpayer to all
municipal corporations with respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation
plan.
      (4)   In no case shall the amount of the credit allowed under this
section exceed the cumulative income tax that a taxpayer has paid to a
municipal corporation for all taxable years with respect to the nonqualified
deferred compensation plan.
   (C)   (1)   For purposes of this section, municipal corporation income tax
that has been withheld with respect to a nonqualified deferred compensation
plan shall be considered to have been paid by the taxpayer with respect to the
nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
      (2)   Any municipal income tax that has been refunded or otherwise
credited for the benefit of the taxpayer with respect to a nonqualified
deferred compensation plan shall not be considered to have been paid to the
municipal corporation by the taxpayer.
   (D)   The credit allowed under this section is allowed only to the extent
the taxpayer's qualifying loss is attributable to:
      (1)   The insolvency or bankruptcy of the employer who had established
the nonqualified deferred compensation plan; or
      (2)   The employee's failure or inability to satisfy all of the
employer's terms and conditions necessary to receive the nonqualified deferred
compensation.
(Ord. 2015-112, passed 11-10-15)
§ 152.083 CREDIT FOR PERSON WORKING IN JOINT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT OR
ZONE.
   The municipality shall grant a credit against its tax on income to a
resident of the municipality who works in a joint economic development zone
created under R.C. § 715.691 or a joint economic development district created
under R.C. § 715.70, 715.71, or 715.72 to the same extent that it grants a
credit against its tax on income to its residents who are employed in another
municipal corporation, pursuant to §
152.081.
(Ord. 2015-112, passed 11-10-15)
§ 152.084 CREDIT FOR TAX BEYOND STATUTE FOR OBTAINING REFUND.
   (A)   Income tax that has been deposited or paid to the municipality, but
should have been deposited or paid to another municipal corporation, is
allowable by the municipality as a refund, but is subject to the three-year
limitation on refunds as provided in §
152.096.
   (B)   Income tax that should have been deposited or paid to the
municipality, but was deposited or paid to another municipal corporation, shall
be subject to collection and recovery by the municipality. To the extent a
refund of such tax or withholding is barred by the limitation on refunds as
provided in §
152.096, the municipality will allow a non-refundable credit equal to the tax
or withholding paid to the other municipality against the income tax the
municipality claims is due. If the municipality's tax rate is higher, the tax
representing the net difference of the tax rates is also subject to collection
by the municipality, along with any penalty and interest accruing during the
period of nonpayment.
   (C)   No carryforward of credit will be permitted when the overpayment is
beyond the three-year limitation for refunding of same as provided in §
152.096.
   (D)   Nothing in this section requires a municipality to allow credit for
tax paid to another municipal corporation if the municipality has reduced
credit for tax paid to another municipal corporation. Section
152.081 regarding any limitation on credit shall prevail.
(Ord. 2015-112, passed 11-10-15)
§ 152.09 ANNUAL RETURN.
§ 152.091 RETURN AND PAYMENT OF TAX.
   (A)   (1)   An annual return with respect to the income tax levied on
municipal taxable income by the municipality shall be completed and filed by
every taxpayer for any taxable year for which the taxpayer is subject to the
tax, regardless of whether or not income tax is due.
      (2)   The Tax Administrator shall accept on behalf of all nonresident
individual taxpayers a return filed by an employer, agent of an employer, or
other payer located in the municipality under §
152.051(C) when the nonresident individual taxpayer's sole income subject to
the tax is the qualifying wages reported by the employer, agent of an employer,
or other payer, and no additional tax is due to the municipality.
      (3)   All individual taxpayers shall file an annual municipal income tax
return with the municipality, regardless of income or liability.
   (B)   If an individual is deceased, any return or notice required of that
individual shall be completed and filed by that decedent's executor,
administrator, or other person charged with the property of that decedent.
   (C)   If an individual is unable to complete and file a return or notice
required by the municipality in accordance with this chapter, the return or
notice required of that individual shall be completed and filed by the
individual's duly authorized agent, guardian, conservator, fiduciary, or other
person charged with the care of the person or property of that individual. Such
duly authorized agent, guardian, conservator, fiduciary, or other person
charged with the care of the person or property of that individual shall
provide, with the filing of the return, appropriate documentation to support
that they are authorized to file a return or notice on behalf of the taxpayer.
This notice shall include any legally binding authorizations, and contact
information including name, address, and phone number of the duly authorized
agent, guardian, conservator, fiduciary, or other person.
   (D)   Returns or notices required of an estate or a trust shall be completed
and filed by the fiduciary of the estate or trust. Such fiduciary shall
provide, with the filing of the return, appropriate documentation to support
that they are authorized to file a return or notice on behalf of the taxpayer.
This notice shall include any legally binding authorizations, and contact
information including name, address, and phone number of the fiduciary.
   (E)   The municipality shall permit spouses the ability to file a joint
return.
   (F)   (1)   Each return required to be filed under this section shall
contain the signature of the taxpayer or the taxpayer's duly authorized agent
and of the person who prepared the return for the taxpayer, and shall include
the taxpayer's Social Security number or taxpayer identification number. Each
return shall be verified by a declaration under penalty of perjury.
      (2)   A taxpayer who is an individual is required to include, with each
annual return, amended return, or request for refund required under this
section, copies of only the following documents: all of the taxpayer's Internal
Revenue Service form W-2, "Wage and Tax Statements," including all information
reported on the taxpayer's federal W-2, as well as taxable wages reported or
withheld for any municipal corporation; the taxpayer's Internal Revenue Service
form 1040; and, with respect to an amended tax return or refund request, any
other documentation necessary to support the refund request or the adjustments
made in the amended return. An individual taxpayer who files the annual return
required by this section electronically is not required to provide paper copies
of any of the foregoing to the Tax Administrator unless the Tax Administrator
requests such copies after the return has been filed.
      (3)   A taxpayer that is not an individual is required to include, with
each annual net profit return, amended net profit return, or request for refund
required under this section, copies of only the following documents: the
taxpayer's Internal Revenue Service form 1041, form 1065, form 1120, form 1120-
REIT, form 1120F, or form 1120S, and, with respect to an amended tax return or
refund request, any other documentation necessary to support the refund request
or the adjustments made in the amended return.
      (4)   A taxpayer that is not an individual and that files an annual net
profit return electronically through the Ohio Business Gateway or in some other
manner shall either mail the documents required under this division to the Tax
Administrator at the time of filing or, if electronic submission is available,
submit the documents electronically through the Ohio Business Gateway or a
portal provided by the municipality. If the Department of Taxation publishes a
method of electronically submitting the documents required under this division
through the Ohio Business Gateway on or before January 1, 2016, then the
Department may transmit all documents submitted electronically under this
division to the Tax Administrator.
      (5)   After a taxpayer files a tax return, the Tax Administrator shall
request, and the taxpayer shall provide, any information, statements, or
documents required by the municipality to determine and verify the taxpayer's
municipal income tax liability. The requirements imposed under division (F) of
this section apply regardless of whether the taxpayer files on a generic form
or on a form prescribed by the Tax Administrator.
      (6)   Any other documentation, including schedules, other municipal
income tax returns, or other supporting documentation necessary to verify
credits, income, losses, or other pertinent factors on the return shall also be
included to avoid delay in processing, or disallowance by the Tax Administrator
of undocumented credits or losses.
   (G)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, each
individual income tax return required to be filed under this section shall be
completed and filed as required by the Tax Administrator on or before the date
prescribed for the filing of state individual income tax returns under division
(G) of R.C. §
5747.08. The taxpayer shall complete and file the return or notice on forms
prescribed by the Tax Administrator or on generic forms, together with
remittance made payable to the municipality or Tax Administrator.
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, each annual net
profit income tax return required to be filed under this section by a taxpayer
that is not an individual shall be completed and filed as required by the Tax
Administrator on or before the 15th day of the fourth month following the end
of the taxpayer's taxable year or period. The taxpayer shall complete and file
the return or notice on forms prescribed by the Tax Administrator or on generic
forms, together with remittance made payable to the municipality or Tax
Administrator.
         (c)   In the case of individual income tax return required to be filed
by an individual, and net profit income tax return required to be filed by a
taxpayer who is not an individual, no remittance is required if the amount
shown to be due is $10 or less.
      (2)   If the Tax Administrator considers it necessary in order to ensure
the payment of the tax imposed by the municipality in accordance with this
chapter, the Tax Administrator may require taxpayers to file returns and make
payments otherwise than as provided in this section, including taxpayers not
otherwise required to file annual returns.
      (3)   With respect to taxpayers to whom §
152.092 applies, to the extent that any provision in this division conflicts
with any provision in §
152.092, the provision in §
152.092 prevails.
   (H)   (1)   For taxable years beginning after 2015, the municipality shall
not require a taxpayer to remit tax with respect to net profits if the amount
due is $10 or less.
      (2)   Any taxpayer not required to remit tax to the municipality for a
taxable year pursuant to division (H)(1) of this section shall file with the
municipality an annual net profit return under division (F)(3) and (F)(4) of
this section.
   (I)   This division shall not apply to payments required to be made under §
152.051(B)(1)(b).
      (1)   If any report, claim, statement, or other document required to be
filed, or any payment required to be made, within a prescribed period or on or
before a prescribed date under this chapter is delivered after that period or
that to the Tax Administrator or other municipal official with which the
report, claim, statement, or other document is required to be filed, or to
which the payment is required to be made, the date of the postmark stamped on
the cover in which the report, claim, statement, or other document, or payment
is mailed shall be deemed to be the date of delivery or the date of payment.
THE DATE OF POSTMARK means, in the event there is more than one date on the
cover, the earliest date imprinted on the cover by the postal service.
      (2)   If a payment is required to be made by electronic funds transfer,
the payment is considered to be made when the payment is credited to an account
designated by the Tax Administrator for the receipt of tax payments, except
that, when a payment made by electronic funds transfer is delayed due to
circumstances not under the control of the taxpayer, the payment is considered
to be made when the taxpayer submitted the payment. For purposes of this
section, SUBMITTED THE PAYMENT means the date which the taxpayer has designated
for the delivery of payment, which may or may not be the same date as the date
the payment was initiated by the taxpayer.
   (J)   The amounts withheld for the municipality by an employer, the agent of
an employer, or other payer as described in §
152.051 shall be allowed to the recipient of the compensation as credits
against payment of the tax imposed on the recipient unless the amounts withheld
were not remitted to the municipality and the recipient colluded with the
employer, agent, or other payer in connection with the failure to remit the
amounts withheld.
   (K)   Each return required by the municipality to be filed in accordance
with this section shall include a box that the taxpayer may check to authorize
another person, including a tax return preparer who prepared the return, to
communicate with the Tax Administrator about matters pertaining to the return.
The return or instructions accompanying the return shall indicate that by
checking the box the taxpayer authorizes the Tax Administrator to contact the
preparer or other person concerning questions that arise during the examination
or other review of the return and authorizes the preparer or other person only
to provide the Tax Administrator with information that is missing from the
return, to contact the Tax Administrator for information about the examination
or other review of the return or the status of the taxpayer's refund or
payments, and to respond to notices about mathematical errors, offsets, or
return preparation that the taxpayer has received from the Tax Administrator
and has shown to the preparer or other person. Authorization by the taxpayer of
another person to communicate with the Tax Administrator about matters
pertaining to the return does not preclude the Tax Administrator from
contacting the taxpayer regarding such matters.
   (L)   The Tax Administrator of the municipality shall accept for filing a
generic form of any income tax return, report, or document required by the
municipality in accordance with this chapter, provided that the generic form,
once completed and filed, contains all of the information required by
ordinances, resolutions, or rules adopted by the municipality or Tax
Administrator, and provided that the taxpayer or tax return preparer filing the
generic form otherwise complies with the provisions of this chapter and of the
municipality's ordinance or resolution governing the filing of returns,
reports, or documents.
   (M)   When income tax returns, reports, or other documents require the
signature of a tax return preparer, the Tax Administrator shall accept a
facsimile of such a signature in lieu of a manual signature.
   (N)   (1)   As used in this division, WORKSITE LOCATION has the same meaning
as in §
152.052.
      (2)   A person may notify a Tax Administrator that the person does not
expect to be a taxpayer with respect to the municipal corporation for a taxable
year if both of the following conditions apply:
         (a)   The person was required to file a tax return with the municipal
corporation for the immediately preceding taxable year because the person
performed services at a worksite location within the municipal corporation, and
the person has filed all appropriate and required returns and remitted all
applicable income tax and withholding payments as provided by this chapter. The
Tax Administrator is not required to accept an affidavit from a taxpayer who
has not complied with the provisions of this chapter.
         (b)   The person no longer provides services in the municipal
corporation, and does not expect to be subject to the municipal corporation's
income tax for the taxable year.
         The person shall provide the notice in a signed affidavit that briefly
explains the person's circumstances, including the location of the previous
worksite location and the last date on which the person performed services or
made any sales within the municipal corporation. The affidavit also shall
include the following statement: "The affiant has no plans to perform any
services within the municipal corporation, make any sales in the municipal
corporation, or otherwise become subject to the tax levied by the municipal
corporation during the taxable year. If the affiant does become subject to the
tax levied by the municipal corporation for the taxable year, the affiant
agrees to be considered a taxpayer and to properly register as a taxpayer with
the municipal corporation, if such a registration is required by the municipal
corporation's resolutions, ordinances, or rules." The person shall sign the
affidavit under penalty of perjury.
         (c)   If a person submits an affidavit described in division (N)(2) of
this section, the Tax Administrator shall not require the person to file any
tax return for the taxable year unless the Tax Administrator possesses
information that conflicts with the affidavit or if the circumstances described
in the affidavit change, or the taxpayer has engaged in activity which results
in work being performed, services provided, sales made, or other activity that
results in municipal taxable income reportable to the municipality in the
taxable year. It shall be the responsibility of the taxpayer to comply with the
provisions of this chapter relating to the reporting and filing of municipal
taxable income on an annual municipal income tax return, even if an affidavit
has been filed with the Tax Administrator for the taxable year. Nothing in
division (N) of this section prohibits the Tax Administrator from performing an
audit of the person.
(Ord. 2015-112, passed 11-10-15)
§ 152.092 RETURN AND PAYMENT OF TAX; INDIVIDUALS SERVING IN COMBAT ZONE.
   (A)   Each member of the national guard of any state and each member of a
reserve component of the Armed Forces of the United States called to active
duty pursuant to an executive order issued by the President of the United
States or an act of the Congress of the United States, and each civilian
serving as support personnel in a combat zone or contingency operation in
support of the Armed Forces, may apply to the Tax Administrator of the
municipality for both an extension of time for filing of the return and an
extension of time for payment of taxes required by the municipality in
accordance with this chapter during the period of the member's or civilian's
duty service and for 180 days thereafter. The application shall be filed on or
before the 180th day after the member's or civilian's duty terminates. An
applicant shall provide such evidence as the Tax Administrator considers
necessary to demonstrate eligibility for the extension.
   (B)   (1)   If the Tax Administrator ascertains that an applicant is
qualified for an extension under this section, the Tax Administrator shall
enter into a contract with the applicant for the payment of the tax in
installments that begin on the 181st day after the applicant's active duty or
service terminates. Except as provided in division (B)(3) of this section, the
Tax Administrator may prescribe such contract terms as the Tax Administrator
considers appropriate.
      (2)   If the Tax Administrator ascertains that an applicant is qualified
for an extension under this section, the applicant shall neither be required to
file any return, report, or other tax document nor be required to pay any tax
otherwise due to the municipality before the 181st day after the applicant's
active duty or service terminates.
      (3)   Taxes paid pursuant to a contract entered into under division (B)
(1) of this section are not delinquent. The Tax Administrator shall not require
any payments of penalties or interest in connection with those taxes for the
extension period.
   (C)   (1)   Nothing in this division denies to any person described in this
division the application of divisions (A) and (B) of this section.
      (2)   (a)   A qualifying taxpayer who is eligible for an extension under
the Internal Revenue Code shall receive both an extension of time in which to
file any return, report, or other tax document and an extension of time in
which to make any payment of taxes required by the municipality in accordance
with this chapter. The length of any extension granted under division (C)(2)(a)
of this section shall be equal to the length of the corresponding extension
that the taxpayer receives under the Internal Revenue Code. As used in this
section, QUALIFYING TAXPAYER means a member of the national guard or a member
of a reserve component of the Armed Forces of the United States called to
active duty pursuant to either an executive order issued by the President of
the United States or an act of the Congress of the United States, or a civilian
serving as support personnel in a combat zone or contingency operation in
support of the Armed Forces.
         (b)   Taxes the payment of which is extended in accordance with
division (C)(2)(a) of this section are not delinquent during the extension
period. Such taxes become delinquent on the first day after the expiration of
the extension period if the taxes are not paid prior to that date. The Tax
Administrator shall not require any payment of penalties or interest in
connection with those taxes for the extension period. The Tax Administrator
shall not include any period of extension granted under division (C)(2)(a) of
this section in calculating the penalty or interest due on any unpaid tax.
   (D)   For each taxable year to which division (A), (B), or (C) of this
section applies to a taxpayer, the provisions of divisions (B)(2) and (B)(3) or
(C) of this section, as applicable, apply to the spouse of that taxpayer if the
filing status of the spouse and the taxpayer is married filing jointly for that
year.
(Ord. 2015-112, passed 11-10-15)
§ 152.093 USE OF OHIO BUSINESS GATEWAY; TYPES OF FILINGS AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   Any taxpayer subject to municipal income taxation with respect to the
taxpayer's net profit from a business or profession may file any municipal
income tax return or, estimated municipal income tax return, or extension for
filing a municipal income tax return, and may make payment of amounts shown to
be due on such returns, by using the Ohio Business Gateway.
   (B)   Any employer, agent of an employer, or other payer may report the
amount of municipal income tax withheld from qualifying wages, and may make
remittance of such amounts, by using the Ohio Business Gateway.
   (C)   Nothing in this section affects the due dates for filing employer
withholding tax returns or deposit of any required tax.
   (D)   The use of the Ohio Business Gateway by municipal corporations,
taxpayers, or other persons does not affect the legal rights of municipalities
or taxpayers as otherwise permitted by law. The state shall not be a party to
the administration of municipal income taxes or to an appeal of a municipal
income tax matter, except as otherwise specifically provided by law.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as limiting or removing the
authority of any municipal corporation to administer, audit, and enforce the
provisions of its municipal income tax.
(Ord. 2015-112, passed 11-10-15)
§ 152.094 EXTENSION OF TIME TO FILE.
   (A)    Any taxpayer that has duly requested an automatic six-month extension
for filing the taxpayer's federal income tax return shall automatically receive
an extension for the filing of a municipal income tax return. The extended due
date of the municipal income tax return shall be the 15th day of the tenth
month after the last day of the taxable year to which the return relates. For
tax years ending on or after January 1, 2023, the extended due date of the
Lebanon tax return for a taxpayer that is not an individual shall be the 15th
day of the eleventh month after the last day of the taxable year to which the
return relates.
   (B)   Any taxpayer that qualifies for an automatic federal extension for a
period other than six-months for filing the taxpayer's federal income tax
return shall automatically receive an extension for the filing of a municipal
income tax return. The extended due date of the municipal income tax return
shall be the same as that of the extended federal income tax return.
   (C)   A taxpayer that has not requested or received a six-month extension
for filing the taxpayer's federal income tax return may request that the Tax
Administrator grant the taxpayer a six-month extension of the date for filing
the taxpayer's municipal income tax return. If the request is received by the
Tax Administrator on or before the date the municipal income tax return is due,
the Tax Administrator shall grant the taxpayer's requested extension.
   (D)   An extension of time to file under this chapter is not an extension of
the time to pay any tax due unless the Tax Administrator grants an extension of
that date.
   (E)   If the state Tax Commissioner extends for all taxpayers the date for
filing state income tax returns under division (G) of R.C. § 5747.08, a
taxpayer shall automatically receive an extension for the filing of a municipal
income tax return. The extended due date of the municipal income tax return
shall be the same as the extended due date of the state income tax return.
   (F)   If a taxpayer receives an extension for the filing of a municipal
income tax return under division (A) or (B) of this section, the tax
administrator shall not make any inquiry or send any notice to the taxpayer
with regard to the return on or before the date the taxpayer files the return
or on or before the extended due date to file the return, whichever occurs
first.
      If a tax administrator violates this division, the municipal corporation
shall reimburse the taxpayer for any reasonable costs incurred to respond to
such inquiry or notice, up to $150.
      This division (F) does not apply to an extension received under division
(A) of this section if the tax administrator has actual knowledge that the
taxpayer failed to file for a federal extension as required to receive the
extension under division (A) of this section or failed to file for an extension
under division (B) of this section.
(Ord. 2015-112, passed 11-10-15; Am. Ord. 2023-115, passed 11-28-23)
§ 152.095 AMENDED RETURNS.
   (A)   (1)   A taxpayer shall file an amended return with the Tax
Administrator in such form as the Tax Administrator requires if any of the
facts, figures, computations, or attachments required in the taxpayer's annual
return to determine the tax due levied by the municipality in accordance with
this chapter must be altered.
      (2)   Within 60 days after the final determination of any federal or
state tax liability affecting the taxpayer's municipal tax liability, that
taxpayer shall make and file an amended municipal return showing income subject
to the municipal income tax based upon such final determination of federal or
state tax liability, and pay any additional municipal income tax shown due
thereon or make a claim for refund of any overpayment, unless the tax or
overpayment is $10 or less.
      (3)   If a taxpayer intends to file an amended consolidated municipal
income tax return, or to amend its type of return from a separate return to a
consolidated return, based on the taxpayer's consolidated federal income tax
return, the taxpayer shall notify the Tax Administrator before filing the
amended return.
   (B)   (1)   In the case of an underpayment, the amended return shall be
accompanied by payment of any combined additional tax due together with any
penalty and interest thereon. If the combined tax shown to be due is $10 or
less, such amount need not accompany the amended return. Except as provided
under division (B)(2) of this section, the amended return shall not reopen
those facts, figures, computations, or attachments from a previously filed
return that are not affected, either directly or indirectly, by the adjustment
to the taxpayer's federal or state income tax return unless the applicable
statute of limitations for civil actions or prosecutions under §
152.19 has not expired for a previously filed return.
      (2)   The additional tax to be paid shall not exceed the amount of tax
that would be due if all facts, figures, computations, and attachments were
reopened.
   (C)   (1)   In the case of an overpayment, a request for refund may be filed
under this division within the period prescribed by §
152.19(A)(2) for filing the amended return even if it is filed beyond the
period prescribed in that division if it otherwise conforms to the requirements
of that division. If the amount of the refund is $10 or less, no refund need be
paid by the municipality to the taxpayer. Except as set forth in division (C)
(2) of this section, a request filed under this division shall claim refund of
overpayments resulting from alterations to only those facts, figures,
computations, or attachments required in the taxpayer's annual return that are
affected, either directly or indirectly, by the adjustment to the taxpayer's
federal or state income tax return unless it is also filed within the time
prescribed in §
152.096. Except as set forth in division (C)(2) of this section, the request
shall not reopen those facts, figures, computations, or attachments that are
not affected, either directly or indirectly, by the adjustment to the
taxpayer's federal or state income tax return.
      (2)   The amount to be refunded shall not exceed the amount of refund
that would be due if all facts, figures, computations, and attachments were
reopened.
(Ord. 2015-112, passed 11-10-15)
§ 152.096 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a request for a refund, the Tax Administrator of the
municipality, in accordance with this section, shall refund to employers,
agents of employers, other payers, or taxpayers, with respect to any income or
withholding tax levied by the municipality:
      (1)   Overpayments of more than $10;
      (2)   Amounts paid erroneously if the refund requested exceeds $10.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, returns setting
forth a request for refund shall be filed with the Tax Administrator, within
three years after the tax was due or paid, whichever is later. Any
documentation that substantiates the taxpayer's claim for a refund must be
included with the return filing. Failure to remit all documentation, including
schedules, other municipal income tax returns, or other supporting
documentation necessary to verify credits, income, losses or other pertinent
factors on the return will cause delay in processing, and/or disallowance of
undocumented credits or losses.
      (2)   On filing of the refund request, the Tax Administrator shall
determine the amount of refund due and certify such amount to the appropriate
municipal corporation official for payment. Except as provided in division (B)
(3) of this section, the Administrator shall issue an assessment to any
taxpayer whose request for refund is fully or partially denied. The assessment
shall state the amount of the refund that was denied, the reasons for the
denial, and instructions for appealing the assessment.
      (3)   If a Tax Administrator denies in whole or in part a refund request
included within the taxpayer's originally filed annual income tax return, the
Tax Administrator shall notify the taxpayer, in writing, of the amount of the
refund that was denied, the reasons for the denial, and instructions for
requesting an assessment that may be appealed under §
152.18.
   (C)   A request for a refund that is received after the last day for filing
specified in division (B) of this section shall be considered to have been
filed in a timely manner if any of the following situations exist:
      (1)   The request is delivered by the postal service, and the earliest
postal service postmark on the cover in which the request is enclosed is not
later than the last day for riling the request.
      (2)   The request is delivered by the postal service, the only postmark
on the cover in which the request is enclosed was affixed by a private postal
meter, the date of that postmark is not later than the last day for filing the
request, and the request is received within seven days of such last day.
      (3)   The request is delivered by the postal service, no postmark date
was affixed to the cover in which the request is enclosed or the date of the
postmark so affixed is not legible, and the request is received within seven
days of the last day for making the request.
   (D)   Interest shall be allowed and paid on any overpayment by a taxpayer of
any municipal income tax obligation from the date of the overpayment until the
date of the refund of the overpayment, except that if any overpayment is
refunded within 90 days after the final filing date of the annual return or 90
days after the completed return is filed, whichever is later, no interest shall
be allowed on the refund. For the purpose of computing the payment of interest
on amounts overpaid, no amount of tax for any taxable year shall be considered
to have been paid before the date on which the return on which the tax is
reported is due, without regard to any extension of time for filing that
return. Interest shall be paid at the interest rate described in §
152.10(A)(4).
   (E)   As used in this section, WITHHOLDING TAX has the same meaning as in §
152.10.
(Ord. 2015-112, passed 11-10-15)
§ 152.10 PENALTY, INTEREST, FEES, AND CHARGES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   APPLICABLE LAW means this chapter, the resolutions, ordinances,
codes, directives, instructions, and rules adopted by the municipality provided
such resolutions, ordinances, codes, directives, instructions, and rules impose
or directly or indirectly address the levy, payment, remittance, or filing
requirements of a municipal income tax.
      (2)   FEDERAL SHORT-TERM RATE means the rate of the average market yield
on outstanding marketable obligations of the United States with remaining
periods to maturity of three
years or less, as determined under section 1274 of the Internal Revenue Code,
for July of the current year.
      (3)   INCOME TAX, ESTIMATED INCOME TAX, and WITHHOLDING TAX mean any
income tax, estimated income tax, and withholding tax imposed by a municipal
corporation pursuant to applicable law, including at any time before January 1,
2016.
      (4)   INTEREST RATE AS DESCRIBED IN DIVISION (A) OF THIS SECTION means
the federal short-term rate, rounded to the nearest whole number percent, plus
5%. The rate shall apply for the calendar year next following the July of the
year in which the federal short-term rate is determined in accordance with
division (A)(2) of this section.
      (5)   RETURN includes any tax return, report, reconciliation, schedule,
and other document required to be filed with a Tax Administrator or municipal
corporation by a taxpayer, employer, any agent of the employer, or any other
payer pursuant to applicable law, including at any time before January 1, 2016.
      (6)   UNPAID ESTIMATED INCOME TAX means estimated income tax due but not
paid by the date the tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      (7)   UNPAID INCOME TAX means income tax due but not paid by the date the
income tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      (8)   UNPAID WITHHOLDING TAX means withholding tax due but not paid by
the date the withholding tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      (9)   WITHHOLDING TAX includes amounts an employer, any agent of an
employer, or any other payer did not withhold in whole or in part from an
employee's qualifying wages, but that, under applicable law, the employer,
agent, or other payer is required to withhold from an employee's qualifying
wages.
   (B)   (1)   This section shall apply to the following:
         (a)   Any return required to be filed under applicable law for taxable
years beginning on or after January 1, 2016;
         (b)   Income tax, estimated income tax, and withholding tax required
to be paid or remitted to the municipality on or after January 1, 2016 for
taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2016.
      (2)   This section does not apply to returns required to be filed or
payments required to be made before January 1, 2016, regardless of the filing
or payment date. Returns required to be filed or payments required to be made
before January 1, 2016, but filed or paid after that date shall be subject to
the ordinances or rules, as adopted from time to time before January 1, 2016 of
this municipality.
   (C)   The municipality shall impose on a taxpayer, employer, any agent of
the employer, and any other payer, and will attempt to collect, the interest
amounts and penalties prescribed in this section when the taxpayer, employer,
any agent of the employer, or any other payer for any reason fails, in whole or
in part, to make to the municipality timely and full payment or remittance of
income tax, estimated income tax, or withholding tax or to file timely with the
municipality any return required to be filed.
      (1)   Interest shall be imposed at the rate defined as interest rate as
described in division (A) of this section, per annum, on all unpaid income tax,
unpaid estimated income tax, and unpaid withholding tax. This imposition of
interest shall be assessed per month, or fraction of a month.
      (2)   With respect to unpaid income tax and unpaid estimated income tax,
a penalty equal to 15% of the amount not timely paid shall be imposed.
      (3)    With respect to any unpaid withholding tax, a penalty not
exceeding 50% of the amount not timely paid shall be imposed.
      (4)   (a)   For tax years ending on or before December 31, 2022, with
respect to returns other than estimated income tax returns, the municipality
shall impose a monthly penalty of $25 for each failure to timely file each
return, regardless of the liability shown thereon for each month, or any
fraction thereof, during which the return remains unfiled regardless of the
liability shown thereon. The penalty shall not exceed a total of $150 in
assessed penalty for each failure to timely file a return.
         (b)   For tax years ending on or after January 1, 2023, with respect
to returns other than estimated income tax returns, the municipality may impose
a penalty not exceeding $25 for each failure to timely file each return,
regardless of the liability shown thereon, except that the municipality shall
abate or refund the penalty assessed on a taxpayer's first failure to timely
file a return after the taxpayer files that return.
   (D)   With respect to income taxes, estimated income taxes, withholding
taxes, and returns, the municipality shall not impose, seek to collect, or
collect any penalty, amount of interest, charges or additional fees not
described in this section.
   (E)   With respect to income taxes, estimated income taxes, withholding
taxes, and returns, the municipality shall not refund or credit any penalty,
amount of interest, charges, or additional fees that were properly imposed or
collected before January 1, 2016.
   (F)   The Tax Administrator may, in the Tax Administrator's sole discretion,
abate or partially abate penalties or interest imposed under this section when
the Tax Administrator deems such abatement or partial abatement to be
appropriate. Such abatement or partial abatement shall be properly documented
and maintained on the record of the taxpayer who received benefit of such
abatement or partial abatement
   (G)   The municipality may impose on the taxpayer, employer, any agent of
the employer, or any other payer the municipality's post-judgment collection
costs and fees, including attorney's fees.
(Ord. 2015-112, passed 11-10-15; Am. Ord. 2018-007, passed 2-13-18; Am. Ord.
2023-115, passed 11-28-23)
§ 152.11 AUDIT.
   (A)   At or before the commencement of an audit, as defined in §
152.03(C)(3), the Tax Administrator shall provide to the taxpayer a written
description of the roles of the Tax Administrator and of the taxpayer during an
audit and a statement of the taxpayer's rights, including any right to obtain a
refund of an overpayment of tax. At or before the commencement of an audit, the
Tax Administrator shall inform the taxpayer when the audit is considered to
have commenced.
   (B)   Except in cases involving suspected criminal activity, the Tax
Administrator shall conduct an audit of a taxpayer during regular business
hours and after providing reasonable notice to the taxpayer. A taxpayer who is
unable to comply with a proposed time for an audit on the grounds that the
proposed time would cause inconvenience or hardship must offer reasonable
alternative dates for the audit.
   (C)   At all stages of an audit by the Tax Administrator, a taxpayer is
entitled to be assisted or represented by an attorney, accountant, bookkeeper,
or other tax practitioner. The Tax Administrator shall prescribe a form by
which a taxpayer may designate such a person to assist or represent the
taxpayer in the conduct of any proceedings resulting from actions by the Tax
Administrator. If a taxpayer has not submitted such a form, the Tax
Administrator may accept other evidence, as the Tax Administrator considers
appropriate, that a person is the authorized representative of a taxpayer.
      A taxpayer may refuse to answer any questions asked by the person
conducting an audit until the taxpayer has an opportunity to consult with the
taxpayer's attorney, accountant, bookkeeper, or other tax practitioner. This
division does not authorize the practice of law by a person who is not an
attorney.
   (D)   A taxpayer may record, electronically or otherwise, the audit
examination.
   (E)   The failure of the Tax Administrator to comply with a provision of
this section shall neither excuse a taxpayer from payment of any taxes owed by
the taxpayer nor cure any procedural defect in a taxpayer's case.
   (F)   If the Tax Administrator fails to substantially comply with the
provisions of this section, the Tax Administrator, upon application by the
taxpayer, shall excuse the taxpayer from penalties and interest arising from
the audit.
(Ord. 2015-112, passed 11-10-15)
§ 152.12 ROUNDING.
   A person may round to the nearest whole dollar all amounts the person is
required to enter on any return, report, voucher, or other document required
under this chapter. Any fractional part of a dollar that equals or exceeds $.50
shall be rounded to the next whole dollar, and any fractional part of a dollar
that is less than $.50 shall be dropped, rounding down to the nearest whole
dollar. If a person chooses to round amounts entered on a document, the person
shall round all amounts entered on the document.
(Ord. 2015-112, passed 11-10-15)
§ 152.13 AUTHORITY AND POWERS OF THE TAX ADMINISTRATOR.
§ 152.131 AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR; ADMINISTRATIVE POWERS OF THE TAX
ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Tax Administrator has the authority to perform all duties and functions
necessary and appropriate to implement the provisions of this chapter,
including without limitation:
   (A)   Exercise all powers whatsoever of an inquisitorial nature as provided
by law, including, the right to inspect books, accounts, records, memorandums,
and federal and state income tax returns, to examine persons under oath, to
issue orders or subpoenas for the production of books, accounts, papers,
records, documents, and testimony, to take depositions, to apply to a court for
attachment proceedings as for contempt, to approve vouchers for the fees of
officers and witnesses, and to administer oaths; provided that the powers
referred to in this division of this section shall be exercised by the Tax
Administrator only in connection with the performance of the duties
respectively assigned to the Tax Administrator under a municipal corporation
income tax ordinance or resolution adopted in accordance with this chapter;
   (B)   Appoint agents and prescribe their powers and duties;
   (C)   Confer and meet with officers of other municipal corporations and
states and officers of the United States on any matters pertaining to their
respective official duties as provided by law;
   (D)   Exercise the authority provided by law, including orders from
bankruptcy courts, relative to remitting or refunding taxes, including
penalties and interest thereon, illegally or erroneously imposed or collected,
or for any other reason overpaid, and, in addition, the Tax Administrator may
investigate any claim of overpayment and make a written statement of the Tax
Administrator's findings, and, if the Tax Administrator finds that there has
been an overpayment, approve and issue a refund payable to the taxpayer, the
taxpayer's assigns, or legal representative as provided in this chapter;
   (E)   Exercise the authority provided by law relative to consenting to the
compromise and settlement of tax claims;
   (F)   Exercise the authority provided by law relative to the use of
alternative apportionment methods by taxpayers in accordance with §
152.062;
   (G)   Make all tax findings, determinations, computations, assessments and
orders the Tax Administrator is by law authorized and required to make and,
pursuant to time limitations provided by law, on the Tax Administrator's own
motion, review, redetermine, or correct any tax findings, determinations,
computations, assessments or orders the Tax Administrator has made, but the Tax
Administrator shall not review, redetermine, or correct any tax finding,
determination, computation, assessment or order which the Tax Administrator has
made for which an appeal has been filed with the Local Board of Tax Review or
other appropriate tribunal, unless such appeal or application is withdrawn by
the appellant or applicant, is dismissed, or is otherwise final;
   (H)   Destroy any or all returns or other tax documents in the manner
authorized by law;
   (I)   Enter into an agreement with a taxpayer to simplify the withholding
obligations described in §
152.051.
(Ord. 2015-112, passed 11-10-15)
§ 152.132 AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR; COMPROMISE OF CLAIM AND PAYMENT OVER
TIME.
   (A)   As used in this section, CLAIM means a claim for an amount payable to
the municipality that arises pursuant to the municipal income tax imposed in
accordance with this chapter.
   (B)   The Tax Administrator may do either of the following if such action is
in the best interests of the municipality:
      (1)   Compromise a claim;
      (2)   Extend for a reasonable period the time for payment of a claim by
agreeing to accept monthly or other periodic payments, upon such terms and
conditions as the Tax Administrator may require.
   (C)   The Tax Administrator's rejection of a compromise or payment-over-time
agreement proposed by a person with respect to a claim shall not be appealable.
   (D)   A compromise or payment-over-time agreement with respect to a claim
shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of only the parties to the
compromise or agreement, and shall not extinguish or otherwise affect the
liability of any other person.
   (E)   (1)   A compromise or payment-over-time agreement with respect to a
claim shall be void if the taxpayer defaults under the compromise or agreement
or if the compromise or agreement was obtained by fraud or by misrepresentation
of a material fact. Any amount that was due before the compromise or agreement
and that is unpaid shall remain due, and any penalties or interest that would
have accrued in the absence of the compromise or agreement shall continue to
accrue and be due.
      (2)   The Tax Administrator shall have sole discretion to determine
whether or not penalty, interest, charges or applicable fees will be assessed
through the duration of any compromise or payment-over-time agreement.
   (F)   The Tax Administrator may require that the taxpayer provide detailed
financial documentation and information, in order to determine whether or not a
payment-over-time agreement will be authorized. The taxpayer's failure to
provide the necessary and required information by the Tax Administrator shall
preclude consideration of a payment-over-time agreement.
(Ord. 2015-112, passed 11-10-15)
§ 152.133 AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR; RIGHT TO EXAMINE.
   (A)   The Tax Administrator, or any authorized agent or employee thereof may
examine the books, papers, records, and federal and state income tax returns of
any employer, taxpayer, or other person that is subject to, or that the Tax
Administrator believes is subject to, the provisions of this chapter for the
purpose of verifying the accuracy of any return made or, if no return was
filed, to ascertain the tax due under this chapter. Upon written request by the
Tax Administrator or a duly authorized agent or employee thereof, every
employer, taxpayer, or other person subject to this section is required to
furnish the opportunity for the Tax Administrator, authorized agent, or
employee to investigate and examine such books, papers, records, and federal
and state income tax returns at a reasonable time and place designated in the
request.
   (B)   The records and other documents of any taxpayer, employer, or other
person that is subject to, or that a Tax Administrator believes is subject to,
the provisions of this chapter shall be open to the Tax Administrator's
inspection during business hours and shall be preserved for a period of six
years following the end of the taxable year to which the records or documents
relate, unless the Tax Administrator, in writing, consents to their destruction
within that period, or by order requires that they be kept longer. The Tax
Administrator of a municipal corporation may require any person, by notice
served on that person, to keep such records as the Tax Administrator determines
necessary to show whether or not that person is liable, and the extent of such
liability, for the income tax levied by the municipality or for the withholding
of such tax.
   (C)   The Tax Administrator may examine under oath any person that the Tax
Administrator reasonably believes has knowledge concerning any income that was
or would have been returned for taxation or any transaction tending to affect
such income. The Tax Administrator may, for this purpose, compel any such
person to attend a hearing or examination and to produce any books, papers,
records, and federal and state income tax returns in such person's possession
or control. The person may be assisted or represented by an attorney,
accountant, bookkeeper, or other tax practitioner at any such hearing or
examination. This division does not authorize the practice of law by a person
who is not an attorney.
   (D)   No person issued written notice by the Tax Administrator compelling
attendance at a hearing or examination or the production of books, papers,
records, or federal and state income tax returns under this section shall fail
to comply.
(Ord. 2015-112, passed 11-10-15)
§ 152.134 AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR; REQUIRING IDENTIFYING INFORMATION.
   (A)   The Tax Administrator may require any person filing a tax document
with the Tax Administrator to provide identifying information, which may
include the person's Social Security number, federal employer identification
number, or other identification number requested by the Tax Administrator. A
person required by the Tax Administrator to provide identifying information
that has experienced any change with respect to that information shall notify
the Tax Administrator of the change before, or upon, filing the next tax
document requiring the identifying information.
   (B)   (1)   If the Tax Administrator makes a request for identifying
information and the Tax Administrator does not receive valid identifying
information within 30 days of making the request, nothing in this chapter
prohibits the Tax Administrator from imposing a penalty upon the person to whom
the request was directed pursuant to §
152.10, in addition to any applicable penalty described in §
152.99.
      (2)   If a person required by the Tax Administrator to provide
identifying information does not notify the Tax Administrator of a change with
respect to that information as required under division (A) of this section
within 30 days after filing the next tax document requiring such identifying
information, nothing in this chapter prohibits the Tax Administrator from
imposing a penalty pursuant to §
152.10.
      (3)   The penalties provided for under divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) of
this section may be billed and imposed in the same manner as the tax or fee
with respect to which the identifying information is sought and are in addition
to any applicable criminal penalties described in §
152.99 for a violation of §
152.15 and any other penalties that may be imposed by the Tax Administrator by
law.
(Ord. 2015-112, passed 11-10-15)
§ 152.14 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   (A)   Any information gained as a result of returns, investigations,
hearings, or verifications required or authorized by R.C. Chapter 718 or by the
charter or ordinance of the municipality is confidential, and no person shall
access or disclose such information except in accordance with a proper judicial
order or in connection with the performance of that person's official duties or
the official business of the municipality as authorized by R.C. Chapter 718 or
the charter or ordinance authorizing the levy. The Tax Administrator of the
municipality or a designee thereof may furnish copies of returns filed or
otherwise received under this chapter and other related tax information to the
Internal Revenue Service, the state Tax Commissioner, and Tax Administrators of
other municipal corporations.
   (B)   This section does not prohibit the municipality from publishing or
disclosing statistics in a form that does not disclose information with respect
to particular taxpayers.
(Ord. 2015-112, passed 11-10-15)
§ 152.15 FRAUD.
   No person shall knowingly make, present, aid, or assist in the preparation
or presentation of a false or fraudulent report, return, schedule, statement,
claim, or document authorized or required by municipal corporation ordinance or
state law to be filed with the Tax Administrator, or knowingly procure,
counsel, or advise the preparation or presentation of such report, return,
schedule, statement, claim, or document, or knowingly change, alter, or amend,
or knowingly procure, counsel or advise such change, alteration, or amendment
of the records upon which such report, return, schedule, statement, claim, or
document is based with intent to defraud the municipality or the Tax
Administrator.
(Ord. 2015-112, passed 11-10-15) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.16 OPINION OF THE TAX ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   An OPINION OF THE TAX ADMINISTRATOR means an opinion issued under this
section with respect to prospective municipal income tax liability. It does not
include ordinary correspondence of the Tax Administrator.
   (B)   A taxpayer may submit a written request for an opinion of the Tax
Administrator as to whether or how certain income, source of income, or a
certain activity or transaction will be taxed. The written response of the Tax
Administrator shall be an opinion of the Tax Administrator and shall bind the
Tax Administrator, in accordance with divisions (C), (G), and (H) of this
section, provided all of the following conditions are satisfied:
      (1)   The taxpayer's request fully and accurately describes the specific
facts or circumstances relevant to a determination of the taxability of the
income, source of income, activity, or transaction, and, if an activity or
transaction, all parties involved in the activity or transaction are clearly
identified by name, location, or other pertinent facts.
      (2)   The request relates to a tax imposed by the municipality in
accordance with this chapter.
      (3)   The Tax Administrator's response is signed by the Tax Administrator
and designated as an opinion of the Tax Administrator.
   (C)   An opinion of the Tax Administrator shall remain in effect and shall
protect the taxpayer for whom the opinion was prepared and who reasonably
relies on it from liability for any taxes, penalty, or interest otherwise
chargeable on the activity or transaction specifically held by the Tax
Administrator's opinion to be taxable in a particular manner or not to be
subject to taxation for any taxable years that may be specified in the opinion,
or until the earliest of the following dates:
      (1)   The effective date of a written revocation by the Tax Administrator
sent to the taxpayer by certified mail, return receipt requested. The effective
date of the revocation shall be the taxpayer's date of receipt or one year
after the issuance of the opinion, whichever is later;
      (2)   The effective date of any amendment or enactment of a relevant
section of the Ohio Revised Code, uncodified state law, or the municipality's
income tax ordinance that would substantially change the analysis and
conclusion of the opinion of the Tax Administrator;
      (3)   The date on which a court issues an opinion establishing or
changing relevant case law with respect to the Ohio Revised Code, uncodified
state law, or the municipality's income tax ordinance;
      (4)   If the opinion of the Tax Administrator was based on the
interpretation of federal law, the effective date of any change in the relevant
federal statutes or regulations, or the date on which a court issues an opinion
establishing or changing relevant case law with respect to federal statutes or
regulations;
      (5)   The effective date of any change in the taxpayer's material facts
or circumstances;
      (6)   The effective date of the expiration of the opinion, if specified
in the opinion.
   (D)   (1)   A taxpayer is not relieved of tax liability for any activity or
transaction related to a request for an opinion that contained any
misrepresentation or omission of one or more material facts.
      (2)   If the taxpayer knowingly has misrepresented the pertinent facts or
omitted material facts with intent to defraud the municipality in order to
obtain a more favorable opinion, the taxpayer may be in violation of §
152.15.
   (E)   If a Tax Administrator provides written advice under this section, the
opinion shall include a statement that:
      (1)   The tax consequences stated in the opinion may be subject to change
for any of the reasons stated in division (C) of this section;
      (2)   It is the duty of the taxpayer to be aware of such changes.
   (F)   A Tax Administrator may refuse to offer an opinion on any request
received under this section.
   (G)   This section binds a Tax Administrator only with respect to opinions
of the Tax Administrator issued on or after January 1, 2016.
   (H)   An opinion of a Tax Administrator binds that Tax Administrator only
with respect to the taxpayer for whom the opinion was prepared and does not
bind the Tax Administrator of any other municipal corporation.
   (I)   A Tax Administrator shall make available the text of all opinions
issued under this section, except those opinions prepared for a taxpayer who
has requested that the text of the opinion remain confidential. In no event
shall the text of an opinion be made available until the Tax Administrator has
removed all information that identifies the taxpayer and any other parties
involved in the activity or transaction.
   (J)   An opinion of the Tax Administrator issued under this section or a
refusal to offer an opinion under division (F) of this section may not be
appealed.
(Ord. 2015-112, passed 11-10-15)
§ 152.17 ASSESSMENT; APPEAL BASED ON PRESUMPTION OF DELIVERY.
   (A)   (1)   The Tax Administrator shall serve an assessment either by
personal service, by certified mail, or by a delivery service authorized under
R.C. § 5703.056.
      (2)   The Tax Administrator may deliver the assessment through
alternative means as provided in this section, including, but not limited to,
delivery by secure electronic mail. Such alternative delivery method must be
authorized by the person subject to the assessment.
      (3)   Once service of the assessment has been made by the Tax
Administrator or other municipal official, or the designee of either, the
person to whom the assessment is directed may protest the ruling of that
assessment by filing an appeal with the Local Board of Tax Review within 60
days after the receipt of service. The delivery of an assessment of the Tax
Administrator as prescribed in R.C. § 718.18 is prima facie evidence that
delivery is complete and that the assessment is served.
   (B)   (1)   A person may challenge the presumption of delivery and service
as set forth in this division. A person disputing the presumption of delivery
and service under this section bears the burden of proving by a preponderance
of the evidence that the address to which the assessment was sent was not an
address with which the person was associated at the time the Tax Administrator
originally mailed the assessment by certified mail. For the purposes of this
section, a person is associated with an address at the time the Tax
Administrator originally mailed the assessment if, at that time, the person was
residing, receiving legal documents, or conducting business at the address; or
if, before that time, the person had conducted business at the address and,
when the assessment was mailed, the person's agent or the person's affiliate
was conducting business at the address. For the purposes of this section, a
person's affiliate is any other person that, at the time the assessment was
mailed, owned or controlled at least 20%, as determined by voting rights, of
the addressee's business.
      (2)   If a person elects to appeal an assessment on the basis described
in division (B)(1) of this section, and if that assessment is subject to
collection and is not otherwise appealable, the person must do so within 60
days after the initial contact by the Tax Administrator or other municipal
official, or the designee of either, with the person. Nothing in this division
prevents the Tax Administrator or other official from entering into a
compromise with the person if the person does not actually file such an appeal
with the Local Board of Tax Review.
(Ord. 2015-112, passed 11-10-15)
§ 152.18 LOCAL BOARD OF TAX REVIEW; APPEAL TO LOCAL BOARD OF TAX REVIEW.
   (A)   (1)   The legislative authority of the municipality shall maintain a
Local Board of Tax Review to hear appeals as provided in R.C. Chapter 718.
      (2)   The Local Board of Tax Review shall consist of three members.
         Two members shall be appointed by the legislative authority of the
municipality, and may not be employees, elected officials, or contractors with
the municipality at any time during their term or in the five years immediately
preceding the date of appointment. One member shall be appointed by the top
administrative official of the municipality. This member may be an employee of
the municipality, but may not be the Director of Finance or equivalent officer,
or the Tax Administrator or other similar official or an employee directly
involved in municipal tax matters, or any direct subordinate thereof.
      (3)   The term for members of the Local Board of Tax Review appointed by
the legislative authority of the municipality shall be two years. There is no
limit on the number of terms that a member may serve should the member be
reappointed by the legislative authority. The Board member appointed by the top
administrative official of the municipality shall serve at the discretion of
the administrative official.
      (4)   Members of the Board of Tax Review appointed by the legislative
authority may be removed by the legislative authority as set forth in R.C. §
718.11(A)(4).
      (5)   A member of the Board who, for any reason, ceases to meet the
qualifications for the position prescribed by this section shall resign
immediately by operation of law.
      (6)   A vacancy in an unexpired term shall be filled in the same manner
as the original appointment within 60 days of when the vacancy was created. Any
member appointed to fill a vacancy occurring prior to the expiration of the
term for which the member's predecessor was appointed shall hold office for the
remainder of such term. No vacancy on the Board shall impair the power and
authority of the remaining members to exercise all the powers of the Board.
      (7)   If a member is temporarily unable to serve on the Board due to a
conflict of interest, illness, absence, or similar reason, the legislative
authority or top administrative official that appointed the member shall
appoint another individual to temporarily serve on the Board in the member's
place. This appointment shall be subject to the same requirements and
limitations as are applicable to the appointment of the member temporarily
unable to serve.
      (8)   No member of the Local Board of Tax Review shall receive
compensation, fee, or reimbursement of expenses for service on the Board except
as authorized by the Council of the municipality.
   (B)   Whenever a Tax Administrator issues an assessment, the Tax
Administrator shall notify the taxpayer in writing at the same time of the
taxpayer's right to appeal the assessment, the manner in which the taxpayer may
appeal the assessment, and the address to which the appeal should be directed,
and to whom the appeal should be directed.
   (C)   Any person who has been issued an assessment may appeal the assessment
to the Board by filing a request with the Board. The request shall be in
writing, shall specify the reason or reasons why the assessment should be
deemed incorrect or unlawful, and shall be filed within 60 days after the
taxpayer receives the assessment.
   (D)   The Local Board of Tax Review shall schedule a hearing to be held
within 60 days after receiving an appeal of an assessment under division (C) of
this section, unless the taxpayer requests additional time to prepare or waives
a hearing. If the taxpayer does not waive the hearing, the taxpayer may appear
before the Board and/or may be represented by an attorney at law, certified
public accountant, or other representative. The Board may allow a hearing to be
continued as jointly agreed to by the parties. In such a case, the hearing must
be completed within 120 days after the first day of the hearing unless the
parties agree otherwise.
   (E)   The Board may affirm, reverse, or modify the Tax Administrator's
assessment or any part of that assessment. The Board shall issue a final
determination on the appeal within 90 days after the Board's final hearing on
the appeal, and send a copy of its final determination by ordinary mail to all
of the parties to the appeal within 15 days after issuing the final
determination. The taxpayer or the Tax Administrator may appeal the Board's
final determination as provided in R.C. § 5717.011.
   (F)   The Local Board of Tax Review created pursuant to this section shall
adopt rules governing its procedures, including a schedule of related costs,
and shall keep a record of its transactions. The rules governing the Local
Board of Tax Review procedures shall be in writing, and may be amended as
needed by the Local Board of Tax Review. Such records are not public records
available for inspection under R.C. § 149.43. For this reason, any
documentation, copies of returns or reports, final determinations, or working
papers for each case must be maintained in a secure location under the control
of the Tax Administrator. No member of the Local Board of Tax Review may remove
such documentation, copies of returns or reports, final determinations, or
working papers from the hearing. Hearings requested by a taxpayer before a
Local Board of Tax Review created pursuant to this section are not meetings of
a public body subject to R.C. § 121.22. For this reason, such hearings shall
not be open to the public, and only those parties to the case may be present
during the hearing.
(Ord. 2015-112, passed 11-10-15)
§ 152.19 ACTIONS TO RECOVER; STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   Civil actions to recover municipal income taxes and
penalties and interest on municipal income taxes shall be brought within the
latter of:
            1.   Three years after the tax was due or the return was filed,
whichever is later; or
            2.   One year after the conclusion of the qualifying deferral
period, if any.
         (b)   The time limit described in division (A)(1)(a) of this section
may be extended at any time if both the Tax Administrator and the employer,
agent of the employer, other payer, or taxpayer consent in writing to the
extension. Any extension shall also extend for the same period of time the time
limit described in division (C) of this section.
      (2)   As used in this section, QUALIFYING DEFERRAL PERIOD means a period
of time beginning and ending as follows:
         (a)   Beginning on the date a person who is aggrieved by an assessment
files with a Local Board of Tax Review the request described in §
152.18. That date shall not be affected by any subsequent decision, finding, or
holding by any administrative body or court that the Local Board of Tax Review
with which the aggrieved person filed the request did not have jurisdiction to
affirm, reverse, or modify the assessment or any part of that assessment.
         (b)   Ending the later of the 60th day after the date on which the
final determination of the Local Board of Tax Review becomes final or, if any
party appeals from the determination of the Local Board of Tax Review, the 60th
day after the date on which the final determination of the Local Board of Tax
Review is either ultimately affirmed in whole or in part or ultimately reversed
and no further appeal of either that affirmation, in whole or in part, or that
reversal is available or taken.
   (B)   Prosecutions for an offense made punishable under a resolution or
ordinance imposing an income tax shall be commenced within three years after
the commission of the offense, provided that in the case of fraud, failure to
file a return, or the omission of 25% or more of income required to be
reported, prosecutions may be commenced within six years after the commission
of the offense.
   (C)   A claim for a refund of municipal income taxes shall be brought within
the time limitation provided in §
152.096.
   (D)   (1)   Notwithstanding the fact that an appeal is pending, the
petitioner may pay all or a portion of the assessment that is the subject of
the appeal. The acceptance of a payment by the municipality does not prejudice
any claim for refund upon final determination of the appeal.
      (2)   If upon final determination of the appeal an error in the
assessment is corrected by the Tax Administrator, upon an appeal so filed or
pursuant to a final determination of the Local Board of Tax Review created
under §
152.18, of the Ohio Board of Tax Appeals, or any court to which the decision of
the Ohio Board of Tax Appeals has been appealed, so that the amount due from
the party assessed under the corrected assessment is less than the amount paid,
there shall be issued to the appellant or to the appellant's assigns or legal
representative a refund in the amount of the overpayment as provided by §
152.096, with interest on that amount as provided by division (D) of this
section.
   (E)   No civil action to recover municipal income tax or related penalties
or interest shall be brought during either of the following time periods:
      (1)   The period during which a taxpayer has a right to appeal the
imposition of that tax or interest or those penalties;
      (2)   The period during which an appeal related to the imposition of that
tax or interest or those penalties is pending.
(Ord. 2015-112, passed 11-10-15)
§ 152.20 ADOPTION OF RULES.
   (A)   Pursuant to R.C. § 718.30, the municipality, pursuant to this chapter,
grants authority to the Tax Administrator to adopt rules to administer the
income tax imposed by the municipality.
   (B)   All rules adopted under this section shall be published and posted on
the internet.
(Ord. 2015-112, passed 11-10-15)
§ 152.21 RENTAL AND LEASED PROPERTY.
   (A)   All property owners of real property located in the municipality, who
rent or otherwise lease the same, or any part thereof, to any person for
residential dwelling purposes, including apartments, rooms and other rental
accommodations, during any calendar year, or part thereof, commencing with the
effective date of this section, shall file with the Tax Administrator on or
before the January 31 first following such calendar year a written report
disclosing the name, address and also telephone number, if available, of each
tenant known to have occupied on December 31 during such calendar year such
apartment, room or other residential dwelling rental property.
   (B)   The Tax Administrator may order the appearance before him, or his duly
authorized agent, of any person whom he believes to have any knowledge of the
name, address and telephone number of any tenant of residential rental real
property in the municipality. The Tax Administrator, or his duly authorized
agent, is authorized to examine any person, under oath, concerning the name,
address and telephone number of any tenant of residential real property located
in the municipality. The Tax Administrator, or his duly authorized agent, may
compel the production of papers and records and the attendance of all personnel
before him, whether as parties or witnesses, whenever he believes such person
has knowledge of the name, address and telephone number of any tenant of
residential real property in the municipality.
   (C)   Any property owner or person that violates one or more of the
following shall be subject to §
152.99:
      (1)   Fails, refuses or neglects to timely file a written report required
by division (A) of this section;
      (2)   Makes an incomplete or intentionally false written report required
by division (A) of this section;
      (3)   Fails to appear before the Tax Administrator or any duly authorized
agent and to produce and disclose any tenant information pursuant to any order
or subpoena of the Tax Administrator as authorized in this section; or
      (4)   Fails to comply with the provisions of this section or any order or
subpoena of the Tax Administrator.
(Ord. 2015-112, passed 11-10-15) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.96 COLLECTION AFTER TERMINATION OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   This chapter shall continue in full force and effect insofar as the
levy of taxes is concerned until repealed, and insofar as the collection of
taxes levied hereunder and actions and proceedings for collecting any tax so
levied or enforcing any provisions of this chapter are concerned, it shall
continue in full force and effect until all of the taxes levied in the
aforesaid period are fully paid and any and all suits and prosecutions for the
collection of taxes or for the punishment of violations of this chapter have
been fully terminated, subject to the limitations contained in §
152.19.
   (B)   Annual returns due for all or any part of the last effective year of
this chapter shall be due on the date provided in §
152.091 as though the same were continuing.
(Ord. 2015-112, passed 11-10-15)
§ 152.97 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   If any sentence, clause, section or part of this chapter, or any tax imposed
against, or exemption from tax granted to, any taxpayer or forms of income
specified herein is found to be unconstitutional, illegal or invalid, such
unconstitutionality, illegality, or invalidity shall affect only such clause,
sentence, section or part of this chapter so found and shall not affect or
impair any of the remaining provisions, sentences, clauses, sections or other
parts of this chapter. It is hereby declared to be the intention of the
legislative authority of the municipality that this chapter would have been
adopted had such unconstitutional, illegal or invalid sentence, clause, section
or part thereof not been included in this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-112, passed 11-10-15)
§ 152.98 INTENT TO CONFORM TO R.C. CHAPTER 718.
   It is the intent of Council, in adopting this chapter, that this chapter
conform to the requirements of R.C. Chapter 718 as of January 1, 2006. Each
provision of this chapter effective January 1, 2006 shall be construed such
that it does not conflict with R.C. Chapter 718 as it existed on the effective
date of this chapter, even if this requires that a provision of this chapter
that appears to conflict with R.C. Chapter 718 be treated as a scriviner's
error. The Law Director and City Auditor shall promptly advise Council of any
legislative change, or of any court or administrative decision, that might
cause or indicate a conflict between R.C. Chapter 718 and this chapter, and
shall recommend to Council any necessary amendments to keep this chapter in
conformity with R.C. Chapter 718.
(Ord. 2015-112, passed 11-10-15)
§ 152.99 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, whoever violates
§§
152.051,
152.14(A) or
152.15, by failing to remit municipal income taxes deducted and withheld from
an employee, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be
subject to a fine of not more than $1,000 or imprisonment for a term of up to
six months, or both. In addition, the violation is punishable by dismissal from
office or discharge from employment, or both.
   (B)   Any person who discloses information received from the Internal
Revenue Service in violation of section 7213(a), 7213A, or 7431 of the Internal
Revenue Code shall be guilty of a felony of the fifth degree and shall be
subject to a fine of not more than $5,000 plus the costs of prosecution, or
imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years, or both. In addition, the
violation is punishable by dismissal from office or discharge from employment,
or both.
   (C)   Each instance of access or disclosure in violation of §
152.14(A) constitutes a separate offense.
   (D)   By way of an illustrative enumeration, violations of this chapter
shall include but not be limited to the following acts, conduct, and/or
omissions:
      (1)   Fail, neglect or refuse to make any return or declaration required
by this chapter;
      (2)   Knowingly make any incomplete return;
      (3)   Willfully fail, neglect, or refuse to pay the tax, penalties, and
interest, or any combination thereof, imposed by this chapter;
      (4)   Cause to not be remitted the city income tax withheld from
qualifying wages of employees to the municipality as required by §
152.051;
      (5)   Neglect or refuse to withhold or remit municipal income tax from
employees;
      (6)   Refuse to permit the Tax Administrator or any duly authorized agent
or employee to examine his or her books, records, papers, federal and state
income tax returns, or any documentation relating to the income or net profits
of a taxpayer;
      (7)   Fail to appear before the Tax Administrator and to produce his or
her books, records, papers, federal and state income tax returns, or any
documentation relating to the income or net profits of a taxpayer upon order or
subpoena of the Tax Administrator;
      (8)   Refuse to disclose to the Tax Administrator any information with
respect to such person's income or net profits, or in the case of a person
responsible for maintaining information relating to his or her employers'
income or net profits, such person's employer's income or net profits;
      (9)   Fail to comply with the provisions of this chapter or any order or
subpoena of the Tax Administrator;
      (10)   To avoid imposition or collection of municipal income tax,
willfully give to an employer or prospective employer false information as to
his or her true name, correct Social Security number and residence address, or
willfully fail to promptly notify an employer or a prospective employer of any
change in residence address and date thereof;
      (11)   Fail, as an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer, to
maintain proper records of employees residence addresses, total qualifying
wages paid and municipal tax withheld, or to knowingly give the Tax
Administrator false information;
      (12)   Willfully fail, neglect, or refuse to make any payment of
estimated municipal income tax for any taxable year or any part of any taxable
year in accordance with this chapter;
      (13)   Attempt to do anything whatsoever to avoid the payment of the
whole or any part of the tax, penalties or interest imposed by this chapter;
      (14)   For purposes of this section, any violation that does not specify
a culpable mental state or intent, shall be one of strict liability and no
culpable mental state or intent shall be required for a person to be guilty of
that violation;
      (15)   For purposes of this section, the term PERSON shall, in addition
to the meaning prescribed in §
152.03, include in the case of a corporation, association, pass-through entity
or unincorporated business entity not having any resident owner or officer
within the city, any employee or agent of such corporation, association, pass-
through entity or unincorporated business entity who has control or supervision
over or is charged with the responsibility of filing the municipal income tax
returns and making the payments of the municipal income tax as required by this
chapter.
(Ord. 2015-112, passed 11-10-15)
CHAPTER 153: HOTEL - MOTEL TAX
Section
   
153.01     Definitions
   
153.02     Rate of tax
   
153.03     Exemptions
   
153.04     Tax to be separately stated or charged
   
153.05     Registration
   
153.06     Reporting and remitting
   
153.07     Penalties
   
153.08     Failure to collect and report tax, determination
   
153.09     Appeal
   
153.10     Records
   
153.11     Refunds
   
153.12     Actions to collect
   
153.13     Violations; misdemeanor
   
153.14   Separability
   
153.15   Monies received, where charged
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HOTEL. Every establishment kept, used, maintained, advertised or held out to
the public to be a place where sleeping accommodations are offered for a
consideration to guests, in which any room is used for the accommodation of
such guests, whether such rooms are in one or several structures.
   OCCUPANCY The use or possession, or the right to the use or possession of
any room or rooms or space or portion thereof, in any hotel for dwelling,
lodging or sleeping purposes. The use or possession or right to use or possess
any room or any suite of connecting rooms as office space, banquet or private
dining rooms, or exhibit, sample or display space shall not be considered
occupancy within the meaning of this definition unless the person exercising
occupancy uses or possesses, or has the right to use or possess all or any
portion of such room or suite of rooms for dwelling, lodging or sleeping
purposes.
   OPERATOR. The person who is proprietor of the hotel, whether in the capacity
of owner, lessee, mortgagee in possession, licensee, or any other capacity.
Where the operator performs his or her functions through a managing agent of
any type or character other than an employee, the managing agent shall be
deemed an operator for the purposes of this chapter and shall have the same
duties and liabilities as his or her principal. Compliance with the provisions
of this chapter by either the principal or the managing agent shall, however,
be considered to be compliance by both.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association,
social club, fraternal organization, joint stock company, corporation, estate,
trust, business trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate, or any other group or
combination acting as a unit.
   RENT. The consideration received for occupancy valued in money, whether
received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits, and
property or services of any kind or nature, and also any amount for which the
occupant is liable for the occupancy without any deduction therefrom
whatsoever.
   TAX COMMISSIONER. The Tax Commissioner of the City of Lebanon.
   TRANSIENT GUEST. Persons occupying a room or rooms for sleeping
accommodations for less than 30 consecutive days.
(Ord. 4075, passed 3-28-78; Am. Ord. 2022-113, passed 10-25-22)
§ 153.02 RATE OF TAX.
   (A)   For the purpose of providing revenue with which to meet the needs of
the city, there is hereby levied a tax of 3% on all rents received by a hotel
for lodging furnished to transient guests, such tax to be known as the
transient occupancy tax.
   (B)   The tax constitutes a debt owed by the transient guest to the city
which is satisfied only by payment to the operator as trustee for the city, or
to the city. The transient guest shall pay the tax to the operator of the hotel
at the time the rent is paid. If the rent is paid in installments, a
proportionate share of the tax shall be paid with each installment. The unpaid
tax shall be due upon the transient guest’s ceasing to occupy space in the
hotel. If for any reason the tax due is not paid to the operator of the hotel,
the Tax Commissioner may require that such tax shall be paid directly to the
Tax Commissioner.
(Ord. 4075, passed 3-28-78)
§ 153.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   No tax shall be imposed under this chapter:
      (1)   Upon rents not within the taxing power of the city under the
constitution or laws of Ohio or the United States;
      (2)   Upon rents paid by the state or any of its political subdivisions;
      (3)   Upon rents of $2 a day or less.
   (B)   No exemption claimed under divisions (A)(1) or (2) of this section
shall be granted except upon a claim therefor made at the time rent is
collected and under penalty of perjury upon a form prescribed by the Tax
Commissioner. All claims of exemption under division (A)(3) of this section
shall be made in the manner prescribed by the Tax Commissioner.
(Ord. 4075, passed 3-28-78)
§ 153.04 TAX TO BE SEPARATELY STATED AND CHARGED.
   (A)   The tax to be collected shall be stated and charged separately from
the rent and shown separately on any record thereof, at the time when the
occupancy is arranged or contracted and charged for, and upon every evidence of
occupancy or any bill or statement or charge made for such occupancy issued or
delivered by the operator, and the tax shall be paid by the occupant to the
operator as trustee for and on account of the city, and the operator shall be
liable for the collection thereof and for the tax.
   (B)   No operator of a hotel shall advertise or state in any manner, whether
directly or indirectly, that the tax or any part thereof will be assumed or
absorbed by the operator, or that it will not be added to the rent, or that if
added, any part will be refunded except in the manner herein provided.
(Ord. 4075, passed 3-28-78)
§ 153.05 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Within 30 days after the effective date of this chapter, or within 30
days after commencing business, whichever is later, each operator of any hotel
renting lodging to transient guests shall register such hotel with the Tax
Commissioner and obtain from him or her a “Transient Occupancy Registration
Certificate” to be at all times posted in a conspicuous place on the premises.
   (B)   The certificate shall, among other things, state the following:
      (1)   The name of the operator;
      (2)   The address of the hotel;
      (3)   The date upon which the certificate was issued;
      (4)   This Transient Occupancy Registration Certificate signifies that
the person named on the face thereof has fulfilled the requirements of the
transient occupancy tax ordinance by registering with the Tax Commissioner for
the purpose of collecting from transient guests the transient occupancy tax and
remitting such tax to the Tax Commissioner. This certificate does not
constitute a permit.
(Ord. 4075, passed 3-28-78)
§ 153.06 REPORTING AND REMITTING.
   (A)   Each operator shall, on or before the last day of the month following
the close of each calendar quarter, or at the close of any shorter reporting
period which may be established by the Tax Commissioner, make a return to the
Tax Commissioner, on forms provided by him or her, of the total rents charged
and received and the amount of tax collected for transient occupancies. All
claims for exemption from tax filed by occupants with the operator during the
reporting period shall be filed with the report. At the time the return is
filed, the full amount of the tax collected shall be remitted to the Tax
Commissioner. The Tax Commissioner may establish shorter reporting periods for
any certificate holder if he or she deems it necessary in order to insure
collection of the tax and he or she may require further information in the
return if such information is pertinent to the collection of the tax. Returns
and payments are due immediately upon cessation of business for any reason. All
taxes collected by operators pursuant to this chapter shall be held in trust
for the account of the city until payment thereof is made to the Tax
Commissioner. All returns and payments submitted by each operator shall be
treated as confidential by the Tax Commissioner and shall not be released by
him or her except upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction or to any
officer or agent of the United States, the State of Ohio, the County of Warren,
or the City of Lebanon for official use only.
   (B)   No person, including any officer of a corporation or employee of a
corporation having control or supervision of or charged with the responsibility
of filing returns, shall fail to file any return or report required to be filed
by this chapter, or file or cause to be filed any incomplete, false, or
fraudulent return, report or statement, or aid or abet another in the filing of
any false or fraudulent return, report or statement.
   (C)   If any operator required to file quarterly returns under this chapter
fails, on two consecutive quarters within a 12-month period, to file such
returns when due or to pay the tax thereon, or if any operator authorized by
the Tax Commissioner to file returns at less frequent intervals, fails on two
or more occasions within a 24-month period, to file such returns when due or to
pay the tax due thereon, the Tax Commissioner may:
      (1)   Require such operator to furnish security in an amount equal to the
average tax liability of the operator for a period of one year, as determined
by the Tax Commissioner from a review of returns or other information
pertaining to such operator, which amount shall in no event be less than $100.
The security may be in the form of an advance tax payment to be applied to pay
the tax due on subsequent returns, or a corporate surety bond, satisfactory to
the Tax Commissioner, conditioned upon payment of the tax due with the returns
from the operator. The security must be filed within ten days following the
operator’s receipt of the notice from the Tax Commissioner of its requirements.
      (2)   A corporate surety bond filed under this section shall be returned
to the operator if, for a period of 12 consecutive months following the date
the bond was filed, the operator has filed all returns and remitted payment
therewith within the time prescribed in this chapter.
   (D)   If any operator required to file returns and to remit tax due to the
city under the provisions of this chapter, fails for any reason to make such
filing or payment, any of its officers or employees having control or
supervision of or charged with the responsibility of filing returns and making
payments, shall be personally liable for such failure. The dissolution of a
corporation shall not discharge an officer’s or employee’s liability for a
prior failure of the corporation to file returns or remit tax due. The sum due
for such liability may be collected by assessment in the manner provided in
this chapter.
(Ord. 4075, passed 3-28-78)
§ 153.07 PENALTIES AND INTEREST.
   (A)   Original delinquency. Any operator who fails to remit any tax imposed
by this chapter within the time required shall pay a penalty equal to 10% of
the amount of the tax, in addition to the tax.
   (B)   Continued delinquency. An additional penalty equal to 10% of the total
tax and penalty of the previous 30-day period shall be added for each
consecutive 30-day period that the occupant remains delinquent.
   (C)   Fraud. If the Tax Commissioner determines that the non-payment of any
remittance due under this chapter is due to fraud, a penalty equal to 25% of
the amount of the tax shall be added thereto in addition to the penalties
stated in divisions (A) and (B) of this section.
   (D)   Interest. In addition to the previous penalties imposed, any operator
who fails to remit any tax imposed by this chapter shall pay interest at the
rate of ½% per month, or fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax, exclusive
of penalties, from the date on which the remittance first became delinquent
until paid.
   (E)   Penalties during pendency of hearing or appeal. No penalty provided
under the terms of this chapter shall be imposed during the pendency of any
hearing provided for in §
153.08 of this chapter nor during the pendency of any appeal to the City
Manager provided for in §
153.09 of this chapter.
(Ord. 4075, passed 3-28-78)
§ 153.08 FAILURE TO COLLECT AND REPORT TAX; DETERMINATION OF TAX BY TAX
COMMISSIONER.
   If any operator shall fail or refuse to collect such tax and to make, within
the time provided in this chapter, any report and remittance of such tax or any
portion thereof required by this chapter, the Tax Commissioner shall proceed in
such manner as he or she may deem best to obtain facts and information on which
to base his or her estimate of the tax due. As soon as the Tax Commissioner
shall procure such facts and information as he or she is able to obtain upon
which to base the assessment of any tax imposed by this chapter and payable by
any operator who has failed or refused to collect the same and to make such
report and remittance, he or she shall proceed to determine and assess against
such operator the tax, interest and penalties provided for by this chapter. In
case such determination is made, the Tax Commissioner or his or her agent shall
give a notice of the amount so assessed by serving it personally or by
depositing it in the United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the
operator so assessed at his or her last known place of address. Such operator
may within ten days after the serving or mailing of such notice make
application in writing to the Tax Commissioner for a hearing on the amount
assessed. If application by the operator for a hearing is not made within the
time prescribed, the tax, interest and penalties, if any, determined by the Tax
Commissioner shall become final and conclusive and immediately due and payable.
If such application is made, the Tax Commissioner shall give not less than five
days written notice in the manner prescribed herein to the operator to show
cause at a time and place fixed in such notice why such amount specified
therein should not be fixed for such tax, interest and penalties. At such
hearing, the operator may appear and offer evidence why such specified tax,
interest and penalties should not be so fixed. After such hearing, the Tax
Commissioner shall determine the proper tax to be remitted and shall thereafter
give written notice to the person in the manner prescribed herein of such
determination and the amount of such tax, interest and penalties. The amount
determined to be due shall be payable after 15 days unless an appeal is taken
as provided in §
153.09. The Tax Commissioner shall have the power to compromise any liability
imposed by this chapter.
(Ord. 4075, passed 3-28-78)
§ 153.09 APPEAL.
   Any operator aggrieved by any decision of the Tax Commissioner with respect
to the amount of such tax, interest, and penalties, if any, may appeal to the
City Manager by filing a notice of appeal with him or her within 15 days of the
serving or mailing of the determination of tax due. The City Manager shall fix
a time and place for hearing such appeal, and shall give notice in writing to
such operator at his or her last known place of address. The findings of the
City Manager shall be final and conclusive and shall be served upon the
appellant in the manner prescribed above for service of notice of hearing. Any
amount found to be due shall be immediately due and payable upon the service of
notice.
(Ord. 4075, passed 3-28-78)
§ 153.10 RECORDS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every operator liable for the collection and
payment to the city of any tax imposed by this chapter to keep and preserve,
for a period of four years, all records as may be necessary to determine the
amount of such tax as he or she may have been liable for the collection of, and
payment to, the city.
   (B)   If the operator furnishes lodging not subject to the tax, the
operator’s records shall show the identity of the transient guest, if the sale
was exempted by reason of such identity, or the nature of the transaction if
exempted for any other reason. Such records and other documents shall be open
during business hours to the inspection of the Tax Commissioner and shall be
preserved for a period of four years, unless the Tax Commissioner, in writing,
consents to their destruction within that period, or by order requires that
they be kept longer.
(Ord. 4075, passed 3-28-78)
§ 153.11 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Whenever the amount of any tax, interest, or penalty has been overpaid
or paid more than once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or
received by the city under this chapter, it may be refunded as provided in
divisions (B) and (C) of this section provided a claim in writing therefor,
stating under penalty of perjury the specific grounds upon which the claim is
founded, is filed with the Tax Commissioner within four years of the date of
payment. The claim shall be on forms furnished by the Tax Commissioner.
   (B)   An operator may claim a refund or take as credit against taxes
collected and remitted the amount overpaid, paid more than once or erroneously
or illegally collected or received when it is established in a manner
prescribed by the Tax Commissioner that the person from whom the tax has been
collected was not a transient guest; provided, however, that neither a refund
nor a credit shall be allowed unless the amount of the tax so collected has
either been refunded to the transient guest or credited to rent subsequently
payable by the transient guest to the operator.
   (C)   A transient guest may obtain a refund of taxes overpaid or paid more
than once or erroneously or illegally collected or received by the city by
filing of a claim in the manner provided in division (A) of this section, but
only when the tax was paid by the transient guest directly to the Tax
Commissioner, or when the transient guest having paid the tax to the operator,
establishes to the satisfaction of the Tax Commissioner that the transient
guest has been unable to obtain a refund from the operator who collected the
tax.
   (D)   No refund shall be paid under the provisions of this section unless
the claimant establishes his or her right thereto by written records showing
entitlement thereto and such refund exceeds $1.
(Ord. 4075, passed 3-28-78)
§ 153.12 ACTIONS TO COLLECT.
   Any tax exceeding $1 required to be paid by a transient guest under the
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed a debt owed by the transient guest
to the city. Any such tax collected by an operator which has not been paid to
the city shall be deemed a debt owed by the operator to the city. Any person
owing money to the city under the provisions of this chapter shall be liable to
an action brought in the name of the city for the recovery of such amount.
(Ord. 4075, passed 3-28-78)
§ 153.13 VIOLATIONS; MISDEMEANOR. 
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punishable therefor by a fine of not more
than $500 or by imprisonment for a period of not more than six months or both
such fine and imprisonment.
   (B)   Any operator or other person who fails or refuses to register as
required herein, or to furnish any return required to be made, or who fails or
refuses to furnish a supplemental return or other data required by the Tax
Commissioner, or who renders a false or fraudulent return or claim, is guilty
of a misdemeanor, and is punishable as aforesaid. Any person required to make,
render, sign or verify any report or claim who makes a false or fraudulent
report or claim with intent to defeat, or evade the determination of any amount
due required by this chapter to be made, is guilty of a misdemeanor and is
punishable as aforesaid.
(Ord. 4075, passed 3-28-78)
§ 153.14 SEPARABILITY.
   If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or
phrase of this chapter or any part thereof is for any reason held
unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions of this chapter or any part thereof. The City Council hereby declares
that it would have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph,
sentence, clause or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or
more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or
phrases be declared unconstitutional.
(Ord. 4075, passed 3-28-78)
§ 153.15 MONIES RECEIVED; WHERE CREDITED.
   The monies received under the provisions of this chapter shall be credited
to the general fund of the city.
(Ord. 4075, passed 3-28-78)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be subject to the penalties as set forth in §
153.07 and subject to the punishment as set forth in §
153.13.
CHAPTER 155: MOTOR VEHICLE LICENSE TAX
Section
   
155.01     Levy of annual tax on motor vehicle
   
155.02     Duration of tax
   
155.03     Payment of tax
   
155.04     Reductions and exemptions
   
155.05     Disposition of proceeds of tax
 
   
155.99   Penalty
§ 155.01 LEVY OF ANNUAL TAX ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   There is hereby levied an annual license tax upon the operation of
motor vehicles on the public roads or highways pursuant to the authority of
R.C. § 4504.172 for the purpose of paying the costs and expenses of enforcing
and administering the tax provided for in this section; and to provide
additional revenue for the purposes set forth in R.C. § 4504.06; and for
planning, constructing, improving, maintaining and repairing public roads,
highways and streets; maintaining and repairing bridges and viaducts; paying
the city’s portion of the costs and expenses of cooperating with the department
of highways in the planning, improvement and construction of state highways;
paying the city’s portion of the compensation, damages, cost and expenses of
planning, constructing, reconstructing, improving, maintaining and repairing
roads and streets; paying any costs apportioned to the city under R.C. §
4907.47; paying debt service charges on notes or bonds of the city issued for
such purposes; purchasing, erecting and maintaining street and traffic signs
and markers; purchasing, erecting and maintaining traffic lights and signals;
and to supplement revenue already available for such purposes.
   (B)   There is hereby levied an additional annual license tax upon the
operation of motor vehicles on the public roads or highways pursuant to the
authority of R.C. § 4504.171 for the purpose of paying the costs and expenses
of enforcing and administering the tax provided for in this section; and to
provide additional revenue for the purposes set forth in R.C. §§ 4504.04,
4505.06, 4504.17 or 4504.172, and to provide additional revenue for the
purposes set forth in those sections; and for planning, constructing,
improving, maintaining and repairing public roads, highways, and streets;
maintaining and repairing bridges and viaducts; paying the city’s portion of
the costs and expenses of cooperating with the department of highways in the
planning, improvement and construction of state highways; paying the city’s
portion of the costs and expenses of cooperating with the department of
highways in the planning, improvement and construction of state highways;
paying the city’s portion of the compensation, damages, cost and expenses of
planning, constructing, reconstructing, improving, maintaining and repairing
roads and streets; paying any costs apportioned to the city under R.C. §
4907.47; paying debt service charges on notes or bonds of the city issued for
such purposes; purchasing, erecting and maintaining street and traffic signs
and markers; purchasing, erecting and maintaining traffic lights and signals;
and to supplement revenue already available for such purposes.
   (C)   Such taxes under (A) and (B) shall each be at the rate of $5 per motor
vehicle on each and every motor vehicle in the district of registration of
which, as defined in R.C. § 4503.10, is in the city, and shall be in addition
to other taxes at other rates specified herein, or in the Ohio Revised Code.
   (D)   As used in this chapter, the term MOTOR VEHICLE means any and all
vehicles included within the definition of motor vehicle in R.C. §§ 4501.01 and
4505.01.
(Ord. 6111, passed 11-25-87; Am. Ord. 9118, passed 3-8-05)
§ 155.02 DURATION OF TAX.
   The tax imposed by §
155.01 of this chapter shall apply to and be in effect for the registration
year commencing January 1, 1988, and shall continue in effect and application
during each registration year thereafter.
(Ord. 6111, passed 11-25-87)
§ 155.03 PAYMENT OF TAX.
   The tax imposed by §
155.01 of this chapter shall be paid to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles of the
state or to a Deputy Registrar at the time application for registration of a
motor vehicle is made as provided in R.C. § 4503.10.
(Ord. 6111, passed 11-25-87)
§ 155.04 REDUCTIONS AND EXEMPTIONS.
   The tax imposed by §
155.01 of this chapter shall be subject to the provisions of R.C. §§ 4503.101,
4503.16, 4503.17 and 4503.171.
(Ord. 6111, passed 11-25-87)
§ 155.05 DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS OF TAX.
   All monies derived from the tax hereinbefore levied shall be used by the
city only for the purposes described in §
155.01 of this chapter.
(Ord. 6111, passed 11-25-87)
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   See §
101.99 for general code penalty where no specific penalty is provided.
(Ord. 6111, passed 11-25-87)   
CHAPTER 157: URBAN REDEVELOPMENT TAX INCREMENT EQUIVALENT FUND
Section
   
157.01     Public purpose improvements exempt from taxation
   
157.02     Structure owners service payments in lieu of taxes
   
157.03     Urban Redevelopment Tax Increment Equivalent Fund
§ 157.01 PUBLIC PURPOSE IMPROVEMENTS EXEMPT FROM TAXATION.
   (A)   The city, by ordinance, and in compliance with R.C. Chapter 5709, may
declare to be a public purpose for any number of years not to exceed 30, any
improvement to a parcel of real estate. The improvements to the real estate are
exempt from real property taxation for the period commencing upon the effective
date set forth in the ordinance declaring the improvements to be a public
purpose and ending on the date specified in the ordinance as the date the
improvements cease to be a public purpose.
   (B)   Ordinances adopted under this section prior to the adoption of
Ordinance 2015-087, may be amended to permit the city to convey any real estate
it acquired, the improvements to which it thereafter exempted from real
property taxation pursuant to this section. The conveyance of any such real
estate by the city will not affect the real property tax exemption for any
improvements to such property and such exemption shall remain in effect until
the date such improvement ceases to be a public purpose as set forth in the
original ordinance declaring such public purpose.
   (C)   As used in this chapter, the term IMPROVEMENT means the increase in
the true value of any parcel of property subsequent to the declaration  of the
public purpose as part of the city's urban redevelopment program.
(Ord. 2015-087, passed 9-8-15)
§ 157.02 STRUCTURE OWNERS SERVICE PAYMENTS IN LIEU OF TAXES.
   If the city has declared an improvement to be a public purpose pursuant to §
157.01 of this code, the city may, by ordinance, require the owner of any
structure located on the real estate to make annual service payments in lieu of
taxes to the Warren County Treasurer on or before the final dates for payment
of real property taxes. The collection and distribution of service payments in
lieu of taxes shall be performed as provided in R.C. § 5709.42.
(Ord. 6153, passed 12-8-87)
§ 157.03 URBAN REDEVELOPMENT TAX INCREMENT EQUIVALENT FUND
   (A)   There is hereby established an “Urban Redevelopment Tax Increment
Equivalent Fund” into which shall be deposited service payments in lieu of
taxes distributed to the city by the Warren County Treasurer as provided in §
157.02 of this code and R.C. § 5709.42.
   (B)   Monies deposited in the Urban Redevelopment Tax Increment Equivalent
Fund shall be used for the following purposes:
      (1)   To pay for any debt incurred by the city associated with provision
of public improvements designed for the enhancement of the economic well being
of the community.
      (2)   To pay to an affected school district an amount equivalent to the
funds potentially lost to the abatement of taxes.
      (3)   Any other expenditures determined by the City Council.
(Ord. 6153, passed 12-8-87)
CHAPTER 159: TAX ABATEMENT PROGRAM
Section
   
159.01     Establishment of community reinvestment areas
   
159.02     Boundaries of community reinvestment areas
   
159.03     Periods of tax exemption for improvements
   
159.04     City Manager designated as Housing Officer
§ 159.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT AREAS.
   (A)   For purposes of fulfilling the requirements set forth under R.C. §§
3735.65 through 3735.70, Community Reinvestment Area No. 1 has been terminated.
(Ord. 6199, passed 5-10-88; Am. Ord. 2023-113, passed 12-12-23)
   (B)   For purposes of fulfilling the requirements set forth under R.C. §§
3735.65 through 3735.70, Community Reinvestment Area No. 2 is hereby
established.
(Ord. 6243, passed 7-26-88; Am Ord 6423, passed 11-14-89)
   (C)   For purposes of fulfilling the requirements set forth under R.C. §§
3735.65 through 3735.70, Community Reinvestment Area No. 3, has been
terminated.
(Ord. 2023-031, passed 4-11-23)
   (D)   For purposes of fulfilling the requirements set forth under R.C. §§
3735.65 through 3735.70, Community Reinvestment Area No. 4, has been
terminated.
(Ord. 2023-031, passed 4-11-23)
   (E)   Community Reinvestment Area No. 5, as previously established pursuant
to R.C. §§ 3735.65 through 3735.70, has been terminated.
(Ord. 2022-110, passed 10-25-22)
   (F)   For purposes of fulfilling the requirements set forth under R.C. §§
3735.65 through 3735.70, Community Reinvestment Area No. 6, has been
terminated.
(Ord. 2023-031, passed 4-11-23)
   (G)   For purposes of fulfilling the requirements set forth under R.C. §§
3735.65 through 3735.70, Community Reinvestment Area No. 7 has been terminated.
(Ord. 6423, passed 11-14-89; Am Ord. 2013-087, passed 8-13-13; Am. Ord. 2023-
113, passed 12-12-23)
   (H)   For purposes of fulfilling the requirements set forth under R.C. §§
3735.65 through 3735.70, Community Reinvestment Area No. 8 is hereby
established.
(Ord. 2018-101, passed 11-27-18)
   (I)   For purposes of fulfilling the requirements set forth under R.C. §§
3735.65 through 3735.70, Community Reinvestment Area No. 9 is hereby
established.
(Ord. 2022-111, passed 10-25-22)
   (J)   For purposes of fulfilling the requirements set forth under R.C. §§
3735.65 through 3735.70, Community Reinvestment Area No. 10 is hereby
established.
(Ord. 2023-057, passed 7-5-23)
   (K)   For purposes of fulfilling the requirements set forth under R.C. §§
3735.65 through 3735.70, Community Reinvestment Area No. 11 is hereby
established.
(Ord. 2023-057, passed 7-5-23)
   (L)   For purposes of fulfilling the requirements set forth under R.C. §§
3735.65 through 3735.70, Community Reinvestment Area No. 12 is hereby
established.
(Ord. 2023-057, passed 7-5-23)
   (M)   For purposes of fulfilling the requirements set forth under R.C. §§
3735.65 through 3735.70, Community Reinvestment Area No. 13 is hereby
established.
(Ord. 2023-114, passed 12-12-23)
§ 159.02 BOUNDARIES OF COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT AREAS.
   (A)   Community Reinvestment Area No. l has been terminated.
   (B)   For boundaries of Community Reinvestment Area No. 2, see schedules
attached to Ord. No. 6769 on file in the office of the city.
   (C)   Community Reinvestment Area No. 3 has been terminated.
   (D)   Community Reinvestment Area No. 4 has been terminated.
   (E)   Community Reinvestment Area No. 5 has been terminated.
   (F)   Community Reinvestment Area No. 6 has been terminated.
   (G)   Community Reinvestment Area No. 7 has been terminated.
   (H)   For boundaries of Community Reinvestment Area No. 8, see schedules
attached to Ord. No. 2018-101 on file in the office of the City Clerk.
   (I)   For boundaries of Community Reinvestment Area No. 9, see schedules
attached to Ord. No. 2022-111 on file in the office of the City Clerk.
   (J)   For boundaries of Community Reinvestment Area No. l0, see schedules
attached to Ord. No. 2023-057 on file in the office of the City Clerk.
   (K)   For boundaries of Community Reinvestment Area No. 11, see schedules
attached to Ord. No. 2023-057 on file in the office of the City Clerk.
   (L)   For boundaries of Community Reinvestment Area No. 12, see schedules
attached to Ord. No. 2023-057 on file in the office of the City Clerk.
   (M)   For boundaries of Community Reinvestment Area No. 13, see schedules
attached to Ord. No. 2023-114 on file in the office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 6199, passed 5-10-88; Am. Ord. 6243, passed 7-26-88; Am. Ord. 6423,
passed 11-14-89; Am. Ord. 6769, passed 8-25-92; Am. Ord. 2013-087, passed 8-13-
13; Am. Ord. 2018-101, passed 11-27-18; Am. Ord. 2022-111, passed 10-25-22; Am.
Ord. 2023-031, passed 4-11-23; Am. Ord. 2023-032, passed 4-11-23; Am. Ord.
2023-057, passed 7-5-23; Am. Ord. 2023-113, passed 12-12-23; Am. Ord. 2023-114,
passed 12-12-23)
§ 159.03 PERIODS OF TAX EXEMPTION FOR IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Within Community Reinvestment Area No. 2, tax exemption for
improvements as described in R.C. § 3735.67 are granted for the following
periods:
      (1)   Three years for the remodeling of residential dwellings, the cost
of which is at least $5,000;
      (2)   Twelve years for the remodeling of commercial structures, the cost
of which is at least $10,000;
      (3)   Twelve years for the remodeling of industrial structures, the cost
of which is at least $25,000.
      (4)   Seven years for the construction of new commercial structures, the
cost of which is at least $10,000;
      (5)   Seven years for the construction of new industrial structures, the
cost of which is at least $25,000.
(Ord. 6199, passed 5-10-88; Am. Ord. 6243, passed 7-26-88; Am. Ord. 6423,
passed 11-14-89)
   (B)   Within Community Reinvestment Area No. 8, tax exemption for
improvements as described in R.C. § 3735.67 are granted for the following
periods:
      (1)   One hundred percent for ten years for construction of new
residential dwellings;
      (2)   One hundred percent for ten years for the remodeling of residential
dwellings, the cost of which is at least $50,000;
      (3)   Up to 15 years for the construction of commercial or industrial
structures, negotiated on a case-by-case basis;
      (4)   Up to 15 years for the remodeling of commercial or industrial
structures, negotiated on a case-by-case basis.
(Ord. 6199, passed 5-10-88; Am. Ord. 6243, passed 7-26-88; Am. Ord. 6423,
passed 11-14-89)
   (C)   Within Community Reinvestment Area No. 9, tax exemption for
improvements as described in R.C. § 3735.67 are granted for the following
periods:
      (1)   Fifty percent exemption for ten years for construction of new
residential dwellings;
      (2)   One hundred percent exemption for ten years for the remodeling of
residential dwellings, the cost of which is at least $5,000;
      (3)   Up to 15 years for the construction of commercial or industrial
structures, negotiated on a case-by-case basis;
      (4)   Up to 15 years for the remodeling of commercial or industrial
structures, negotiated on a case-by-case basis.
(Ord. 2022-111, passed 10-25-22)
   (D)   Within Community Reinvestment Area No. 10, tax exemption for
improvements as described in R.C. § 3735.67 are granted for the following
periods:
      (1)   Fifty percent exemption for ten years for construction of new
residential dwellings;
      (2)   One hundred percent exemption for ten years for the remodeling of
residential dwellings, the cost of which is at least $5,000;
      (3)   Up to 15 years for the construction of commercial or industrial
structures, negotiated on a case-by-case basis;
      (4)   Up to 15 years for the remodeling of commercial or industrial
structures, negotiated on a case-by-case basis.
(Ord. 2023-057, passed 7-5-23)
   (E)   Within Community Reinvestment Area No. 11 , tax exemption for
improvements as described in R.C. § 3735.67 are granted for the following
periods:
      (1)   Fifty percent exemption for ten years for construction of new
residential dwellings;
      (2)   One hundred percent exemption for ten years for the remodeling of
residential dwellings, the cost of which is at least $5,000;
      (3)   Up to 15 years for the construction of commercial or industrial
structures, negotiated on a case-by-case basis;
      (4)   Up to 15 years for the remodeling of commercial or industrial
structures, negotiated on a case-by-case basis.
(Ord. 2023-057, passed 7-5-23)
   (F)   Within Community Reinvestment Area No. 12, tax exemption for
improvements as described in R.C. § 3735.67 are granted for the following
periods:
      (1)   Fifty percent exemption for ten years for construction of new
residential dwellings;
      (2)   One hundred percent exemption for ten years for the remodeling of
residential dwellings, the cost of which is at least $5,000;
      (3)   Up to 15 years for the construction of commercial or industrial
structures, negotiated on a case-by-case basis;
      (4)   Up to 15 years for the remodeling of commercial or industrial
structures, negotiated on a case-by-case basis.
(Ord. 2023-057, passed 7-5-23)
   (G)   Within Community Reinvestment Area No. 13, tax exemption for
improvements as described in R.C. § 3735.67 are granted for the following
periods:
      (1)   Up to 15 years for the construction of commercial or industrial
structures, negotiated on a case-by-case basis;
      (2)   Up to 15 years for the remodeling of commercial or industrial
structures, negotiated on a case-by-case basis.
(Ord. 2023-114, passed 12-12-23)
§ 159.04 CITY MANAGER DESIGNATED AS HOUSING OFFICER.
   To administer and implement this chapter, the City Manager is designated as
the Housing Officer, as described in R.C. §§ 3735.65 and 3735.66.
(Ord. 6199, passed 5-10-88; Am. Ord. 6243, passed 7-26-88; Am. Ord. 6423,
passed 11-14-89; Am. Ord. 6769, passed 8-25-92; Am. Ord. 2013-087, passed 8-13-
13; Am. Ord 2018-101, passed 11-27-18; Am. Ord. 2022-111, passed 10-25-22; Am.
Ord. 2023-031, passed 4-11-23; Am. Ord. 2023-032, passed 4-11-23; Am. Ord.
2023-057, passed 7-5-23; Am. Ord. 2023-113, passed 12-12-23; Am. Ord. 2023-114,
passed 12-12-23)
CHAPTER 160: INVESTMENT POLICY
Section
   
160.01   Policy
   
160.02   Scope
   
160.03   Definitions
   
160.04   Funds
   
160.05   Prudence
   
160.06   Objective
   
160.07   Delegation of authority
   
160.08   Ethics and conflicts of interest
   
160.09     Authorized financial dealers and institutions
   
160.10   Authorized and suitable investments
   
160.11   Investment pools
   
160.12   Collateralization
   
160.13   Safekeeping and custody
   
160.14   Diversification
   
160.15   Maximum maturities
   
160.16   Internal control
   
160.17   Performance standards
   
160.18   Reporting
   
160.19   Investment policy adoption
§ 160.01 POLICY.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city to insure that all public funds are
prudently managed in accordance with the stated investment philosophy of its
Investment Committee and the City Auditor as fiscal officer (the “Fiscal
Officer”). That stated philosophy is to invest public funds in a manner which
will provide the highest investment return with the maximum security while
meeting the daily cash flow demands of the city and conforming to all state and
local statutes governing the investment of public funds.
   (B)   This policy has been approved and adopted by the Fiscal Officer, and a
copy has been filed with the Auditor of the State of Ohio as required by R.C. §
135.14. The Fiscal Officer and all staff members will adhere to this policy,
R.C. Chapter 135, and all other applicable laws and regulations at all times.
(Ord. 7346, passed 2-11-97)
§ 160.02 SCOPE.
   This investment policy applies to all financial assets of the city. These
funds are accounted for in the city, Ohio’s Comprehensive Annual Financial
Report and include the funds listed in §
160.04.
(Ord. 7346, passed 2-11-97)
§ 160.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENCIES. Federal agency securities.
   ASKED. The price at which securities are offered.
   BANKERS’ ACCEPTANCE (BA). A draft or bill or exchange accepted by a bank or
trust company. The accepting institution guarantees payment of the bill, as
well as the issuer.
   BID. The price offered by a buyer of securities. (When you are selling
securities, you ask for a bid.) See OFFER.
   BROKER. A broker brings buyer and sellers together for a commission.
   CERTIFICATE OF DEPOSIT (CD). A time deposit with a specific maturity
evidenced by a certificate. Large-denomination CD’s are typically negotiable.
   COLLATERAL. Securities, evidence of deposit or other property which a
borrower pledges to secure repayment of a loan. Also refers to securities
pledged by a bank to secure deposits of public moneys.
   COMPREHENSIVE ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT (CAFR). The official annual report for
the city. It includes five combined statements for each individual fund and
account group prepared in conformity with GAAP. It also includes supporting
schedules necessary to demonstrate compliance with finance related legal and
contractual provisions, extensive introductory material, and a detailed
Statistical Section.
   COUPON.
      (1)   The annual rate of interest that a bond’s issuer promises to pay
the bondholder on the bond’s face value.
      (2)   A certificate attached to a bond evidencing interest due on a
payment date.
   DEALER. A dealer, as opposed to a broker, acts as a principal in all
transactions, buying and selling for his own account.
   DEBENTURE. A bond secured only by the general credit of the issuer.
   DELIVERY VERSUS PAYMENT. There are two methods of delivery of securities:
delivery versus payment and delivery versus receipt. Delivery versus payment is
delivery of securities with an exchange of money for the securities. Delivery
versus receipt is delivery of securities with an exchange of a signed receipt
for the securities.
   DERIVATIVES. Financial instruments whose return profile is linked to, or
derived from, the movement of one or more underlying index or security, and may
include a leveraging factor, or financial contracts based upon notional amounts
whose value is derived from an underlying index or security (interest rates,
foreign exchange rates, equities or commodities).
   DISCOUNT. The difference between the cost price of a security and its
maturity when quoted at lower than face value. A security selling below
original offering price shortly after sale also is considered to be at a
discount.
   DISCOUNT SECURITIES. Non-interest bearing money market instruments that are
issued at discount and redeemed at maturity for full face value, e.g. U.S.
Treasury Bills.
   DIVERSIFICATION. Dividing investment funds among a variety of securities
offering independent returns.
   FEDERAL CREDIT AGENCIES. Agencies of the Federal government set up to supply
credit to various classes of institutions and individuals, e.g., S&L’s, small
business firms, students, farmers, farm cooperatives, and exporters.
   FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION (FDIC). A federal agency that insures
bank deposits, currently up to $100,000 per deposit.
   FEDERAL FUNDS RATE. The rate of interest at which Federal Funds are traded.
This rate is currently pegged by the Federal Reserve through open-market
operations.
   FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANKS (FHLB). Government sponsored wholesale banks
(currently 12 regional banks) which lend funds.
   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FNMA). FNMA, like GNMA was chartered
under the Federal National Mortgage Association Act in 1938. FNMA is a federal
corporation working under the auspices of the Department of Housing and Urban
Development (HUD). It is the largest single provider of residential mortgage
funds in the United States. Fannie Mae, as the corporation is called, is a
private stockholder-owned corporation. The corporation’s purchases include a
variety of adjustable mortgages and second loans, in addition to fixed rate
mortgages. FNMA’s securities are also highly liquid and are widely accepted.
FNMA assumes and guarantees that all security holders will receive timely
payment of principal and interest.
   FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (FOMC). Consists of seven members of the
Federal Reserve Board and five of the twelve Federal Reserve Bank Presidents.
The President of the New York Federal Reserve Bank is a permanent member, while
the other Presidents serve on a rotating basis. The Committee periodically
meets to set Federal Reserve guidelines regarding purchases and sales of
Government Securities in the open market as a means of influencing the volume
of bank credit and money.
   FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM. The central bank of the United States created by
Congress and consisting of a seven member Board of Governors in Washington,
D.C., 12 regional banks and about 5,700 commercial banks that are members of
the system.
   GOVERNMENT NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (GNMA OR GINNIE MAE). Securities
influencing the volume of bank credit guaranteed by GNMA and issued by mortgage
bankers, commercial banks, savings and loan associations, and other
institutions. Security holder is protected by full faith and credit of the U.S.
Government. Ginnie Mae securities are backed by the FHA, VA or FMHM mortgages.
The term “pass throughs” is often used to describe Ginnie Maes.
   LIQUIDITY. A liquid asset is one that can be converted easily and rapidly
into cash without a substantial loss of value. In the money market, a security
is said to be liquid if the spread between bid and asked prices is narrow and
reasonable size can be done at those quotes.
   LOCAL GOVERNMENT INVESTMENT POOL (LGIP). The aggregate of all funds from
political subdivisions that are placed in the custody of the State Treasurer
for investment and reinvestment.
   MARKET VALUE. The price at which a security is trading and could presumably
be purchased or sold.
   MASTER REPURCHASE AGREEMENT. A written contract covering all future
transactions between the parties to repurchase -- reverse repurchase agreements
that establish each party’s rights in the transactions. A master agreement will
often specify, among other things, the right of the buyer-lender to liquidate
the underlying securities in the event of default by the seller-borrower.
   MATURITY. The date upon which the principal or stated value of an investment
becomes due and payable.
   MONEY MARKET. The market in which short- term debt instruments (treasury
bills, commercial paper, bankers’ acceptances, etc.) are issued and traded.
   OFFER. The price asked by a seller of securities. (When you are buying
securities, you ask for an offer.) See ASKED and BID.
   OPEN MARKET OPERATIONS. Purchases and sales of government and certain other
securities in the open market by the New York Federal Reserve Bank as directed
by the FOMC in order to influence the volume of money and credit in the
economy. Purchases inject reserves into the bank system and stimulate growth of
money and credit; sales have the opposite effect. Open market operations are
the Federal Reserve’s most important and most flexible monetary policy tool.
   PORTFOLIO. Collection of securities held by an investor.
   PRIMARY DEALER. A group of government securities dealers who submit daily
reports of market activity and positions and monthly financial statements to
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and are subject to its informal oversight.
Primary dealers include Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)-registered
securities broker-dealers, banks, and a few unregulated firms.
   PRUDENT PERSON RULE. An investment standard. In some states the law requires
that a fiduciary, such as a trustee, may invest money only in a list of
securities selected by the custody state --the so-called legal list. In other
states the trustee may invest in a security if it is one which would be bought
by a prudent person of discretion and intelligence who is seeking a reasonable
income and preservation of capital.
   QUALIFIED PUBLIC DEPOSITORIES. A financial institution which does not claim
exemption from the payment of any sales or compensating use of ad valorem taxes
under the laws of this state, which has segregated for the benefit of the
commission eligible collateral having a value of not less than its maximum
liability and which has been approved by the Public Deposit Protection
Commission to hold public deposits.
   RATE OF RETURN. The yield obtainable on a security based on its purchase
price or its current market price. This may be the amortized yield to maturity
on a bond, or the current income return.
   REPURCHASE AGREEMENT (RP OR REPO). A holder of securities sells these
securities to an investor with an agreement to repurchase them at a fixed price
on a fixed date. The security “buyer” in effect lends the “seller” money for
the period of the agreement, and the terms of the agreement are structured to
compensate him for this. Dealers use RP extensively to finance their positions.
Exception: when the Fed is said to be doing RP, it is lending money, that is
increasing bank reserves.
   SAFEKEEPING. A service to customers rendered by banks for a fee whereby
securities and valuables of all types and descriptions are held in the bank’s
vaults for protection.
   SECONDARY MARKET. A market made for the purchase and sale of outstanding
issues following the initial distribution.
   SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION. Agency created by Congress to protect
investors in securities transactions by administering securities legislation.
   SEC RULE 15C3-1. See UNIFORM NET CAPITAL RULE.
   STRUCTURED NOTES. Notes issued by Government Sponsored Enterprises (FHLB,
FNMA, SLMA, etc.) and Corporations which have imbedded options (e.g., call
features, step-up coupons, floating rate coupons, derivative-based returns)
into their debt structure. Their market performance is impacted by the
fluctuation of interest rates, the volatility of the imbedded options and
shifts in the shape of the yield curve.
   TREASURY BILLS. A non-interest bearing discount security issued by the U.S.
Treasury to finance the national debt. Most bills are issued to mature in three
months, six months, or one year.
   TREASURY BONDS. Long-term coupon- bearing U.S. Treasury securities issued as
direct obligations of the U.S. Government and having initial maturities of more
than ten years.
   TREASURY NOTES. Medium-term coupon- bearing U.S. Treasury securities issued
as direct obligations of the U.S. Government and having initial maturities from
two to ten years.
   UNIFORM NET CAPITAL RULE. Securities and Exchange Commission requirement
that member firms as well as nonmember broker-dealers in securities maintain a
maximum ratio of indebtedness to liquid capital of 15 to 1; also called net
capital rule and net capital ratio. Indebtedness covers all money owed to a
firm, including margin loans and commitments to purchase securities, one reason
new public issues are spread among members of underwriting syndicates. Liquid
capital includes cash and assets easily converted into cash.
   YIELD. The rate of annual income return on an investment expressed as a
percentage. (a) Income Yield is obtained by dividing the current dollar income
by the current market price for the security. (b) Net Yield or Yield to
Maturity is the current income yield minus any premium above par or plus any
discount from par in purchase price, with the adjustment spread over the period
from the date of purchase to the date of maturity of the bond.
(Ord. 7346, passed 2-11-97)
§ 160.04 FUNDS.
   (A)   General Fund.
   (B)   Street Fund.
   (C)   Cemetery Fund.
   (D)   Fire and Life Squad Fund.
   (E)   Parking Fund.
   (F)   Park/Recreation Impact Fee Fund.
   (G)   State Highway Fund.
   (H)   Tax Increment Finance Fund.
   (I)   Urban Redevelopment Fund.
   (J)   General Obligation Bond Fund.
   (K)   Library Bond Retirement Fund.
   (L)   Capital Improvement Fund.
   (M)   Regional Sewer Construction Fund.
   (N)   State Issue II Fund.
   (O)   Industrial Development Fund.
   (P)   Special Assessment Fund.
   (Q)   Electric Fund.
   (R)   Water Fund.
   (S)   Sewer Fund.
   (T)   Utility Guarantee Fund.
   (U)   Sanitation Fund.
   (V)   All Reserve and Replacement Funds.
   (W)   All Utility Construction Funds.
   (X)   Automotive Maintenance Fund.
   (Y)   All Trust and Agency Funds.
   (Z)   All Utility Bond Funds.
    (AA)   All other funds created by and any new funds created by the City
Council, unless specifically exempted.
(Ord. 7346, passed 2-11-97)
§ 160.05 PRUDENCE.
   (A)   Investments shall be made with judgment and care (under circumstances
then prevailing) which persons of prudence, discretion and intelligence
exercise in the management of their own affairs, not for speculation, but for
investment, considering the probable safety of their capital as well as the
probable income to be derived.
   (B)   The standard of prudence to be used by investment officials shall be
the “prudent person” standard and shall be applied in the context of managing
an overall portfolio. Investment officers acting in accordance with written
procedures and the investment policy and exercising due diligence shall have no
personal responsibility for an individual security’s credit risk or market
price changes, provided deviations from expectations are reported in a timely
fashion and appropriate action is taken to control adverse developments.
(Ord. 7346, passed 2-11-97)
§ 160.06 OBJECTIVE.
   The primary objectives of this investment policy, in order of priority,
shall be:
   (A)   Safety: Safety of principal is the foremost objective of the
investment program. Investments of the city shall be undertaken in a manner
that seeks to ensure the preservation of capital in the overall portfolio. To
attain this objective, diversification is required in order that potential
losses on individual securities do not exceed the income generated from the
remainder of the portfolio.
   (B)   Liquidity: The city’s investment portfolio will remain sufficiently
liquid to enable the city to meet all operating requirements which might be
reasonably anticipated.
   (C)   Return on Investments: The city’s investment portfolio shall be
designed with the objective of attaining a rate of return through budgetary and
economic cycles, commensurate with the city’s investment risk constraints and
the cash flow characteristics of the portfolio.
(Ord. 7346, passed 2-11-97)
§ 160.07 DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY.
   The authority to manage the city’s investment program is derived from the
City Charter, and the City’s Codified Ordinances. Management responsibility for
the investment program is hereby delegated to the city’s Investment Committee,
which shall establish written procedures for the operation of the investment
program consistent with this investment policy. Procedures should include
reference to: safekeeping, PSA repurchase agreements, wire transfer agreements,
banking service contracts, and collateral/depository agreements. Such
procedures shall include explicit delegation of authority to persons
responsible for investment transactions. No person may engage in an investment
transaction except as provided under the terms of this policy and the
procedures established by the city’s Investment Committee. The City Auditor
shall be responsible for all transactions undertaken and shall establish a
system of controls to regulate the activities of subordinate officials.
(Ord. 7346, passed 2-11-97)
§ 160.08 ETHICS AND CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   (A)   Officers and employees involved in the investment process shall
refrain from personal business activity that could conflict with proper
execution of the investment program, or which could impair their ability to
make impartial investment decisions. Employees and investment officials shall
disclose to the City Manager any material financial interests in financial
institutions that conduct business within this jurisdiction, and they shall
further disclose any large personal financial/investment positions that could
be related to the performance of the city, particularly with regard to the time
of purchase and sales.
   (B)   The City Auditor, City Manager and staff must continually be aware of
the fiduciary nature of their responsibility for investing the public funds
under their control. Only persons whose integrity remains unquestioned will be
permitted to make investment decisions concerning public funds.
   (C)   The City Auditor, City Manager and staff members are prohibited from
taking direct or indirect interest in any of the investments made by the City
Auditor and from receiving payment, bonuses, or other compensation for
investment services in excess of their designated compensation.
   (D)   All persons responsible for investment decisions or who are involved
in the management of the city’s assets are subject to the codes of conduct
established by all applicable statutes and regulations, the National
Association of Securities Dealers, the Securities and Exchange Commission, and
the Code of Ethics and Standards of the Professional Conduct of the Association
for Investment Management and Research.
   (E)   The City Auditor, City Manager, and Deputy City Auditor shall annually
complete the continuing education programs provided by the Treasurer of the
State of Ohio.
(Ord. 7346, passed 2-11-97)
§ 160.09 AUTHORIZED FINANCIAL DEALERS AND INSTITUTIONS.
   (A)   The City Auditor will maintain a list of financial institutions
authorized to provide investment services. In addition, a list will be
maintained of approved security broker/dealers selected by credit worthiness,
and who are authorized to provide investment services in the State of Ohio.
These may include “primary” dealers or regional dealers that qualify under
Securities & Exchange Commission Rule 15C3-1 (uniform net capital rule). No
public deposit shall be made except in a qualified public depository as
established by Ohio laws.
   (B)   All financial institutions and broker/dealers who desire to become
qualified bidders for investment transactions must supply the City Auditor with
the following:
      (1)   Audited financial statements;
      (2)   Proof of National Association of Security Dealers certification;
      (3)   Trading resolution;
      (4)   Proof of Ohio registration;
      (5)   Completed broker/dealer questionnaire;
      (6)   Certification of having read city’s investment policy and deposit
contracts.
   (C)   An annual review of the financial condition and registrations of
qualified bidders will be conducted by the Investment Committee.
   (D)   A current audited financial statement is required to be on file for
each financial institution and broker/dealer in which the city invests.
(Ord. 7346, passed 2-11-97)
§ 160.10 AUTHORIZED AND SUITABLE INVESTMENTS.
   (A)   The city is empowered by statue to invest in the following types of
securities:
      (1)   United States Treasury Obligations and eligible guaranteed
obligations of the United States;
      (2)   Commercial paper;
      (3)   Bankers’ acceptances;
      (4)   The State of Ohio Treasurer’s investment pool (“Star Ohio”);
      (5)   Certificates of deposit;
      (6)   Repurchase agreements; and
      (7)   Mutual Funds which are invested exclusively in United States
Treasury obligations.
   (B)   The city requires that all investments comply with the limitations
with respect to length of maturities contained in R.C. Chapter 135 (the Uniform
Depository Act). In addition, the city interprets the limits on federal
guaranteed investments, bankers’ acceptances, commercial paper and all other
legal investments very conservatively. Repurchase agreements are only
authorized when a Master Repurchase Agreement is signed and on file with the
bank or broker/dealer.
(Ord. 7346, passed 2-11-97)
§ 160.11 INVESTMENT POOLS.
   As the State Treasurer’s investment pool (“Star Ohio”) and Mutual Funds
which are invested exclusively in United States Treasury obligations are on the
list of Authorized Investments, a thorough investigation of the pool/fund is
required prior to investing, and on a continual basis. There shall be a
questionnaire developed which will answer the following general questions:
   (A)   A description of eligible investment securities, and a written
statement of investment policy and objectives.
   (B)   A description of interest calculations and how it is distributed, and
how gains and losses are treated.
   (C)   A description of how the securities are safeguarded (including the
settlement processes), and how often the securities are priced and the program
audited.
   (D)   A description of who may invest in the program, how often, what size
deposit and withdrawal.
   (E)   A schedule for receiving statements and portfolio listings.
   (F)   Are reserves, retained earnings, etc. utilized by the pool/fund?
   (G)   A fee schedule, and when and how it is assessed.
   (H)   Is the pool/fund eligible for bond proceeds and/or will it accept such
proceeds?
(Ord. 7346, passed 2-11-97)
§ 160.12 COLLATERALIZATION.
   (A)   Collateralization will be required on two types of investments:
certificates of deposit and repurchase (and reverse) agreements. In order to
anticipate market changes and provide a level of security for all funds, the
collateralization level will be (102%) of market value of principal and accrued
interest.
   (B)   The city chooses to limit collateral to the following:
      (1)   United States Treasury Securities;
      (2)   United States Government Agencies Securities; and
      (3)   State of Ohio Municipal Securities.
   (C)   Collateral will always be held by an independent third party with whom
the city has a current custodial agreement. A clearly marked evidence of
ownership (safekeeping receipt) must be supplied to the city and retained.
   (D)   The right of collateral substitution is granted to the City Auditor
after discussion with the Investment Committee.
(Ord. 7346, passed 2-11-97)
§ 160.13 SAFEKEEPING AND CUSTODY.
   All security transactions, including collateral for repurchase agreements,
entered into by the city shall be conducted on a delivery-versus-payment (DVP)
basis. Securities will be held by a third party custodian designated by the
City Auditor and evidenced by safekeeping receipts.
(Ord. 7346, passed 2-11-97)
§ 160.14 DIVERSIFICATION.
   The city will diversify its investments by security type and institution.
With the exception of U.S. Treasury securities and authorized pools, no more
than 50% of the city’s total investment portfolio will be invested in a single
security type or with a single financial institution.
(Ord. 7346, passed 2-11-97)
§ 160.15 MAXIMUM MATURITIES.
   (A)   To the extent possible, the city will attempt to match its investments
with anticipated cash flow requirements. Unless matched to a specific cash
flow, the city will not directly invest in securities maturing more than two
years from the date of purchase. However, the city may collateralize its
repurchase agreements using longer-dated investments not to exceed 20 years to
maturity.
   (B)   Reserve funds may be invested in securities exceeding two years if the
maturity of such investments are made to coincide as nearly as practicable with
the expected use of the funds.
(Ord. 7346, passed 2-11-97)
§ 160.16 INTERNAL CONTROL.
   The City Auditor shall establish an annual process of independent review by
an external auditor. This review will provide internal control by assuring
compliance with policies and procedures.
(Ord. 7346, passed 2-11-97)
§ 160.17 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   The investment portfolio shall be designed with the objective of
obtaining a rate of return throughout budgetary and economic cycles,
commensurate with the investment risk constraints and the cash flow needs of
the city.
   (B)   Market Yield (Benchmark): The city’s investment strategy is passive in
nature. Given this strategy, the basis used by the Investment Committee to
determine whether market yields are being achieved shall be the six month U.S.
Treasury Bill and the average Fed Funds rate.
(Ord. 7346, passed 2-11-97)
§ 160.18 REPORTING.
   (A)   The City Auditor shall provide to the Investment Committee quarterly
investment reports which provide a clear picture of the status of the current
investment portfolio. The management report should include comments on the
fixed income markets and economic conditions, discussions regarding
restrictions on percentage of investment by categories, possible changes in the
portfolio structure going forward and thoughts on investment strategies.
   (B)   Schedules in the quarterly report should include the following:
      (1)   A listing of individual securities held at the end of the reporting
period by authorized investment category.
      (2)   Average life and final maturity of all investments listed.
      (3)   Coupon, discount or earnings rate.
      (4)   Par value, Amortized Book Value and Market Value.
      (5)   Percentage of the Portfolio represented by each investment
category.
(Ord. 7346, passed 2-11-97)
§ 160.19 INVESTMENT POLICY ADOPTION.
   This investment policy of the city is adopted by ordinance of the City
Council. The policy shall be reviewed annually by the city’s Investment
Committee, and any modifications made thereto must be approved by ordinance of
the City Council.
(Ord. 7346, passed 2-11-97)
PART THREE - TRAFFIC CODE
TITLE ONE - Administration
   
Chapter 301 - Definitions
   
Chapter 303 - Administration, Enforcement and Penalty
   
Chapter 305 - Traffic Control Map and File
TITLE THREE - Street and Traffic Control Devices
   
Chapter 311 - Street Obstructions and Special Uses
   
Chapter 313 - Traffic Control Devices
TITLE FIVE - Vehicles
   
Chapter 331 - Operation Generally
   
Chapter 333 - Intoxication; Reckless Operation; Speed
   
Chapter 335 - Licensing; Accidents
   
Chapter 337 - Safety and Equipment
   
Chapter 339 - Commercial and Heavy Vehicles
TITLE SEVEN - Parking
   
Chapter 351 - Parking Generally
   
Chapter 353 - Parking Meters
TITLE NINE - Pedestrians, Bicycles, Motorcycles and Snowmobiles
   
Chapter 371 - Pedestrians
   
Chapter 373 - Bicycles and Motorcycles
   
Chapter 377 - Snowmobiles and All Purpose Vehicles
   
Chapter 379 - Skateboards and Skates
TITLE ONE - Administration
   
Chapter 301   Definitions
   
Chapter 303   Administration, Enforcement and Penalty
   
Chapter 305   Traffic Control Map and File
CHAPTER 301: DEFINITIONS
Section
   
301.01     Meaning of words and phrases
   
301.02     Agricultural tractor
   
301.03     Alley
   
301.031   Beacon
   
301.04     Bicycle; motorized bicycle or moped
   
301.05     Bus
   
301.06    Business district
   
301.07     Chauffeur
   
301.071   Child care center and type A family child care home
   
301.08     Commercial car or truck
   
301.09     Commercial tractor
   
301.10     Controlled-access highway
   
301.11     Crosswalk
   
301.12     Driver or operator
   
301.121   Electric bicycle
   
301.13     Expressway
   
301.14     Farm machinery
   
301.15     Flammable liquid
   
301.16     Freeway
   
301.17     Gross weight
   
301.173   Highway maintenance vehicle
   
301.175   Highway traffic signal
   
301.177   Hybrid beacon
   
301.18     Intersection
   
301.19     Laned highway
   
301.191   Low-speed micromobility device
   
301.192   Median
   
301.20     Motorcycle
   
301.21     Motor vehicle
   
301.22     Multi-wheel agricultural tractor
   
301.221   Operate
   
301.23     Operator
   
301.24     Owner
   
301.25     Park (when prohibited)
   
301.26     Passenger car
   
301.27     Pedestrian
   
301.29     Police officer
   
301.291   Predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense
   
301.292   Private road open to public travel
   
301.30     Private road or driveway
   
301.31     Public roads and highways
   
301.32     Public safety vehicle
   
301.33     Railroad
   
301.34     Railroad sign or signal
   
301.35     Railroad train
   
301.36     Residence district
   
301.37     Right-of-way
   
301.371   Road service vehicle
   
301.38     Roadway
   
301.39     Safety zone
   
301.40     School bus
   
301.41     Semitrailer
   
301.411   Shared-use path
   
301.42     Sidewalk
   
301.43     State route
   
301.45     Stop, stopping or standing (when prohibited)
   
301.46     Street or highway
   
301.47     Streetcar
   
301.48     Through street or highway
   
301.49     Thruway
   
301.50     Trackless trolley
   
301.51     Traffic
   
301.52     Traffic control device
   
301.53     Traffic control signal
   
301.54     Trailer
   
301.55     Truck
   
301.56     Vehicle
   301.57   Waste collection vehicle
§ 301.01 MEANING OF WORDS AND PHRASES.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided, the definitions set forth in R.C. §
4501.01 shall apply to this Part 3 and the penal laws of the municipality.
   (B)   The following words and phrases when used in this Traffic Code, except
as otherwise provided, shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in
this chapter.
(Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 301.02 AGRICULTURAL TRACTOR.
   AGRICULTURAL TRACTOR. Every self-propelling vehicle designed or used for
drawing other vehicles or wheeled machinery, but having no provision for
carrying loads independently of other vehicles, and used principally for
agricultural purposes.
(R.C. §§ 4501.01(C), 4511.01(J)) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 301.03 ALLEY.
   ALLEY. A street or highway intended to provide access to the rear or side of
lots or buildings in urban districts and not intended for the purpose of
through vehicular traffic, and includes any street or highway that has been
declared an ALLEY by the legislative authority of the municipal corporation in
which the street or highway is located.
(R.C. § 4511.01(XX)) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 301.031 BEACON.
   BEACON. A highway traffic signal with one or more signal sections that
operate in a flashing mode.
(R.C. § 4511.01(KKK))
§ 301.04 BICYCLE; MOTORIZED BICYCLE OR MOPED.
   BICYCLE.  Every device, other than a device that is designed solely for use
as a play vehicle by a child, that is propelled solely by human power upon
which a person may ride, and that has two or more wheels, any of which is more
than 14 inches in diameter.
(R.C. § 4511.01(G)) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
   MOTORIZED BICYCLE OR MOPED. Any vehicle having either two tandem wheels or
one wheel in the front and two wheels in the rear, that may be capable of being
pedaled, and that is equipped with a helper motor of not more than 50 cubic
centimeters piston displacement that produces not more than one brake
horsepower, and is capable of propelling the vehicle at a speed of not greater
than 20 miles per hour on a level surface. The terms do not include an electric
bicycle.
(R.C. § 4511.01(H))
§ 301.05 BUS.
   BUS. Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than nine passengers and
used for the transportation of persons other than in a ridesharing arrangement,
and every motor vehicle, automobile for hire or funeral car, other than a
taxicab or motor vehicle used in a ridesharing arrangement, designed and used
for the transportation of persons for compensation.
(R.C. § 4511.01(L)) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 301.06 BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory fronting upon a street or highway,
including the street or highway, between successive intersections within the
municipality, where 50% or more of the frontage between such successive
intersections is occupied by buildings in use for business, or within or
outside the municipality where 50% or more of the frontage for a distance of
300 feet or more is occupied by buildings in use for business, and the
character of such territory is indicated by official traffic control devices.
(R.C. § 4511.01(NN)) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 301.07 CHAUFFEUR.
   CHAUFFEUR. Any operator who operates a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab,
as an employee for hire; or any operator, whether or not the owner of a motor
vehicle, other than a taxicab, operating a vehicle for transporting, for gain,
compensation, or profit, either persons or property owned by another. Any
operator of a motor vehicle who is voluntarily involved in a ridesharing
arrangement is not considered an employee for hire or operating such vehicle
for gain, compensation or profit.
(R.C. § 4501.01(Y)) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 301.071 CHILD CARE CENTER AND TYPE A FAMILY CHILD CARE HOME.
   CHILD CARE CENTER and TYPE A FAMILY CHILD CARE HOME have the same meaning as
set forth in R.C. § 5104.01.
(R.C. § 4511.01(FFF))
§ 301.08 COMMERCIAL CAR OR TRUCK.
   COMMERCIAL CAR or TRUCK. Any motor vehicle having motor power designed and
used for carrying merchandise or freight, or used as a commercial tractor.
(R.C. § 4501.01(J)) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 301.09 COMMERCIAL TRACTOR.
   COMMERCIAL TRACTOR. Except as defined in §
301.02 of this chapter, means every motor vehicle having motive power designed
or used for drawing other motor vehicles, or designed or used for drawing
another motor vehicle while carrying a portion of such other motor vehicle or
its load, or both.
(R.C. § 4501.01(D)) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 301.10 CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY.
   CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every street or highway in respect to which
owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal right of
access to or from the same except at such points only and in such manner as may
be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over such street or
highway.
(R.C. § 4511.01(CC)) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 301.11 CROSSWALK.
   CROSSWALK.
      (1)   That part of a roadway at intersections ordinarily included within
the real or projected prolongation of property lines and curb lines or, in the
absence of curbs, the edges of the traversable roadway;
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersec-tion or elsewhere,
distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the
surface;
      (3)   Notwithstanding subsections (1) and (2) of this section, there
shall not be a crosswalk where authorized signs have been placed indicating no
crossing.
(R.C. § 4511.01(LL)) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 301.12 DRIVER OR OPERATOR.
   DRIVER or OPERATOR. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control
of a vehicle.
(R.C. § 4511.01(Y)) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 301.121 ELECTRIC BICYCLE.
   ELECTRIC BICYCLE. Means a “class 1 electric bicycle”, a “class 2 electric
bicycle”, or a “class 3 electric bicycle” as defined below.
      (1)   CLASS 1 ELECTRIC BICYCLE. Means a bicycle that is equipped with
fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that
provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling and ceases to provide
assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of 20 miles per hour.
(R.C. § 4511.01(SSS))
      (2)   CLASS 2 ELECTRIC BICYCLE. Means a bicycle that is equipped with
fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that may
provide assistance regardless of whether the rider is pedaling and is not
capable of providing assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of 20 miles
per hour.
(R.C. § 4511.01(TTT))
      (3)   CLASS 3 ELECTRIC BICYCLE. Means a bicycle that is equipped with
fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that
provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling and ceases to provide
assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of 28 miles per hour.
(R.C. § 4511.01(UUU))
§ 301.13 EXPRESSWAY.
   EXPRESSWAY. A divided arterial highway for through traffic with full or
partial control of access with an excess of 50% of all crossroads separated in
grade.
(R.C. § 4511.01(ZZ)) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 301.14 FARM MACHINERY.
   FARM MACHINERY. All machines and tools used in the production, harvesting,
and care of farm products, including trailers used to transport agricultural
production materials between a local place of storage of agricultural produce
or supply and the farm when drawn or towed on a public road or highway at a
speed of 25 miles per hour or less.
(R.C. § 4501.01(U)) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 301.15 FLAMMABLE LIQUID.
   FLAMMABLE LIQUID. Any liquid that has a flash point of 70° F., or less, as
determined by a tagliabue or equivalent closed cup test device.
(R.C. § 4511.01(U)) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 301.16 FREEWAY.
   FREEWAY. A divided multi-lane highway for through traffic with all
crossroads separated in grade and with full control of access.
(R.C. § 4511.01(YY)) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 301.17 GROSS WEIGHT.
   GROSS WEIGHT. The weight of a vehicle plus the weight of any load thereon.
(R.C. § 4511.01(V)) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 301.173 HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE VEHICLE.
   HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE VEHICLE. A vehicle used in snow and ice removal or road
surface maintenance, including a snow plow, traffic line striper, road sweeper,
mowing machine, asphalt distributing vehicle, or other such vehicle designed
for use in specific highway maintenance activities.
(R.C. § 4511.01(QQQ))
§ 301.175 HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SIGNAL.
   HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SIGNAL. A power- operated traffic control device by which
traffic is warned or directed to take some specific action. The term does not
include a power-operated sign, steadily illuminated pavement marker, warning
light, or steady burning electric lamp.
(R.C. § 4511.01(MMM))
§ 301.177 HYBRID BEACON.
   HYBRID BEACON. A type of beacon that is intentionally placed in a dark mode
between periods of operation where no indications are displayed and, when in
operation, displays both steady and flashing traffic control signal
indications.
(R.C. § 4511.01(LLL))
§ 301.18 INTERSECTION.
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of
two highways that join one another at, or approximately at, right angles, or
the area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways that join at
any other angle might come into conflict. The junction of an alley or driveway
with a roadway or highway does not constitute an intersection unless the
roadway or highway at the junction is controlled by a traffic control device.
      (2)   If a highway includes two roadways that are 30 feet or more apart,
then every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting
highway constitutes a separate intersection. If both intersecting highways
include two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then every crossing of any two
roadways of such highways constitutes a separate intersection.
      (3)   At a location controlled by a traffic control signal, regardless of
the distance between the separate intersections as described in division (2) of
this definition:
         (a)   If a stop line, yield line, or crosswalk has not been designated
on the roadway within the median between the separate intersections, the two
intersections and the roadway and median constitute one intersection.
         (b)   Where a stop line, yield line, or crosswalk line is designated
on the roadway on the intersection approach, the area within the crosswalk and
any area beyond the designated stop line or yield line constitute part of the
intersection.
         (c)   Where a crosswalk is designated on a roadway on the departure
from the intersection, the intersection includes the area that extends to the
far side of the crosswalk.
(R.C. § 4511.01(KK)) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 301.19 LANED HIGHWAY.
   LANED HIGHWAY. A highway the roadway of which is divided into two or more
clearly marked lanes for vehicular traffic.
(R.C. § 4511.01(GG)) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 301.191 LOW-SPEED MICROMOBILITY DEVICE.
   LOW-SPEED MICROMOBILITY DEVICE. Means a device weighing less than 100 pounds
that has handlebars, is propelled by an electric motor or human power, and has
an attainable speed on a paved level surface of not more than 20 miles per hour
when propelled by the electric motor.
(R.C. § 4511.01(WWW))
§ 301.192 MEDIAN.
   MEDIAN. The area between two roadways of a divided highway, measured from
edge of traveled way to edge of traveled way, but excluding turn lanes. The
width of a median may be different between intersections, between interchanges,
and at opposite approaches of the same intersection.
(R.C. § 4511.01(NNN))
§ 301.20 MOTORCYCLE.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle, other than a tractor, having a seat or
saddle for the use of the operator and designed to travel on not more than
three wheels in contact with the ground, including, but not limited to, motor
vehicles known as “motor-driven cycle,” “motor scooter,” “autocycle,” “cab-
enclosed motorcycle,” or “motorcycle,” without regard to weight or brake
horsepower.
(R.C. § 4511.01(C)) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 301.21 MOTOR VEHICLE.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle propelled or drawn by power other than muscular
power or power collected from overhead electric trolley wires, except motorized
bicycles, electric bicycles, road rollers, traction engines, power shovels,
power cranes, and other equipment used in construction work and not designed
for or employed in general highway transportation, hole- digging machinery,
well-drilling machinery, ditch- digging machinery, farm machinery, and trailers
designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage
and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or
highway for a distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of 25 miles per
hour or less.
(R.C. § 4511.01(B)) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 301.22 MULTI-WHEEL AGRICULTURAL TRACTOR.
   MULTI-WHEEL AGRICULTURAL TRACTOR. A type of agricultural tractor that has
two or more wheels or tires on each side of one axle at the rear of the
tractor, is designed or used for drawing other vehicles or wheeled machinery,
has no provision for carrying loads independently of the drawn vehicles or
machinery, and is used principally for agricultural purposes.
(R.C. § 4511.01(GGG))
§ 301.221 OPERATE.
   OPERATE. To cause or have caused movement of a vehicle.
(R.C. § 4511.01(HHH))
§ 301.23 OPERATOR.
   OPERATOR. Includes any person who drives or operates a motor vehicle upon
the public highways.
(R.C. § 4501.01(X)) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 301.24 OWNER.
   OWNER. Any person or firm other than a manufacturer or dealer having title
to a motor vehicle, except that in R.C. §§ 4505.01 to 4505.19, it includes in
addition manufacturers and dealers.
(R.C. § 4501.01(V)) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 301.25 PARK (WHEN PROHIBITED).
   PARK (when prohibited). The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
loading or unloading.
(Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 301.26 PASSENGER CAR.
   PASSENGER CAR. Any motor vehicle designed and used for carrying not more
than nine persons, including any motor vehicle designed and used for carrying
not more than 15 persons in a ridesharing arrangement.
(R.C. § 4501.01(E)) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 301.27 PEDESTRIAN.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any natural person afoot. The term includes a personal delivery
device as defined in R.C. § 4511.513 unless the context clearly suggests
otherwise.
(R.C. § 4511.01(X)) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 301.28 PERSON.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, copartnership, association or
corporation.
(R.C. § 4511.01(W)) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 301.29 POLICE OFFICER.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic, or
to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
(R.C. § 4511.01(Z)) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 301.291 PREDICATE MOTOR VEHICLE OR TRAFFIC OFFENSE. PREDICATE MOTOR VEHICLE
OR TRAFFIC OFFENSE.
   Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.03, 4511.051, 4511.12, 4511.132,
4511.16, 4511.20, 4511.201, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.213, 4511.22, 4511.23,
4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32,
4511.33, 4511.34, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40,
4511.41, 4511.42, 4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.432, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.451,
4511.452, 4511.46, 4511.47, 4511.48, 4511.481, 4511.49, 4511.50, 4511.511,
4511.53, 4511.54, 4511.55, 4511.56, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59, 4511.60,
4511.61, 4511.64, 4511.66, 4511.661, 4511.68, 4511.70, 4511.701, 4511.71,
4511.711, 4511.712, 4511.713, 4511.72, 4511.73, 4511.763, 4511.771, 4511.78, or
4511.84;
      (2)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.17(A)(2), 4511.51(A) to (D), or 4511.74
(A);
      (3)   A violation of any provision of R.C. §§ 4511.01 to 4511.76 for
which no penalty otherwise is provided in the section that contains the
provision violated;
      (4)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.214;
      (5)   A violation of a municipal ordinance that is substantially
equivalent to any section or provision set forth or described in division (1),
(2), (3), or (4) of this definition.
(R.C. § 4511.01(III))
§ 301.292 PRIVATE ROAD OPEN TO PUBLIC TRAVEL.
   PRIVATE ROAD OPEN TO PUBLIC TRAVEL. A private toll road or road, including
any adjacent sidewalks that generally run parallel to the road, within a
shopping center, airport, sports arena, or other similar business or recreation
facility that is privately owned but where the public is allowed to travel
without access restrictions. The term includes a gated toll road but does not
include a road within a private gated property where access is restricted at
all times, a parking area, a driving aisle within a parking area, or a private
grade crossing.
(R.C. § 4511.01(OOO))
§ 301.30 PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership used for
vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied permission
from the owner but not by other persons.
(R.C. § 4511.01(DD)) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 301.31 PUBLIC ROADS AND HIGHWAYS.
   PUBLIC ROADS AND HIGHWAYS. For vehicles, includes all public thoroughfares,
bridges and culverts.
(R.C. § 4501.01(AA)) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 301.32 PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE.
   PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE. Any of the following:
      (1)   Ambulances, including private ambulance companies under contract to
a municipal corporation, township, or county, and private ambulances and
nontransport vehicles bearing license plates issued under R.C. § 4503.49;
      (2)   Motor vehicles used by public law enforcement officers or other
persons sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state;
      (3)   Any motor vehicle when properly identified as required by the
Director of Public Safety, when used in response to fire emergency calls or to
provide emergency medical service to ill or injured persons, and when operated
by a duly qualified person who is a member of a volunteer rescue service or a
volunteer fire department, and who is on duty pursuant to the rules or
directives of that service. The State Fire Marshal shall be designated by the
Director of Public Safety as the certifying agency for all public safety
vehicles described herein;
      (4)   Vehicles used by fire departments, including motor vehicles when
used by volunteer firefighters responding to emergency calls in the fire
department service when identified as required by the Director of Public
Safety;
      (5)   Any vehicle used to transport or provide emergency medical service
to an ill or injured person, when certified as a PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE, shall
be considered such a vehicle when transporting an ill or injured person to a
hospital, regardless or whether such vehicle has already passed a hospital;
      (6)   Vehicles used by the Motor Carrier Enforcement Unit for the
enforcement of orders and rules of the Public Utilities Commission as specified
in R.C. § 5503.34.
(R.C. § 4511.01(E)) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 301.33 RAILROAD.
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property operating upon rails placed
principally on a private right-of-way.
(R.C. § 4511.01(P)) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 301.34 RAILROAD SIGN OR SIGNAL.
   RAILROAD SIGN OR SIGNAL. Any sign, signal or device erected by authority of
a public body or official or by a railroad and intended to give notice of the
presence of railroad tracks or the approach of a railroad train.
(R.C. § 4511.01(§ )) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 301.35 RAILROAD TRAIN.
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine, or an electric or other motor, with or
without cars coupled thereto, operated by a railroad.
(R.C. § 4511.01(Q)) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 301.36 RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory, not comprising a business district
fronting on a street or highway, including the street or highway, where for a
distance of 300 feet or more, the frontage is improved with residences, or
residences and buildings in use for business.
(R.C. § 4511.01(OO)) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 301.37 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY.  Either of the following, as the context requires:
      (1)   The right of a vehicle or pedestrian to proceed uninterruptedly in
a lawful manner in the direction in which it, he or she is moving, in
preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching from a different
direction into its or his or her path;
      (2)   A general term denoting land, property, or the interest therein,
usually in the configuration of a strip, acquired for or devoted to
transportation purposes. When used in this context, RIGHT-OF- WAY includes the
roadway, shoulders or berm, ditch, and slopes extending to the right-of-way
limits under the control of the state or local authority.
(R.C. § 4511.01(UU)) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 301.371 ROAD SERVICE VEHICLE.
   ROAD SERVICE VEHICLE. Wreckers, utility repair vehicles and state, county
and municipal service vehicles equipped with visual signals by means of
flashing, rotating or oscillating lights.
(R.C. § 4511.01(JJJ))
§ 301.38 ROADWAY.
   ROADWAY. That portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, except the berm or shoulder. If a highway includes two or
more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY means any such roadway separately but
not all such roadways collectively.
(R.C. § 4511.01(EE)) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 301.39 SAFETY ZONE.
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and protected or marked or indicated by adequate
signs as to be plainly visible at all times.
(R.C. § 4511.01(MM)) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 301.40 SCHOOL BUS.
   SCHOOL BUS. Every bus designed for carrying more than nine passengers which
is owned by a public, private, or governmental agency or institution of
learning, and operated for the transportation of children to or from a school
session or a school function, or owned by a private person and operated for
compensation for the transportation of children to or from a school session or
a school function; provided the term does not include a bus operated by a
municipally owned transportation system, a mass transit company operating
exclusively within the territorial limits of a municipality, or within such
limits and the territorial limits of municipalities immediately contiguous to
the municipality, nor a common passenger carrier certified by the Public
Utilities Commission unless the bus is devoted exclusively to the
transportation of children to and from a school session or a school function,
and the term does not include a van or bus used by a licensed child care center
or type A family child care home to transport children from the child care
center or type A family child care home to a school if the van or bus does not
have more than 15 children in the van or bus at any time.
(R.C. § 4511.01(F)) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 301.41 SEMITRAILER.
   SEMITRAILER. Every vehicle designed or used for carrying persons or property
with another and separate motor vehicle so that in operation a part of its own
weight or that of its load, or both, rests upon and is carried by another
vehicle.
(R.C. § 4511.01(N)) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 301.411 SHARED-USE PATH.
   SHARED-USE PATH. A bikeway outside the traveled way and physically separated
from motorized vehicular traffic by an open space or barrier and either within
the highway right-of-way or within an independent alignment. A shared-use path
also may be used by pedestrians, including skaters, joggers, users of manual
and motorized wheelchairs, and other authorized motorized and non-motorized
users. A shared-use path does not include any trail that is intended to be used
primarily for mountain biking, hiking, equestrian use, or other similar uses,
or any other single track or natural surface trail that has historically been
reserved for non-motorized use.
(R.C. § 4511.01(PPP))
§ 301.42 SIDEWALK.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for the use of
pedestrians.
(R.C. § 4511.01(FF)) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 301.43 STATE ROUTE.
   STATE ROUTE. Every highway that is designated with an official state route
number and so marked.
(R.C. § 4511.01(JJ)) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 301.44 STOP (WHEN REQUIRED).
   STOP (when required). A complete cessation of movement.
(Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 301.45 STOP, STOPPING OR STANDING (WHEN PROHIBITED).
   STOP, STOPPING or STANDING (when prohibited). Any stopping or standing of a
vehicle, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with
other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
traffic control sign or signal.
(Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 301.46 STREET OR HIGHWAY.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
open to the use of the public as a thoroughfare for purposes of vehicular
travel.
(R.C. § 4511.01(BB)) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 301.47 STREETCAR.
   STREETCAR.  A car, other than a railroad train, for transporting persons or
property, operated upon rails principally within a street or highway.
(R.C. § 4511.01(R)) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 301.48 THROUGH STREET OR HIGHWAY.
   THROUGH STREET OR HIGHWAY. Every street or highway as provided in R.C. §
4511.65 or §
313.02 of this code.
(R.C. § 4511.01(HH)) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 301.49 THRUWAY.
   THRUWAY. A through highway whose entire roadway is reserved for through
traffic and on which roadway parking is prohibited.
(R.C. § 4511.01(AAA)) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 301.50 TRACKLESS TROLLEY.
   TRACKLESS TROLLEY. Every car that collects its power from overhead electric
trolley wires and that is not operated upon rails or tracks.
(R.C. § 4511.01(S)) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 301.51 TRAFFIC.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars, and
other devices, either singly or together, while using for purposes of travel
any highway or private road open to public travel.
(R.C. § 4511.01(TT)) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 301.52 TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE. A flagger, sign, signal, marking, or other device
used to regulate, warn, or guide traffic, placed on, over, or adjacent to a
street, highway, private road open to public travel, pedestrian facility, or
shared-use path by authority of a public agency or official having
jurisdiction, or, in the case of a private road open to public travel, by
authority of the private owner or private official having jurisdiction.
(R.C. § 4511.01(QQ)) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 301.53 TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL. Any highway traffic signal by which traffic is
alternately directed to stop and permitted to proceed.
(R.C. § 4511.01(RR)) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 301.54 TRAILER.
   TRAILER.
      (1)   TRAILER. Any vehicle without motive power designed or used for
carrying property or persons wholly on its own structure and for being drawn by
a motor vehicle, and includes any such vehicle when formed by or operated as a
combination of a semitrailer and a vehicle of the dolly type such as that
commonly known as a trailer dolly, a vehicle used to transport agricultural
produce or agricultural production materials between a local place of storage
or supply and the farm when drawn or towed on a public road or highway at a
speed greater than 25 miles per hour, and a vehicle designed and used
exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage and a marina, or in
and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a public road or highway for a
distance of more than ten miles or at a speed of more than 25 miles per hour,
except the term does not include a manufactured home or travel trailer.
(R.C. § 4501.01(M))
      (2)   SEMITRAILER. Any vehicle of the trailer type without motive power
so designed or used with another and separate motor vehicle that in operation a
part of its own weight or that of its load, or both, rests upon and is carried
by such other vehicle furnishing the motive power for propelling itself and the
vehicle referred to in this subsection.
(R.C. § 4501.01(P))
      (3)   TRAVEL TRAILER. A nonself- propelled recreational vehicle not
exceeding an overall length of 35 feet, exclusive of bumper and tongue or
coupling, and includes a tent-type fold-out camping trailer as defined in R.C.
§ 4517.01(S).
(R.C. § 4501.01(Q)(6)(a))
      (4)   MANUFACTURED HOME. Any nonself-propelled vehicle transportable in
one or more sections, which in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more
in width or 40 body feet or more in length or, when erected on site, is 320 or
more square feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be
used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the
required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and
electrical systems contained therein. Calculations used to determine the number
of square feet in a structure are based on the structure’s exterior dimensions
measured at the largest horizontal projections when erected on site. These
dimensions include all expandable rooms, cabinets, and other projections
containing interior space, but do not include bay windows.
(Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 301.55 TRUCK.
   TRUCK. Every motor vehicle, except trailers and semitrailers, designed and
used to carry property.
(R.C. § 4511.01(K)) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 301.56 VEHICLE.
   VEHICLE. Every device, including a motorized bicycle and an electric
bicycle, in, upon, or by which any person or property may be transported or
drawn upon a highway, except that VEHICLE does not include any motorized
wheelchair, any electric personal assistive mobility device, any electric
personal assistive mobility device, any low-speed micromobility device, any
personal delivery device as defined in R.C. § 4511.513, any device that is
moved by power collected from overhead electric trolley wires or that is used
exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks, or any device, other than a
bicycle, that is moved by human power.
(R.C. § 4511.01(A)) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 301.57 WASTE COLLECTION VEHICLE.
   WASTE COLLECTION VEHICLE. A vehicle used in the collection of garbage,
refuse, trash, or recyclable materials.
(R.C. § 4511.01(RRR))
CHAPTER 303: ADMINISTRATION, ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY
Section
   
303.01   Police to enforce traffic code
   
303.02     Manager’s authority to place traffic control devices; standards
   
303.03   Specific powers of manager
   
303.04   Manager’s power not exclusive
   
303.05     Temporary traffic rules and regulations
   
303.06     Compliance with lawful order of police officer
   
303.07   Resisting an enforcing official
   
303.08     Application to persons riding, driving animals upon roadway
   
303.09     Application to drivers of government vehicles;
   
303.10     Impounding of vehicles; redemption
   
303.11   Waiver provisions
   
303.12     Presenting false name or information to officer
 
   
303.99   General code penalty
§ 303.01 POLICE TO ENFORCE TRAFFIC CODE.
   The Division of Police shall enforce the provisions of this Traffic Code.
The Chief of Police shall assign such officers and members of the Division as
he or she may determine necessary, who shall be charged with the specific duty
of enforcing the provisions of this Traffic Code. In the event of fire or other
emergency, or to expedite traffic or safeguard pedestrians, members of the
Divisions of Police and Fire may direct traffic as conditions may require,
notwithstanding any other provisions of this Traffic Code.
(Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 303.02 MANAGER’S AUTHORITY TO PLACE TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES; STANDARDS.
   (A)   The City Manager is authorized to place and maintain traffic control
devices upon any street under his or her jurisdiction as are necessary to
effectuate the provisions of this Traffic Code or to regulate, warn or guide
traffic, and such other traffic control devices as he or she shall deem
necessary for the proper control of traffic. The City Manager shall determine
the location, timing and coordination of such traffic control devices upon the
basis of an applicable engineering and traffic investigation and shall consider
the following:
      (1)   The maximum safety and protection of vehicular and pedestrian
traffic from physical injury or property damage;
      (2)   The existing and potential traffic movement, volume and conditions;
      (3)   The location and frequency of accidents, including studies of
remedial measures;
      (4)   The recommendation of the Chief of Police;
      (5)   The acceleration of mass transportation of persons and property by
vehicles so as to expedite travel and promote public safety;
      (6)   The convenience and welfare of the general public in parking,
standing, loading and unloading and the use of the streets as affecting
business concerns and places of assembly;
      (7)   Economy in the expenditure of public money.
   (B)   All traffic control devices shall conform to the “Manual of Uniform
Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways” adopted by the Ohio
Department of Transportation.
(Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
Statutory reference:
   Local authorities’ traffic control placement and maintenance, see R.C. §
4511.11
   Uniform System of Traffic Control devices, see R.C. § 4511.09
§ 303.03 SPECIFIC POWERS OF MANAGER.
   (A)   The City Manager is empowered to:
      (1)   Designate any street as a through street and require that all
vehicles stop or yield the right-of-way as may be required before entering the
same;
      (2)   Designate any intersection as a stop intersection and require all
vehicles to stop at one or more entrances to such intersection;
      (3)   Designate dangerous crossings over railroad tracks and erect stop
signs thereat;
      (4)   Designate any intersection as a yield intersection and require all
vehicles to yield the right-of-way as required;
      (5)   Designate particular streets as one-way streets and require that
all vehicles thereon be moved in one specific direction;
      (6)   Designate lanes to be used by traffic moving in a particular
direction regardless of the center line of the roadway;
      (7)   Erect signs directing slow-moving traffic to use a designated lane
or allocating specified lanes to traffic moving in the same direction;
      (8)   Designate those portions of any street, where overtaking and
passing other traffic or driving to the left of the center or center line of
the roadway would be especially hazardous, by appropriate signs or markings on
the street to indicate the beginning and end of such zones. Such zones may be
marked by an auxiliary yellow line placed parallel and to the right of the
normal center line or offset marked lane line;
      (9)   Designate streets or parts of streets where trucks, tractors and
semitrailers are prohibited;
      (10)   Place markers, buttons or signs within or adjacent to
intersections and require that a specific course of direction be traveled by
vehicles proceeding in lanes by either permitting, prohibiting or requiring
turns at such intersections;
      (11)   Install traffic control signals at any location to regulate
traffic;
      (12)   Establish safety zones, crosswalks, zones of quiet and play
streets;
      (13)   Close to vehicular traffic any street or portion thereof which is
in the process of construction, reconstruction or repair;
      (14)   Determine the location of bus stops and taxicab stands;
      (15)   Determine the location and limiting hours of loading zones;
      (16)   Regulate the stopping, standing and parking of vehicles by
erecting signs plainly indicating the prohibition or the restrictions as to
time limitations;
      (17)   Designate individual parking spaces which may either be parallel
or at a prescribed angle to the curb or edge of the roadway;
      (18)   Determine parking meter areas, time limits, meter charges and
location or relocation of meters and meter spaces;
      (19)   Regulate the loading of and traffic over bridges by establishing
load limits and by restricting specific vehicle types;
      (20)   Establish fire lanes on private property devoted to public use.
(Ord. 5052, passed 2-13-79)
   (B)   No provision of this section shall be effective until signs, signals,
markings or other devices giving notice of such local traffic regulation are
posted upon or at the entrance to the street or part thereof affected, as may
be most appropriate, so that in a proper position they are sufficiently legible
to be seen by an ordinarily observant person.
(Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 303.04 MANAGER’S POWER NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   Notwithstanding the powers delegated to the City Manager in §§
303.02 and
303.03, Council may at any time by resolution or ordinance make such traffic
rules and regulations as it may deem proper and necessary.
(Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 303.05 TEMPORARY TRAFFIC RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   In order to determine the effectiveness of methods of traffic control
different from the provisions of this Traffic Code, or during times of
emergency, the City Manager may regulate traffic flow or change parking
regulations for a period not to exceed 30 days without the necessity of
amending the Traffic Control Map and File as provided in §
305.03.
(Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 303.06 COMPLIANCE WITH LAWFUL ORDER OF POLICE OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall fail to comply with any lawful order or direction of
any police officer invested with authority to direct, control, or regulate
traffic.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle so as willfully to elude or
flee a police officer after receiving a visible or audible signal from a police
officer to bring the person’s motor vehicle to a stop.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to comply
with an order or signal of a police officer.
      (2)   A violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (3)   Except as provided in divisions (C)(4) and (5) of this section, a
violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (4)   Except as provided in division (C)(5) of this section, a violation
of division (B) of this section is a felony and shall be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if the jury or judge as trier of fact finds by proof
beyond a reasonable doubt that in committing the offense, the offender was
fleeing immediately after the commission of a felony.
      (5)   (a)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a felony and
shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law if the jury or judge as trier
of fact finds any of the following by proof beyond a reasonable doubt:
            1.   The operation of the motor vehicle by the offender was a
proximate cause of serious physical harm to persons or property.
            2.   The operation of the motor vehicle by the offender caused a
substantial risk of serious physical harm to persons or property.
         (b)   If a police officer pursues an offender who is violating
division (B) of this section and division (C)(5)(a) of this section applies,
the sentencing court, in determining the seriousness of an offender’s conduct
for purposes of sentencing the offender for a violation of division (B) of this
section, shall consider, along with the factors set forth in R.C. §§ 2929.12
and 2929.13 that are required to be considered, all of the following:
            1.   The duration of the pursuit;
            2.   The distance of the pursuit;
            3.   The rate of speed at which the offender operated the motor
vehicle during the pursuit;
            4.   Whether the offender failed to stop for traffic lights or stop
signs during the pursuit;
            5.   The number of traffic lights or stop signs for which the
offender failed to stop during the pursuit;
            6.   Whether the offender operated the motor vehicle during the
pursuit without lighted lights during a time when lighted lights are required;
            7.   Whether the offender committed a moving violation during the
pursuit;
            8.   The number of moving violations the offender committed during
the pursuit;
            9.   Any other relevant factors indicating that the offender’s
conduct is more serious than conduct normally constituting the offense.
   (D)   In addition to any other sanction imposed for a violation of division
(A) of this section or a misdemeanor violation of division (B) of this section,
the court shall impose a class five suspension from the range specified in R.C.
§ 4510.02(A)(5). If the offender previously has been found guilty of an offense
under this section or under R.C. § 2921.331 or any other substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, in addition to any other sanction imposed for
the offense, the court shall impose a class one suspension as described in R.C.
§ 4510.02(A)(1). The court may grant limited driving privileges to the offender
on a suspension imposed for a misdemeanor violation of this section as set
forth in R.C. § 4510.021. No judge shall suspend any portion of the suspension
under a class one suspension of an offender’s license, permit, or privilege
required by this division.
   (E)   As used in this section:
   MOVING VIOLATION has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2743.70.
   POLICE OFFICER has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
(R.C. § 2921.331(A) - (C), (E), (F)) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76; Am. Ord. 5281,
passed 3-10-81)
Penalty, see § 303.99 
§ 303.07 RESISTING AN ENFORCING OFFICIAL.
   (A)   No person shall resist, hinder, obstruct or abuse any sheriff,
constable, or other official while that official is attempting to arrest
offenders under any provision of this code. No person shall interfere with any
person charged under any provisions of this code with the enforcement of the
law relative to public highways.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.36) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
Penalty, see § 303.99
§ 303.08 APPLICATION TO PERSONS RIDING, DRIVING ANIMALS UPON ROADWAY.
   Every person riding, driving, or leading an animal upon a roadway is subject
to R.C. §§ 4511.01 through 4511.78, 4511.99, and 4513.01 through 4513.37,
applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except those provisions of such sections
which by their nature are inapplicable.
(R.C. § 4511.05) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
Penalty, see § 303.99
§ 303.09 APPLICATION TO DRIVERS OF GOVERNMENT VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this traffic code applicable to the drivers of vehicles
shall apply to the drivers of all vehicles owned or operated by the United
States, any state or any political subdivision thereof, including this
municipality, except as may be otherwise provided by law, and subject to such
specific exceptions as are set forth with reference to authorized emergency
vehicles.
(Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 303.10 IMPOUNDING OF VEHICLES; REDEMPTION.
   (A)   When vehicles may be impounded. Police officers are authorized to
provide for the removing and impounding of a vehicle under the following
circumstances:
      (1)   When any vehicle is left unattended upon any bridge or is so
illegally parked as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the
normal movement of traffic.
      (2)   When any vehicle has been left unattended or abandoned in excess of
72 consecutive hours upon any street or other public property or upon any
private property without the permission of the owner or the person in charge of
such private property.
      (3)   When any vehicle has been stolen or operated without the consent of
the owner.
      (4)   When any vehicle displays illegal license plates or fails to
display the lawfully required license plates.
      (5)   When any vehicle has been used in or connected with the commission
of a felony.
      (6)   When any vehicle has been damaged or wrecked so as to be
inoperable, or violates equipment provisions of this Traffic Code whereby its
continued operation would constitute a condition hazardous to life, limb or
property.
      (7)   When any vehicle is left unattended due to the removal of an ill,
injured or arrested operator.
      (8)   When any vehicle is found for which two or more citation tags for
violations of this Traffic Code have been issued, and the owner or operator
thereof has failed to respond to such citation tags as lawfully required.
      (9)   When the owner of private property or operator of any private
parking lot makes complaint to the Division of Police and requests the removal
of any vehicle.
   (B)   Impounding charges. The Division of Police shall charge for removal
and impounding the sum of $50 plus $10 per day for storage.
   (C)   Notice of impounding. Upon removal and impounding, the Division of
Police shall notify the registered vehicle owner of the removal and impounding,
the reasons therefor, and the place of storage.
   (D)   Redemption of vehicle. The Division of Police shall release the
vehicle to the registered owner only after the owner posts bond to answer the
violation causing such removal and impounding, or pays the fines due for such
violation, or release is authorized by a court of competent jurisdiction, and
also pays the impounding and storage charges.
(Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76; Am. Ord. 5039, passed 9-26-78; Am. Ord. 5200,
passed 4-22-80; Am. Ord. 6571, passed 1-8-91)
§ 303.11 WAIVER PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Any person who has received a citation tag notifying him or her of a
violation of this traffic code, except for failure to stop in the event of an
accident, reckless driving, speeding or driving while intoxicated, may, within
the time specified in the notice, answer at the office of the Division of
Police to the charges set forth in the notice by paying a fine prescribed by
the Municipal Court upon presentation of such citation tag and the filing of a
written plea of guilty and by depositing the amount of the penalty as provided
herein.
   (B)   The Court shall have the power to accept such plea or to reject it and
hold the case for trial. If such plea is accepted, the penalty deposit shall be
paid to the Court, and the Court shall have no power to remit it or suspend it
or any part of it.
(Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 303.12 PRESENTING FALSE NAME OR INFORMATION TO OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly present, display, or orally communicate a
false name, social security number, or date of birth to a law enforcement
officer who is in the process of issuing to the person a traffic ticket or
complaint.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4513.361)
Penalty, see § 303.99
Cross-reference:
   False reports to law enforcement officers, see §
501.03
§ 303.99 GENERAL CODE PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Whoever violates any provision of this traffic code for
which no penalty otherwise is provided in the section violated is guilty of one
of the following:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this
section, a minor misdemeanor;
      (2)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
      (3)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more predicate motor vehicle or
traffic offenses, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.99) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
   (B)   Violations committed while distracted.
      (1)   As used in this section and each section referenced in division (B)
(2) of this section, all of the following apply:
         (a)   “Distracted” means doing either of the following while operating
a vehicle:
            1.   Using an electronic wireless communications device, as defined
in § 4511.204, in violation of that section.
            2.   Engaging in any activity that is not necessary to the
operation of a vehicle and impairs, or reasonably would be expected to impair,
the ability of the operator to drive the vehicle safely.
         (b)   “Distracted” does not include operating a motor vehicle while
wearing an earphone or earplug over or in both ears at the same time. A person
who so wears earphones or earplugs may be charged with a violation of R.C. §
4511.84, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
         (c)   “Distracted” does not include conducting any activity while
operating a utility service vehicle or a vehicle for or on behalf of a utility,
provided that the driver of the vehicle is acting in response to an emergency,
power outage, or a circumstance affecting the health or safety of individuals.
As used in this division (B)(1)(c):
            UTILITY. An entity specified in R.C. § 4905.03(A), (C), (D), (E),
or (G).
            UTILITY SERVICE VEHICLE. A vehicle owned or operated by a utility.
      (2)   If an offender violates R.C. § 4511.03, 4511.051, 4511.12,
4511.121, 4511.132, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.213, 4511.22, 4511.23, 4511.25,
4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33,
4511.34, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40, 4511.41,
4511.42, 4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.451, 4511.46, 4511.47,
4511.54, 4511.55, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59, 4511.60, 4511.61, 4511.64,
4511.71, 4511.711, 4511.712, 4511.713, 4511.72, or 4511.73, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the
violation, the offender is subject to the applicable penalty for the violation
and, notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.28, is subject to an additional fine of not
more than $100 as follows:
         (a)   1.   Subject to Traffic Rule 13, if a law enforcement officer
issues an offender a ticket, citation, or summons for a violation of any of the
aforementioned sections of the Ohio Revised Code, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, that indicates that the offender was distracted
while committing the violation and that the distracting activity was a
contributing factor to the commission of the violation, the offender may enter
a written plea of guilty and waive the offender’s right to contest the ticket,
citation, or summons in a trial provided that the offender pays the total
amount of the fine established for the violation and pays the additional fine
of $100.
            2.   In lieu of payment of the additional fine of $100, the
offender instead may elect to attend a distracted driving safety course, the
duration and contents of which shall be established by the Ohio Director of
Public Safety. If the offender attends and successfully completes the course,
the offender shall be issued written evidence that the offender successfully
completed the course. The offender shall be required to pay the total amount of
the fine established for the violation, but shall not be required to pay the
additional fine of $100, so long as the offender submits to the court both the
offender’s payment in full and such written evidence within 90 days of the
underlying violation that resulted in the imposition of the additional fine
under division (B) of this section.
         (b)   1.   If the offender appears in person to contest the ticket,
citation, or summons in a trial and the offender pleads guilty to or is
convicted of the violation, the court, in addition to all other penalties
provided by law, may impose the applicable penalty for the violation and may
impose the additional fine of not more than $100.
            2.   If the court imposes upon the offender the applicable penalty
for the violation and an additional fine of not more than $100, the court shall
inform the offender that, in lieu of payment of the additional fine of not more
than $100, the offender instead may elect to attend the distracted driving
safety course described in division (B)(2)(a) of this section. If the offender
elects the course option and attends and successfully completes the course, the
offender shall be issued written evidence that the offender successfully
completed the course. The offender shall be required to pay the total amount of
the fine established for the violation, but shall not be required to pay the
additional fine of not more than $100, so long as the offender submits to the
court the offender’s payment and such written evidence within 90 days of the
underlying violation that resulted in the imposition of the additional fine
under division (B) of this section.
      (3)    If a law enforcement officer issues an offender a ticket,
citation, or summons for a violation of any of the sections of the Revised Code
listed in division (B)(2) of this section that indicates that the offender was
distracted while committing the violation and that the distracting activity was
a contributing factor to the commission of the violation, the officer shall do
both of the following:
         (a)   Report the issuance of the ticket, citation, or summons to the
officer's law enforcement agency;
         (b)   Ensure that such report indicates the offender's race.
(R.C. § 4511.991)
   (C)   Sentencing. Whoever is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor
or minor misdemeanor shall be sentenced in accordance with §
599.02.
Statutory reference:
   Reimbursement for costs of confinement, see R.C. §§ 2929.36 et seq.
CHAPTER 305: TRAFFIC CONTROL MAP AND FILE
Section
   
305.01   Traffic Control Map
   
305.02   Traffic Control File
   
305.03     Incorporation, maintenance and amendments
§ 305.01 TRAFFIC CONTROL MAP.
   There is established a Traffic Control Map which shall reflect by legend and
proper designation the municipality’s currently existing:
   (A)   Traffic control signals;
   (B)   Through streets, state routes and truck routes;
   (C)   One-way streets and alleys;
   (D)   Stop intersections;
   (E)   Yield right-of-way intersections;
   (F)   Commercial and passenger loading zones;
   (G)   Prohibited and limited parking areas;
   (H)   Angle parking areas;
   (I)   Parking meter areas.
(Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 305.02 TRAFFIC CONTROL FILE.
   There is established a Traffic Control File which shall list, in chart form,
all types of traffic control designations specified in § 305.01, and shall also
include:
   (A)   Adequate description of the street or area affected;
   (B)   Authorizing ordinance or regulation number and effective date;
   (C)   Date when official signs, signals, markings or parking meters were
erected or placed in proper position;
   (D)   Date when designation was recorded upon Traffic Control Map.
(Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
§ 305.03 INCORPORATION, MAINTENANCE AND AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The Traffic Control Map and File, existing as of the date of passage
of this Traffic Code, are incorporated as a part of this Traffic Code. The map
and file shall be prepared and maintained to date by the Department of
Engineering under the direction of the City Manager.
   (B)   Amendments to the Traffic Control Map and File shall be made by
regulation of the City Manager or by legislation enacted by Council. Any such
regulation of the City Manager shall be posted in the same manner as an
ordinance or resolution of Council. Upon the effective date of such regulation
or legislation and upon erection of proper signs and markings giving notice
thereof, such amendments shall be in full force and effect. All such amendments
shall be recorded on the Traffic Control Map and File by the Department of
Engineering under the direction of the City Manager.
(Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
TITLE THREE - Street and Traffic Control Devices
   
Chapter 311   Street Obstructions and Special Uses
   
Chapter 313   Traffic Control Devices
CHAPTER 311: STREET OBSTRUCTIONS AND SPECIAL USES
Section
   
311.01     Placing injurious material or obstruction in street
   
311.02     Parades and assemblages
   
311.03     Zones of quiet
   
311.04     Play streets
   
311.05     Toy vehicles upon roadway
 
   
311.99     Penalty
§ 311.01 PLACING INJURIOUS MATERIAL OR OBSTRUCTION IN STREET.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a
highway, lane, road, street, or alley any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails,
or other articles which may damage or injure any person, vehicle, or animal
traveling along or upon the highway, except such substances that may be placed
upon the roadway by proper authority for the repair or construction thereof.
      (2)   Any person who drops or permits to be dropped or thrown upon any
highway any destructive or injurious material shall immediately remove the
same.
      (3)   Any person authorized to remove a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a
highway shall remove any glass or other injurious substance dropped upon the
highway from such vehicle.
      (4)   No person shall place any obstruction in or upon a highway without
proper authority.
   (B)   No person, with intent to cause physical harm to a person or a
vehicle, shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a highway, lane, road,
street, or alley any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails, or other articles
which may damage or injure any person, vehicle, or animal traveling along or
upon such highway, except such substances that may be placed upon the roadway
by proper authority for the repair or construction thereof.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4511.74(A), (B), (C)) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
Penalty, see § 311.99
§ 311.02 PARADES AND ASSEMBLAGES.
   (A)   No person, group of persons or organization shall conduct or
participate in any parade, procession or assemblage upon any street or highway,
or block off any street or highway area, without first obtaining a permit from
the City Manager.
   (B)   Applications for such permits shall be made on such forms as may be
prescribed and shall contain such information as is reasonably necessary to a
fair determination of whether a permit should be issued. Applications shall be
filed not less than five days before the time intended for such parade,
procession or assemblage.
   (C)   The permit may be refused or cancelled if the resultant conditions
would unreasonably hinder the movement of traffic or would require the
diversion of sufficient police officers or firefighters so as to deprive the
municipality of normal police and fire protection, or would be reasonably
likely to provoke disorderly conduct or create a disturbance.
   (D)   The permit or any order accompanying it may limit or prescribe
reasonable conditions, including the hours, the places of assembly and of
dispersal, the route of march or travel and the streets, highways or portions
thereof which may be used or occupied.
(Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
Penalty, see § 311.99
§ 311.03 ZONES OF QUIET.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating a zone of quiet, no person
operating a vehicle within any such zone shall sound the horn or other warning
device of such vehicle except in an emergency.
(Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
Penalty, see § 311.99
§ 311.04 PLAY STREETS.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating any street or part thereof
as a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle upon any such street or
portion thereof except drivers of vehicles having business or whose residences
are within such closed area, and then such drivers shall exercise the greatest
care in driving upon any such street or portion thereof.
(Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
Penalty, see § 311.99
§ 311.05 TOY VEHICLES UPON ROADWAY.
   No person riding upon any coaster, roller skates, sled, toy vehicle or other
similar device shall go upon any roadway except while crossing a street on a
crosswalk and when so crossing, such person shall be granted all of the rights
and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to pedestrians. This
section shall not apply to any street while set aside as a play street.
(Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
Penalty, see § 311.99
§ 311.99 PENALTY.
Editor’s note:
   See
§ 303.99 for general code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.
CHAPTER 313: TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
Section
   
313.01     Obedience to traffic control devices
   
313.02     Through streets; stop and yield right- of-way signs
   
313.03     Traffic control signal terms and lights
   
313.04     Signal to control lane direction of travel
   
313.05     Pedestrian control signals
   
313.06     Flashing traffic signals [Repealed]
   
313.07     Unauthorized signs and signals, hiding from view, advertising
   
313.08     Alteration, injury, removal of traffic signals
   
313.09     Ambiguous or non-working traffic signals
   
313.10   Signal preemption devices; prohibitions
 
   
313.99     Penalty
§ 313.01 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   No pedestrian or driver of a vehicle shall disobey the
instructions of any traffic-control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code, unless at the time otherwise directed by a
police officer.
      (2)   No provision of this traffic code for which signs are required
shall be enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the
alleged violation, an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently
legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular
section of this traffic code does not state that signs are required, that
section shall be effective even though no signs are erected or in place.
(R.C. § 4511.12(A))
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, any operator
of a commercial motor vehicle, upon approaching a scale location established
for the purpose of determining the weight of the vehicle and its load, shall
comply with any traffic control device or the order of a peace officer
directing the vehicle to proceed to be weighed or otherwise inspected.
      (2)   Any operator of a commercial motor vehicle, upon bypassing a scale
location in accordance with division (C) of this section, shall comply with an
order of a peace officer to stop the vehicle to verify the use and operation of
an electronic clearance device.
   (C)   Any operator of a commercial motor vehicle that is equipped with an
electronic clearance device authorized by the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol under R.C. § 4549.081 may bypass a scale location, regardless of
the instruction of a traffic control device to enter the scale facility, if
either of the following apply:
      (1)   The in-cab transponder displays a green light or other affirmative
visual signal and also sounds an affirmative audible signal;
      (2)   Any other criterion established by the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol is met.
   (D)   Any peace officer may order the operator of a commercial motor vehicle
that bypasses a scale location to stop the vehicle to verify the use and
operation of an electronic clearance device.
   (E)   As used in this section, COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE means any
combination of vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating or an actual  gross
vehicle weight of more than 10,000 pounds if the vehicle is used in interstate
or intrastate commerce to transport property and also means any vehicle that is
transporting hazardous materials for which placarding is required pursuant to
49 C.F.R. Parts 100 to 180.
(R.C. § 4511.121(A)-(C), (E))
   (F)   No person shall use an electronic clearance device if the device or
its use is not in compliance with rules of the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol.
(R.C. § 4549.081(B))
   (G)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree. If
the offender commits the offense while distracted and the distracting activity
is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense, the offender is
subject to the additional fine established under § 303.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.12(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (B) of this
section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of division (B)
of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender commits the offense while
distracted and the distracting activity is a contributing factor to the
commission of the offense, the offender is subject to the additional fine
established under §
303.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.121(D))
      (3)   Whoever violates division (F) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the
third degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.081(C)) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
Penalty, see § 313.99
§ 313.02 THROUGH STREETS; STOP AND YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY SIGNS.
   (A)   All state routes are hereby designated as through highways, provided
that stop signs, yield signs, or traffic control signals shall be erected at
all intersections with such through highways, by the Department of
Transportation as to highways under its jurisdiction, and by local authorities
as to highways under their jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this
section. Where two or more state routes that are through highways intersect,
and no traffic control signal is in operation, stop signs or yield signs shall
be erected at one or more entrances thereto by the department or by local
authorities having jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this section.
Whenever the Director of Transportation determines on the basis of an
engineering and traffic investigation that stop signs are necessary to stop
traffic on a through highway for safe and efficient operation, nothing in this
section shall be construed to prevent such installations. When circumstances
warrant, the director also may omit stop signs on roadways intersecting through
highways under his or her jurisdiction. Before the director either installs or
removes a stop sign under this division, he or she shall give notice, in
writing, of that proposed action to the affected local authority at least 30
days before installing or removing the stop sign.
   (B)   Other streets or highways, or portions thereof, are hereby designated
as through highways if they are within the municipal corporation, if they have
a continuous length of more than one mile between the limits of the street or
highway or portion thereof, and if they have stop or yield signs or traffic
control signals at the entrances of the majority of intersecting streets or
highways. For purposes of this section, the limits of the street or highway, or
portion thereof, shall be the municipal corporation line, the physical terminus
of the street or highway, or any point on the streets or highway at which
vehicular traffic thereon is required by regulatory signs to stop or yield to
traffic on the intersecting street, provided, that in residence districts, the
municipal corporation may by ordinance designate such street or highway, or
portion thereof, not to be a through highway and thereafter the affected
residence district shall be indicated by official traffic control devices.
Where two or more through highways designated under this division intersect and
no traffic control signal is in operation, stop signs or yield signs shall be
erected at one or more entrances thereto by the department or by local
authorities having jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this section.
   (C)   The department or local authorities having jurisdiction need not erect
stop signs at intersections they find to be so constructed as to permit traffic
to safely enter a through highway without coming to a stop. Signs shall be
erected at such intersections indicating that the operator of a vehicle shall
yield the right-of-way to or merge with all traffic proceeding on the through
highway.
   (D)   Local authorities, with reference to highways under their
jurisdiction, may designate additional through highways, and shall erect stop
signs, yield signs, or traffic control signals at all streets and highways
intersecting such through highways, or may designate any intersection as a stop
or yield intersection, and shall erect like signs at one or more entrances to
the intersection.
(R.C. § 4511.65) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
Penalty, see § 313.99
§ 313.03 TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL TERMS AND LIGHTS.
   Highway traffic signal indications for vehicles and pedestrians shall have
the following meanings:
   (A)   Steady green signal indication.
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a circular green signal indication
is permitted to proceed straight through or turn right or left or make a u-turn
movement except as such movement is modified by a lane-use sign, turn
prohibition sign, lane marking, roadway design, separate turn signal
indication, or other traffic control device. Such vehicular traffic, including
vehicles turning right or left or making a u-turn movement, shall yield the
right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         (b)   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn
movement to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching
from the opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard
during the time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the
intersection.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a green arrow signal indication, displayed
alone or in combination with another signal indication, is permitted to
cautiously enter the intersection only to make the movement indicated by such
arrow, or such other movement as is permitted by other indications displayed at
the same time. Such vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left
or making a u-turn movement, shall yield the right-of-way to both of the
following:
         (a)   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
         (b)   Other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (3)   (a)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication,
as provided in R.C. § 4511.14, pedestrians facing a circular green signal
indication are permitted to proceed across the roadway within any marked or
unmarked associated crosswalk. The pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to
vehicles lawfully within the intersection or so close as to create an immediate
hazard at the time that the green signal indication is first displayed.
         (b)   Pedestrians facing a green arrow signal indication, unless
otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or other traffic control
device, shall not cross the roadway.
   (B)   Steady yellow signal indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular yellow signal indication
is thereby warned that the related green movement or the related flashing arrow
movement is being terminated or that a steady red signal indication will be
exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter the
intersection. The provisions governing vehicular operation under the movement
being terminated shall continue to apply while the steady circular yellow
signal indication is displayed.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow arrow signal indication is
thereby warned that the related green arrow movement or the related flashing
arrow movement is being terminated. The provisions governing vehicular
operation under the movement being terminated shall continue to apply while the
steady yellow arrow signal indication is displayed.
      (3)   Pedestrians facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow signal
indication, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication as
provided in R.C. § 4511.14 or other traffic control device, shall not start to
cross the roadway.
   (C)   Steady red signal indication.
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular red signal
indication, unless entering the intersection to make another movement permitted
by another signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line; but if
there is no stop line, traffic shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the
near side of the intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, then before
entering the intersection; and shall remain stopped until a signal indication
to proceed is displayed except as provided in divisions (C)(1), (C)(2), and (C)
(3) of this section.
         (b)   Except when a traffic control device is in place prohibiting a
turn on red or a steady
red arrow signal indication is displayed, vehicular traffic facing a steady
circular red signal indication is permitted, after stopping, to enter the
intersection to turn right, or to turn left from a one-way street into a one-
way street. The right to proceed with the turn shall be subject to the
provisions that are applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
      (2)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady red arrow signal indication
shall not enter the intersection to make the movement indicated by the arrow
and, unless entering the intersection to make another movement permitted by
another signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line; but if
there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, then before entering the
intersection; and shall remain stopped until a signal indication or other
traffic control device permitting the movement indicated by such red arrow is
displayed.
         (b)   When a traffic control device is in place permitting a turn on a
steady red arrow signal indication, vehicular traffic facing a steady red arrow
indication is permitted, after stopping, to enter the intersection to turn
right, or to turn left from a one-way street into a one-way street. The right
to proceed with the turn shall be limited to the direction indicated by the
arrow and shall be subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a
stop at a stop sign.
      (3)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication as
provided in R.C. § 4511.14 or other traffic control device, pedestrians facing
a steady circular red or steady red arrow signal indication shall not enter the
roadway.
      (4)   Local authorities by ordinance, or the Director of Transportation
on state highways, may prohibit a right or a left turn against a steady red
signal at any intersection, which shall be effective when signs giving notice
thereof are posted at the intersection.
   (D)   Flashing green signal indication. A flashing green signal indication
has no meaning and shall not be used.
   (E)   Flashing yellow signal indication.
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing
a flashing circular yellow signal indication, is permitted to cautiously enter
the intersection to proceed straight through or turn right or left or make a u-
turn movement except as such movement is modified by lane-use signs, turn
prohibition signs, lane markings, roadway design, separate turn signal
indications, or other traffic control devices. Such vehicular traffic,
including vehicles turning right or left or making a u-turn movement, shall
yield the right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         (b)   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn
to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the
time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the intersection.
      (2)   (a)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing
a flashing yellow arrow signal indication, displayed alone or in combination
with another signal indication, is permitted to cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by such arrow, or other such
movement as is permitted by other signal indications displayed at the same
time. Such vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left or
making a u-turn, shall yield the right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         (b)   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn
to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the
time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the intersection.
      (3)   Pedestrians facing any flashing yellow signal indication at an
intersection, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or
other traffic control device, are permitted to proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked associated crosswalk. Pedestrians shall yield the
right-of-way to vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the
flashing yellow signal indication is first displayed.
      (4)   When a flashing circular yellow signal indication is displayed as a
beacon to supplement another traffic control device, road users are notified
that there is a need to pay additional attention to the message contained
thereon or that the regulatory or warning requirements of the other traffic
control device, which might not be applicable at all times, are currently
applicable.
   (F)   Flashing red signal indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing a
flashing circular red signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line; but if there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk on the near
side of the intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway before entering the intersection. The right to proceed
shall be subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a stop at a
stop sign.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing any flashing red signal indication at an
intersection, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or
other traffic control device, are permitted to proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked associated crosswalk. Pedestrians shall yield the
right-of-way to vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the
flashing red signal indication is first displayed.
      (3)   When a flashing circular red signal indication is displayed as a
beacon to supplement another traffic control device, road users are notified
that there is a need to pay additional attention to the message contained
thereon or that the regulatory requirements of the other traffic control
device, which might not be applicable at all times, are currently applicable.
Use of this signal indication shall be limited to supplementing stop, do not
enter, or wrong way signs, and to applications where compliance with the
supplemented traffic control device requires a stop at a designated point.
   (G)   In the event an official traffic- control signal is erected and
maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of this
section shall be applicable except as to those provisions which by their nature
can have no application. Any stop required shall be made at a sign or marking
on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the absence of
any such sign or marking the stop shall be made at the signal.
   (H)   This section does not apply at railroad grade crossings. Conduct of
drivers of vehicles approaching railroad grade crossings shall be governed by
R.C. §§ 4511.61 and 4511.62.
(R.C. § 4511.13) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76) Penalty, see §
313.99
§ 313.04 SIGNAL TO CONTROL LANE DIRECTION OF TRAVEL.
   The meanings of lane-use control signal indications are as follows:
   (A)   A steady downward green arrow. A road user is permitted to drive in
the lane over which the arrow signal indication is located.
   (B)   A steady yellow “X”. A road user is to prepare to vacate the lane over
which the signal indication is located because a lane control change is being
made to a steady red “X” signal indication.
   (C)   A steady white two-way left-turn arrow. A road user is permitted to
use a lane over which the signal indication is located for a left turn, but not
for through travel, with the understanding that common use of the lane by
oncoming road users for left turns also is permitted.
   (D)   A steady white one-way left-turn arrow. A road user is permitted to
use a lane over which the signal indication is located for a left turn, without
opposing turns in the same lane, but not for through travel.
   (E)   A steady red “X”. A road user is not permitted to use the lane over
which the signal indication is located and that this signal indication shall
modify accordingly the meaning of other traffic controls present.
(R.C. § 4511.131) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76) Penalty, see §
313.99
§ 313.05 PEDESTRIAN CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian control signals exhibiting the words “Walk,”
“Don’t Walk,” or the symbol of a walking person or an upraised palm are in
place, such signals shall indicate the following instruction:
   (A)   A steady walking person signal indication, which symbolizes “walk”,
means that a pedestrian facing the signal indication is permitted to start to
cross the roadway in the direction of the signal indication, possibly in
conflict with turning vehicles. The pedestrian shall yield the right-of- way to
vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the walking person
signal indication is first shown.
   (B)   A flashing upraised hand signal indication, which symbolizes “don't
walk”, means that a pedestrian shall not start to cross the roadway in the
direction of the signal indication, but that any pedestrian who has already
started to cross on a steady walking person signal indication shall proceed to
the far side of the traveled way of the street or highway, unless otherwise
directed by a traffic control device to proceed only to the median of a divided
highway or only to some other island or pedestrian refuge area.
   (C)   A steady upraised hand signal indication means that a pedestrian shall
not enter the roadway in the direction of the signal indication.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to invalidate the continued
use of pedestrian control signals utilizing the word “wait” if those signals
were installed prior to March 28, 1985.
   (E)   A flashing walking person signal indication has no meaning and shall
not be used.
(R.C. § 4511.14) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76) Penalty, see §
313.99
§ 313.06 FLASHING TRAFFIC SIGNALS. [REPEALED]
Editor’s note:
   This section was repealed in conjunction with the 2013 revision to this Code
of Ordinances.
§ 313.07 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS AND SIGNALS, HIDING FROM VIEW, ADVERTISING.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of
any street or highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which
purports to be or is an imitation of, or resembles a traffic control device or
railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic or
hides from view or interferes with the effectiveness of any traffic control
device or any railroad sign or signal, and no person shall place or maintain,
nor shall any public authority permit, upon any street or highway any traffic
sign or signal bearing thereon any commercial advertising. This section does
not prohibit the erection upon private property adjacent to streets or highways
of signs giving useful directional information and of a type that cannot be
mistaken for traffic control devices by the owner of real property in
accordance with R.C. §§ 4511.211 and 4511.432.
      (2)   Every such prohibited sign, signal, marking or device is a public
nuisance, and the Division of Police is authorized to remove the same or cause
it to be removed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.16) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
Penalty, see § 313.99
§ 313.08 ALTERATION, INJURY, REMOVAL OF TRAFFIC SIGNALS.
   (A)   No person, without lawful authority, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly move, deface, damage, destroy, or otherwise improperly
tamper with any traffic-control device, any railroad sign or signal, or any
inscription, shield, or insignia on the device, sign, or signal, or any part of
the device, sign, or signal;
      (2)   Knowingly drive upon or over any freshly applied pavement marking
material on the surface of a roadway while the marking material is in an
undried condition, and is marked by flags, markers, signs, or other devices
intended to protect it;
      (3)   Knowingly move, damage, destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper
with a manhole cover.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A)(1) or(3) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree. If a violation of division (A)(1) or(3) of this section creates a risk
of physical harm to any person, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If a violation of division (A)(1) or(3) of this section causes
serious physical harm to property that is owned, leased, or controlled by a
state or local authority, the offender is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A)(2) of thissection is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever
violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.17) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
Penalty, see § 313.99
§ 313.09 AMBIGUOUS OR NON-WORKING TRAFFIC SIGNALS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle who approaches an intersection where traffic
is controlled by traffic control signals shall do all of the following if the
signal facing the driver exhibits no colored lights or colored lighted arrows,
exhibits a combination of such lights or arrows that fails to clearly indicate
the assignment of right-of- way, or, if the vehicle is a bicycle or an electric
bicycle, the signals are otherwise malfunctioning due to the failure of a
vehicle detector to detect the presence of the bicycle or electric bicycle:
      (1)   Stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, stop before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or, if none, stop
before entering the intersection;
      (2)   Yield the right-of-way to all vehicles in the intersection or
approaching on an intersecting road, if the vehicles will constitute an
immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the
intersection or junction of roadways;
      (3)   Exercise ordinary care while proceeding through the intersection.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under § 303.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.132)
Penalty, see § 313.99
§ 313.10 SIGNAL PREEMPTION DEVICES; PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall possess a portable signal preemption device.
      (2)   No person shall use a portable signal preemption device to affect
the operation of a traffic- control device.
   (B)   Division (A)(1) of this section does not apply to any of the following
persons and division (A)(2) of this section does not apply to any of the
following persons when responding to an emergency call:
      (1)   A peace officer, as defined in R.C. § 109.17(A)(1), (A)(12), (A)
(14), or (A)(19);
      (2)   A state highway patrol officer;
      (3)   A person while occupying a public safety vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 4511.01(E)(1), (E)(3), or (E)(4).
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   As used in this section, PORTABLE SIGNAL PREEMPTION DEVICE means a
device that, if activated by a person, is capable of changing a traffic-control
signal to green out of sequence.
(R.C. § 4511.031)
§ 313.99 PENALTY.
Editor’s note:
   See §
303.99 for general code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.
TITLE FIVE - Vehicles
   
Chapter 331   Operation Generally
   
Chapter 333   Intoxication; Reckless Operation; Speed
   
Chapter 335   Licensing; Accidents
   
Chapter 337   Safety and Equipment
   
Chapter 339   Commercial and Heavy Vehicles
CHAPTER 331: OPERATION GENERALLY
Section
   
331.01     Driving upon right side of roadway; exceptions
   
331.02     Passing to right when proceeding in opposite directions
   
331.03     Overtaking; passing to left; driver’s duties
   
331.04     Permission to overtake and pass on the right
   
331.05   Driving to left of center line
   
331.06     Prohibitions against driving upon left side of roadway
   
331.07   Hazardous zones
   
331.08   Rules for driving in marked lanes
   
331.09   Space between moving vehicles
   
331.10   Rules for turns at intersections
   
331.11     Turning into private driveway, alley or building
   
331.12   Turning in roadway prohibited
   
331.13     Rules for starting and backing vehicles
   
331.14   Turn and stop signals
   
331.15   Hand and arm signals
   
331.16   Right-of-way at intersections
   
331.17   Right-of-way when turning left
   
331.18     Right-of-way at through highways; stop signs; yield signs
   
331.19     Emergency vehicles to proceed cautiously past red or stop signals
   
331.20     Right-of-way of pubic safety vehicles
   
331.21   Right-of-way on public highway
   
331.22     Funeral procession has right-of-way
   
331.23     Prohibition against soliciting rides; riding on outside of vehicle
[Repealed]
   
331.24     Prohibition against attaching bicycles and sleds to vehicles
   
331.25     Driving vehicle across railroad grade crossings
   
331.26     Vehicles required to stop at grade crossings
   
331.27     Slow-moving vehicles or equipment crossing railroad tracks
   
331.28     Prohibition against parking on highways
   
331.29     Obstruction and interference affecting view and control of driver
   
331.30     Occupying travel trailer, fifth wheel vehicle, or manufactured or
mobile home while in motion
   
331.31     Driving upon street posted as closed for repair
   
331.32     Following an emergency or public vehicle prohibited; approaching
stationary public safety vehicle and certain other vehicles with caution
   
331.33   Driving over unprotected fire hose
   
331.34   Driving through safety zone
   
331.35     One-way streets and rotary traffic islands
   
331.36   Divided roadways
   
331.37     Entering and exiting controlled-access highway
   
331.38   Failure to control; weaving course
   
331.39     Squealing tires, “peeling,” cracking exhaust noises
   
331.40     Driving and parking upon sidewalks, street lawns or curbs
   
331.41     Regulations concerning school buses
   
331.42   Stop at sidewalk area
   
331.43     Pedestrian on sidewalk has right-of- way
   
331.44     Pedestrian yield right-of-way to public safety vehicle
   
331.45     Pedestrian on crosswalk has right-of- way
   
331.46     Right-of-way yielded by pedestrian
   
331.47     Intoxicated or drugged pedestrian hazard on highway
   
331.48     Pedestrian walking along highway
   
331.49     Pedestrian on bridge or railroad crossing
   
331.50     Obstructing passage of other vehicles
   
331.51     Tracking mud, rocks or other debris onto streets or sidewalks
   
331.52   Texting while driving prohibited
   
331.53   Use of electronic wireless communication devices by minors or
probationary drivers while driving prohibited
   
331.54   Operation restricted for mini-trucks and low-speed, under-speed, or
utility vehicles
 
   
331.99   Penalty
§ 331.01 DRIVING UPON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction, or when making a left turn under the rules governing such movements;
      (2)   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left
of the center of the highway; provided, any person so doing shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the
unobstructed portion of the highway within such distance as to constitute an
immediate hazard;
      (3)   When driving upon a roadway divided into three or more marked lanes
for traffic under the rules applicable thereon;
      (4)   When driving upon a roadway designated and posted with signs for
one-way traffic;
      (5)   When otherwise directed by a police officer or traffic control
device.
   (B)   (1)   Upon all roadways any vehicle proceeding at less than the
prevailing and lawful speed of traffic at the time and place and under the
conditions then existing shall be driven in the right-hand lane then available
for traffic, and far enough to the right to allow passing by faster vehicles if
such passing is safe and reasonable, except under any of the following
circumstances:
         (a)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction;
         (b)   When preparing for a left turn;
         (c)   When the driver must necessarily drive in a lane other than the
right-hand lane to continue on the driver’s intended route.
      (2)   Nothing in division (B)(1) of this section requires a driver of a
slower vehicle to compromise the driver’s safety to allow overtaking by a
faster vehicle.
   (C)   Upon any roadway having four or more lanes for moving traffic and
providing for two-way movement of traffic, no vehicle shall be driven to the
left of the center line of the roadway, except when authorized by official
traffic control devices designating certain lanes to the left of the center of
the roadway for use by traffic not otherwise permitted to use the lanes, or
except as permitted under division (A)(2) of this section. This division shall
not be construed as prohibiting the crossing of the center line in making a
left turn into or from an alley, private road, or driveway.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.25) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
Penalty, see § 331.99
§ 331.02 PASSING TO RIGHT WHEN PROCEEDING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   Operators of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass
each other to the right, and upon roadways having width for not more than one
line of traffic in each direction, each operator shall give to the other ½ of
the main traveled portion of the roadway or as nearly ½ as is reasonably
possible.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.26) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
Penalty, see § 331.99
§ 331.03 OVERTAKING; PASSING TO LEFT; DRIVER’S DUTIES.
   (A)   The following rules govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles
proceeding in the same direction:
      (1)   The operator of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in
the same direction shall, except as provided in division (A)(3) of this
section, signal to the vehicle to be overtaken, shall pass to the left thereof
at a safe distance, and shall not again drive to the right side of the roadway
until safely clear of the overtaken vehicle. When a motor vehicle overtakes and
passes a bicycle or electric bicycle, three feet or greater is considered a
safe passing distance.
      (2)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
operator of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle at the latter's audible signal, and the operator shall not
increase the speed of the operator's vehicle until completely passed by the
overtaking vehicle.
      (3)   The operator of a vehicle overtaking and passing another vehicle
proceeding in the same direction on a divided highway as defined in R.C. §
4511.35, a limited access highway as defined in R.C. § 5511.02, or a highway
with four or more traffic lanes is not required to signal audibly to the
vehicle being overtaken and passed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.27) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
Penalty, see § 331.99
§ 331.04 PERMISSION TO OVERTAKE AND PASS ON THE RIGHT.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of
another vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
      (2)   Upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width for
two or more lines of vehicles moving lawfully in the direction being traveled
by the overtaking vehicle.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle only
under conditions permitting such movement in safety. The movement shall not be
made by driving off the roadway.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.28) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
Penalty, see § 331.99
§ 331.05 DRIVING TO LEFT OF CENTER LINE.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven to the left of the center of the roadway in
overtaking and passing traffic proceeding in the same direction, unless such
left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a sufficient
distance ahead to permit such overtaking and passing to be completely made,
without interfering with the safe operation of any traffic approaching from the
opposite direction or any traffic overtaken. In every event the overtaking
vehicle must return to an authorized lane of travel as soon as practicable and
in the event the passing movement involves the use of a lane authorized for
traffic approaching from the opposite direction, before coming within 200 feet
of any approaching vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.29) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
Penalty, see § 331.99
§ 331.06 PROHIBITIONS AGAINST DRIVING UPON LEFT SIDE OF ROADWAY.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven upon the left side of the roadway under the
following conditions:
      (1)   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the
highway, where the operator’s view is obstructed within such a distance as to
create a hazard in the event traffic might approach from the opposite
direction;
      (2)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within 100 feet of any
bridge, viaduct or tunnel;
      (3)   When approaching within 100 feet of or traversing any intersection
or railroad grade crossing.
   (B)   This section does not apply to vehicles upon a one-way roadway, upon a
roadway where traffic is lawfully directed to be driven to the left side, or
under conditions described in R.C. § 4511.25(A)(2) and §
331.01(A)(2) of this code.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.30) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
Penalty, see § 331.99
§ 331.07 HAZARDOUS ZONE.
   (A)   The Department of Engineering may determine those portions of any
state highway where overtaking and passing other traffic or driving to the left
of the center or center line of the roadway would be especially hazardous, and
may, by appropriate signs or markings on the highway, indicate the beginning
and end of such zones. When such signs or markings are in place and clearly
visible, every operator of a vehicle shall obey the directions of the signs or
markings, notwithstanding the distances set out in R.C. § 4511.30 and §
331.06 of this code.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply when all of the following
apply:
      (1)   The slower vehicle is proceeding at less than half the speed of the
speed limit applicable to that location.
      (2)   The faster vehicle is capable of overtaking and passing the slower
vehicle without exceeding the speed limit.
      (3)   There is sufficient clear sight distance to the left of the center
or center line of the roadway to meet the overtaking and passing provisions of
R.C. § 4511.29, considering the speed of the slower vehicle.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.31) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
Penalty, see § 331.99
§ 331.08 RULES FOR DRIVING IN MARKED LANES.
   (A)   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for traffic, or wherever within municipal corporations traffic is
lawfully moving in two or more substantially continuous lines in the same
direction, the following rules apply:
      (1)   A vehicle shall be driven, as nearly as is practicable, entirely
within a single lane or line of traffic and shall not be moved from such lane
or line until the driver has first ascertained that such movement can be made
with safety.
      (2)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes and provides for
two-way movement of traffic, a vehicle shall not be driven in the center lane
except when overtaking and passing another vehicle where the roadway is clearly
visible and such center lane is clear of traffic within a safe distance, or
whenpreparing for a left turn, or where such center lane is at the time
allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the direction the vehicle is
proceeding and is posted with signs to give notice of such allocation.
      (3)   Official signs may be erected directing specified traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction regardless of the center of the roadway, or restricting
the use of a particular lane to only buses during certain hours or during all
hours, and drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of such signs.
      (4)   Official traffic control devices may be installed prohibiting the
changing of lanes on sections of roadway and drivers of vehicles shall obey the
directions of every such device.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.33) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
Penalty, see § 331.99
§ 331.09 SPACE BETWEEN MOVING VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   The operator of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle
more closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of
such vehicle and the traffic upon and the condition of the highway.
       (2)   The driver of any truck, or motor vehicle drawing another vehicle,
when traveling upon a roadway outside a business or residence district, shall
maintain a sufficient space, whenever conditions permit, between such vehicle
and another vehicle ahead so an overtaking motor vehicle may enter and occupy
such space without danger. This division does not prevent overtaking and
passing nor does it apply to any lane specially designated for use by trucks.
      (3)   Motor vehicles being driven upon any roadway outside of a business
or residence district in a caravan or motorcade, shall maintain a sufficient
space between such vehicles so an overtaking vehicle may enter and occupy such
space without danger. This division shall not apply to funeral processions.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.34) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
Penalty, see § 331.99
§ 331.10 RULES FOR TURNS AT INTERSECTIONS.
    (A)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall be
governed by the following rules:
      (1)   Approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close
as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
       (2)   At any intersection where traffic is permitted to move in both
directions on each roadway entering the intersection, an approach for a left
turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
center line thereof and by passing to the right of such center line where it
enters the intersection and after entering the intersection, the left turn
shall be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the center line
of the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable the left turn shall be made
in that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the
intersection.
      (3)   At any intersection where traffic is restricted to one direction on
one or more of the roadways, the driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at
any such intersection shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand
lane lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of such
vehicle, and after entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so as
to leave the intersection, as nearly as practicable, in the left-hand lane of
the roadway being entered lawfully available to traffic moving in that lane.
   (B)   The Department of Engineering may cause markers, buttons or signs to
be placed within or adjacent to intersections and thereby require and direct
that a different course from that specified in this section be traveled by
vehicles turning at an intersection, and when markers, buttons, or signs are so
placed, no operator of a vehicle shall turn such vehicle at an intersection
other than as directed and required by such markers, buttons, or signs.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.36) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
Penalty, see § 331.99
§ 331.11 TURNING INTO PRIVATE DRIVEWAY, ALLEY OR BUILDING.
     (A)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn into a private road or
driveway, alley or building from a public street or highway shall be governed
by the following rules:
      (1)   Approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close
as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
      (2)   Upon a roadway where traffic is proceeding in opposite directions,
approach for a left turn and a left turn shall be made from that portion of the
right half of the roadway nearest the center line thereof.
      (3)   Upon a roadway where traffic is restricted to one direction,
approach for a left turn and a left turn shall be made as close as practicable
to the left-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the driver of any vehicle entering a private
road or driveway, alley or building to yield the right-of-way to pedestrians
lawfully using the sidewalk or sidewalk area extending across any alleyway.
(Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
Penalty, see § 331.99
§ 331.12 TURNING IN ROADWAY PROHIBITED.
    (A)   Except as provided in R.C. § 4511.13 and division (B) of this
section, no vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction
upon any curve, or upon the approach to or near the crest of a grade, if such
vehicle cannot be seen within 500 feet by the driver of any other vehicle
approaching from either direction.
    (B)   The driver of an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when
responding to an emergency call, may turn the vehicle so as to proceed in the
opposite direction. This division applies only when the emergency vehicle or
public safety vehicle is responding to an emergency call, is equipped with and
displaying at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating light visible under
normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
vehicle, and when the driver of the vehicle is giving an audible signal by
siren, exhaust whistle, or bell. This division does not relieve the driver of
an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.37)
   (E)   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction
within an intersection or upon any street in a business district or where
authorized signs are erected to prohibit such movement or at any other location
unless such movement can be made with reasonable safety to other users of the
street and without interfering with the safe operation of any traffic that may
be affected by such movement.
(Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
Penalty, see § 331.99
§ 331.13 RULES FOR STARTING AND BACKING VEHICLES.
    (A)   (1)   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing, or
parked until such movement can be made with reasonable safety.
      (2)   Before backing, operators of vehicles shall give ample warning, and
while backing they shall exercise vigilance not to injure person or property on
the street or highway.
      (3)   No person shall back a motor vehicle on a freeway, except:
         (a)   In a rest area;
          (b)   In the performance of public works or official duties;
         (c)   As a result of an emergency caused by an accident or breakdown
of a motor vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.38) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
Penalty, see § 331.99
§ 331.14 TURN AND STOP SIGNALS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall turn a vehicle or move right or left upon a
highway unless and until such person has exercised due care to ascertain that
the movement can be made with reasonable safety nor without giving an
appropriate signal in the manner hereinafter provided.
      (2)   When required, a signal of intention to turn or move right or left
shall be given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by
the vehicle before turning, except that in the case of a person operating a
bicycle or electric bicycle, the signal shall be made not less than one time
but is not required to be continuous. A bicycle or electric bicycle operator is
not required to make a signal if the bicycle is in a designated turn lane, and
a signal shall not be given when the operator’s hands are needed for the safe
operation of the bicycle or electric bicycle.
      (3)   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein to the
driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is opportunity to give
a signal.
       (4)   Any stop or turn signal required by this section shall be given
either by means of the hand and arm, or by signal lights that clearly indicate
to both approaching and following traffic intention to turn or move right or
left, except that any motor vehicle in use on a highway shall be equipped with,
and the required signal shall be given by, signal lights when the distance from
the center of the top of the steering post to the left outside limit of the
body, cab or load of such motor vehicle exceeds 24 inches, or when the distance
from the center of the top of the steering post to the rear limit of the body
or load thereof exceeds 14 feet, whether a single vehicle or a combination of
vehicles.
      (5)   The signal lights required by this section shall not be flashed on
one side only on a disabled vehicle, flashed as a courtesy or “do pass” signal
to operators of other vehicles approaching from the rear nor be flashed on one
side only of a parked vehicle except as may be necessary for compliance with
this section.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.39) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
Penalty, see § 331.99
§ 331.15 HAND AND ARM SIGNALS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, all signals
required by the provisions of this traffic code, when given by hand and arm,
shall be given from the left side of the vehicle in the following manner, and
the signals shall indicate as follows:
      (1)   Left turn, hand and arm extended horizontally;
      (2)   Right turn, hand and arm extended upward;
       (3)   Stop or decrease speed, hand and arm extended downward.
   (B)   As an alternative to division (A)(2) of this section, a person
operating a bicycle or electric bicycle may give a right turn signal by
extending the right hand and arm horizontally and to the right side of the
bicycle or electric bicycle.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.40) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
Penalty, see § 331.99
§ 331.16 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT INTERSECTIONS.
    (A)   When two vehicles approach or enter an intersection from different
streets or highways at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle
on the left shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right.
   (B)   The right-of-way rule declared in division (A) of this section is
modified at through highways and otherwise as stated in R.C. Chapter 4511 and
this traffic code.
    (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.41) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
Penalty, see § 331.99
§ 331.17 RIGHT-OF-WAY WHEN TURNING LEFT.
    (A)   The operator of a vehicle intending to turn to the left within an
intersection or into an alley, private road, or driveway shall yield the right-
of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is within
the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.42) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
Penalty, see § 331.99
§ 331.18 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT THROUGH HIGHWAYS; STOP SIGNS; YIELD SIGNS.
    (A)   Except when directed to proceed by a law enforcement officer, every
driver of a vehicle approaching a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or, if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway
before entering it. After having stopped, the driver shall yield the right-of-
way to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another roadway so
closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the time the driver is
moving across or within the intersection or junction of roadways.
    (B)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall slow down to a
speed reasonable for the existing conditions and, if required for safety to
stop, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, before entering
the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or, if none, then at the
point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering it. After
slowing or stopping, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in
the intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to constitute
an immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the
intersection or junction of roadways. Whenever a driver is involved in a
collision with a vehicle in the intersection or junction of roadways, after
driving past a yield sign without stopping, the collision shall be prima-facie
evidence of the driver’s failure to yield the right-of-way.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.43) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
Penalty, see § 331.99
§ 331.19 EMERGENCY VEHICLES TO PROCEED CAUTIOUSLY PAST RED OR STOP SIGNALS.
    (A)   The driver of any emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when
responding to an emergency call, upon approaching a red or stop signal or at
any stop sign shall slow down as necessary for safety to traffic, but may
proceed cautiously past such red or stop sign or signal with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the street or highway.
    (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.03) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
Penalty, see § 331.99
§ 331.20 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLES.
    (A)   Upon the approach of a public safety vehicle or coroner’s vehicle,
equipped with at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating light visible
under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of
the vehicle, and the driver is giving an audible signal by siren, exhaust
whistle, or bell, no driver of any other vehicle shall fail to yield the right-
of-way, immediately drive if practical to a position parallel to, and as close
as possible to, the right edge or curb of the highway clear of any
intersection, and stop and remain in that position until the public safety
vehicle or coroner’s vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a
police officer.
   (B)   This section does not relieve the driver of a public safety vehicle or
coroner’s vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons and property upon the highway.
   (C)   This section applies to a coroner’s vehicle only when the vehicle is
operated in accordance with §
337.16. As used in this section, CORONER’S VEHICLE means a vehicle used by a
coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator that is equipped with a
flashing, oscillating or rotating red or blue light and a siren, exhaust
whistle or bell capable of giving an audible signal.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division or division (E), whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a
first offense. On a second offense within one year after the first offense, the
person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree, and, on each subsequent
offense within one year after the first offense, the person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 4511.45) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
   (E)   (1)   When the failure of a motor vehicle operator to yield the right-
of-way to a public safety vehicle as required by division (A) of this section
impedes the ability of the public safety vehicle to respond to an emergency,
any emergency personnel in the public safety vehicle may report the license
plate number and a general description of the vehicle and the operator of the
vehicle to the law enforcement agency exercising jurisdiction over the area
where the alleged violation occurred.
      (2)   (a)   Upon receipt of a report under division (E)(1) of this
section, the law enforcement agency may conduct an investigation to attempt to
determine or confirm the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time of
the alleged violation.
         (b)   If the identity of the operator at the time of an alleged
violation of division (A) of this section is established, the law enforcement
agency has probable cause to issue either a written warning or a citation for
that violation, and the agency shall issue a written warning or a citation to
the operator.
         (c)   If the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time of
the alleged violation cannot be established, the law enforcement agency may
issue a written warning to the person who owned the vehicle at the time of the
alleged violation. However, in the case of a leased or rented vehicle, the law
enforcement agency shall issue the written warning to the person who leased or
rented the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation.
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section based on a
report filed under division (E)(1) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor and shall be fined $150.
         (b)   If a person who is issued a citation for a violation of division
(A) of this section based on a report filed under division (E)(1) of this
section does not enter a written plea of guilty and does not waive the person's
right to contest the citation but instead appears in person in the proper court
to answer the charge, the trier of fact cannot find beyond a reasonable doubt
that the person committed that violation unless the emergency personnel who
filed the report appears in person in the court and testifies.
      (4)   As used in this division (E):
         (a)   LICENSE PLATE. Includes any temporary motor vehicle license
registration issued under R.C. § 4503.182 or similar law of another
jurisdiction.
         (b)   PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE. Does not include an unmarked public
safety vehicle or a vehicle used by a public law enforcement officer or other
person sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state or a vehicle
used by the motor carrier enforcement unit for the enforcement of orders and
rules of the public utilities commission.
(R.C. § 4511.454)
Penalty, see §
331.99
§ 331.21 RIGHT-OF-WAY ON PUBLIC HIGHWAY.
    (A)   The operator of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from any
place other than another roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all traffic
approaching on the roadway to be entered or crossed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.44) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
Penalty, see § 331.99
§ 331.22 FUNERAL PROCESSION HAS RIGHT-OF-WAY.
    (A)   As used in this section, FUNERAL PROCESSION means two or more
vehicles accompanying the cremated remains or the body of a deceased person in
the daytime when each of the vehicles has its headlights lighted and is
displaying a purple and white or an orange and white pennant attached to each
vehicle in such a manner as to be clearly visible to traffic approaching from
any direction.
    (B)   Excepting public safety vehicles proceeding in accordance with R.C. §
4511.45 and §
331.20 or when directed otherwise by a police officer, pedestrians and the
operators of all vehicles shall yield the right-of-way to each vehicle that is
a part of a funeral procession. Whenever the lead vehicle in a funeral
procession lawfully enters an intersection, the remainder of the vehicles in
such procession may continue to follow such lead vehicle through the
intersection notwithstanding any traffic control devices or right-of-way
provisions of this traffic code, provided that the operator of each vehicle
exercises due care to avoid colliding with any other vehicle or pedestrian.
   (C)   No person shall operate any vehicle as a part of a funeral procession
without having the headlights of such vehicle lighted and without displaying a
purple and white or an orange and white pennant in such a manner as to be
clearly visible to traffic approaching from any direction.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.451) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
Penalty, see § 331.99
§ 331.23 PROHIBITION AGAINST SOLICITING RIDES; RIDING ON OUTSIDE OF VEHICLE.
[REPEALED]
 Editor’s note:
   This section was repealed in conjunction with the 1995 revision to this Code
of Ordinances. For provisions regarding soliciting rides and riding on the
outside of a vehicle, see §
371.06.
§ 331.24 PROHIBITION AGAINST ATTACHING BICYCLES AND SLEDS TO VEHICLES.
    (A)   No person riding any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled or toy
vehicle shall attach the same or himself or herself to any vehicle upon a
roadway.
   (B)   No operator shall knowingly permit any person riding upon any bicycle,
coaster, roller skates, sled, or toy vehicle to attach the same or himself or
herself to any vehicle while it is moving upon a roadway.
   (C)   This section does not apply to towing a disabled vehicle.
(R.C. § 4511.54) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
Penalty, see § 331.99
§ 331.25 DRIVING VEHICLE ACROSS RAILROAD GRADE CROSSINGS.
    (A)   (1)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad
grade crossing, the person shall stop within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet
from the nearest rail of the railroad if any of the following circumstances
exist at the crossing:
         (a)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a train.
         (b)   A crossing gate is lowered.
         (c)   A flagperson gives or continues to give a signal of the approach
or passage of a train.
         (d)   There is insufficient space on the other side of the railroad
grade crossing to accommodate the vehicle the person is operating without
obstructing the passage of other vehicles, pedestrians or railroad trains,
notwithstanding any traffic control signal indication to proceed.
         (e)   An approaching train is emitting an audible signal or is plainly
visible, and is in hazardous proximity to the crossing.
         (f)   There is insufficient undercarriage clearance to safely
negotiate the crossing.
      (2)   A person who is driving a vehicle and who approaches a railroad
grade crossing shall not proceed as long as any of the circumstances described
in divisions (A)(1)(a) through (A)(1)(f) of this section exist at the crossing.
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around, or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while the gate or barrier is
closed, or is being opened or closed unless the person is signaled by a law
enforcement officer or flagperson that it is permissible to do so.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. §4511.62) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
Penalty, see § 331.99
§ 331.26 VEHICLES REQUIRED TO STOP AT GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2) of this section, the
operator of any bus, any school vehicle, or any vehicle transporting material
required to be placarded under 49 C.F.R. Parts 100 to 185, before crossing at
grade any track of a railroad, shall stop the vehicle, and while so stopped,
shall listen through an open door or open window, and look in both directions
along the track for any approaching train and for signals indicating the
approach of a train, and shall proceed only upon exercising due care after
stopping, looking and listening as required by this section. Upon proceeding,
the operator of such a vehicle shall cross only in a gear that will ensure
there will be no necessity for changing gears while traversing the crossing,
and shall not shift gears while crossing the tracks.
      (2)   Division (A) of this section does not apply at grade crossings when
any local authority has filed an application with the Public Utilities
Commission requesting the approval of an exempt crossing, and the Public
Utilities Commission has authorized and approved an exempt crossing as provided
in R.C. § 4511.63(B).
      (3)   As used in division (A) of this section, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         (a)   "Bus." Any vehicle originally designed by its manufacturer to
transport 16 or more passengers, including the driver, or carries 16 or more
passengers, including the driver.
         (b)   "Exempt crossing." A highway rail grade crossing authorized and
approved by the Public Utilities Commission under R.C. § 4511.63(B) at which
vehicles may cross without making the stop otherwise required by this section.
         (c)   "School vehicle." Any vehicle used for the transportation of
pupils to and from a school or school-related function if the vehicle is owned
or operated by, or operated under contract with, a public or nonpublic school.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of
division (A) of this section or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762,
4511.764, 4511.77 or 4511.79, or a municipal ordinance that is substantially
equivalent to any of those sections, whoever violates division (A) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.63)
   (B)   (1)   As used in this section, “active grade crossing warning device”
means signs, signals, gates, or other protective devices erected or installed
at a public highway-railway crossing at common grade and activated by an
electrical circuit.
      (2)   The Department of Transportation and local authorities, with the
approval of the Department, may designate dangerous highway crossings over
railroad tracks and erect stop signs thereat.
      (3)   (a)   The Department and local authorities shall erect stop signs
at a railroad highway grade crossing in either of the following circumstances:
            1.   New warning devices that are not active grade crossing warning
devices are being installed at the grade crossing, and railroad crossbucks were
the only warning devices at the grade crossing prior to the installation of the
new warning devices.
            2.   The grade crossing is constructed after July 1, 2013 and only
warning devices that are not active grade crossing warning devices are
installed at the grade crossing.
         (b)   Division (B)(3)(a) of this section does not apply to a railroad
highway grade crossing that the Director of Transportation has exempted from
that division because of traffic flow or other considerations or factors.
      (4)   When stop signs are erected pursuant to division (B)(2) or (B)(3)
of this section, the operator of any vehicle shall stop within 50, but not less
than 15, feet from the nearest rail of the railroad tracks and shall exercise
due care before proceeding across such grade crossing.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (B)(4) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within
one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If,
within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of
two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (6)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.61) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76) Penalty, see §
331.99
§ 331.27 SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES OR EQUIPMENT CROSSING RAILROAD TRACKS.
   (A)   No person shall operate or move any crawler-type tractor, steam
shovel, derrick, roller, or any equipment or structure having a normal
operating speed of six or less miles per hour or a vertical body or load
clearance of less than nine inches above the level surface of a roadway, upon
or across any tracks at a railroad grade crossing without first complying with
subsection (1) and (2) of this section.
      (1)   Before making any such crossing, the person operating or moving any
such vehicle or equipment shall first stop the same, and while stopped he or
she shall listen and look in both directions along such track for any
approaching train and for signals indicating the approach of a train, and shall
proceed only upon exercising due care.
      (2)   No such crossing shall be made when warning is given by automatic
signal or crossing gates or a flagger or otherwise of the immediate approach of
a railroad train or car.
   (B)   If the normal sustained speed of such vehicle, equipment, or structure
is not more than three miles per hour, the person owning, operating or moving
the same shall also give notice of such intended crossing to a station agent or
superintendent of the railroad, and a reasonable time shall be given to such
railroad to provide proper protection for such crossing. Where such vehicles or
equipment are being used in constructing or repairing a section of highway
lying on both sides of a railroad grade crossing, and in such construction or
repair it is necessary to repeatedly move such vehicles or equipment over such
crossing, one daily notice specifying when such work will start and stating the
hours during which it will be prosecuted is sufficient.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within on year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.64) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
Penalty, see § 331.99
§ 331.28 PROHIBITION AGAINST PARKING ON HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   (1)   Upon any highway outside a business or residence district, no
person shall stop, park, or leave standing any vehicle whether attended or
unattended, upon the paved or main traveled part of the highway if it is
practicable to stop, park, or so leave such vehicle off the paved or main
traveled part of such highway. In every event, a clear and unobstructed portion
of the highway opposite such standing vehicle shall be left for the free
passage of other vehicles, and a clear view of such stopped vehicle shall be
available from a distance of 200 feet in each direction upon such highway.
      (2)   This section does not apply to the driver of any vehicle which is
disabled while on the paved or improved or main traveled portion of a highway
in such a manner and to such extent that it is impossible to avoid stopping and
temporarily leaving the disabled vehicle in such position.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within on year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.66) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
Penalty, see § 331.99
§ 331.29 OBSTRUCTION AND INTERFERENCE AFFECTING VIEW AND CONTROL OF DRIVER.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, when there are
in the front seat such number of persons, as to obstruct the view of the driver
to the front or sides of the vehicle or to interfere with the driver’s control
over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (B)   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in such position as to interfere
with the driver’s view ahead or to the sides, or to interfere with the driver’s
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (C)   No person shall open the door of a vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, and can be done
without interfering with the movement of other traffic, nor shall any person
leave a door open on the side of a vehicle available to moving traffic for a
period of time longer than necessary to load or unload passengers.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within on year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.70) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
Penalty, see § 331.99
§ 331.30 OCCUPYING TRAVEL TRAILER, FIFTH WHEEL VEHICLE, OR MANUFACTURED OR
MOBILE HOME WHILE IN MOTION.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no person shall
occupy any travel trailer, fifth wheel trailer, or manufactured or mobile home
while it is being used as a conveyance upon a street or highway.
   (B)   (1)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to a fifth wheel
trailer when both of the following apply:
         (a)   Any child riding in the fifth wheel trailer is properly secured
in the manner provided in R.C. § 4511.81.
         (b)   The operator of the vehicle towing the fifth wheel trailer has
some means of viable communication with the passengers riding in the trailer.
      (2)   As used in this division, "viable communication" includes a
cellular or satellite telephone, a radio, or any other similar electronic
wireless communications device.
   (C)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   The offense established under this section is a strict liability
offense and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of this offense as a
strict liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other
offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict
liability offense.
(R.C. § 4511.701) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76) Penalty, see §
331.99
§ 331.31 DRIVING UPON STREET POSTED AS CLOSED FOR REPAIR.
   (A)   No person shall drive upon, along or across a street or highway, or
any part of a street or highway that has been closed in the process of its
construction, reconstruction or repair, and posted with appropriate signs by
the authority having jurisdiction to close such street or highway.
(R.C. § 4511.71(A))
   (B)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle on or onto a public street or
highway that is temporarily covered by a rise in water level, including
groundwater or an overflow of water, and that is clearly marked by a sign that
specifies that the road is closed due to the rise in water level and that any
person who uses the closed portion of the road may be fined up to $2,000.
      (2)   A person who is issued a citation for a violation of division (B)
(1) of this section is not permitted to enter a written plea of guilty and
waive the person’s right to contest the citation in court, but instead must
appear in person in the proper court to answer the charge.
(R.C. § 4511.714(A), (B))
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If,
within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of
or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If, within on year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
         (b)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.71(B)) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   In addition to the financial sanctions authorized or required
under R.C. § 2929.28 and to any costs otherwise authorized or required under
any provision of law, the court imposing the sentence upon an offender who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of division (B) of this section
shall order the offender to reimburse one or more rescuers for the cost any
such rescuer incurred in rescuing the person, excluding any cost of
transporting the rescued person to a hospital or other facility for treatment
of injuries, up to a cumulative maximum of $2,000. If more than one rescuer was
involved in the emergency response, the court shall allocate the reimbursement
proportionately, according to the cost each rescuer incurred. A financial
sanction imposed under this section is a judgment in favor of the rescuer and,
subject to a determination of indigency under R.C. § 2929.28(B), a rescuer may
collect the financial sanction in the same manner as provided in R.C. §
2929.28.
(R.C. § 4511.714(C))
   (D)   As used in this section:
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICE ORGANIZATION. Has the same meanings as in R.C.
§ 9.60.
      FIREFIGHTING AGENCY. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 9.60.
      PRIVATE FIRE COMPANY. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 9.60.
      RESCUER. Means a state agency, political subdivision, firefighting
agency, private fire company, or emergency medical service organization.
(R.C. § 4511.714(D)) Penalty, see §
331.99
§ 331.32 FOLLOWING AN EMERGENCY OR PUBLIC VEHICLE PROHIBITED; APPROACHING
STATIONARY PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE AND CERTAIN OTHER VEHICLES WITH CAUTION.
   (A)   Following an emergency or public vehicle prohibited. The driver of any
vehicle, other than an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle on official
business, shall not follow any emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle
traveling in response to an alarm closer than 500 feet or drive into or park
such vehicle within the block where fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a
fire alarm, unless directed to do so by a police officer or a firefighter.
(R.C. § 4511.72(A)) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
   (B)   Approaching stationary public safety vehicle with caution.
      (1)   The driver of a motor vehicle, upon approaching a stationary public
safety vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle, waste collection
vehicle, vehicle used by the Public Utilities Commission to conduct motor
vehicle inspections in accordance with R.C. §§ 4923.04 and 4923.06, or a
highway maintenance vehicle that is displaying the appropriate visual signals
by means of flashing, oscillating, or rotating lights, as prescribed in R.C. §
4513.17, shall do either of the following:
         (a)   If the driver of the motor vehicle is traveling on a highway
that consists of at least two lanes that carry traffic in the same direction of
travel as that of the driver’s motor vehicle, the driver shall proceed with due
caution and, if possible and with due regard to the road, weather, and traffic
conditions, shall change lanes into a lane this is not adjacent to that of the
stationary public safety vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle,
waste collection vehicle, vehicle used by the Public Utilities Commission to
conduct motor vehicle inspections in accordance with R.C. §§ 4923.04 and
4923.06, or a highway maintenance vehicle.
         (b)   If the driver is not traveling on a highway of a type described
in division (B)(1)(a) of this section, or if the driver is traveling on a
highway of that type but it is not possible to change lanes or if to do so
would be unsafe, the driver shall proceed with due caution, reduce the speed of
the motor vehicle, and maintain a safe speed for the road, weather, and traffic
conditions.
      (2)   This division (B) does not relieve the driver of a public safety
vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle, waste collection vehicle,
vehicle used by the Public Utilities Commission to conduct motor vehicle
inspections in accordance with R.C. §§ 4923.04 and 4923.06, or a highway
maintenance vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of
all persons and property upon the highway.
      (3)   No person shall fail to drive a motor vehicle in compliance with
divisions (B)(1)(a) or (B)(1)(b) of this section when so required by division
(B) of this section.
(R.C. § 4511.213(A) - (C))
   (C)   Penalty.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Notwithstanding §
599.02 or R.C. § 2929.28, upon a finding that a person operated a motor vehicle
in violation of division (B)(3) of this section, the court, in addition to all
other penalties provided by law, shall impose a fine of two times the usual
amount imposed for the violation.
      (3)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under § 303.99(B).
(R.C. §§ 4511.213(D), 4511.72(B))
   (D)   The offense established under division (B) of this section is a strict
liability offense and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of this
offense as a strict liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any
other offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a
strict liability offense.
(R.C. §§ 4511.213(E)) Penalty, see §
331.99
Cross-reference:
   Fines doubled for violations of division (B)(3), see §
303.99(B)(4)
§ 331.33 DRIVING OVER UNPROTECTED FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   No vehicle shall without the consent of the Division of Fire official
in command, be driven over any unprotected hose of the Division of Fire that is
laid down on any street or private driveway to be used at any fire or alarm of
fire.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within on year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.73) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
Penalty, see § 331.99
§ 331.34 DRIVING THROUGH SAFETY ZONE.
   (A)   No vehicle shall at any time be driven through or within a safety
zone.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within on year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.60) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
Penalty, see § 331.99
§ 331.35 ONE-WAY STREETS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS.
   (A)   (1)   Upon a roadway designated and posted with signs for one-way
traffic, a vehicle shall be driven only in the direction designated.
      (2)   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island shall be driven
only to the right of the rotary traffic island.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.32) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
Penalty, see § 331.99
§ 331.36 DIVIDED ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Whenever any highway has been divided into two roadways by an
intervening space, or by a physical barrier, or clearly indicated dividing
section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle shall be
driven only upon the right-hand roadway, and no vehicle shall be driven over,
across, or within any such dividing space, barrier, or section, except through
an opening, crossover, or intersection established by public authority. This
section does not prohibit the occupancy of such dividing space, barrier, or
section for the purpose of an emergency stop or in compliance with an order of
a police officer.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.35) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
Penalty, see § 331.99
§ 331.37 ENTERING AND EXITING CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY.
   No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled-access highway
except at such entrances and exits as are established by public authority.
(Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
Penalty, see § 331.99
§ 331.38 FAILURE TO CONTROL; WEAVING COURSE.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle, agricultural tractor,
or agricultural tractor that is towing, pulling, or otherwise drawing a unit of
farm machinery on any street, highway, or property open to the public for
vehicular traffic without being in reasonable control of the vehicle,
agricultural tractor, or unit of farm machinery.
      (2)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of operating a motor
vehicle or agricultural tractor without being in control of it, a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.202)
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon any street or highway in
a weaving or zigzag course unless such irregular course is necessary for safe
operation or in compliance with law.
(Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
Penalty, see § 331.99
§ 331.39 SQUEALING TIRES, “PEELING,” CRACKING EXHAUST NOISES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a vehicle on any street or highway, except
when necessary for safe operation or in compliance with law, in a manner that
the vehicle is so rapidly accelerated or started from a stopped position that
the exhaust system emits a loud, cracking or chattering noise unusual to its
normal operation, or the rubber tires of the vehicle squeal or leave tire marks
on the roadway, commonly called “peeling.”
   (B)   No person shall operate a vehicle on any public or private property,
except when necessary for safe operation or in compliance with law, in a manner
that the vehicle is so rapidly accelerated or started from a stopped position
that the exhaust system emits a loud, cracking or chattering noise unusual to
its normal operation, or the rubber tires of the vehicle squeal or leave tire
marks on the roadway, commonly called “peeling.”
   (C)   This section does apply to the competitive operation of vehicles on
public or private property when the owner of the property knowingly permits the
operation.
(Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76; Am. Ord. 5845, passed 7-22-86)
Penalty, see § 331.99
§ 331.40 DRIVING AND PARKING UPON SIDEWALKS, STREET LAWNS OR CURBS.
    No person shall drive, stand or park a vehicle on a sidewalk, street lawn
area or the curb of a street, except when entering or leaving a permanent or
temporary driveway or when lawfully authorized.
(Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
Penalty, see § 331.99
§ 331.41 REGULATIONS CONCERNING SCHOOL BUSES.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle upon meeting or overtaking from either
direction any school bus stopped for the purpose of receiving or discharging
any school child, person attending programs offered by community boards of
mental health and county boards of developmental disabilities, or child
attending a program offered by a head start agency, shall stop at least ten
feet from the front or rear of the school bus and shall not proceed until such
school bus resumes motion, or until signaled by the school bus driver to
proceed. It is no defense to a charge under this division that the school bus
involved failed to display or be equipped with an automatically extended stop
warning sign as required by division (B) of this section.
   (B)   Every school bus shall be equipped with amber and red visual signals
meeting the requirements of R.C. § 4511.771 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, and an automatically extended stop warning sign of a type
approved by the Ohio Department of Education and Workforce, which shall be
actuated by the driver of the bus whenever but only whenever the bus is stopped
or stopping on the roadway for the purpose of receiving or discharging school
children, persons attending programs offered by community boards of mental
health and county boards of developmental disabilities, or children attending
programs offered by head start agencies. A school bus driver shall not actuate
the visual signals or the stop warning sign in designated school bus loading
areas where the bus is entirely off the roadway or at school buildings when
children or persons attending programs offered by community boards of mental
health and county boards of developmental disabilities are loading or unloading
at curbside or at buildings when children attending programs offered by head
start agencies are loading or unloading at curbside. The visual signals and
stop warning sign shall be synchronized or otherwise operated as required by
the Ohio Administrative Code.
   (C)   Where a highway has been divided into four or more traffic lanes, a
driver of a vehicle need not stop for a school bus approaching from the
opposite direction which has stopped for the purpose of receiving or
discharging any school child, persons attending programs offered by community
boards of mental health and county boards of developmental disabilities, or
children attending programs offered by head start agencies. The driver of any
vehicle overtaking the school bus shall comply with division (A) of this
section.
   (D)   School buses operating on divided highways or on highways with four or
more traffic lanes shall receive and discharge all school children, persons
attending programs offered by community boards of mental health and county
boards of developmental disabilities, and children attending programs offered
by head start agencies on their residence side of the road.
   (E)   No school bus driver shall start the driver’s bus until after any
child, person attending programs offered by community boards of mental health
and county boards of developmental disabilities, or child attending a program
offered by a head start agency who may have alighted therefrom has reached a
place of safety on the child’s or person’s residence side of the road.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section may be fined an
amount not to exceed $500. A person who is issued a citation for a violation of
division (A) of this section is not permitted to enter a written plea of guilty
and waive the person’s right to contest the citation in a trial but instead
must appear in person in the proper court to answer the charge.
       (2)   In addition to and independent of any other penalty provided by
law, the court or mayor may impose upon an offender who violates this section a
class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7). When a
license is suspended under this section, the court or mayor shall cause the
offender to deliver the license to the court, and the court or clerk of the
court immediately shall forward the license to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles,
together with notice of the court’s action.
   (G)   As used in this section:
   HEAD START AGENCY has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3301.32.
   SCHOOL BUS, as used in relation to children who attend a program offered by
a head start agency, means a bus that is owned and operated by a head start
agency, is equipped with an automatically extended stop warning sign of a type
approved by the Ohio Department of Education and Workforce, is painted the
color and displays the markings described in R.C. § 4511.77, and is equipped
with amber and red visual signals meeting the requirements of R.C. § 4511.77,
irrespective of whether or not the bus has 15 or more children aboard at any
time. The term does not include a van owned and operated by a head start
agency, irrespective of its color, lights or markings.
(R.C. § 4511.75) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
Penalty, see § 331.99
§ 331.42 STOP AT SIDEWALK AREA.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, building, private
road, or driveway within a business or residence district shall stop the
vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area
extending across the alley, building entrance, road, or driveway, or in the
event there is no sidewalk area, shall stop at the point nearest the street to
be entered where the driver has a view of approaching traffic thereon.
    (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.431(A), (B)) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
Penalty, see § 331.99
§ 331.43 PEDESTRIAN ON SIDEWALK HAS RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian
on a sidewalk.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.441) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
Penalty, see § 331.99
§ 331.44 PEDESTRIAN YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY TO PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE.
   (A)   Upon the immediate approach of a public safety vehicle, as stated in
R.C. § 4511.45 and §
331.20 of this traffic code, every pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to
the public safety vehicle.
   (B)   This section shall not relieve the driver of a public safety vehicle
from the duty to exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian.
    (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.452) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
Penalty, see § 331.99
§ 331.45 PEDESTRIAN ON CROSSWALK HAS RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   When traffic control signals are not in place, not in operation, or
are not clearly assigning the right-of-way, the driver of a vehicle shall yield
the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping if need be to so yield or if
required by §
331.35 and R.C. § 4511.32, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a
crosswalk when the pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the
vehicle is traveling, or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the
opposite half of the roadway as to be in danger.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety and
walk or run into the path of a vehicle which is so close as to constitute an
immediate hazard.
   (C)   Division (A) of this section does not apply under the conditions
stated in R.C. § 4511.48 and §
331.46 of this traffic code.
   (D)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass the stopped vehicle.
    (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (F)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.46) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
Penalty, see § 331.99
§ 331.46 RIGHT-OF-WAY YIELDED BY PEDESTRIAN.
   (A)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all traffic upon the roadway.
   (C)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a marked
crosswalk.
   (D)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway intersection diagonally unless
authorized by official traffic control devices; and, when authorized to cross
diagonally, pedestrians shall cross only in accordance with the official
traffic control devices pertaining to such crossing movements.
   (E)   This section does not relieve the operator of a vehicle from
exercising due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any roadway.
   (F)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.48) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
Penalty, see § 331.99
§ 331.47 INTOXICATED OR DRUGGED PEDESTRIAN HAZARD ON HIGHWAY.
   (A)   A pedestrian who is under the influence of alcohol, any drug of abuse,
or any combination of them to a degree that renders the pedestrian a hazard
shall not walk or be upon a highway.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.481) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
Penalty, see § 331.99
§ 331.48 PEDESTRIAN WALKING ALONG HIGHWAY.
   (A)   Where a sidewalk is provided and its use is practicable, it shall be
unlawful for any pedestrian to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   (B)   Where a sidewalk is not available, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a highway shall walk only on a shoulder, as far as practicable from the
edge of the roadway.
   (C)   Where neither a sidewalk nor a shoulder is available, any pedestrian
walking along and upon a highway shall walk as near as practicable to an
outside edge of the roadway, and, if on a two-way roadway, shall walk only on
the left side of the roadway.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. §§ 4511.13 and 4511.46 and §§
313.03 and
331.45 of this traffic code, any pedestrian upon a roadway shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
    (E)   It shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to walk along, across and
upon State Route 48 bypass within the city.
   (F)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.50) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76; Am. Ord. 7249, passed 6-25-96)
Penalty, see § 331.99
§ 331.49 PEDESTRIAN ON BRIDGE OR RAILROAD CROSSING.
   (A)   No pedestrian shall enter or remain upon any bridge or approach
thereto beyond the bridge signal, gate, or barrier after a bridge operation
signal indication has been given.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over, or under any crossing
gate or barrier at a railroad grade crossing or bridge while the gate or
barrier is closed or is being opened or closed.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.511) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
Penalty, see § 331.99
§ 331.50 OBSTRUCTING PASSAGE OF OTHER VEHICLES.
   (A)   No driver shall enter an intersection or marked crosswalk or drive
onto any railroad grade crossing unless there is sufficient space on the other
side of the intersection, crosswalk or grade crossing to accommodate the
vehicle the driver is operating without obstructing the passage of other
vehicles, pedestrians, or railroad trains, notwithstanding any traffic control
signal indication to proceed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within on year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.712) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76)
Penalty, see § 331.99
§ 331.51 TRACKING MUD, ROCKS OR OTHER DEBRIS ONTO STREETS OR SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall operate any vehicle within this municipality with mud, dirt,
rocks, debris, litter or other foreign matter upon its tires or chassis if such
operation results in the depositing or tracking of any such substance upon
public streets or sidewalks. No person shall cause to be deposited on any
public street or sidewalk mud, dirt, gravel, building material or other foreign
material from excavating, grading, demolition, construction projects or
vehicles. No person who is an owner of real property or a prime contractor in
charge of a construction site shall maintain such property or construction site
so that persons operating vehicles upon the property or construction site pick
up mud, dirt, rocks, debris, litter or other foreign matter on the wheels of
vehicles on the property or construction site and deposit or track such
substance onto any public street or sidewalk.
(Ord. 7627, passed 3-23-99)
Penalty, see § 331.99
§ 331.52 TEXTING WHILE DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on any street, highway, or
property open to the public for vehicular traffic while using, holding, or
physically supporting with any part of the person's body an electronic wireless
communications device.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device to make
contact, for emergency purposes, with a law enforcement agency, hospital or
health care provider, fire department, or other similar emergency agency or
entity;
      (2)   A person driving a public safety vehicle while using an electronic
wireless communications device in the course of the person's duties;
      (3)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device when
the person's motor vehicle is in a stationary position and is outside a lane of
travel, at a traffic control signal that is currently directing traffic to
stop, or parked on a road or highway due to an emergency or road closure;
      (4)   A person using and holding an electronic wireless communications
device directly near the person's ear for the purpose of making, receiving, or
conducting a telephone call, provided that the person does not manually enter
letters, numbers, or symbols into the device;
      (5)   A person receiving wireless messages on an electronic wireless
communications device regarding the operation or navigation of a motor vehicle;
safety-related information, including emergency, traffic, or weather alerts; or
data used primarily by the motor vehicle, provided that the person does not
hold or support the device with any part of the person's body;
      (6)   A person using the speaker phone function of the electronic
wireless communications device, provided that the person does not hold or
support the device with any part of the person's body;
      (7)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device for
navigation purposes, provided that the person does not do either of the
following during the use:
         (a)   Manually enter letters, numbers, or symbols into the device;
         (b)   Hold or support the device with any part of the person's body;
      (8)   A person using a feature or function of the electronic wireless
communications device with a single touch or single swipe, provided that the
person does not do either of the following during the use:
         (a)   Manually enter letters, numbers, or symbols into the device;
         (b)   Hold or support the device with any part of the person's body;
      (9)   A person operating a commercial truck while using a mobile data
terminal that transmits and receives data;
      (10)   A person operating a utility service vehicle or a vehicle for or
on behalf of a utility, if the person is acting in response to an emergency,
power outage, or circumstance that affects the health or safety of individuals;
      (11)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device in
conjunction with a voice-operated or hands-free feature or function of the
vehicle or of the device without the use of either hand except to activate,
deactivate, or initiate the feature or function with a single touch or swipe,
provided the person does not hold or support the device with any part of the
person's body;
      (12)   A person using technology that physically or electronically
integrates the device into the motor vehicle, provided that the person does not
do either of the following during the use:
         (a)   Manually enter letters, numbers, or symbols into the device;
         (b)   Hold or support the device with any part of the person's body.
      (13)   A person storing an electronic wireless communications device in a
holster, harness, or article of clothing on the person's body.
   (C)   If a law enforcement officer issues an offender a ticket, citation, or
summons for a violation of division (A) of this section, the officer shall do
both of the following:
      (1)   Report the issuance of the ticket, citation, or summons to the
officer's law enforcement agency;
      (2)   Ensure that such report indicates the offender's race.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of operating a
motor vehicle while using an electronic wireless communication device, an
unclassified misdemeanor, and shall be punished as provided in divisions (D)(1)
to (D)(5) of this section.
      (1)   The offender shall be fined, and is subject to a suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege, as follows:
         (a)   Except as provided in divisions (D)(1)(b), (D)(1)(c), (D)(1)(d),
and (D)(2) of this section, the court shall impose upon the offender a fine of
not more than $150.
         (b)   If, within two years of the violation, the offender has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one prior violation of this section, R.C. §
4511.204, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court shall
impose upon the offender a fine of not more than $250.
         (c)   If, within two years of the violation, the offender has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more prior violations of this section,
R.C. § 4511.204, or a substantially equivalent or municipal ordinance, the
court shall impose upon the offender a fine of not more than $500. The court
also may impose a suspension of the offender's driver's license, commercial
driver's license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or
nonresident operating privilege for 90 days.
         (d)   Notwithstanding divisions (D)(1)(a) to (D)(1)(c) of this
section, if the offender was operating the motor vehicle at the time of the
violation in a construction zone where a sign was posted in accordance with
R.C. § 4511.98, the court, in addition to all other penalties provided by law,
shall impose upon the offender a fine of two times the amount imposed for the
violation under division (D)(1)(a), (D)(1)(b), or (D)(1)(c) of this section, as
applicable.
      (2)   If the offender is in the category of offenders to whom division
(D)(1)(a) of this section applies, in lieu of payment of the fine of $150 under
division (D)(1)(a) of this section and the assessment of points under division
(D)(4) of this section, the offender instead may elect to attend the distracted
driving safety course, as described in R.C. § 4511.991. If the offender attends
and successfully completes the course, the offender shall be issued written
evidence that the offender successfully completed the course. The offender
shall not be required to pay the fine and shall not have the points assessed
against that offender’s driver’s license if the offender submits the written
evidence to the court within 90 days of the violation of division (A) of this
section. However, successful completion of the course does not result in a
dismissal of the charges for the violation, and the violation is a prior
offense under divisions (D)(1)(b) and (D)(1)(c) of this section if the offender
commits a subsequent violation or violations of division (A) of this section
within two years of the offense for which the course was completed. This
division does not apply with respect to any offender in the category of
offenders to whom division (D)(1)(b), (D)(1)(c), or (D)(1)(d) of this section
applies.
      (3)   The court may impose any other penalty authorized under R.C. §§
2929.21 to 2929.28. However, the court shall not impose a fine or a suspension
not otherwise specified in division (D)(1) of this section. The court also
shall not impose a jail term or community residential sanction.
      (4)   Except as provided in division (D)(2) of this section, points shall
be assessed for a violation of division (A) of this section in accordance with
R.C. § 4510.036.
      (5)   The offense established under this section is a strict liability
offense and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of this offense as a
strict liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other
offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict
liability offense.
   (E)   A prosecution for an offense in violation of this section does not
preclude a prosecution for an offense in violation of R.C. § 4511.204 based on
the same conduct. However, the two offenses are allied offenses of similar
import under R.C. § 2941.25.
   (F)   (1)   A law enforcement officer does not have probable cause and shall
not stop the operator of a motor vehicle for purposes of enforcing this section
unless the officer visually observes the operator using, holding, or physically
supporting with any part of the person's body the electronic wireless
communications device.
      (2)   A law enforcement officer who stops the operator of a motor vehicle
for a violation of division (A) of this section shall inform the operator that
the operator may decline a search of the operator's electronic wireless
communications device. The officer shall not do any of the following:
         (a)   Access the device without a warrant, unless the operator
voluntarily and unequivocally gives consent for the officer to access the
device;
         (b)   Confiscate the device while awaiting the issuance of a warrant
to access the device;
         (c)   Obtain consent from the operator to access the device through
coercion or any other improper means. Any consent by the operator to access the
device shall be voluntary and unequivocal before the officer may access the
device without a warrant.
   (G)   As used in this section:
      ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Includes any of the following:
         (a)   A wireless telephone;
         (b)   A text-messaging device;
         (c)   A personal digital assistant;
         (d)   A computer, including a laptop computer and a computer tablet;
         (e)   Any device capable of displaying a video, movie, broadcast
television image, or visual image;
         (f)   Any other substantially similar wireless device that is designed
or used to communicate text, initiate or receive communication, or exchange
information or data.
      An "electronic wireless communications device" does not include a two-way
radio transmitter or receiver used by a person who is licensed by the federal
communications commission to participate in the amateur radio service.
      UTILITY. An entity specified in R.C. § 4905.03(A), (C), (D), (E), or (G).
      UTILITY SERVICE VEHICLE. A vehicle owned or operated by a utility.
      VOICE-OPERATED OR HANDS-FREE FEATURE OR FUNCTION. A feature or function
that allows a person to use an electronic wireless communications device
without the use of either hand, except to activate, deactivate, or initiate the
feature or function with a single touch or single swipe.
(R.C. § 4511.204)
Statutory reference:
   No preemption for local regulations imposing greater penalties, see R.C. §
4511.204(E)
§ 331.53 USE OF ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATION DEVICES BY MINORS OR
PROBATIONARY DRIVERS WHILE DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No holder of a temporary instruction permit who has not attained the
age of 18 years and no holder of a probationary driver’s license shall drive a
motor vehicle on any street, highway, or property used by the public for
purposes of vehicular traffic or parking while using in any manner an
electronic wireless communications device.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to either of the
following:
      (1)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device for
emergency purposes, including an emergency contact with a law enforcement
agency, hospital or health care provider, fire department, or other similar
emergency agency or entity;
      (2)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device whose
motor vehicle is in a stationary position and the motor vehicle is outside a
lane of travel;
      (3)   A person using a navigation device in a voice-operated or hands-
free manner who does not manipulate the device while driving.
   (C)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, whoever
violates division (A) of this section shall be fined $150. In addition, the
court shall impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license
or permit for a definite period of 60 days.
      (2)   If the person previously has been adjudicated a delinquent child or
a juvenile traffic offender for a violation of this section, whoever violates
this section shall be fined $300. In addition, the court shall impose a class
seven suspension of the person’s driver’s license or permit for a definite
period of one year.
   (D)   The filing of a sworn complaint against a person for a violation of
this section does not preclude the filing of a sworn complaint for a violation
of R.C. § 4511.205 for the same conduct. However, if a person is adjudicated a
delinquent child or a juvenile traffic offender for a violation of this section
and is also adjudicated a delinquent child or a juvenile traffic offender for a
violation of R.C. § 4511.205 for the same conduct, the two offenses are allied
offenses of similar import under R.C. § 2941.25.
   (E)   As used in this section, ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE
includes any of the following:
      (1)   A wireless telephone;
      (2)   A personal digital assistant;
      (3)   A computer, including a laptop computer and a computer tablet;
      (4)   A text-messaging device;
      (5)   Any other substantially similar electronic wireless device that is
designed or used to communicate via voice, image, or written word.
(R.C. § 4511.205)
§ 331.54 OPERATION RESTRICTED FOR MINI-TRUCKS AND LOW-SPEED, UNDER- SPEED, OR
UTILITY VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a low-speed vehicle upon any street or
highway having an established speed limit greater than 35 miles per hour.
      (2)   No person shall operate an under-speed or utility vehicle or a
mini-truck upon any street or highway except as follows:
         (a)   Upon a street or highway having an established speed limit not
greater than 35 miles per hour and only upon such streets or highways where the
municipality has granted permission for such operation in accordance with
division (E) of this section;
         (b)   A state park or political subdivision employee or volunteer
operating a utility vehicle exclusively within the boundaries of state parks or
political subdivision parks for the operation or maintenance of state or
political subdivision park facilities.
      (3)   No person shall operate a motor-driven cycle or motor scooter upon
any street or highway having an established speed limit greater than 45 miles
per hour.
   (B)   This section does not prohibit either of the following:
      (1)   A person operating a low- speed, under-speed, or utility vehicle or
a mini-truck from proceeding across an intersection of a street or highway
having a speed limit greater than 35 miles per hour;
      (2)   A person operating a motor-driven cycle or motor scooter from
proceeding across an intersection of a street or highway having a speed limit
greater than 45 miles per hour.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the municipality from adopting
more stringent local ordinances, resolutions, or regulations governing the
operation of a low-speed vehicle or a mini-truck, or a motor-driven cycle or
motor scooter.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.214)
   (E)   By ordinance or resolution, the municipality may authorize the
operation of under- speed or utility vehicles or mini-trucks on a public street
or highway under its jurisdiction. The municipality shall do all of the
following:
      (1)   Limit the operation of those vehicles to streets and highways
having an established speed limit not greater than 35 miles per hour;
      (2)   Require the vehicle owner who wishes to operate an under-speed or
utility vehicle or a mini-truck on the public streets or highways to submit the
vehicle to an inspection conducted by a local law enforcement agency that
complies with inspection requirements established by the Department of Public
Safety under R.C. § 4513.02;
      (3)   Permit the operation on public streets or highways of only those
vehicles that successfully pass the required vehicle inspection, are registered
in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4503, and are titled in accordance with R.C.
Chapter 4505;
      (4)   Notify the Director of Public Safety, in a manner the Director
determines, of the authorization for the operation of under-speed or utility
vehicles or mini-trucks.
   (F)   The municipality may establish additional requirements for the
operation of under- speed or utility vehicles or mini-trucks on its streets and
highways.
(R.C. § 4511.215)
   (G)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) through (F) of this section, a person
may operate a utility vehicle on any public roads or right-of-way, other than a
freeway, when traveling from one farm field to another for agricultural
purposes if the vehicle is displaying a triangular slow-moving vehicle emblem
as described in R.C. § 4513.112.
(R.C. § 4511.216)
   (H)   (1)   Except as provided in this division (H) and divisions (E) and
(F) of this section, no person shall operate a mini-truck within this
municipality.
      (2)   A person may operate a mini- truck on a farm for agricultural
purposes only when the owner of the farm qualifies for the current agricultural
use valuation tax credit. A mini-truck may be operated by or on behalf of such
a farm owner on public roads and rights-of-way only when traveling from one
farm field to another.
      (3)   A person may operate a mini- truck on property owned or leased by a
dealer who sells mini-trucks at retail.
      (4)   Whoever violates this division (H) shall be penalized as provided
in division (D) of this section.
(R.C. § 4519.401)
§ 331.99 PENALTY.
Editor’s note:
   See §
303.99 for general code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.
CHAPTER 333: INTOXICATION; RECKLESS OPERATION; SPEED
Section
    
333.01   Driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs; tests; blood alcohol
content
   
333.011   Implied consent
   
333.012    Having physical control of vehicle while under influence
   
333.013   Immobilizing or disabling device violation
   
333.02   Reckless operation on streets, public or private property
   
333.03   Maximum speed limits
   
333.04   Slow speed
   
333.05   Radar
   
333.06   Speed regulations on bridges
   
333.07   Emergency vehicles excepted from speed limitation
   
333.08   Street racing prohibited
 
   
333.99   Penalty
§ 333.01 DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOL OR DRUGS; TESTS; BLOOD ALCOHOL
CONTENT.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate any vehicle within this municipality,
if, at the time of the operation, any of the following apply:
         (a)   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse,
or a combination of them.
         (b)   The person has a concentration of 0.08% or more but less than
0.17% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood.
         (c)   The person has a concentration of 0.096% or more but less than
0.204% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or
plasma.
         (d)   The person has a concentration of 0.08 grams or more but less
than 0.17 grams by weight of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath.
         (e)   The person has a concentration of 0.11 grams or more but less
than 0.238 grams by weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s
urine.
         (f)   The person has a concentration of 0.17% or more by weight per
unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood.
         (g)   The person has a concentration of 0.204% or more by weight per
unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or plasma.
         (h)   The person has a concentration of 0.17 grams or more by weight
of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’
         (i)   The person has a concentration of 0.238 grams or more by weight
of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s urine.
         (j)   Except as provided in division (K) of this section, the person
has a concentration of any of the following controlled substances or
metabolites of a controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum
or plasma, or urine that equals or exceeds any of the following:
            1.   The person has a concentration of amphetamine in the person’s
urine of at least 500 nanograms of amphetamine per milliliter of the person’s
urine or has a concentration of amphetamine in the person’s whole blood or
blood serum or plasma of at least 100 nanograms of amphetamine per milliliter
of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            2.   The person has a concentration of cocaine in the person’s
urine of at least 150 nanograms of cocaine per milliliter of the person’s urine
or has a concentration of cocaine in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma of at least 50 nanograms of cocaine per milliliter of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma.
            3.   The person has a concentration of cocaine metabolite in the
person’s urine of at least 150 nanograms of cocaine metabolite per milliliter
of the person’s urine or has a concentration of cocaine metabolite in the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 50 nanograms of
cocaine metabolite per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma.
            4.   The person has a concentration of heroin in the person’s urine
of at least 2,000 nanograms of heroin per milliliter of the person’s urine or
has a concentration of heroin in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma of at least 50 nanograms of heroin per milliliter of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma.
            5.   The person has a concentration of heroin metabolite (6-
monoacetyl morphine) in the person’s urine of at least 10 nanograms of heroin
metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) per milliliter of the person’s urine or has
a concentration of heroin metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) in the person’s
whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 10 nanograms of heroin
metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) per milliliter of the person’s whole blood
or blood serum or plasma.
            6.   The person has a concentration of L.S.D. in the person’s urine
of at least 25 nanograms of L.S.D. per milliliter of the person’s urine or a
concentration of L.S.D. in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of
at least 10 nanograms of L.S.D. per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or
blood serum or plasma.
            7.   The person has a concentration of marihuana in the person’s
urine of at least 10 nanograms of marihuana per milliliter of the person’s
urine or has a concentration of marihuana in the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma of at least 2 nanograms of marihuana per milliliter of the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            8.   Either of the following applies:
               A.   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of
abuse, or a combination of them, and the person has a concentration of
marihuana metabolite in the person’s urine of at least 15 nanograms of
marihuana metabolite per milliliter of the person’s urine or has a
concentration of marihuana metabolite in the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma of at least 5 nanograms of marihuana metabolite per milliliter
of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
               B.   The person has a concentration of marihuana metabolite in
the person’s urine of at least 35 nanograms of marihuana metabolite per
milliliter of the person’s urine or has a concentration of marihuana metabolite
in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 50 nanograms
of marihuana metabolite per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma.
            9.   The person has a concentration of methamphetamine in the
person’s urine of at least 500 nanograms of methamphetamine per milliliter of
the person’s urine or has a concentration of methamphetamine in the person’s
whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 100 nanograms of
methamphetamine per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma.
            10.   The person has a concentration of phencyclidine in the
person’s urine of at least 25 nanograms of phencyclidine per milliliter of the
person’s urine or has a concentration of phencyclidine in the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 10 nanograms of phencyclidine per
milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            11.   The State Board of Pharmacy has adopted a rule pursuant to
R.C. § 4729.041 that specifies the amount of salvia divinorum and the amount of
salvinorin A that constitute concentrations of salvia divinorum and salvinorin
A in a person’s urine, in a person’s whole blood, or in a person’s blood serum
or plasma at or above which the person is impaired for purposes of operating
any vehicle within this state, the rule is in effect, and the person has a
concentration of salvia divinorum or salvinorin A of at least that amount so
specified by rule in the person’s urine, in the person’s whole blood, or in the
person’s blood serum or plasma.
      (2)   No person who, within 20 years of the conduct described in division
(A)(2)(a) of this section, previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of this division or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(1) of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or any other
equivalent offense shall do both of the following:
         (a)   Operate any vehicle within this municipality while under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them;
         (b)   Subsequent to being arrested for operating the vehicle as
described in division (A)(2)(a) of this section, being asked by a law
enforcement officer to submit to a chemical test or tests under R.C. § 4511.191
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and being advised by the
officer in accordance with R.C. § 4511.192 or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance of the consequences of the person’s refusal or submission
to the test or tests, refuse to submit to the test or tests.
   (B)   No person under 21 years of age shall operate any vehicle within this
municipality, if, at the time of the operation, any of the following apply:
      (1)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.02% but less than
0.08% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood.
      (2)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.03% but less than
0.096% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or
plasma.
      (3)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.02 grams but less than
0.08 grams by weight of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath.
      (4)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.028 grams but less
than 0.11 grams by weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s urine.
   (C)   In any proceeding arising out of one incident, a person may be charged
with a violation of division (A)(1)(a) or (A)(2) and a violation of division
(B)(1), (2), or (3) of this section, but the person may not be convicted of
more than one violation of these divisions.
   (D)   (1)   (a)   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding
for a violation of division (A)(1)(a) of this section or for an equivalent
offense that is vehicle-related, the result of any test of any blood or urine
withdrawn and analyzed at any health care provider, as defined in R.C. §
2317.02, may be admitted with expert testimony to be considered with any other
relevant and competent evidence in determining the guilt or innocence of the
defendant.
         (b)   In any criminal prosecution for a violation of division (A) or
(B) of this section or for an equivalent offense that is vehicle-related, the
court may admit evidence on the concentration of alcohol, drugs of abuse,
controlled substances, metabolites of a controlled substance, or a combination
of them in the defendant’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, urine,
or other bodily substance at the time of the alleged violation as shown by
chemical analysis of the substance withdrawn within three hours of the time of
the alleged violation. The three-hour time limit specified in this division
regarding the admission of evidence does not extend or affect the two-hour time
limit specified in R.C. § 4511.192(A) as the maximum period of time during
which a person may consent to a chemical test or tests as described in that
section. The court may admit evidence on the concentration of alcohol, drugs of
abuse, or a combination of them as described in this division when a person
submits to a blood test at the request of a law enforcement officer under R.C.
§ 4511.191 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or a blood or
urine sample is obtained pursuant to a search warrant. Only a physician, a
registered nurse, an emergency medical technician-intermediate, an emergency
medical technician-paramedic, or a qualified technician, chemist, or
phlebotomist shall withdraw a blood sample for the purpose of determining the
alcohol, drug, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance, or
combination content of the whole blood, blood serum, or blood plasma. This
limitation does not apply to the taking of breath or urine specimens. A person
authorized to withdraw blood under this division may refuse to withdraw blood
under this division, if in that person’s opinion, the physical welfare of the
person would be endangered by the withdrawing of blood. The bodily substance
withdrawn under this division (D)(1)(b) shall be analyzed in accordance with
methods approved by the Director of Health by an individual possessing a valid
permit issued by the Director pursuant to R.C. § 3701.143.
         (c)   As used in division (D)(1)(b) of this section, EMERGENCY MEDICAL
TECHNICIAN-INTERMEDIATE and EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-PARAMEDIC have the
same meanings as in R.C. § 4765.01.
      (2)   In a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (A) of this
section or for an equivalent offense that is vehicle-related, if there was at
the time the bodily substance was withdrawn a concentration of less than the
applicable concentration of alcohol specified in divisions (A)(1)(b), (c), (d)
and (e) of this section or less than the applicable concentration of a listed
controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance specified
for a violation of division (A)(1)(j) of this section, that fact may be
considered with other competent evidence in determining the guilt or innocence
of the defendant. This division does not limit or affect a criminal prosecution
for a violation of division (B) of this section.
      (3)   Upon the request of the person who was tested, the results of the
chemical test shall be made available to the person or the person’s attorney,
immediately upon the completion of the chemical test analysis. If the chemical
test was obtained pursuant to division (D)(1)(b) of this section, the person
tested may have a physician, a registered nurse, or a qualified technician,
chemist, or phlebotomist of the person’s own choosing administer a chemical
test or tests, at the person’s expense, in addition to any administered at the
request of a law enforcement officer. If the person was under arrest as
described in R.C. § 4511.191(A)(5), the arresting officer shall advise the
person at the time of the arrest that the person may have an independent
chemical test taken at the person’s own expense. If the person was under arrest
other than described in R.C. § 4511.191(A)(5), the form to be read to the
person to be tested, as required under §
333.011 shall state that the person may have an independent test performed at
the person’s expense. The failure or inability to obtain an additional chemical
test by a person shall not preclude the admission of evidence relating to the
chemical test or tests taken at the request of a law enforcement officer.
      (4)   (a)   As used in division (D)(4)(b) and (c) of this section,
NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION means the National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration established as an administration of the United
States Department of Transportation under 96 Stat. 2415 (1983), 49 U.S.C. §
105.
         (b)   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a
violation of division (A) or (B) of this section, of a municipal ordinance
relating to operating a vehicle while under the influence of alcohol, a drug of
abuse, or alcohol and a drug of abuse, or of a municipal ordinance relating to
operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a controlled
substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, breath, or urine, if a law enforcement officer has
administered a field sobriety test to the operator of the vehicle involved in
the violation and if it is shown by clear and convincing evidence that the
officer administered the test in substantial compliance with the testing
standards for any reliable, credible, and generally accepted field sobriety
tests that were in effect at the time the tests were administered, including,
but not limited to, any testing standards then in effect that were set by the
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, all of the following apply:
            1.   The officer may testify concerning the results of the field
sobriety test so administered.
            2.   The prosecution may introduce the results of the field
sobriety test so administered as evidence in any proceedings in the criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding.
            3.   If testimony is presented or evidence is introduced under
division (D)(4)(b)1. or 2. of this section and if the testimony or evidence is
admissible under the Rules of Evidence, the court shall admit the testimony or
evidence and the trier of fact shall give it whatever weight the trier of fact
considers to be appropriate.
         (c)   Division (D)(4)(b) of this section does not limit or preclude a
court, in its determination of whether the arrest of a person was supported by
probable cause or its determination of any other matter in a criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding of a type described in that division,
from considering evidence or testimony that is not otherwise disallowed by
division (D)(4)(b) of this section.
   (E)   (1)   Subject to division (E)(3) of this section, in any criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a violation of division (A)(1)(b),
(A)(1)(c), (A)(1)(d), (A)(1)(e), (A)(1)(f), (A)(1)(g), (A)(1)(h), (A)(1)(i) or
(A)(1)(j), or (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3), or (B)(4) of this section or for an
equivalent offense that is substantially equivalent to any of those divisions,
a laboratory report from any laboratory personnel issued a permit by the
Department of Health authorizing an analysis as described in this division that
contains an analysis of the whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, urine,
or other bodily substance tested and that contains all of the information
specified in this division shall be admitted as prima facie evidence of the
information and statements that the report contains. The laboratory report
shall contain all of the following:
         (a)   The signature, under oath, of any person who performed the
analysis;
         (b)   Any findings as to the identity and quantity of alcohol, a drug
of abuse, a controlled substance, a metabolite of a controlled substance, or a
combination of them that was found;
         (c)   A copy of a notarized statement by the laboratory director of a
designee of the director that contains the name of each certified analyst or
test performer involved with the report, the analyst’s or test performer’s
employment relationship with the laboratory that issued the report, and a
notation that performing an analysis of the type involved is part of the
analyst’s or test performer’s regular duties;
         (d)   An outline of the analyst’s or test performer’s education,
training, and experience in performing the type of analysis involved and a
certification that the laboratory satisfies appropriate quality control
standards in general and, in this particular analysis, under rules of the
Department of Health.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law regarding the admission
of evidence, a report of the type described in division (E)(1) of this section
is not admissible against the defendant to whom it pertains in any proceeding,
other than a preliminary hearing or a grand jury proceeding, unless the
prosecutor has served a copy of the report on the defendant’s attorney or, if
the defendant has no attorney, on the defendant.
      (3)   A report of the type described in division (E)(1) of this section
shall not be prima facie evidence of the contents, identity, or amount of any
substance if, within seven days after the defendant to whom the report pertains
or the defendant’s attorney receives a copy of the report, the defendant or the
defendant’s attorney demands the testimony of the person who signed the report.
The judge in the case may extend the seven-day time limit in the interest of
justice.
   (F)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, any physician,
registered nurse, emergency medical technician-intermediate, emergency medical
technician-paramedic, or qualified technician, chemist, or phlebotomist who
withdraws blood from a person pursuant to this section or R.C. § 4511.19,
4511.191 or 4511.192, and any hospital, first-aid station, or clinic at which
blood is withdrawn from a person pursuant to this section or R.C. § 4511.19,
4511.191 or 4511.192, is immune from criminal liability and civil liability
based upon a claim of assault and battery or any other claim that is not a
claim of malpractice, for any act performed in withdrawing blood from the
person. The immunity provided in this division also extends to an emergency
medical service organization that employs an emergency medical technician-
intermediate or emergency medical technician-paramedic who withdraws blood
under this section. The immunity provided in this division is not available to
a person who withdraws blood if the person engages in willful or wanton
misconduct.
      (2)   As used in division (F)(1), EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-
INTERMEDIATE and EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-PARAMEDIC have the same meanings
as in R.C. § 4765.01.
   (G)   (1)   Whoever violates any provisions of divisions (A)(1)(a) to (A)(1)
(i) or (A)(2) of this section is guilty of operating a vehicle under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them. Whoever
violates division (A)(1)(j) of this section is guilty of operating a vehicle
while under the influence of a listed controlled substance or a listed
metabolite of a controlled substance. The court shall sentence the offender for
either offense under R.C. Chapter 2929, except as otherwise authorized or
required by divisions (G)(1)(a) through (G)(1)(e) of this section:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(b), (G)(1)(c),
(G)(1)(d), or (G)(1)(e) of this section, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree, and the court shall sentence the offender to
all of the penalties and sanctions provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(a)(i) to
(iv).
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(e) of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one violation of division (A) of this section
or one other equivalent offense is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
The court shall sentence the offender to all of the penalties and sanctions
provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(b)(i) through (G)(1)(b)(v).
         (c)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(e) of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of division (A) of this
section or other equivalent offenses is guilty of a misdemeanor. The court
shall sentence the offender to all of the penalties and sanctions provided in
R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(c)(i) through (G)(1)(c)(vi).
         (d)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(e) of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of division (A) of
this section or other equivalent offenses or an offender who, within 20 years
of the offense, previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to five or
more violations of that nature, or an offender who previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to a specification of the type described in R.C.
§ 2941.1413, is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
         (e)   An offender who previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) that was a felony, regardless of
when the violation and the conviction or guilty plea occurred, is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   An offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (A) of this section and who subsequently seeks reinstatement of the
driver’s or occupational driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating
privilege suspended under this section or R.C. § 4511.19 as a result of the
conviction or guilty plea shall pay a reinstatement fee as provided in R.C. §
4511.191(F)(2).
      (3)   (a)   If an offender is sentenced to a jail term under R.C. §
4511.19(G)(1)(b)(i) or (ii) or (G)(1)(c)(i) or (ii) and if, within 60 days of
sentencing of the offender, the court issues a written finding on the record
that, due to the unavailability of space at the jail where the offender is
required to serve the term, the offender will not be able to begin serving that
term within the 60-day period following the date of sentencing, the court may
impose an alternative sentence as specified in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(3) that
includes a term of house arrest with electronic monitoring, with continuous
alcohol monitoring, or with both electronic monitoring and continuous alcohol
monitoring.
         (b)   As an alternative to the mandatory jail terms as required by
R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1), the court may sentence the offender as provided in R.C. §
4511.19(G)(3).
      (4)   If an offender’s driver’s or occupational driver’s license or
permit or nonresident operating privilege is suspended under division (G) of
this section or R.C. § 4511.19(G) and if R.C. § 4510.13 permits the court to
grant limited driving privileges, the court may grant the limited driving
privileges in accordance with that section. If division (A)(7) of that section
requires the court impose as a condition of the privileges that the offender
must display on the vehicle that is driven subject to the privileges restricted
license plates that are issued under R.C. § 4503.231, except as provided in
division (B) of that section, the court shall impose that condition as one of
the conditions of the limited driving privileges granted to the offender,
except as provided in R.C. § 4503.231(B).
      (5)   Fines imposed under this section for a violation of division (A) of
this section shall be distributed as provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(5).
      (6)   If title to a motor vehicle that is subject to an order of criminal
forfeiture under division (G)(1)(c), (d), or (e) of this section is assigned or
transferred and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (3) applies, in addition to or
independent of any other penalty established by law, the court may fine the
offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of the National
Automobile Dealers Association. The proceeds of any fine so imposed shall be
distributed in accordance with division (C)(2) of that section.
      (7)   In all cases in which an offender is sentenced under division (G)
of this section, the offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, the court, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, may order restitution pursuant to §
599.02(G) or R.C. § 2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for
any economic loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and
proximate result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or
after committing the offense for which the offender is sentenced under division
(G) of this section.
      (8)    A court may order an offender to reimburse a law enforcement
agency for any costs incurred by the agency with respect to a chemical test or
tests administered to the offender if all of the following apply:
         (a)   The offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (A) of this section.
         (b)   The test or tests were of the offender’s whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, or urine.
         (c)   The test or tests indicated that the offender had a prohibited
concentration of a controlled substance or a metabolite of a controlled
substance in the offender’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or urine at the
time of the offense.
      (9)   As used in division (G) of this section, ELECTRONIC MONITORING has
the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   (H)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of operating a
motor vehicle after underage alcohol consumption and shall be punished as
follows:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (H)(2) of this section,
the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. In addition to
any other sanction imposed for the offense, the court shall impose a class six
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privilege form the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(6). The court may grant
limited driving privileges relative to the suspension under R.C. §§ 4510.021
and 4510.13. The court may grant unlimited driving privileges with an ignition
interlock device relative to the suspension and may reduce the period of
suspension as authorized under R.C. § 4510.022. If the court grants unlimited
driving privileges under R.C. § 4510.022, the court shall suspend any jail term
imposed under division (H)(1) of this section as required under that section.
      (2)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of division (A)
of this section or other equivalent offenses, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. In addition to any other sanction imposed for
the offense, the court shall impose a class four suspension of the offender's
driver's license, commercial driver's license, temporary instruction permit,
probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4). The court may grant limited driving
privileges relative to the suspension under R.C. §§ 4510.021 and 4510.13.
      (3)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to § 130.99
(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss
arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result
of the offender's operation of the vehicle before, during, or after committing
the violation of division (B) of this section.
      (4)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
599.02(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after
committing the violation of division (B) of this section.
   (I)   (1)   No court shall sentence an offender to an alcohol treatment
program under this section unless the treatment program complies with the
minimum standards for alcohol treatment programs adopted under R.C. Chapter
5119 by the Director of Mental Health and Addiction Services.
      (2)   An offender who stays in a drivers’ intervention program or in an
alcohol treatment program under an order issued under this section shall pay
the cost of the stay in the program. However, if the court determines that an
offender who stays in an alcohol treatment program under an order issued under
this section is unable to pay the cost of the stay in the program, the court
may order that the cost be paid from the court’s indigent drivers’ alcohol
treatment fund.
   (J)   If a person whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege is suspended under this section or R.C. §
4511.19 files an appeal regarding any aspect of the person’s trial or sentence,
the appeal itself does not stay the operation of the suspension.
   (K)   Division (A)(1)(j) of this section does not apply to a person who
operates a vehicle while the person has a concentration of a listed controlled
substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance in the person’s
whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or urine that equals or exceeds the amount
specified in that division, if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs.
      (2)   The person injected, ingested, or inhaled the controlled substance
in accordance with the health professional’s directions.
   (L)   The prohibited concentrations of a controlled substance or a
metabolite of a controlled substance listed in division (A)(1)(j) of this
section also apply in a prosecution of a violation of R.C. § 2923.16(D) in the
same manner as if the offender is being prosecuted for a prohibited
concentration of alcohol.
   (M)   All terms defined in R.C. § 4510.01 apply to this section. If the
meaning of a term defined in R.C. § 4510.01 conflicts with the meaning of the
same term as defined in R.C. § 4501.01 or 4511.01, the term as defined in R.C.
§ 4510.01 applies to this section.
(R.C. § 4511.19(A) - (M)) (Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76; Am. Ord. 6164, passed 12-
22-87; Am. Ord. 6532, passed 10-9-90)
   (N)   As used in this section, §
333.011 and §
333.012:
      COMMUNITY RESIDENTIAL SANCTION, CONTINUOUS ALCOHOL MONITORING, JAIL,
MANDATORY PRISON TERM, MANDATORY TERM OF LOCAL INCARCERATION, PRISON TERM, and
SANCTION have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      DRUG OF ABUSE has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4506.01.
      EQUIVALENT OFFENSE means any of the following:
         (a)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A);
         (b)   A violation of a municipal OVI ordinance;
         (c)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.04 in a case in which the offender
was subject to the sanctions described in division (D) of that section;
         (d)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.06(A)(1) or R.C. § 2903.08 or a
municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to either of those
divisions;
         (e)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.06(A)(2), (A)(3), or (A)(4), R.C. §
2903.08(A)(2), or former R.C. § 2903.07, or a municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to any of those divisions or that former section, in a
case in which a judge or jury as the trier of fact found that the offender was
under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them;
         (f)   A violation of R.C. § 1547.11(A);
         (g)   A violation of a municipal ordinance prohibiting a person from
operating or being in physical control of any vessel underway or from
manipulating any water skis, aquaplane, or similar device on the waters of this
state while under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination
of them or prohibiting a person from operating or being in physical control of
any vessel underway or from manipulating any water skis, aquaplane, or similar
device on the waters of this state with a prohibited concentration of alcohol,
a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine;
         (h)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance, law of
another state, or law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to
R.C. § 4511.19(A) or R.C. § 1547.11(A);
         (i)   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to R.C. § 4511.19(A) or R.C. § 1547.11(A).
      EQUIVALENT OFFENSE THAT IS VEHICLE-RELATED. Means an equivalent offense
that is any of the following:
         (a)   A violation described in division (a), (b), (c), (d), or (e) of
the definition for “equivalent offense” provided in this division (N);
         (b)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance, law of
another state, or law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to
R.C. § 4511.19(A);
         (c)   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to R.C. § 4511.19(A).
      MANDATORY JAIL TERM means the mandatory term in jail of 3, 6, 10, 20, 30,
or 60 days that must be imposed under R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(a), (G)(1)(b), or
(G)(1)(c) upon an offender convicted of a violation of division (A) of that
section and in relation to which all of the following apply:
         (a)   Except as specifically authorized under R.C. § 4511.19, the term
must be served in a jail.
         (b)   Except as specifically authorized under R.C. § 4511.19, the term
cannot be suspended, reduced, or otherwise modified pursuant to R.C. §§ 2929.21
through 2929.28 or any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
      MUNICIPAL OVI ORDINANCE and MUNICIPAL OVI OFFENSE mean any municipal
ordinance prohibiting a person from operating a vehicle while under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them or prohibiting
a person from operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a
controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine.
(R.C. § 4511.181)
Statutory reference:
   Mandatory suspension periods; immobilizing or disabling device; restricted
license, see R.C. § 4510.13
   Trial judge to suspend driver’s license, see R.C. § 4510.05
§ 333.011 IMPLIED CONSENT.
   (A)   (1)   As used in this section:
         ALCOHOL MONITORING DEVICE means any device that provides for
continuous alcohol monitoring, any ignition interlock device, any immobilizing
or disabling device other than an ignition interlock device that is constantly
available to monitor the concentration of alcohol in a person’s system, or any
other device that provides for the automatic testing and periodic reporting of
alcohol consumption by a person and that a court orders a person to use as a
sanction imposed as a result of the person’s conviction of or plea of guilty to
an offense.
         COMMUNITY ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 5119.01.
         PHYSICAL CONTROL has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.194.
      (2)   Any person who operates a vehicle upon a highway or any public or
private property used by the public for vehicular travel or parking within this
municipality or who is in physical control of a vehicle shall be deemed to have
given consent to a chemical test or tests of the person’s whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, breath, or urine to determine the alcohol, drug of abuse,
controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance, or combination
content of the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine if
arrested for a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or any other municipal OVI
ordinance.
      (3)   The chemical test or tests under division (A)(2) of this section
shall be administered at the request of a law enforcement officer having
reasonable grounds to believe the person was operating or in physical control
of a vehicle in violation of a division, section, or ordinance identified in
division (A)(2) of this section. The law enforcement agency by which the
officer is employed shall designate which of the tests shall be administered.
      (4)   Any person who is dead or unconscious, or who otherwise is in a
condition rendering the person incapable of refusal, shall be deemed to have
consented as provided in division (A)(2) of this section, and the test or tests
may be administered, subject to R.C. §§ 313.12 to 313.16.
      (5)   (a)   If a law enforcement officer arrests a person for a violation
of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or a municipal OVI ordinance and if the person if
convicted would be required to be sentenced under R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(c), (d),
or (e), the law enforcement officer shall request the person to submit, and the
person shall submit, to a chemical test or tests of the person’s whole blood,
blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine for the purpose of determining the
alcohol, drug of abuse, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled
substance, or combination content of the person’s whole blood, blood serum or
plasma, breath, or urine. A law enforcement officer who makes a request
pursuant to this division that a person submit to a chemical test or tests is
not required to advise the person of the consequences of submitting to, or
refusing to submit to, the test or tests and is not required to give the person
the form described in division (C) of this section, but the officer shall
advise the person at the time of the arrest that if the person refuses to take
a chemical test the officer may employ whatever reasonable means are necessary
to ensure that the person submits to a chemical test of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma. The officer shall also advise the person at the
time of the arrest that the person may have an independent chemical test taken
at the person’s own expense. Divisions (A)(3) and (A)(4) of this section apply
to the administration of a chemical test or tests pursuant to this division.
         (b)   If a person refuses to submit to a chemical test upon a request
made pursuant to division (A)(5)(a) of this section, the law enforcement
officer who made the request may employ whatever reasonable means are necessary
to ensure that the person submits to a chemical test of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma. A law enforcement officer who acts pursuant to
this division to ensure that a person submits to a chemical test of the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma is immune from criminal and civil
liability based upon a claim for assault and battery or any other claim for the
acts, unless the officer so acted with malicious purpose, in bad faith, or in a
wanton or reckless manner.
(R.C. § 4511.191(A))
   (B)   Except as provided in division (A)(5) of this section, the arresting
law enforcement officer shall give advice in accordance with this section to
any person under arrest for a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. §
4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or any other
municipal OVI ordinance. The officer shall give that advice in a written form
that contains the information described in division (C) of this section and
shall read the advice to the person. The form shall contain a statement that
the form was shown to the person under arrest and read to the person by the
arresting officer. One or more persons shall witness the arresting officer’s
reading of the form, and the witnesses shall certify to this fact by signing
the form. The person must submit to the chemical test or tests, subsequent to
the request of the arresting officer, within two hours of the time of the
alleged violation and, if the person does not submit to the test or tests
within that two-hour time limit, the failure to submit automatically
constitutes a refusal to submit to the test or tests.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (A)(5) of this section, if a person is
under arrest as described in division (B) of this section, before the person
may be requested to submit to a chemical test or tests to determine the
alcohol, drug of abuse, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled
substance, or combination content of the person's whole blood, blood serum or
plasma, breath, or urine, the arresting officer shall read the following form
to the person:
      “You now are under arrest for (specifically stat the offense under state
law or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance for which the person was
arrested – operating a vehicle under the influence of alcohol, a drug, or a
combination of them; operating a vehicle while under the influence of a listed
controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance;
operating a vehicle after underage alcohol consumption; or having physical
control of a vehicle while under the influence).
      “If you refuse to take any chemical test required by law, your Ohio
driving privileges will be suspended immediately, and you will have to pay a
fee to have the privileges reinstated. If you have a prior conviction of OVI or
operating a vehicle while under the influence of a listed controlled substance
or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance under state or municipal law
within the preceding 20 years, you are now under arrest for state OVI, and, if
you refuse to take a chemical test, you will face increased penalties if you
subsequently are convicted of the state OVI.
      “(Read this part unless the person is under arrest for solely having
physical control of a vehicle while under the influence.) If you take any
chemical test required by law and are found to be at or over the prohibited
amount of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled
substance in your whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine as set
by law, your Ohio driving privileges will be suspended immediately, and you
will have to pay a fee to have the privileges reinstated.
      “If you take a chemical test, you may have an independent chemical test
taken at your own expense.”
   (D)   If the arresting law enforcement officer does not ask a person under
arrest as described in division (B) of this section or division (A)(5) of this
section to submit to a chemical test or tests under R.C. § 4511.191 or this
section, the arresting officer shall seize the Ohio or out-of-state driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit of the person and immediately forward it
to the court in which the arrested person is to appear on the charge. If the
arrested person is not in possession of the person’s license or permit or it is
not in the person’s vehicle, the officer shall order the person to surrender it
to the law enforcement agency that employs the officer within 24 hours after
the arrest, and, upon the surrender, the agency immediately shall forward the
license or permit to the court in which the person is to appear on the charge.
Upon receipt of the license or permit, the court shall retain it pending the
arrested person’s initial appearance and any action taken under R.C. §
4511.196.
   (E)   (1)   If a law enforcement officer asks a person under arrest as
described in division (A)(5) of this section to submit to a chemical test or
tests under that division and the test results indicate a prohibited
concentration of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a
controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma,
breath, or urine at the time of the alleged offense, or if a law enforcement
officer asks a person under arrest as described in division (B) of this section
to submit to a chemical test or tests under R.C. § 4511.191 or this section, if
the officer advises the person in accordance with this section of the
consequences of the person’s refusal or submission, and if either the person
refuses to submit to the test or tests or, unless the arrest was for a
violation of R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
the person submits to the test or tests and the test results indicate a
prohibited concentration of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of
a controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma,
breath, or urine at the time of the alleged offense, the arresting officer
shall do all of the following:
         (a)   On behalf of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, notify the person
that, independent of any penalties or sanctions imposed upon the person, the
person’s Ohio driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privilege is suspended immediately, that the suspension will last at
least until the person’s initial appearance on the charge, which will be held
within five days after the date of the person’s arrest or the issuance of a
citation to the person, and that the person may appeal the suspension at the
initial appearance or during the period of time ending 30 days after that
initial appearance;
         (b)   Seize the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit of
the person and immediately forward it to the Registrar. If the arrested person
is not in possession of the person’s license or permit or it is not in the
person’s vehicle, the officer shall order the person to surrender it to the law
enforcement agency that employs the officer within 24 hours after the person is
given notice of the suspension, and, upon the surrender, the officer’s
employing agency immediately shall forward the license or permit to the
Registrar;
         (c)   Verify the person’s current residence and, if it differs from
that on the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit, notify
the Registrar of the change;
         (d)   Send to the Registrar, within 48 hours after the arrest of the
person, a sworn report that includes all of the following statements:
            1.   That the officer had reasonable grounds to believe that, at
the time of the arrest, the arrested person was operating a vehicle in
violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B) or a municipal OVI ordinance or for being
in physical control of a stationary vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4511.194 or
a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
            2.   That the person was arrested and charged with a violation of
R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or a municipal OVI ordinance;
            3.   Unless division (E)(1)(d)5. of this section applies, that the
officer asked the person to take the designated chemical test or tests, advised
the person in accordance with this section of the consequences of submitting
to, or refusing to take, the test or tests, and gave the person the form
described in division (C) of this section;
            4.   Unless division (E)(1)(d)5. of this section applies, that
either the person refused to submit to the chemical test or tests or, unless
the arrest was for a violation of R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, the person submitted to the chemical test or tests and the
test results indicate a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a controlled
substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the person’s whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine at the time of the alleged
offense.
            5.   If the person was under arrest as described in division (A)(5)
of this section and the chemical test or tests were performed in accordance
with that division, that the person was under arrest as described in that
division, that the chemical test or tests were performed in accordance with
that division, and that test results indicated a prohibited concentration of
alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in
the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine at the time
of the alleged offense.
      (2)   Division (E)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
arrested for a violation of R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, who is asked by a law enforcement officer to submit to a
chemical test or tests under this section, and who submits to the test or
tests, regardless of the amount of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a
metabolite of a controlled substance that the test results indicate is present
in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine.
   (F)   The arresting officer shall give the officer’s sworn report that is
completed under this section to the arrested person at the time of the arrest,
or the Registrar of Motor Vehicles shall send the report to the person by
regular first class mail as soon as possible after receipt of the report, but
not later than 14 days after receipt of it. An arresting officer may give an
unsworn report to the arrested person at the time of the arrest provided the
report is complete when given to the arrested person and subsequently is sworn
to by the arresting officer. As soon as possible, but not later than 48 hours
after the arrest of the person, the arresting officer shall send a copy of the
sworn report to the court in which the arrested person is to appear on the
charge for which the person was arrested.
   (G)   The sworn report of an arresting officer completed under this section
is prima facie proof of the information and statements that it contains. It
shall be admitted and considered as prima facie proof of the information and
statements that it contains in any appeal under R.C. § 4511.197 relative to any
suspension of a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege that results from the arrest covered by the
report.
(R.C. § 4511.192)
   (H)   (1)   A suspension of a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or permit or nonresident operating privilege under this section for the
time described in R.C. § 4511.191(B) or (C) is effective immediately from the
time at which the arresting officer serves the notice of suspension upon the
arrested person. Any subsequent finding that the person is not guilty of the
charge that resulted in the person’s being requested to take the chemical test
or tests under division (A) of this section does not affect the suspension.
      (2)   If a person arrested for operating a vehicle in violation of R.C. §
4511.19(A) or (B), or any other municipal OVI ordinance, or for being in
physical control of a vehicle in violation of R.C. 4511.194 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, regardless of whether the person’s driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege is or
is not suspended under R.C. § 4511.191(B) or (C) or R.C. Chapter 4510, the
person’s initial appearance on the charge resulting from the arrest shall be
held within five days of the persons’ arrest or the issuance of the citation to
him or her, subject to any continuance granted by the court pursuant to R.C. §
4511.197 regarding the issues specified in that section.
(R.C. § 4511.191(D))
Penalty, see § 333.99
Statutory reference:
   Disposition of fines, immobilization of vehicle and impoundment of license
plates, criminal forfeiture for municipal ordinance conviction, see R.C. §
4511.193
   Effect of refusal to submit to test, seizure of license, suspension periods,
appeal procedures, occupational driving privileges, and indigent drivers
alcohol treatment funds, see R.C. § 4511.191
   Judicial pretrial suspension, initial appearance, see R.C. § 4511.196
   Mandatory suspension periods; immobilizing or disabling device; restricted
license, see R.C. § 4510.13
   Seizure of vehicles upon arrest, see R.C. § 4511.195
§ 333.012 HAVING PHYSICAL CONTROL OF VEHICLE WHILE UNDER INFLUENCE.
   (A)   As used in this section, PHYSICAL CONTROL means being in the driver’s
position of the front seat of a vehicle and having possession of the vehicle’s
ignition key or other ignition device.
   (B)   No person shall be in physical control of a vehicle if, at the time of
the physical control, any of the following apply:
      (1)   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a
combination of them.
      (2)   The person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine
contains at least the concentration of alcohol specified in § 73.01(A)(1)(b),
(A)(1)(c), (A)(1)(d), or (A)(1)(e).
      (3)   Except as provided in division (E) of this section, the person has
a concentration of a listed controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a
controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or
urine that equals or exceeds the concentration specified in §
333.01(A)(1)(j).
   (C)   (1)   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a
violation of this section, if a law enforcement officer has administered a
field sobriety test to the person in physical control of the vehicle involved
in the violation and if it is shown by clear and convincing evidence that the
officer administered the test in substantial compliance with the testing
standards for any reliable, credible, and generally acceptable field sobriety
tests that were in effect at the time the tests were administered, including
but not limited to any testing standards then in effect what were set by the
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, all of the following apply:
         (a)   The officer may testify concerning the results of the field
sobriety test so administered.
      (b)   The prosecution may introduce the results of the field sobriety
test so administered as evidence in any proceedings in the criminal prosecution
or juvenile court proceeding.
      (c)   If testimony is presented or evidence is introduced under division
(C)(1)(a) or (b) of this section and if the testimony or evidence is admissible
under the Rules of Evidence, the court shall admit the testimony or evidence,
and the trier of fact shall give it whatever weight the trier of fact considers
to be appropriate.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not limit or preclude a court,
in its determination of whether the arrest of a person was supported by
probable cause or its determination of any other matter in a criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding of a type described in that division,
from considering evidence or testimony that is not otherwise disallowed by
division (C)(1) of this section.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of having physical control of
a vehicle while under the influence, a misdemeanor of the first degree. In
addition to other sanctions imposed, the court may impose on the offender a
class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
   (E)   Division (B)(3) of this section does not apply to a person who is in
physical control of a vehicle while the person has a concentration of a listed
controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance in the
person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or urine that equals or exceeds
the amount specified in § 73.01(A)(1)(j) if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs.
      (2)   The person injected, ingested, or inhaled the controlled substance
in accordance with the health professional’s directions.
(R.C. § 4511.194) (Ord. 9104, passed 2-22-05)
Penalty, see § 303.99
§ 333.013 IMMOBILIZING OR DISABLING DEVICE VIOLATION.
   (A)   (1)   No offender who has been granted limited or unlimited driving
privileges, during any period that the offender is required to operate only a
motor vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device, shall request
or permit any other person to breathe into the device if it is an ignition
interlock device or another type of device that monitors the concentration of
alcohol in a person’s breath or to otherwise start the motor vehicle equipped
with the device, for the purpose of providing the offender with an operable
motor vehicle.
      (2)   No person shall breathe into an immobilizing or disabling device
that is an ignition interlock device or another type of device that monitors
the concentration of alcohol in a person’s breath or otherwise start a motor
vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device, for the purpose of
providing an operable motor vehicle to another person who has been granted
limited or unlimited driving privileges under the condition that the person
operate only a motor vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device.
      (3)   No unauthorized person shall tamper with or circumvent the
operation of an immobilizing or disabling device.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of an immobilizing or
disabling device violation, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4510.44)
§ 333.02 RECKLESS OPERATION ON STREETS, PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle on any street or highway in
willful or wanton disregard of the safety of persons or property.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A)(1) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within
one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates division (A)(1) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses,
whoever violates division (A)(1) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.20)
   (B)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle on any public or private
property other than streets or highways, in willful or wanton disregard of the
safety of persons or property.
      (2)   This section does not apply to the competitive operation of
vehicles on public or private property when the owner of such property
knowingly permits such operation thereon.
    (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (B) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
division (B) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates
division (B) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.201)
(Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76; Am. Ord. 4042, passed 11-22-77)
Penalty, see § 333.99
§ 333.03 MAXIMUM SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle at a speed greater or less
than is reasonable or proper, having due regard for the traffic, surface, and
width of the street or highway and any other conditions, and no person shall
drive any motor vehicle in and upon any street or highway at a greater speed
than will permit him or her to bring it to a stop within the assured clear
distance ahead.
   (B)   It is prima facie lawful, in the absence of a lower limit declared or
established pursuant to this section by the Director of Transportation or local
authorities, for the operator of a motor vehicle to operate the same at a speed
not exceeding the following:
      (1)   (a)   It is prima facie lawful, in the absence of a lower limit
declared or established pursuant to this section by the Director of
Transportation or local authorities, for the operator of a motor vehicle to
operate the same at a speed not exceeding the following:
      (1)   (a)   Twenty miles per hour in school zones during school recess
and while children are going to or leaving school during the opening or closing
hours, and when 20 miles per hour school speed limit signs are erected, except
that on controlled-access highways and expressways, if the right-of-way line
fence has been erected without pedestrian opening, the speed shall be governed
by division (B)(4) of this section, and on freeways, if the right-of-way line
fence has been erected without pedestrian opening, the speed shall be governed
by divisions (B)(10) and (B)(11) of this section. The end of every school zone
may be marked by a sign indicating the end of the zone. Nothing in this section
or in the Manual and Specifications for a Uniform System of Traffic- Control
Devices shall be construed to require school zones to be indicated by signs
equipped with flashing or other lights, or giving other special notice of the
hours in which the school zone speed limit is in effect.
         (b)   As used in this section, SCHOOL means all of the following:
            1.   Any school chartered under R.C. § 3301.16;
            2.   Any nonchartered school that during the preceding year filed
with the Ohio Department of Education and Workforce in compliance with O.A.C. §
3301-35-08, a copy of the school’s report for the parents of the school’s
pupils certifying that the school meets state minimum standards for
nonchartered, nontax-supported schools and presents evidence of this filing to
the jurisdiction from which it is requesting the establishment of a school
zone;
            3.   Any special elementary school that in writing requests the
County Engineer to create a school zone at the location of the school. Upon
receipt of such written request, the County Engineer shall create a school zone
at that location by erecting appropriate signs;
            4.   Any preschool education program operated by an educational
service center that is located on a street or highway with a speed limit of 45
miles per hour or more, when the educational service center in writing requests
that the County Engineer create a school zone at the location of that program.
Upon receipt of such a written request, the County Engineer shall create a
school zone at that location by erecting the appropriate signs.
         (c)   As used in this section, SCHOOL ZONE means that portion of a
street or highway passing a school fronting upon the street or highway that is
encompassed by projecting the school property lines to the fronting street or
highway, and also includes that portion of a state highway. Upon request from
local authorities for streets and highways under their jurisdiction and that
portion of a state highway under the jurisdiction of the Director of
Transportation or a request from a County Engineer in the case of a school zone
for a special elementary school, the Director may extend the traditional school
zone boundaries. The distances in divisions (B)(1)(c)1. through 3. below shall
not exceed 300 feet per approach per direction, and are bounded by whichever of
the following distances or combination thereof the Director approves as most
appropriate:
            1.   The distance encompassed by projecting the school building
lines normal to the fronting highway and extending a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction;
            2.   The distance encompassed by projecting the school property
lines intersecting the fronting highway and extending a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction;
            3.   The distance encompassed by the special marking of the
pavement for a principal school pupil crosswalk plus a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction of the highway.
         (d)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to invalidate the
Director’s initial action on August 9, 1976, establishing all school zones at
the traditional school zone boundaries defined by projecting school property
lines, except when those boundaries are extended as provided in divisions (B)
(1)(a) and (B)(1)(c) of this section.
         (e)   As used in this division, CROSSWALK has the meaning given that
term in R.C. § 4511.01(11)(2).
         (f)   The Director may, upon request by resolution of the Legislative
Authority and upon submission by the municipality of such engineering, traffic,
and other information as the Director considers necessary, designate a school
zone on any portion of a state route lying within the municipality that
includes a crosswalk customarily used by children going to or leaving a school
during recess and opening and closing hours, whenever the distance, as measured
in a straight line, from the school property line nearest the crosswalk to the
nearest point of a crosswalk is no more than 1,320 feet. Such a school zone
shall include the distance encompassed by the crosswalk and extending 300 feet
in each appropriate direction of the state route.
         (g)   As used in this section, SPECIAL ELEMENTARY SCHOOL means a
school that meets all of the following:
            1.   It is not chartered and does not receive tax revenue from any
source.
            2.   It does not educate children beyond the eighth grade.
            3.   It is located outside the limits of a municipal corporation.
            4.   A majority of the total number of students enrolled at the
school are not related by blood.
            5.   The principal or other person in charge of the special
elementary school annually sends a report to the superintendent of the school
district in which the special elementary school is located indicating the total
number of students enrolled at the school, but otherwise the principal or other
person in charge does not report any other information or data to the
superintendent.
      (2)   Twenty-five miles per hour in all other portions of the
municipality, except on state routes outside business districts, through
highways outside business districts, and alleys;
      (3)   Thirty-five miles per hour on all state routes or through highways
within the municipality outside business districts, except as provided in
divisions (B)(4) and (B)(6) of this section;
      (4)   Fifty miles per hour on controlled-access highways and expressways
within the municipality, except as provided in divisions (B)(12), (B)(13), (B)
(14), (B)(15), and (B)(16) of this section;
      (5)   Fifty-five miles per hour on highways outside the municipality,
other than highways within island jurisdictions as provided in division (B)(8)
of this section, highways as provided in divisions (B)(9) and (B)(10) of this
section, and highways, expressways and freeways as provided in divisions (B)
(12), (B)(13), (B)(14), and (B)(16) of this section;
      (6)   Fifty miles per hour on state routes within the municipality
outside urban districts unless a lower prima facie speed is established as
further provided in this section;
      (7)   Fifteen miles per hour on all alleys within the municipality;
      (8)   Thirty-five miles per hour on highways outside the municipality
that are within an island jurisdiction;
      (9)   Thirty-five miles per hour on through highways, except state
routes, that are outside municipal corporations and that are within a national
park with boundaries extending through two or more counties;
      (10)   Sixty miles per hour on two- lane state routes outside municipal
corporations as established by the Director under R.C. § 4511.21(H)(2);
      (11)   Fifty-five miles per hour on freeways with paved shoulders inside
the municipality, other than freeways as provided in divisions (B)(14) and (B)
(16) of this section;
      (12)   Sixty miles per hour on rural expressways with traffic control
signals and on all portions of rural divided highways, except as provided in
divisions (B)(13) and (B)(14) of this section;
      (13)   Sixty-five miles per hour on all rural expressways without traffic
control signals;
      (14)   Seventy miles per hour on all rural freeways;
      (15)   Fifty-five miles per hour on all portions of freeways or
expressways in congested areas as determined by the Director and that are
located within a municipal corporation or within an interstate freeway
outerbelt, except as provided in division (B)(16) of this section;
      (16)   Sixty-five miles per hour on all portions of freeways or
expressways without traffic control signals in urbanized areas.
   (C)   It is prima facie unlawful for any person to exceed any of the speed
limitations in divisions (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)
(8) and (B)(9) of this section or any declared or established pursuant to this
section by the Director or local authorities and it is unlawful for any person
to exceed any of the speed limitations in division (D) of this section. No
person shall be convicted of more than one violation of this section for the
same conduct, although violations of more than one provision of this section
may be charged in the alternative in a single affidavit.
   (D)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon a street or highway as
follows:
      (1)   At a speed exceeding 55 miles per hour, except upon a two-lane
state route as provided in division (B)(10) of this section and upon a highway,
expressway or freeway as provided in divisions (B)(12), (B)(13), (B)(14), and
(B)(16) of this section;
      (2)   At a speed exceeding 60 miles per hour upon a two-lane state route
as provided in division (B)(10) of this section and upon a highway as provided
in division (B)(12) of this section;
      (3)   At a speed exceeding 65 miles per hour upon an expressway as
provided in division (B)(13) of this section or upon a freeway as provided in
division (B)(16) of this section, except upon a freeway as provided in division
(B)(14) of this section;
      (4)   At a speed exceeding 70 miles per hour upon a freeway as provided
in division (B)(14) of this section;
      (5)   At a speed exceeding the posted speed limit upon a highway,
expressway or freeway for which the Director has determined and declared a
speed limit pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(I)(2) or (L)(2).
   (E)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(E), in every charge of violating this
section, the affidavit and warrant shall specify the time, place and speed at
which the defendant is alleged to have driven, and in charges made in reliance
upon division (C) of this section also the speed which division (B)(1)(a), (B)
(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of, or a limit declared
or established pursuant to, this section or R.C. § 4511.21 declares is prima
facie lawful at the time and place of such alleged violation, except that in
affidavits where a person is alleged to have driven at a greater speed than
will permit the person to bring the vehicle to stop within the assured clear
distance ahead, the affidavit and warrant need not specify the speed at which
the defendant is alleged to have driven.
   (F)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(F), when a speed in excess of both a prima
facie limitation and a limitation in division (D) of this section is alleged,
the defendant shall be charged in a single affidavit, alleging a single act,
with a violation indicated of both division (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4),
(B)(6), (B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of this section, or of a limit declared or
established pursuant to this section or R.C. § 4511.21 by the Director or local
authorities, and of the limitation in division (D) of this section. If the
court finds a violation of division (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6),
(B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of, or a limit declared or established pursuant to,
this section or R.C. § 4511.21 has occurred, it shall enter a judgment of
conviction under such division and dismiss the charge under division (D) of
this section. If it finds no violation of division (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3),
(B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of, or a limit declared or established
pursuant to, this section or R.C. § 4511.21, it shall then consider whether the
evidence supports a conviction under division (D) of this section.
   (G)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(G), points shall be assessed for a
violation of a limitation under division (D) of this section in accordance with
R.C. § 4510.036.
(R.C. § 4511.21(A) - (G))
   (H)   Whenever, in accordance with R.C. § 4511.21(H) through (N), the
maximum prima facie speed limitations as established herein have been altered,
either higher or lower, and the appropriate signs giving notice have been
erected as required, operators of motor vehicles shall be governed by the speed
limitations set forth on such signs. It is prima facie unlawful for any person
to exceed the speed limits posted upon such signs.
   (I)   As used in this section:
      COMMERCIAL BUS means a motor vehicle designed for carrying more than nine
passengers and used for the transportation of persons for compensation.
      DIVIDED. Means a roadway having two or more travel lanes for vehicles
moving in opposite directions and that is separated by a median of more than
four feet, excluding turn lanes.
      INTERSTATE SYSTEM has the same meaning as in 23 U.S.C. § 101.
      NONCOMMERCIAL BUS includes but is not limited to a school bus, or a motor
vehicle operated solely for the transportation of persons associated with a
charitable or nonprofit organization.
      OUTERBELT means a portion of a freeway that is part of the interstate
system and is located in the outer vicinity of a major municipal corporation or
group of municipal corporations, as designated by the Director.
      RURAL. Means an area outside urbanized areas and outside of a business or
urban district, and areas that extend within urbanized areas where the roadway
characteristics remain mostly unchanged from those outside the urbanized areas.
      URBANIZED AREA. Has the same meaning as in 23 U.S.C. § 101.
(R.C. § 4511.21(O)) (Ord 3033, passed 8-10-76)
   (J)   Speed limits for private roads and driveways.
      (1)   The owner of a private road or driveway located in a private
residential area containing 20 or more dwelling units may establish a speed
limit on the road or driveway by complying with all of the following
requirements:
         (a)   The speed limit is not less than 25 miles per hour and is
indicated by a sign that is in a proper position, is sufficiently legible to be
seen by an ordinarily observant person, and meets the specifications for the
basic speed limit sign included in the manual adopted by the Department of
Transportation pursuant to R.C. § 4511.09;
         (b)   The owner has posted a sign at the entrance of the private road
or driveway that is in plain view and clearly informs persons entering the road
or driveway that they are entering private property, a speed limit has been
established for the road or driveway, and the speed limit is enforceable by law
enforcement officers under state law.
      (2)   No person shall operate a vehicle upon a private road or driveway
as provided in division (J)(1) of this section at a speed exceeding any speed
limit established and posted pursuant to division (J)(1).
      (3)   When a speed limit is established and posted in accordance with
division (J)(1) of this section, a law enforcement officer may apprehend a
person violating the speed limit of the residential area by utilizing any of
the means described in R.C. §4511.091 or by any other accepted method of
determining the speed of a motor vehicle and may stop and charge the person
with exceeding the speed limit.
      (4)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.211(D), points shall be assessed for
violation of a speed limit established and posted in accordance with division
(J)(1) of this section in accordance with R.C. § 4510.036.
      (5)   As used in this division (J):
         OWNER. Includes but is not limited to a person who holds title to the
real property in fee simple, a condominium owners’ association, a property
owners’ association, a board of directors or trustees of a private community,
and a nonprofit corporation governing a private community.
         PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL AREA CONTAINING 20 OR MORE DWELLING UNITS. Does
not include a Chautauqua assembly as defined in R.C. § 4511.90.
(R.C. § 4511.211(A) - (E))
   (K)   Penalties.
      (1)   Divisions (A) through (I).
         (a)   A violation of any provision of divisions (A) through (I) of
this section is one of the following:
            1.   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (K)(1)(a)2., (a)3.,
(b), and (c) of this section, a minor misdemeanor;
            2.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of any provision of
divisions (A) through (I) of this section, R.C. § 4511.21, or any provision of
any other municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any provision
of that section, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
            3.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of any
provision of divisions (A) through (I) of this section, R.C. § 4511.21, or any
provision of any other municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to
any provision of that section, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
         (b)   If the offender operated a motor vehicle faster than 35 miles an
hour in a business district of the municipality, faster than 50 miles an hour
in other portions of the municipality, or faster than 35 miles an hour in a
school zone during recess or while children are going to or leaving school
during the school's opening or closing hours, a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. This division does not apply if penalties may be imposed under division
(K)(1)(a)2. or (K)(1)(a)3. of this section.
         (c)   Notwithstanding division (K)(1)(a) of this section, if the
offender operated a motor vehicle in a construction zone where a sign was then
posted in accordance with R.C. § 4511.98, the court, in addition to all other
penalties provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a fine of two times
the usual amount imposed for the violation. No court shall impose a fine of two
times the usual amount imposed for the violation upon an offender if the
offender alleges, in an affidavit filed with the court prior to the offender’s
sentencing, that the offender is indigent and is unable to pay the fine imposed
pursuant to this division and if the court determines that the offender is an
indigent person and unable to pay the fine.
         (d)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.21(P))
      (2)   Division (J).
         (a)   A violation of division (J)(2) of this section is one of the
following:
            1.   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (K)(2)(a)2. and (K)
(2)(a)3. of this section, a minor misdemeanor;
            2.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of division (J)(2) of
this section, R.C. § 4511.211(B), or any other municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to that division, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
            3.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of division
(J)(2) of this section, R.C. § 4511.211(B), or any other municipal ordinance
that is substantially equivalent to that division, a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
         (b)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.211(F))  
Penalty, see § 333.99
Statutory reference:
   Alteration of speed limits with approval of Director, see R.C. § 4511.21(H)
- (N)
   Arrest pending warrant when radar, electrical or mechanical timing device
used to determine violation, see R.C. § 4511.091
§ 333.04 SLOW SPEED.
   (A)    No person shall operate a vehicle at such an unreasonably slow speed
as to impede or block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, except
when reduced speed is necessary for safe operation or to comply with law.
   (B)   Whenever the city determines on the basis of an engineering and
traffic investigation that slow speeds on any part of a controlled-access
highway, expressway, or freeway consistently impede the normal and reasonable
movement of traffic, the city may declare a minimum speed limit below which no
person shall operate a motor vehicle except when necessary for safe operation
or in compliance with the law. No minimum speed limit established hereunder
shall be less than 30 miles per hour, greater than 50 miles per hour, nor
effective until the provisions of R.C. § 4511.21 and § 333.03 of this code,
relating to appropriate signs, have been fulfilled and the city has obtained
the approval of the director.
   (C)    In a case involving a violation of this section, the trier of fact,
in determining whether the vehicle was being operated at an unreasonably slow
speed, shall consider the capabilities of the vehicle and its operator.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.22) (Ord 3033, passed 8-10-76)
Penalty, see § 333.99
§ 333.05 RADAR.
   (A)   The driver of any motor vehicle that has been checked by radar, or by
any electrical or mechanical timing device to determine the speed of the motor
vehicle over a measured distance of a highway or a measured distance of a
private road or driveway, and found to be in violation of any of the provisions
of R.C. § 4511.21, R.C. § 4511.211 or §
333.03 of this code, may be arrested until a warrant can be obtained, provided
the arresting officer has observed the recording of the speed of the motor
vehicle by the radio microwaves, electrical or mechanical timing device, or has
received a radio message from the officer who observed the speed of the motor
vehicle recorded by the radio microwaves, electrical or mechanical timing
device; provided, in case of an arrest based on such a message, the radio
message has been dispatched immediately after the speed of the motor vehicle
was recorded and the arresting officer is furnished a description of the motor
vehicle for proper identification and the recorded speed.
   (B)   If the driver of a motor vehicle being driven on a public street or
highway of this state is observed violating any provision of this chapter other
than R.C. § 4511.21 or 4511.211 by a law enforcement officer situated at any
location, including in any type of airborne aircraft or airship, that law
enforcement officer may send a radio message to another law enforcement
officer, and the other law enforcement officer may arrest the driver of the
motor vehicle until a warrant can be obtained or may issue the driver a
citation for the violation; provided, if an arrest or citation is based on such
a message, the radio message is dispatched immediately after the violation is
observed and the law enforcement officer who observes the violation furnishes
to the law enforcement officer who makes the arrest or issues the citation a
description of the alleged violation and the motor vehicle for proper
identification.
(R.C. § 4511.091) (Ord 3033, passed 8-10-76)
Penalty, see § 333.99
 § 333.06 SPEED REGULATIONS ON BRIDGES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle over any bridge or other
elevated structure constituting a part of a highway at a speed which is greater
than the maximum speed that can be maintained with safety to such bridge or
structure, when such structure is posted with signs as provided in this
section.
      (2)   Upon the trial of any person charged with a violation of this
section, proof of such determination of the maximum speed by the department and
the existence of such signs shall constitute prima-facie evidence of the
maximum speed which can be maintained with safety to such bridge or structure.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.23) (Ord 3033, passed 8-10-76)
Penalty, see § 333.99
§ 333.07 EMERGENCY VEHICLES EXCEPTED FROM SPEED LIMITATION.
    The prima-facie speed limitations set forth in R.C. § 4511.21 and §
333.03 of this traffic code do not apply to emergency vehicles or public safety
vehicles when they are responding to emergency calls and are equipped with and
displaying at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating light visible under
normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
vehicle, and when the drivers thereof sound audible signals by bell, siren, or
exhaust whistle. This section does not relieve the driver of an emergency
vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the
safety to persons using the street or highway.
(R.C. § 4511.24) (Ord 3033, passed 8-10-76)
Penalty, see § 333.99
§ 333.08 STREET RACING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section, STREET RACING means the operation of two or
more vehicles from a point side by side at accelerating speeds in a competitive
attempt to out-distance each other or the operation of one or more vehicles
over a common selected course, from the same point to the same point, wherein
timing is made of the participating vehicles involving competitive
accelerations or speeds. Persons rendering assistance in any manner to such
competitive use of vehicles shall be equally charged as the participants. The
operation of two or more vehicles side by side either at speeds in excess of
prima-facie lawful speeds established by R.C. § 4511.21(B)(1)(a) to (B)(9) or §
333.03(B)(1) to  (B)(8) of this traffic code, or rapidly accelerating from a
common starting point to a speed in excess of such prima-facie lawful speeds,
shall be prima-facie evidence of street racing.
   (B)   No person shall participate in street racing upon any public road,
street or highway in this municipality.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of street racing, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. In addition to any other sanctions, the court
shall suspend the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privileges for not less than 30 days or more than three years. No judge shall
suspend the first 30 days of any suspension of an offender’s license, permit,
or privilege imposed under this division.
(R.C. § 4511.251) (Ord 3033, passed 8-10-76)
Penalty, see § 333.99
§ 333.99 PENALTY.
Editor’s note:
   See §
303.99 for general code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.
CHAPTER 335: LICENSING; ACCIDENTS
Section
    
335.01   Driver or commercial driver’s license required
   
335.02   Possession of more than one license prohibited
   
335.03   Driving with temporary instruction permit without licensed driver
   
335.04   Certain acts prohibited
   
335.05    Restrictions against owner lending vehicle for use of another
   
335.06   Display of license
   
335.07   Driving under suspension or revocation [Reserved]
   
335.071   Driving under suspension or in violation of license restriction
   
335.072   Operating motor vehicle or motorcycle without valid license
   
335.073   Driving under OVI suspension
   
335.074   Driving under financial responsibility law suspension or
cancellation; driving under a nonpayment of judgment suspension
   
335.075   Failure to reinstate license
   
335.08   Operation or sale without certificate of title
   
335.09   Display of license plates
   
335.10   License plates to be unobstructed
   
335.11   Use of illegal license plates
   
335.111   Operating without license plates
   
335.12   Failure to stop after accident
   
335.13   Stopping after accident on other than public roads or highways
   
335.14   Vehicle accident resulting in damage to realty
   
335.15   Prohibition against permitting minor to drive vehicle
   
335.16   Removal of vehicles after accidents
 
   
335.99   Penalty
 Statutory reference:
   Driver’s license law, see R.C. Chapter 4507
   Motor vehicle licensing law, see R.C. Chapter 4503
   Power of trial court to suspend license for certain violations, see R.C. §§
4507.16 and 4507.021
   State accident reports, see R.C. §§ 4509.06 et seq., 4509.74, 5502.11 et
seq.
   State point system suspension, see R.C. § 4507.021
§ 335.01 DRIVER OR COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall permit the operation of a motor vehicle upon any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking, knowing the operator does not have a valid driver’s license issued
to the operator by the Registrar of Motor Vehicle or a deputy registrar under
R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid commercial driver’s license issued under R.C.
Chapter 4506. Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this division is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When the offense is an
unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced pursuant to §
599.03, §
599.02 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
599.02(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
599.02(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
599.02(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
599.02(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
(R.C. § 4507.02(A)(1))
   (B)   (1)   No person shall be required to obtain a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license for the purpose of temporarily driving, operating, drawing,
moving, or propelling a road roller or road machinery upon a street or highway.
      (2)   No person shall be required to obtain a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license for the purpose of temporarily driving, operating, drawing,
moving, or propelling any agricultural tractor or implement of husbandry upon a
street or highway at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less.
      (3)   No person shall drive, operate, draw, move, or propel any
agricultural tractor or implement of husbandry upon a street or highway at a
speed greater than 25 miles per hour unless the person has a current, valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license.
      (4)   No person having a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license
shall be required to have a motorcycle operator’s endorsement to operate a
motorcycle having three wheels with a motor of not more than 50 cubic
centimeters piston displacement.
      (5)   No person having a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license
shall be required to have a motorcycle operator’s endorsement to operate an
autocycle or a cab-enclosed motorcycle.
      (6)   Every person on active duty in the military or naval forces of the
United States, when furnished with a driver’s permit and when operating an
official motor vehicle in connection with such duty, is exempt from the license
requirements of R.C. Chapters 4506 and 4507. Every person on active duty in the
military or naval forces of the United States or in service with the peace
corps, volunteers in service to America, or the foreign service of the United
States, is exempt from the license requirements of such sections for the period
of the person’s active duty or service and for six months thereafter, provided
such person was a licensee under such sections at the time the person commenced
the person’s active duty or service. This section does not prevent such a
person or the person’s spouse or dependent from making an application, as
provided in R.C. § 4507.10(C), for the renewal of a driver’s license or
motorcycle operator’s endorsement or as provided in R.C. § 4506.14 for the
renewal of a commercial driver’s license during the period of the person’s
active duty or service.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (b)(3) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.03)
   (C)   Nonresidents, permitted to drive upon the highways of their own
states, may operate any motor vehicle upon any highway in this city without
examination or license under R.C. §§ 4507.01 through 4507.39, upon condition
that such nonresidents may be required at any time or place to prove lawful
possession, or their right to operate, such motor vehicle, and to establish
proper identity.
(R.C. § 4507.04) (Am. Ord. passed 10-1-85)
   (D)   Surrender of driver’s license from another state.
      (1)   Any person who becomes a resident of this state, within 30 days of
becoming a resident, shall surrender any driver’s license issued by another
state to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a deputy registrar. If such a
person intends to operate a motor vehicle upon the public roads or highways,
the person shall apply for a driver’s license in this state. If the person
fails to apply for a driver’s license within 30 days of becoming a resident,
the person shall not operate any motor vehicle in this state under a license
issued by another state.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (D)(1) of this section is guilty of
a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   The offense established under division (D)(2)(a) of this section
is a strict liability offense and strict liability is a culpable mental state
for purposes of R.C. § 2901.20. The designation of this offense as a strict
liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
      (3)   For purposes of division (D)(1) of this section, “resident” means
any person to whom any of the following applies:
         (a)   The person maintains their principal residence in this state and
does not reside in this state as a result of the person’s active service in the
United States armed forces.
         (b)   The person is determined by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles to
be a resident in accordance with standards adopted by the Registrar under R.C.
§ 4507.01.
(R.C. § 4507.213)
Penalty, see § 335.99
§ 335.02 POSSESSION OF MORE THAN ONE LICENSE PROHIBITED.
    No person shall receive a driver’s license, or a motorcycle operator’s
endorsement of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license, unless and until the
person surrenders to the registrar all valid licenses issued to the person by
another jurisdiction recognized by the State of Ohio. The registrar shall
report the surrender of a license to the issuing authority, together with
information that a license is now issued in the State of Ohio. The registrar
shall destroy any such license that is not returned to the issuing authority.
No person shall be permitted to have in his or her possession more than one
valid license at any time.
(R.C. § 4507.02(A)(2)) (Am. Ord. 9105, passed 2-22-05)   
Penalty, see § 335.99
§ 335.03 DRIVING WITH TEMPORARY INSTRUCTION PERMIT WITHOUT LICENSED DRIVER.
   No person, who is the holder of a temporary instruction permit, issued by
the Ohio Registrar of Motor Vehicles pursuant to R.C. § 4507.05, shall drive a
motor vehicle upon a street or highway, except when having such permit in his
or her immediate possession and when accompanied by a licensed operator who is
actually occupying a seat beside the driver.
Penalty, see § 335.99
Statutory reference:
   Temporary instruction permit, see R.C. § 4507.05
§ 335.04 CERTAIN ACTS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall do any of the following:
   (A)   Display or cause or permit to be displayed, or possess any
identification card, driver’s or commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, or commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit
knowing the same to be fictitious, or to have been canceled, suspended, or
altered;
    (B)   Lend to a person not entitled thereto, or knowingly permit a person
not entitled thereto to use any identification card, driver’s or commercial
driver’s license, temporary instruction permit or commercial driver’s license
temporary instruction permit issued to the person so lending or permitting the
use thereof;
   (C)   Display, or represent as one’s own, any identification card, driver’s
or commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit not issued to the person so
displaying the same;
   (D)   Fail to surrender to the registrar of motor vehicles, upon the
Registrar’s demand, any identification card, driver’s or commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit that has been suspended or canceled;
   (E)    In any application for an identification card, driver’s or commercial
driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or commercial driver’s license
temporary instruction permit or any renewal, reprint, or duplicate thereof,
knowingly conceal a material fact or present any physician’s statement required
under R.C. § 4507.08 or 4507.081 when knowing the same to be false or
fictitious.
   (F)   Whoever violates any division of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.30)
Penalty, see § 335.99
§ 335.05 RESTRICTION AGAINST OWNER LENDING VEHICLE FOR USE OF ANOTHER.
   (A)   No person shall permit a motor vehicle owned by the person or under
the person’s control to be driven by another if any of the following apply:
      (1)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person does not have a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit or valid nonresident driving privileges;
       (2)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privileges have been suspended or canceled under R.C. Chapter 4510 or
any other provision of the Revised Code.
      (3)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s act of driving the motor vehicle would violate any prohibition
contained in R.C. Chapter 4509.
      (4)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s act of driving would violate R.C. § 4511.19 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (5)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
vehicle is the subject of an immobilization waiver order issued under R.C. §
4503.235 and the other person is prohibited from operating the vehicle under
that order.
   (B)   Without limiting or precluding the consideration of any other evidence
in determining whether a violation of this section has occurred, it shall be
prima-facie evidence that the offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe
that the operator of the motor vehicle owned by the offender or under the
offender’s control is in a category described in this section if any of the
following applies:
      (1)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
divisions (1), (3), or (5) of this section, the offender and the operator of
the motor vehicle reside in the same household and are related by consanguinity
or affinity.
      (2)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (A)(2) of this section, the offender and the operator of the motor
vehicle reside in the same household, and the offender knows or has reasonable
cause to believe that the operator has been charged with or convicted of any
violation of law or ordinance, or has committed any other act or omission, that
would or could result in the suspension or cancellation of the operator’s
license, permit, or privilege.
      (3)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (A)(4) of this section, the offender and the operator of the motor
vehicle occupied the motor vehicle together at the time of the offense.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of wrongful entrustment of a
motor vehicle, and shall be punished as provided in divisions (C) to (H) of
this section.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, whoever
violates division (A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)(3) of this section is guilty of an
unclassified misdemeanor. When the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the
offender shall be sentenced pursuant to §
599.02 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
599.02(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
599.02(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
599.02(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
599.02(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   (a)   If, within three years of a violation of division (A)(1), (A)
(2), or (A)(3) of this section, the offender previously has pleaded guilty to
or been convicted of two or more violations of division (A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)
(3) of this section, R.C. § 4511.203(A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)(3), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) or (A)(5) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   For any violation of this section, in addition to the penalties
imposed under this Code or R.C. Chapter 2929, the court may impose a class
seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7), and, if
the vehicle involved in the offense is registered in the name of the offender,
the court may order one of the following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3)(b) or (C)(3)(c)
of this section, the court may order, for 30 days, the immobilization of the
vehicle involved in the offense and the impoundment of that vehicle’s license
plates. If issued, the order shall be issued and enforced under R.C. §
4503.233.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one violation of this section, R.C. § 4511.203, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the court may order, for 60 days, the
immobilization of the vehicle involved in the offense and the impoundment of
that vehicle’s license plates. If issued, the order shall be issued and
enforced under R.C. § 4503.233.
         (c)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section, R.C. § 4511.203, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court may order the criminal
forfeiture to the state of the vehicle involved in the offense. If issued, the
order shall be issued and enforced under R.C. § 4503.234.
      (4)   If title to a motor vehicle that is subject to an order for
criminal forfeiture under division (C)(3)(c) of this section is assigned or
transferred and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, in addition to or
independent of any other penalty established by law, the court may fine the
offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of the National
Automobile Dealers Association. The proceeds from any fine imposed under this
division shall be distributed in accordance with R.C. § 4503.234(C)(2).
   (D)   If a court orders the immobilization of a vehicle under division (C)
(3)(a) or (C)(3)(b) of this section, the court shall not release the vehicle
from the immobilization before the termination of the period of immobilization
ordered unless the court is presented with current proof of financial
responsibility with respect to that vehicle.
   (E)   If a court orders the criminal forfeiture of a vehicle under division
(C)(3)(c) of this section, upon receipt of the order from the court, neither
the Registrar of Motor Vehicles nor any deputy registrar shall accept any
application for the registration or transfer of registration of any motor
vehicle owned or leased by the person named in the order. The period of denial
shall be five years after the date the order is issued, unless, during that
five- year period, the court with jurisdiction of the offense that resulted in
the order terminates the forfeiture and notifies the Registrar of the
termination. If the court terminates the forfeiture and notifies the Registrar,
the Registrar shall take all necessary measures to permit the person to
register a vehicle owned or leased by the person or to transfer the
registration of the vehicle.
   (F)   This section does not apply to motor vehicle rental dealers or motor
vehicle leasing dealers, as defined in R.C. § 4549.65.
   (G)   Evidence of a conviction of, plea of guilty to, or adjudication as a
delinquent child for a violation of this section shall not be admissible as
evidence in any civil action that involves the offender or delinquent child who
is the subject of the conviction, plea, or adjudication and that arises from
the wrongful entrustment of a motor vehicle.
   (H)   For purposes of this section, a vehicle is owned by a person if, at
the time of a violation of this section, the vehicle is registered in the
person’s name.
(R.C. § 4511.203) (Ord. 9105, passed 2-22-05)   
Penalty, see § 335.99
§ 335.06 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
    (A)   The operator of a motor vehicle shall display the operator’s driver’s
license, or furnish satisfactory proof that the operator has a driver’s
license, upon demand of any peace officer or of any person damaged or injured
in any collision in which the licensee may be involved. When a demand is
properly made, and the operator has the operator’s driver’s license on or about
the operator’s person, the operator shall not refuse to display the license. A
person’s failure to furnish satisfactory evidence that the person is licensed
under R.C. Chapter 4507 when the person does not have the person’s license on
or about the person’s person shall be prima facie evidence of the person’s not
having obtained a driver’s license.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, whoever
violates this section is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
599.02 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
599.02(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
599.02(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and notwithstanding §
599.02(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
599.02(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section,
R.C. § 4507.35, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense
is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.35)
Penalty, see § 335.99
§ 335.07 DRIVING UNDER SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION. [REPEALED]
Editor’s Note:
   This section was repealed in conjunction with the 2003 revision to this Code
of Ordinances.
§ 335.071 DRIVING UNDER SUSPENSION OR IN VIOLATION OF LICENSE RESTRICTION.
   (A)   Driving under suspension or in violation of license restriction.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2) of this section, division (B)
of this section, § 335.074 and in R.C. §§ 4510.111 and 4510.16, no person whose
driver's or commercial driver's license or permit or nonresident operating
privilege has been suspended under any provision of the Revised Code, other
than R.C. Chapter 4509, or under any applicable law in any other jurisdiction
in which the person's license or permit was issued shall operate any motor
vehicle upon the public roads and highways or upon any public or private
property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking within
this municipality during the period of suspension unless the person is granted
limited driving privileges and is operating the vehicle in accordance with the
terms of the limited driving privileges.
      (2)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking in this municipality in violation of any restriction of the person's
driver's or commercial driver's license or permit imposed under R.C. § 4506.10
(D) or 4507.14.
      (3)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and Social Security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section may be admitted into
evidence as prima facie evidence that the license of the person was under
suspension at the time of the alleged violation of division (A)(1) of this
section or the person operated a motor vehicle in violation of a restriction at
the time of the alleged violation of division (A)(2) of this section. The
person charged with a violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section
may offer evidence to rebut this prima facie evidence.
      (4)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. The court may impose upon the
offender a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary
license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. §
4510.02(A)(7).
         (b)   1.   Except as provided in division (A)(4)(b)2. or (A)(4)(b)3.
of this section, the court, in addition to any other penalty that it imposes on
the offender and if the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to one violation of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111
or 4510.16, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court, in
addition to or independent of any other sentence that it imposes upon the
offender, may order the immobilization of the vehicle involved in the offense
for 30 days and the impoundment of that vehicle’s license plates for 30 days in
accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
            2.   If the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to two violations of this section, or any combination of
two violations of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111 or 4510.16, or of a
substantially similar municipal ordinance, the court, in addition to any other
sentence that it imposes on the offender, may order the immobilization of the
vehicle involved in the offense for 60 days and the impoundment of that
vehicle’s license plates for 60 days in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
            3.   If the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of this section, or any
combination of three or more violations of this section or R.C. § 4510.11,
4510.111 or 4510.16, or of a substantially similar municipal ordinance, the
court, in addition to any other sentence that it imposes on the offender, may
order the criminal forfeiture of the vehicle involved in the offense to the
state.
      (5)   Any order for immobilization and impoundment under this section
shall be issued and enforced under R.C. §§ 4503.233 and 4507.02, as applicable.
The court shall not release a vehicle from immobilization ordered under this
section unless the court is presented with current proof of financial
responsibility with respect to that vehicle.
      (6)   Any order of criminal forfeiture under this section shall be issued
and enforced under R.C. § 4503.234. Upon receipt of the copy of the order from
the court, neither the Registrar of Motor Vehicles nor a deputy registrar shall
accept any application for the registration or transfer of registration of any
motor vehicle owned or leased by the person named in the declaration of
forfeiture. The period of registration denial shall be five years after the
date of the order, unless, during that period, the court having jurisdiction of
the offense that led to the order terminates the forfeiture and notifies the
registrar of the termination. The registrar then shall take necessary measures
to permit the person to register a vehicle owned or leased by the person or to
transfer registration of the vehicle.
      (7)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
599.02(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense for which the offender is sentenced under this section.
(R.C. § 4510.11)
   (B)   Driving under suspension in violation of other provisions.
      (1)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking in this municipality whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license
has been suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2151.354, 2151.87, 2935.27, 3123.58,
4301.99, 4510.032, 4510.22, or 4510.33, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
      (2)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and Social Security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (B)(1) of this section may be admitted into evidence as
prima facie evidence that the license of the person was under suspension at the
time of the alleged violation of division (B)(1) of this section. The person
charged with a violation of division (B)(1) of this section may offer evidence
to rebut this prima facie evidence.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section is guilty of
driving under suspension and shall be punished as provided in division (B)(3)
(a) or division (B)(3)(b) of this section.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(3)(b) of this
section, the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. The offender shall be
sentenced pursuant to §
599.02 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
599.02(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
599.02(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
599.02(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
599.02(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
         (b)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously
was convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of division (B)(1)
of this section, or any combination of two or more violations of division (B)
(1) of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111 or 4510.16, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree, and the offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. § 2929.28 in
an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss arising from an accident
or collision that was the direct and proximate result of the offender’s
operation of the vehicle before, during, or after committing the offense for
which the offender is sentenced under this section.
(R.C. § 4510.111)
   (C)   Repeat traffic offender; point system suspension. Any person whose
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating
privileges are suspended as a repeat traffic offender under R.C. § 4510.037 and
who, during the suspension, operates any motor vehicle upon any public roads
and highways is guilty of driving under a twelve-point suspension, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. The court shall sentence the offender to a
minimum term of three days in jail. No court shall suspend the first three days
of jail time imposed pursuant to this division.
(R.C. § 4510.037(J))
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver's or commercial driver's license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
§ 335.072 OPERATING MOTOR VEHICLE OR MOTORCYCLE WITHOUT VALID LICENSE.
   (A)   (1)   No person, except those expressly exempted under R.C. §§
4507.03, 4507.04, and 4507.05, shall operate any motor vehicle upon a public
road or highway or any public or private property used by the public for
purposes of vehicular travel or parking in this municipality unless the person
has a valid driver's license issued under R.C. Chapter 4507 or a commercial
driver's license issued under R.C. Chapter 4506.
      (2)   No person, except a person expressly exempted under R.C. §§
4507.03, 4507.04, and 4507.05, shall operate any motorcycle upon a public road
or highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking in this municipality unless the person has a valid
license as a motorcycle operator that was issued upon application by the
registrar of motor vehicles under R.C. Chapter 4507. The license shall be in
the form of an endorsement, as determined by the registrar, upon a driver's or
commercial driver's license, if the person has a valid license to operate a
motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle, or in the form of a restricted
license as provided in R.C. § 4507.14, if the person does not have a valid
license to operate a motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle.
   (B)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the registrar of motor vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and Social Security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section may be admitted into
evidence as prima facie evidence that the person did not have either a valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license at the time of the alleged violation of
division (A)(1) of this section or a valid license as a motorcycle operator
either in the form of an endorsement upon a driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or a restricted license at the time of the alleged violation of
division (A)(2) of this section. The person charged with a violation of
division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section may offer evidence to rebut this
prima facie evidence.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of operating a motor vehicle
or motorcycle without a valid license and shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   If the trier of fact finds that the offender never has held a valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license issued by this state or any other
jurisdiction, or, in a case involving the operation of a motorcycle by the
offender, if the offender has never held a valid license as a motorcycle
operator, either in the form of an endorsement upon a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or in the form of a restricted license, except as otherwise
provided in this division, the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
599.02 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
599.02(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
599.02(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
599.02(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
599.02(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case. If the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation of this section or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
      (2)   If the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit
or, in a case involving the operation of a motorcycle by the offender, the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license bearing the motorcycle
endorsement or the offender’s restricted license was expired at the time of the
offense, except as otherwise provided in this division, the offense is a minor
misdemeanor. If within three years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
   (D)   The court shall not impose a license suspension for a first violation
of this section or if more than three years have passed since the offender's
last violation of R.C. § 4510.12, this section, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
   (E)   If the offender is sentenced under division (C)(2) of this section, if
within three years of the offense the offender previously was convicted of or
pleaded guilty to one or more violations of R.C. § 4510.12, this section, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance within the past three years, and
if the offender's license was expired for more than six months at the time of
the offense, the court may impose a class seven suspension of the offender's
driver license, commercial driver's license, temporary instruction permit,
probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
(R.C. § 4510.12)
§ 335.073 DRIVING UNDER OVI SUSPENSION.
   (A)   No person whose driver's or commercial driver's license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege has been suspended under R.C. § 4511.19,
4511.191, or 4511.196 or under R.C. § 4510.07 for a conviction of a violation
of a municipal OVI ordinance shall operate any motor vehicle upon the public
roads or highways within this municipality during the period of the suspension.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of driving under OVI
suspension. The court shall sentence the offender under R.C. Chapter 2929,
subject to the differences authorized or required by this section.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2) or (3) of this
section, driving under OVI suspension is a misdemeanor of the first degree. The
court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         (a)   A mandatory jail term of three consecutive days. The three-day
term shall be imposed, unless, subject to division (C) of this section, the
court instead imposes a sentence of not less than 30 consecutive days of house
arrest with electronic monitoring. A period of house arrest with electronic
monitoring imposed under this division shall not exceed six months. If the
court imposes a mandatory three-day jail term under this division, the court
may impose a jail term in addition to that term, provided that in no case shall
the cumulative jail term imposed for the offense exceed six months;
         (b)   A fine of not less than $250 and not more than $1,000;
         (c)   A license suspension under division (E) of this section;
         (d)   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender's name, immobilization for 30 days of the
offender's vehicle and impoundment for 30 days of the identification license
plates of that vehicle. The order for immobilization and impoundment shall be
issued and enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
      (2)   If, within six years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one violation of this section or one
equivalent offense, driving under OVI suspension is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         (a)   A mandatory jail term of 10 consecutive days. Notwithstanding
the jail terms provided in R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, the court may sentence
the offender to a longer jail term of not more than one year. The 10-day
mandatory jail term shall be imposed unless, subject to division (C) of this
section, the court instead imposes a sentence of not less than 90 consecutive
days of house arrest with electronic monitoring. The period of house arrest
with electronic monitoring shall not exceed one year;
         (b)   Notwithstanding the fines provided for in R.C. Chapter 2929, a
fine of not less than $500 and not more than $2,500;
         (c)   A license suspension under division (E) of this section;
         (d)   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender's name, immobilization of the offender's
vehicle for 60 days and the impoundment for 60 days of the identification
license plates of that vehicle. The order for immobilization and impoundment
shall be issued and enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
      (3)   If, within six years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section
or two or more equivalent offenses, driving under OVI suspension is a
misdemeanor. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         (a)   A mandatory jail term of 30 consecutive days. Notwithstanding
the jail terms provided in R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, the court may sentence
the offender to a longer jail term of not more than one year. The court shall
not sentence the offender to a term of house arrest with electronic monitoring
in lieu of the mandatory portion of the jail term;
         (b)   Notwithstanding the fines set forth in R.C. Chapter 2929, a fine
of not less than $500 and not more than $2,500;
         (c)   A license suspension under division (E) of this section;
         (d)    If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender's name, criminal forfeiture to the state
of the offender's vehicle. The order of criminal forfeiture shall be issued and
enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.234. If title to a motor vehicle that
is subject to an order for criminal forfeiture under this division is assigned
or transferred and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (3) applies, the court may fine the
offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of the national
automobile dealers association. The proceeds from any fine so imposed shall be
distributed in accordance with R.C. § 4503.234(C)(2).
   (C)   (1)   No court shall impose an alternative sentence of house arrest
with electronic monitoring under division (B)(1) or (2) of this section unless,
within 60 days of the date of sentencing, the court issues a written finding on
the record that, due to the unavailability of space at the jail where the
offender is required to serve the jail term imposed, the offender will not be
able to begin serving that term within the 60-day period following the date of
sentencing.
      (2)   An offender sentenced under this section to a period of house
arrest with electronic monitoring shall be permitted work release during that
period.
   (D)   Fifty percent of any fine imposed by a court under division (B)(1),
(2), or (3) of this section shall be deposited into the municipal indigent
drivers alcohol treatment fund under the control of that court, as created by
the municipality pursuant to R.C. § 4511.191(H).
   (E)   In addition to or independent of all other penalties provided by law
or ordinance, the trial judge of any court of record or the mayor of a mayor's
court shall impose on an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
violation of this section a class seven suspension of the offender's driver's
or commercial driver's license or permit or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02 (A)(7).
      (1)   When permitted as specified in R.C. § 4510.021, if the court grants
limited driving privileges during a suspension imposed under this section, the
privileges shall be granted on theadditional condition that the offender must
display restricted license plates, issued under R.C. § 4503.231, on the vehicle
driven subject to the privileges, except as provided in R.C. § 4503.231(B).
      (2)   A suspension of a commercial driver's license under this section
shall be concurrent with any period of suspension or disqualification under
R.C. § 3123.58 or 4506.16. No person who is disqualified for life from holding
a commercial driver's license under R.C. § 4506.16 shall be issued a driver's
license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period for which the commercial
driver's license was suspended under this section, and no person whose
commercial driver's license is suspended under this section shall be issued a
driver's license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period of the suspension.
   (F)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to § 599.02
(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss
arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result
of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after committing
the offense that is a misdemeanor of the first degree under this section for
which the offender is sentenced.
   (G)   As used in this section:
      ELECTRONIC MONITORING has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      EQUIVALENT OFFENSE means any of the following:
         (a)   A violation of a municipal ordinance, law of another state, or
law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to division (A) of
this section;
         (b)   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to division (A) of this section.
      JAIL has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      MANDATORY JAIL TERM means the mandatory term in jail of 3, 10, or 30
consecutive days that must be imposed under division (B)(1), (2), or (3) of
this section upon an offender convicted of a violation of division (A) of this
section and in relation to which all of the following apply:
         (a)   Except as specifically authorized under this section, the term
must be served in a jail.
         (b)   Except as specifically authorized under this section, the term
cannot be suspended, reduced, or otherwise modified pursuant to any provision
of the Ohio Revised Code.
(R.C. § 4510.14)
   (H)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver's or commercial driver's license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
Statutory reference:
   Immobilization of vehicle; impoundment of license plates; criminal
forfeiture of vehicle, see R.C. § 4510.161
§ 335.074 DRIVING UNDER FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY LAW SUSPENSION OR
CANCELLATION; DRIVING UNDER A NONPAYMENT OF JUDGMENT SUSPENSION.
   (A)    No person, whose driver's or commercial driver's license or temporary
instruction permit or nonresident's operating privilege has been suspended or
canceled pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4509, shall operate any motor vehicle within
this municipality, or knowingly permit any motor vehicle owned by the person to
be operated by another person in the municipality, during the period of the
suspension or cancellation, except as specifically authorized by R.C. Chapter
4509. No person shall operate a motor vehicle within this municipality, or
knowingly permit any motor vehicle owned by the person to be operated by
another person in the municipality, during the period in which the person is
required by R.C. § 4509.45 to file and maintain proof of financial
responsibility for a violation of R.C. § 4509.101, unless proof of financial
responsibility is maintained with respect to that vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any public
or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking in this municipality if the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or temporary instruction permit or nonresident operating privilege has
been suspended pursuant to R.C. § 4509.37 or 4509.40 for nonpayment of a
judgment.
   (C)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the registrar of motor vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A) or (B) of this section may be admitted into evidence
as prima facie evidence that the license of the person was under either a
financial responsibility law suspension at the time of the alleged violation of
division (A) of this section or a nonpayment of judgment suspension at the time
of the alleged violation of division (B) of this section. The person charged
with a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section may offer evidence to
rebut this prima facie evidence.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of driving
under financial responsibility law suspension or cancellation and shall be
punished as provided in this division (D). Whoever violates division (B) of
this section is guilty of driving under a nonpayment of judgment suspension and
shall be punished as provided in this division (D).
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (D)(2) of this
section, the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. When the offense is an
unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced pursuant to §
599.02 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
599.02(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
599.02(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
599.02(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
599.02(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously was
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section, or
any combination of two violations of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111 or
4510.16, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. § 2929.28 in
an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss arising from an accident
or collision that was the direct and proximate result of the offender’s
operation of the vehicle before, during, or after committing the offense for
which the offender is sentenced under this section.
(R.C. § 4510.16)
   (E)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver's or commercial driver's license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
Statutory reference:
   Immobilization of vehicle; impoundment of license plates; criminal
forfeiture of vehicle, see R.C.§ 4510.161
§ 335.075 FAILURE TO REINSTATE LICENSE.
   (A)   No person whose driver's license, commercial driver's license,
temporary instruction permit, or nonresident's operating privilege has been
suspended shall operate any motor vehicle upon a public road or highway or any
public or private property after the suspension has expired unless the person
has complied with all license reinstatement requirements imposed by the court,
the bureau of motor vehicles, or another provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
   (B)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the registrar of motor vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A) of this section may be admitted into evidence as
prima facie evidence that the license of the person had not been reinstated by
the person at the time of the alleged violation of division (A) of this
section. The person charged with a violation of division (A) of this section
may offer evidence to rebut this prima facie evidence.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to reinstate a
license, and shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, whoever
violates this section is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
599.02 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
599.02(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
599.02(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
599.02(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
599.02(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of a violation of division (A) of this
section, the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted of two
or more violations of this section, R.C. § 4510.21 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (3)   In all cases, the court may impose upon the offender a class seven
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary driver’s license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
(R.C. § 4510.21)
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver's or commercial driver's license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
§ 335.08 OPERATION OR SALE WITHOUT CERTIFICATE OF TITLE.
   No person shall do any of the following:
   (A)   Operate in this municipality a motor vehicle for which a certificate
of title is required without having that certificate in accordance with R.C.
Chapter 4505 or, if a physical certificate of title has not been issued for a
motor vehicle, operate the motor vehicle in this state knowing that the
ownership information relating to the vehicle has not been entered into the
automated title processing system by a Clerk of a Court of Common Pleas;
   (B)   Display or display for sale or sell as a dealer or acting on behalf of
a dealer, a motor vehicle without having obtained a manufacturer’s or
importer’s certificate, a certificate of title, or an assignment of a
certificate of title for it as provided in R.C. Chapter 4505;
    (C)   Fail to surrender any certificate of title or any certificate of
resignation or license plates upon cancellation of the same by the registrar of
motor vehicles and notice of the cancellation prescribed in R.C. Chapter 4505;
   (D)   Fail to surrender the certificate of title to a clerk of a court of
common pleas as provided in R.C. Chapter 4505, in case of the destruction or
dismantling or change of a motor vehicle in such respect that it is not the
motor vehicle described in the certificate of title;
   (E)   Violate any rules adopted pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4505;
   (F)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapters 4505 and 4517, sell at
wholesale a motor vehicle the ownership of which is not evidenced by an Ohio
certificate of title, or the current certificate of title issued for the motor
vehicle, or the manufacturer’s certificate of origin, and all other title
assignments that evidence the seller’s ownership of the motor vehicle, and an
odometer disclosure statement that complies with R.C. § 4505.06 and subchapter
IV of the “Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act,” 86 Stat. 961
(1972), 15 USC 1981;
   (G)   Operate in this state a motor vehicle knowing that the certificate of
title to the vehicle or ownership of the vehicle as otherwise reflected in the
automated title processing system has been canceled.
   (H)   This section does not apply to persons engaged in the business of
warehousing or transporting motor vehicles for the purpose of salvage
disposition.
   (I)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $200 or
imprisoned nor more than 90 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4505.18)
Penalty, see § 335.99
§ 335.09 DISPLAY OF LICENSE PLATES.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided by R.C. §§ 4503.103, 4503.107, 4503.173,
4503.41, 4503.43 and4503.46, no person who is the owner or chauffeur of a motor
vehicle operated or driven upon the public roads or highways shall fail to file
annually the application for registration or to pay the tax therefor.
(R.C. § 4503.11(A))
   (B)   (1)   No person who is the owner or operator of a motor vehicle shall
fail to display in plain view on the rear of the motor vehicle a license plate
that displays the distinctive number and registration mark assigned to the
motor vehicle by the Ohio Director of Public Safety, including any county
identification sticker and any validation sticker when required by and issued
under R.C. §§ 4503.19 and 4503.191. However, a commercial tractor shall display
the license plate on the front of the commercial tractor.
      (2)   The license plate shall be securely fastened so as not to swing,
and shall not be covered by any material that obstructs its visibility.
      (3)   No person to whom a temporary motor vehicle license registration
has been issued for the use of a motor vehicle under R.C. § 4503.182, and no
operator of that motor vehicle, shall fail to display the temporary motor
vehicle license registration in plain view from the rear of the vehicle either
in the rear window or on an external rear surface of the motor vehicle.
      (4)   No person shall cover a temporary motor vehicle license
registration by any material that obstructs its visibility.
(R.C. § 4503.21(A))
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   The offenses established under division (A) of this section are
strict liability offenses and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of
these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be construed to imply
that any other offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability,
is not a strict liability offense.
(R.C. § 4503.21(B), (C)) (Am. Ord. 5353, passed 10-13-81)   
Penalty, see § 335.99
§ 335.10 LICENSE PLATES TO BE UNOBSTRUCTED.
   No person shall operate a motor vehicle, upon which license plates are
required by law to be displayed, unless the license plates legally registered
and issued for such vehicle shall be fastened in such a manner, and not
covered, obscured or concealed by any part or accessory of such vehicle, or by
any foreign substance or material, to be readable in its entirety from left to
right.
Penalty, see § 335.99
§ 335.11 USE OF ILLEGAL LICENSE PLATES.
   (A)   No person shall operate or drive a motor vehicle upon the public roads
and highways in this municipality if it displays a license plate or a
distinctive number or identification mark that meets any of the following
criteria:
      (1)   Is fictitious;
      (2)   Is a counterfeit or an unlawfully made copy of any distinctive
number or identification mark;
      (3)   Belongs to another motor vehicle, provided that this section does
not apply to a motor vehicle that is operated on the public roads and highways
in this municipality when the motor vehicle displays license plates that
originally were issued for a motor vehicle that previously was owned by the
same person who owns the motor vehicle that is operated on the public roads and
highways in this municipality during the 30-day period described in R.C. §
4503.12(A)(4).
   (B)   A person who fails to comply with the transfer of registration
provisions of R.C. § 4503.12 and is charged with a violation of that section
shall not be charged with a violation of this section.
    (C)   Whoever violates division (A)(1), (2), or (3) of this section is
guilty of operating a motor vehicle bearing an invalid license plate or
identification mark, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and
a misdemeanor of the third degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.08)
Penalty, see § 335.99
§ 335.111 OPERATING WITHOUT LICENSE PLATES.
   (A)    No person shall operate or cause to be operated upon a public road or
highway a motor vehicle of a manufacturer or dealer unless the vehicle carries
and displays a placard, except as provided in R.C. § 4503.21, issued by the
Director of Public Safety that displays the registration number of its
manufacturer or dealer.
   (B)    Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of illegal
operation of a manufacturer’s or dealer’s motor vehicle, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4549.10)
Penalty, see § 335.99
§ 335.12 FAILURE TO STOP AFTER ACCIDENT.
   (A)   (1)   In the case of a motor vehicle accident or collision with
persons or property on a public road or highway, the operator of the motor
vehicle, having knowledge of the accident or collision, immediately shall stop
the operator’s motor vehicle at the scene of the accident or collision. The
operator shall remain at the scene of the accident or collision until the
operator has given the operator’s name and address and, if the operator is not
the owner, the name and address of the owner of that motor vehicle, together
with the registered number of that motor vehicle, to all of the following:
         (a)   Any person injured in the accident or collision;
         (b)   The operator, occupant, owner, or attendant of any motor vehicle
damaged in the accident or collision;
         (c)   The police officer at the scene of the accident or collision.
      (2)   In the event an injured person is unable to comprehend and record
the information required to be given under division (A)(1) of this section, the
other operator involved in the accident or collision shall notify the nearest
police authority concerning the location of the accident or collision, and the
operator’s name, address, and the registered number of the motor vehicle the
operator was operating. The operator shall remain at the scene of the accident
or collision until a police officer arrives, unless removed from the scene by
an emergency vehicle operated by a political subdivision or an ambulance.
      (3)   If the accident or collision is with an unoccupied or unattended
motor vehicle, the operator who collides with the motor vehicle shall securely
attach the information required to be given in this section, in writing, to a
conspicuous place in or on the unoccupied or unattended motor vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after an accident. Except as otherwise provided in division (B)
(2) or (B)(3) of this section, failure to stop after an accident is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the accident or collision results in serious physical harm to a
person, failure to stop after an accident is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the accident or collision results in the death of a person,
failure to stop after an accident is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (4)   In all cases, the court, in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a class five suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(5). No judge shall suspend the first six months
of suspension of an offender’s license, permit, or privilege required by this
division.
      (5)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. §
2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss
arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result
of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.02)
Penalty, see § 335.99
§ 335.13 STOPPING AFTER ACCIDENT ON OTHER THAN PUBLIC ROADS OR HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   (1)   In the case of a motor vehicle accident or collision resulting
in injury or damage to persons or property on any public or private property
other than a public road or highway, the operator of the motor vehicle, having
knowledge of the accident or collision, shall stop at the scene of the accident
or collision. Upon request of any person who is injured or damaged, or any
other person, the operator shall give that person the operator's name and
address, and, if the operator is not the owner, the name and address of the
owner of that motor vehicle, together with the registered number of that motor
vehicle, and, if available, exhibit the operator's driver's or commercial
driver's license.
      (2)   If the operator of the motor vehicle involved in the accident or
collision does not provide the information specified in division (A)(1) of this
section, the operator shall give that information, within 24 hours after the
accident or collision, to the police department of the city or village in which
the accident or collision occurred, or if it occurred outside the corporate
limits of a city or village, to the sheriff of the county in which the accident
or collision occurred.
      (3)   If the accident or collision is with an unoccupied or unattended
motor vehicle, the operator who collides with the motor vehicle shall securely
attach the information required under division (A)(1) of this section, in
writing, to a conspicuous place in or on the unoccupied or unattended motor
vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident. Except as otherwise provided
in division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this section, failure to stop after a nonpublic
road accident is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the accident or collision results in serious physical harm to a
person, failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the accident or collision results in the death of a person,
failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (4)   In all cases, the court, in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a class five suspension of the
offender's driver's license, commercial driver's license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(5). No judge shall suspend the first six months
of suspension of an offender's license, permit, or privilege required by this
division.
      (5)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. §
2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss
arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result
of the offender's operation of the motor vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.021)
Penalty, see § 335.99
§ 335.14 VEHICLE ACCIDENT RESULTING IN DAMAGE TO REALTY.
   (A)   (1)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in
damage to real property, or personal property attached to real property,
legally upon or adjacent to a public road or highway immediately shall stop and
take reasonable steps to locate and notify the owner or person in charge of the
property of that fact, of the driver’s name and address, and of the
registration number of vehicle the driver is driving and, upon request and if
available, shall exhibit the driver’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license.
      (2)   If the owner or person in charge of the property cannot be located
after reasonable search, the driver of the vehicle involved in the accident
resulting in damage to the property, within 24 hours after accident, shall
forward to the police department of the municipality the same information
required to be given to the owner or person in control of the property and give
the location of the accident and a description of the damage insofar as it is
known.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after an accident involving the property of others, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
599.02(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during, or
after committing the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.03)
Penalty, see § 335.99
§ 335.15 PROHIBITION AGAINST PERMITTING MINOR TO DRIVE VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall cause or knowingly permit any minor to drive a motor
vehicle upon a highway as an operator, unless the minor has first obtained a
license or permit to drive a motor vehicle from the State of Ohio.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(Ord. 9105, passed 2-22-05)
§ 335.16 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES AFTER ACCIDENTS.
   (A)   If a motor vehicle accident occurs on any highway, public street, or
other property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel and if any
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property that has been damaged or spilled as
a result of the motor vehicle accident is blocking the highway, street, or
other property or is otherwise endangering public safety, a public safety
official may do either of the following without the consent of the owner but
with the approval of the law enforcement agency conducting any investigation of
the accident:
      (1)   Remove, or order the removal of, the motor vehicle if the motor
vehicle is unoccupied, cargo, or personal property from the portion of the
highway, public street, or property ordinarily used for vehicular travel on the
highway, public street, or other property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular travel.
      (2)   If the motor vehicle is a commercial motor vehicle, allow the owner
or operator of the vehicle the opportunity to arrange for the removal of the
motor vehicle within a period of time specified by the public safety official.
If the public safety official determines that the motor vehicle cannot be
removed within the specified period of time, the public safety official shall
remove or order the removal of the motor vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, the
Department of Transportation, any employee of the Department of Transportation,
or a public safety official who authorizes or participates in the removal of
any unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property as authorized by
division (A) of this section, regardless of whether the removal is executed by
a private towing service, is not liable for civil damages for any injury,
death, or loss to person or property that results from the removal of that
unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property. Further, except as
provided in division (B)(2) of this section, if a public safety official
authorizes, employs, or arranges to have a private towing service remove any
unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property as authorized by division
(A) of this section, that private towing service is not liable for civil
damages for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that results from
the removal of that unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to any of the
following:
         (a)   Any person or entity involved in the removal of an unoccupied
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property pursuant to division (A) of this
section if that removal causes or contributes to the release of a hazardous
material or to structural damage to the roadway;
         (b)   A private towing service that was not authorized, employed, or
arranged by a public safety official to remove an unoccupied motor vehicle,
cargo, or personal property under this section;
         (c)   Except as provided in division (B)(2)(d) of this section, a
private towing service that was authorized, employed, or arranged by a public
safety official to perform the removal of the unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo,
or personal property but the private towing service performed the removal in a
negligent manner;
         (d)   A private towing service that was authorized, employed, or
arranged by a public safety official to perform the removal of the unoccupied
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property that was endangering public safety
but the private towing service performed the removal in a reckless manner.
   (C)   As used in divisions (A) and (B) of this section:
      HAZARDOUS MATERIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.232.
      PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICIAL. Means any of the following:
         (a)   The sheriff of the county, or the chief of a law enforcement
agency in the municipal corporation, township, port authority, conservancy
district, or township or joint police district, in which the accident occurred;
         (b)   A state highway patrol trooper;
         (c)   The chief of the fire department having jurisdiction where the
accident occurred;
         (d)   A duly authorized subordinate acting on behalf of an official
specified in divisions (a) to (c) of this definition.
(R.C. § 4513.66)
   (D)   If a towing service is removing a motor vehicle, and the removal was
not authorized under R.C. § 4513.60, 4513.601, 4513.61, or 4513.66, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, prior to removing the motor
vehicle, the towing service shall provide a written estimate of the price for
the removal to the operator of the motor vehicle, if requested.
   (E)   The towing service shall ensure that any estimate provided under
division (D) of this section includes the fees, services to be rendered, and
destination of the vehicle.
   (F)   If a towing service fails to provide a written estimate as required by
this section, the towing service shall not charge fees for the towing and
storage of the motor vehicle that exceed 25% of any applicable fees established
by the public utilities commission in rules adopted under R.C. § 4921.25(B)(4)
or, if the vehicle was towed within a municipal corporation that has
established vehicle removal and storage fees, 25% of the fees established by
the municipal corporation.
   (G)   Any storage facility that accepts towed vehicles shall conspicuously
post a notice at the entrance to the storage facility that states the
limitation on fees established under division (C) of this section.
(R.C. § 4513.68)
§ 335.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty
otherwise is provided in the section violated is guilty of one of the
following:
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) or (C) of this section, a
minor misdemeanor;
   (B)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, a minor misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
   (C)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more predicate motor vehicle or
traffic offenses, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(Ord. 9105, passed 2-22-05)
CHAPTER 337: SAFETY AND EQUIPMENT
Section
    
337.01   Driving unsafe vehicles; chapter application
   
337.02   Lighted lights; measurement of distances and heights
   
337.03   Headlights on motor vehicles and motorcycles
   
337.04   Tail light; illumination of rear license plate
   
337.05   Rear red reflectors
   
337.06   Safety lighting on commercial vehicles
   
337.07   Obscured lights on vehicles in combination
   
337.08   Red light or red flag on extended loads
   
337.09   Lights on parked or stopped vehicles
   
337.10   Lights, emblems, and reflectors on slow-moving vehicles, farm
machinery, agricultural tractors, and animal-drawn vehicles
   
337.11   Spotlight and auxiliary lights
   
337.12   Cowl, fender and back-up lights
   
337.13   Two lights displayed
   
337.14   Use of headlight beams
   
337.15   Lights of less intensity on slow-moving vehicles
   
337.16   Number of lights permitted; red and flashing lights; coroners’
vehicles
   
337.17   Focus and aim of headlights
   
337.18   Motor vehicle, motorcycle and bicycle brakes
   
337.19   Horn, siren, and theft alarm signal
   
337.20   Muffler; muffler cutout; excessive smoke, gas or noise
   
337.21   Rear-view mirror; clear view to front, both sides and rear
   
337.22   Sign or poster upon windshield; windshield wiper
   
337.23   Limited load extension on left side of passenger vehicle
   
337.24   Stop lights and directional turn signals
   
337.25   Occupant restraining devices
   
337.26   Operating motor vehicle while wearing earphones or earplugs
   
337.27   Air bags
 
   
337.99   Penalty
 Statutory reference:
   Warning devices for commercial vehicles disabled upon freeways, see R.C. §
4513.28
Cross-reference:
   Bicycle equipment, see §§
373.06 et seq.
   Towing requirement, see §
339.07
   Use of stop and turn signals, see §
331.14(D)
   Vehicles transporting explosive, see §
339.06 
   Wheel protectors for commercial vehicles, see §
339.05
§ 337.01 DRIVING UNSAFE VEHICLES; CHAPTER APPLICATION.
   (A)   No person shall drive or move, or cause or knowingly permit to be
driven or moved, on any highway any vehicle or combination of vehicles which is
in such unsafe condition as to endanger any person.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.02(A), (H)) Penalty, see §
337.99
§ 337.02 LIGHTED LIGHTS; MEASUREMENT OF DISTANCES AND HEIGHTS.
   (A)   Every vehicle, other than a motorized bicycle, operated upon a street
or highway within this state shall display lighted lights and illuminating
devices as required by R.C. §§ 4513.04 through 4513.37 during all of the
following times:
      (1)   The time from sunset to sunrise;
      (2)   At any other time when, due to insufficient natural light or
unfavorable atmospheric conditions, persons, vehicles and substantial objects
on the highway are not discernible at a distance of 1,000 feet ahead;
      (3)   At any time when the windshield wipers of the vehicle are in use
because of precipitation on the windshield.
   (B)   Every motorized bicycle shall display at such times lighted lights
meeting the rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety under R.C. §
4511.521. No motor vehicle, during any time specified in this section, shall be
operated upon a street or highway within this state using only parking lights
as illumination.
   (C)   Whenever in such sections a requirement is declared as to the distance
from which certain lamps and devices shall render objects visible, or within
which such lamps or devices shall be visible, such distance shall be measured
upon a straight level unlighted highway under normal atmospheric conditions
unless a different condition is expressly stated.
   (D)   Whenever in such sections a requirement is declared as to the mounted
height of lights or devices, it shall mean from the center of such light or
device to the level ground upon which the vehicle stands.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a vehicle being operated upon a
street or highway within this state to stop the vehicle solely because the
officer observes that a violation of division (A)(3) of this section has been
or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or
summons for a violation of that division, or causing the arrest of or
commencing a prosecution of a person for a violation of that division.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.03)
Penalty, see § 337.99
§ 337.03 HEADLIGHTS ON MOTOR VEHICLES AND MOTORCYCLES.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, shall be equipped
with at least two headlights with at least one near each side of the front of
the motor vehicle.
      (2)   Every motorcycle shall be equipped with at least one and not more
than two headlights.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.04)
Penalty, see § 337.99
§ 337.04 TAIL LIGHT; ILLUMINATION OF REAR LICENSE PLATE.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, pole trailer or
vehicle which is being drawn at the end of a train of vehicles shall be
equipped with at least one tail light mounted on the rear which, when lighted,
shall emit a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear,
provided that in the case of a train of vehicles only the tail light on the
rearmost vehicle need be visible from the distance specified.
      (2)   Either a tail light or a separate light shall be so constructed and
placed as to illuminate with a white light the rear registration plate, when
such registration plate is required, and render it legible from a distance of
50 feet to the rear. Any tail light, together with any separate light for
illuminating the rear registration plate, shall be so wired as to be lighted
whenever the headlights or auxiliary driving lights are lighted, except where
separate lighting systems are provided for trailers for the purpose of
illuminating such registration plate.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.05)  
Penalty, see § 337.99
§ 337.05 REAR RED REFLECTORS.
   (A)   (1)   Every new motor vehicle sold after September 6, 1941, and
operated on a highway, other than a commercial tractor to which a trailer or
semitrailer is attached shall carry at the rear, either as a part of the tail
lamps or separately, two red reflectors meeting the requirements of this
section, except that vehicles of the type mentioned in §
337.06 shall be equipped with reflectors as required by the regulations
provided for in that section.
      (2)   Every such reflector shall be of such size and characteristics and
so maintained as to be visible at night from all distances within 300 feet to
50 feet from such vehicle.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.06)
Penalty, see § 337.99
§ 337.06 SAFETY LIGHTING ON COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   When the Director of Public Safety prescribes and promulgates
regulations relating to clearance lights, marker lights, reflectors and stop
lights on buses, trucks, commercial tractors, trailers, semitrailers and pole
trailers, when operated upon any highway, these vehicles shall be equipped as
required by such regulations, and such equipment shall be lighted at all times
mentioned in §
337.02, except that clearance lights and side marker lights need not be lighted
on any such vehicle when it is operated within the municipality where there is
sufficient light to reveal any person or substantial object on the highway at a
distance of 500 feet.
      (2)   Such equipment shall be in addition to all other lights
specifically required by §§
337.02 through
337.15.
      (3)   Vehicles operated under the jurisdiction of the Public Utilities
Commission are not subject to this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.07)  
Penalty, see § 337.99
§ 337.07 OBSCURED LIGHTS ON VEHICLES IN COMBINATION.
   Whenever motor and other vehicles are operated in combination during the
time that lights are required, any light, except tail lights, which by reason
of its location on a vehicle of the combination would be obscured by another
vehicle of the combination need not be lighted, but this section does not
affect the requirement that lighted clearance lights be displayed on the front
of the foremost vehicle required to have clearance lights or that all lights
required on the rear of the rearmost vehicle of any combination shall be
lighted.
(R.C. § 4513.08)
§ 337.08 RED LIGHT OR RED FLAG ON EXTENDED LOADS.
   (A)   Whenever the load upon any vehicle extends to the rear four feet or
more beyond the bed or body of such vehicle, there shall be displayed at the
extreme rear end of the load, at the times specified in §
337.02, a red light or lantern plainly visible from a distance of at least 500
feet to the sides and rear. The red light or lantern required by this section
is in addition to the red rear light required upon every vehicle. At any other
time there shall be displayed at the extreme rear end of such load a red flag
or cloth not less than 16 inches square.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.09)  
Penalty, see § 337.99
§ 337.09 LIGHTS ON PARKED OR STOPPED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Except in case of an emergency, whenever a vehicle is parked or
stopped upon a roadway open to traffic or shoulder adjacent thereto, whether
attended or unattended during the times mentioned in § 337.02, such vehicle
shall be equipped with one or more lights which shall exhibit a white or amber
light on the roadway side visible from a distance of 500 feet to the front of
such vehicle, and a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear.
No lights need be displayed upon any such vehicle when it is stopped or parked
within the municipality where there is sufficient light to reveal any person or
substantial object within a distance of 500 feet upon such street. Any lighted
headlights upon a parked vehicle shall be depressed or dimmed.
(R.C. § 4513.10)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99) Penalty, see §
337.99
§ 337.10 LIGHTS, EMBLEMS, AND REFLECTORS ON SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES, FARM
MACHINERY, AGRICULTURAL TRACTORS, AND ANIMAL-DRAWN VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      BOAT TRAILER. Means any vehicle designed and used exclusively to
transport a boat between a place of storage and a marina, or in and around a
marina, when drawn or towed on a street or highway for a distance of no more
than ten miles and at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less.
      SLOW-MOVING VEHICLE and SMV. Mean a boat trailer, unit of farm machinery,
road construction machinery, or other machinery designed by the manufacturer to
operate at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less. The term does not include a
bicycle, motorized bicycle, electric bicycle, or animal-drawn vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.11)
   (B)   Generally.
      (1)   At the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03, no person shall operate
either of the following vehicles unless it is equipped with and displays the
lamps described in division (B)(2) of this section:
         (a)   A vehicle not specifically required to be equipped with lamps or
other lighting devices by R.C. §§ 4513.03 to 4513.10;
         (b)   A vehicle referred to in R.C. § 4513.02(G).
      (2)   Vehicles described in division (B)(1) of this section shall be
equipped with both of the following:
         (a)   At least one lamp displaying a white light visible from a
distance of not less than 1,000 feet to the front of the vehicle;
         (b)   Two lamps displaying red light visible from a distance of not
less than 1,000 feet to the rear of the vehicle, or as an alternative, one lamp
displaying a red light visible from a distance of not less than 1,000 feet to
the rear and two red reflectors visible from all distances of 600 feet to 100
feet to the rear when illuminated by the lawful lower beams of headlamps.
      (3)   (a)   At the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03, no person shall
operate a multi-wheel agricultural tractor model year 2001 or earlier on a
street or highway unless it is equipped with and displays reflectors and
illuminated amber lamps so that the extreme left and right projections of the
tractor are indicated by all of the following:
            1.   Flashing lamps displaying amber light, visible to the front
and the rear. The lamps need not flash simultaneously and need not flash in
conjunction with any directional signals of the tractor.
            2.   Amber reflectors, all visible to the front;
            3.   Red reflectors, all visible to the rear.
         (b)   Rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety under R.C. §
4513.111 governing the lamps and reflectors described in division (B)(3)(a) of
this section and their placement correlate with and, as far as possible,
conform with paragraphs 4.1.4.1, 4.1.7.1, and 4.1.7.2 respectively of the
American Society of Agricultural Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE S279.10 OCT 98,
Lighting and Marking of Agricultural Equipment on Highways.
      (4)   At the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03, no person shall operate a
unit of farm machinery model year 2002 or later on a street or highway unless
it is equipped with and displays markings and illuminated lamps that meet or
exceed the lighting, illumination, and marking standards and specifications
that are applicable to that type of farm machinery for the unit's model year
specified in the American society of agricultural engineers standard ANSI/ASAE
S279.10 OCT 98, lighting and marking of agricultural equipment on highways.
      (5)   Any unit of farm machinery designed by its manufacturer to operate
at a speed of 25 miles per hour or greater or any SMV may be equipped with and
display a red flashing light that is visible from a distance of not less than
1,000 feet to the rear at all times specified in R.C. § 4513.03. When a double-
faced light is used, it shall display amber light to the front and red light to
the rear.
      (6)   Lights and reflectors required under divisions (B)(3) and (B)(4) of
this section and authorized under division (B)(5) of this section are in
addition to other lights required or permitted by this division (B) or R.C. §
4513.17.
      (7)   The Ohio Director of Public Safety shall adopt rules in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 119 that establish standards and specifications for lamps and
reflectors required or authorized by this section. Lamps and reflectors
required or authorized by this section shall meet those standards and
specifications.
      (8)   This division (B) does not apply to a bicycle, motorized bicycle,
electric bicycle, or animal-drawn vehicle.
      (9)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.111)
   (C)   Slow-moving vehicles.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, no person shall
operate an SMV on a street or highway as follows:
         (a)   At a speed exceeding 25 miles per hour;
         (b)   Without displaying the triangular SMV emblem mounted in
accordance with division (C)(2) of this section.
      (2)   The SMV emblem shall be mounted so as to be visible from a distance
of not less than 500 feet to the rear. In accordance with R.C. Chapter 119, the
Ohio Director of Public Safety shall adopt standards and specifications for the
design and position of mounting the SMV emblem. The standards and
specifications for the SMV emblem correlate with and, so far as possible,
conform with those approved by the American Society of Agricultural Engineers.
      (3)   A person may operate an SMV on a street or highway without
displaying the triangular SMV emblem when any of the following apply:
         (a)   The SMV is being used in actual construction and maintenance
work in an area guarded by a flagperson, or where flares are used.
         (b)   The SMV is operating or traveling within the limits of a
construction area designated by the Ohio Director of Transportation, a city
engineer, or the county engineer of the several counties, when such
construction area is marked in accordance with requirements of the Ohio
Director of Transportation and the Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices,
as set forth in R.C. § 4511.09.
      (4)   No person shall display an SMV emblem on any of the following:
         (a)   Any vehicle not required to use the SMV emblem by this division
(C) or R.C. § 4513.113 or 4513.114;
         (b)   An SMV being transported upon any other vehicle;
         (c)   Any stationary object on the highway.
      (5)   No person shall sell, lease, rent, or operate an SMV, except a unit
designed to be completely mounted on a primary power unit that is manufactured
or assembled on or after April 1, 1966, unless it is equipped with an SMV
emblem mounting device.
      (6)   Whoever violates this division (C) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.112)
   (D)   Farm machinery and agricultural tractors.
      (1)   No person shall sell, lease, rent, or operate on a street or
highway any unit of farm machinery that is designed by its manufacturer to
operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour unless the unit displays both
of the following:
         (a)   The SMV emblem mounted in accordance with R.C. § 4513.112(B);
         (b)   A speed identification symbol that does both of the following:
            1.   Meets the specifications contained in the American Society of
Agricultural Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE S584 JAN2005, Agricultural Equipment:
Speed Identification Symbol (SIS);
            2.   Indicates the maximum speed in miles per hour at which the
unit of farm machinery is designed by its manufacturer to operate.
      (2)   No person operating a tractor on a street or highway that is
designed by its manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per
hour and that is towing, pulling, or otherwise drawing a unit of farm machinery
while operating at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour shall fail to display
both of the following on the unit of farm machinery:
         (a)   The SMV emblem;
         (b)   The speed identification symbol that matches the speed
identification symbol required to be displayed on the agricultural tractor.
      (3)   No person shall operate an agricultural tractor that is designed by
its manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour unless
the person possesses documentation published or provided by the manufacturer
indicating the maximum speed in miles per hour at which the manufacturer
designed the agricultural tractor to operate.
      (4)   Whoever violates this division (D) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.113)
   (E)   Animal-drawn vehicles.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (E)(4) of this section, no
person shall operate an animal-drawn vehicle on a street or highway unless it
is equipped with and displays, at the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03, both
of the following:
         (a)   At least one lamp displaying a white light visible from a
distance of not less than 1,000 feet to the front of the animal-drawn vehicle;
         (b)   Two lamps displaying red light visible from a distance of not
less than 1,000 feet to the rear of the animal-drawn vehicle, or as an
alternative, one lamp displaying a red light visible from a distance of not
less than 1,000 feet to the rear and two red reflectors visible from all
distances of 600 feet to one hundred feet to the rear when illuminated by the
lawful lower beams of headlamps.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (E)(4) of this section, no
person shall operate an animal-drawn vehicle on a street or highway unless it
is equipped with and displays, at all times, all of the following:
         (a)   One yellow flashing lamp displaying yellow light that is visible
from a distance of not less than 1,000 feet and that is mounted in either of
the following positions:
            1.   On the top most portion of the rear of the animal-drawn
vehicle;
            2.   On the top of the animal-drawn vehicle.
         (b)   At least one of the following:
            1.   An SMV emblem mounted in accordance with R.C. § 4513.112(B);
            2.   Micro-prism reflective tape that is visible from a distance of
not less than 500 feet to the rear when illuminated by the lawful lower beams
of headlamps;
            3.   Both an SMV emblem and micro-prism reflective tape, as
specified in this division.
         (c)   Lamps and micro-prism reflective tape required by this section
shall meet standards and specifications adopted by the Ohio Director of Public
Safety under R.C. § 4513.114.
      (3)   The Ohio Director of Public Safety, in accordance with R.C. Chapter
119, shall adopt rules establishing standards and specifications for the
position and mounting of the lamps and micro-prism reflective tape required by
R.C. § 4513.114. The rules permit the micro-prism reflective tape to be red,
amber, white, or silver in color.
      (4)   (a)   Divisions (E)(1) and (E)(2) of this section do not apply to
the operator of animal-drawn agricultural equipment who is not transporting any
livestock or a person other than the operator.
         (b)   No operator described in division (E)(4)(a) of this section
shall operate animal-drawn agricultural equipment unless it is equipped with
and displays, at all times, the SMV emblem mounted in accordance with R.C. §
4513.112(B).
         (c)   As used in division (E)(4) of this section, "animal-drawn
agricultural equipment" means equipment drawn by the muscular power of an
animal that is used solely for agricultural purposes. "Animal-drawn
agricultural equipment" includes any of the following:
            1.   A plow;
            2.   A manure spreader;
            3.   A thresher.
      (5)   Whoever violates this division (E) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.114)
   (F)   Strict liability offenses. The offenses established under this section
are strict liability offenses, and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The
designation of these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be
construed to imply that any other offense, for which there is no specified
degree of culpability, is not a strict liability offense.
(R.C. § 4513.115) Penalty, see §
337.99
§ 337.11 SPOTLIGHT AND AUXILIARY LIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than one
spotlight and every lighted spotlight shall be so aimed and used upon
approaching another vehicle that no part of the high-intensity portion of the
beam will be directed to the left of the prolongation of the extreme left side
of the vehicle, nor more than 100 feet ahead of the vehicle.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than three
auxiliary driving lights mounted on the front of the vehicle. The Director of
Public Safety shall prescribe specifications for auxiliary driving lights and
regulations for their use, and any such lights which do not conform to these
specifications and regulations shall not be used.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.12)   
Penalty, see § 337.99
§ 337.12 COWL, FENDER AND BACK-UP LIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with side cowl or fender
lights which shall emit a white or amber light without glare.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with lights on each side thereof
which shall emit a white or amber light without glare.
      (3)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with back-up lights, either
separately or in combination with another light. No back-up lights shall be
continuously lighted when the motor vehicle is in forward motion.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.13)   
Penalty, see § 337.99
§ 337.13 TWO LIGHTS DISPLAYED.
   (A)   At all times mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, at least two lighted lights shall be displayed, one near
each side of the front of every motor vehicle, except when such vehicle is
parked subject to the regulations governing lights on parked vehicles.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.14)   
Penalty, see § 337.99
§ 337.14 USE OF HEADLIGHT BEAMS.
   (A)   Whenever a motor vehicle is being operated on a roadway or shoulder
adjacent thereto during the times specified in §
337.02, the driver shall use a distribution of light, or composite beam,
directed high enough and of sufficient intensity to reveal persons, vehicles
and substantial objects at a safe distance in advance of the vehicle, subject
to the following requirements:
      (1)   Whenever the driver of a vehicle approaches an oncoming vehicle,
such driver shall use a distribution of light, or composite beam, so aimed that
the glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of the oncoming driver.
      (2)   Every new motor vehicle registered in this state, which has
multiple-beam road lighting equipment, shall be equipped with a beam indicator,
which shall be lighted whenever the uppermost distribution of light from the
headlights is in use, and shall not otherwise be lighted. This indicator shall
be so designed and located that, when lighted, it will be readily visible
without glare to the driver of the vehicle.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.15)   
Penalty, see § 337.99
§ 337.15 LIGHTS OF LESS INTENSITY ON SLOW-MOVING-VEHICLES.
   (A)   Any motor vehicle may be operated under the conditions specified in §
337.02 when it is equipped with two lighted lights upon the front thereof
capable of revealing persons and substantial objects 75 feet ahead in lieu of
lights required in §
337.13, provided that such vehicle shall not be operated at a speed in excess
of 20 miles per hour.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.16)   
Penalty, see § 337.99
§ 337.16 NUMBER OF LIGHTS PERMITTED; RED AND FLASHING LIGHTS; CORONERS’
VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever a motor vehicle equipped with headlights is also equipped
with any auxiliary lights or spotlight or any other light on the front thereof
projecting a beam of an intensity greater than 300 candlepower, not more than a
total of five of any such lights on the front of a vehicle shall be lighted at
any one time when the vehicle is upon a highway.
   (B)   Any lighted light or illuminating device upon a motor vehicle, other
than headlights, spotlights, signal lights, or auxiliary driving lights, that
projects a beam of light of an intensity greater than 300 candlepower shall be
so directed that no part of the beam will strike the level of the roadway on
which the vehicle stands at a distance of more than 75 feet from the vehicle.
   (C)   (1)   Flashing lights are prohibited on motor vehicles, except as a
means for indicating a right or a left turn, or in the presence of a vehicular
traffic hazard requiring unusual care in approaching, or overtaking or passing.
      (2)   The prohibition in division (C)(1) of this section does not apply
to any of the following:
         (a)   Emergency vehicles, road service vehicles servicing or towing a
disabled vehicle, stationary waste collection vehicles actively collecting
garbage, refuse, trash, or recyclable materials on the roadside, rural mail
delivery vehicles, vehicles as provided in R.C. § 4513.182, highway maintenance
vehicles, and similar equipment operated by state or local authorities,
provided such vehicles are equipped with and display, when used on a street or
highway for the special purpose necessitating such lights, a flashing,
oscillating, or rotating amber light;
         (b)   Vehicles or machinery permitted by R.C. § 4513.111 to have a
flashing red light;
         (c)   Farm machinery and vehicles escorting farm machinery, provided
such machinery and vehicles are equipped with and display, when used on a
street or highway, a flashing, oscillating, or rotating amber light. Farm
machinery also may display the lights described in R.C. § 4513.111.
         (d)   A funeral hearse or funeral escort vehicle, provided that the
funeral hearse or funeral escort vehicle is equipped with and displays, when
used on a street or highway for the special purpose necessitating such lights,
a flashing, oscillating, or rotating purple or amber light.
         (e)   A vehicle being used for emergency preparedness, response, and
recovery activities, as those terms are defined in R.C. § 5502.21, that is
equipped with and displays, when used on a street or highway for the special
purpose necessitating such lights, a flashing, oscillating, or rotating amber
or red and white light, provided that the vehicle is being operated by a person
from one of the following and the vehicle is clearly marked with the applicable
agency’s or authority’s insignia:
            1.   The Ohio Emergency Management Agency;
            2.   A countywide emergency management agency established under
R.C. § 5502.26;
            3.   A regional authority for emergency management established
under R.C. § 5502.27;
            4.   A program for emergency management established under R.C. §
5502.271.
      (3)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to animal-drawn
vehicles subject to R.C. § 4513.114.
   (D)   (1)   Except a person operating a public safety vehicle, as defined in
R.C. § 4511.01(E), an emergency management agency vehicle, as described in
division (C)(2)(e) of this section, or a school bus, no person shall operate,
move, or park upon, or permit to stand within the right-of-way of any public
street or highway any vehicle or equipment that is equipped with and displaying
a flashing red or a flashing combination red and white light, or an oscillating
or rotating red light, or a combination red and white oscillating or rotating
light.
      (2)   Except a public law enforcement officer, or other person sworn to
enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state, operating a public safety
vehicle when on duty, no person shall operate, move, or park upon, or permit to
stand within the right-of-way of any street or highway any vehicle or equipment
that is equipped with, or upon which is mounted, and displaying a flashing blue
or a flashing combination blue and white light, or an oscillating or rotating
blue light, or a combination blue and white oscillating or rotating light.
   (E)   This section does not prohibit the use of warning lights required by
law or the simultaneous flashing of turn signals on disabled vehicles or on
vehicles being operated in unfavorable atmospheric conditions in order to
enhance their visibility. This section also does not prohibit the simultaneous
flashing of turn signals or warning lights whether on farm machinery or
vehicles escorting farm machinery when used on a street or highway.
(R.C. § 4513.17)
   (F)   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a motor vehicle
operated by a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator may be equipped
with a flashing, oscillating or rotating red or blue light and siren, whistle
or bell capable of emitting sound audible under normal conditions from a
distance of not less than 500 feet. Such a vehicle may display the flashing,
oscillating or rotating red or blue light and may give the audible signal of
the siren, whistle or bell only when responding to a fatality or a fatal motor
vehicle accident on a street or highway and only at those locations where the
stoppage of traffic impedes the ability of the coroner, deputy coroner or
coroner’s investigator to arrive at the site of the fatality.
      (2)   This division (F) does not relieve the coroner, deputy coroner or
coroner’s investigator operating a motor vehicle from the duty to drive with
due regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(R.C. § 4513.171)
   (G)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. §§ 4513.17, 4513.171) Penalty, see §
337.99
§ 337.17 FOCUS AND AIM OF HEADLIGHTS.
   (A)   No person shall use any lights mentioned in §§ 337.02 through 337.16,
upon any motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer unless the lights are equipped,
mounted and adjusted as to focus and aim in accordance with regulations which
are prescribed by the Director of Public Safety.
   (B)   The headlights on any motor vehicle shall comply with the headlamp
color requirements contained in Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number
108, 49 C.F.R. § 571.108. No person shall operate a motor vehicle in violation
of this division.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.19) Penalty, see §
337.99
§ 337.18 MOTOR VEHICLE, MOTORCYCLE AND BICYCLE BRAKES.
   (A)   The following requirements govern as to brake equipment on vehicles:
      (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, when operated upon a
highway shall be equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of and
to stop and hold the motor vehicle, including two separate means of applying
the brakes, each of which means shall be effective to apply the brakes to at
least two wheels. If these two separate means of applying the brakes are
connected in any way, then on such motor vehicles, manufactured or assembled
after January 1, 1942, they shall be so constructed that failure of any one
part of the operating mechanism shall not leave the motor vehicle without
brakes on at least two wheels.
      (2)   Every motorcycle, when operated upon a highway shall be equipped
with at least one adequate brake, which may be operated by hand or by foot.
      (3)   Every motorized bicycle shall be equipped with brakes meeting the
rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety under R.C. § 4511.521.
      (4)   When operated upon the highways, the following vehicles shall be
equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and to
hold the vehicle, designed to be applied by the driver of the towing motor
vehicle from its cab, and also designed and connected so that, in case of a
breakaway of the towed vehicle, the brakes shall be automatically applied:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, every trailer or
semitrailer, except a pole trailer, with an empty weight of 2,000 pounds or
more, manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1942;
         (b)   Every manufactured home or travel trailer with an empty weight
of 2,000 pounds or more, manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 2001.
      (5)   Every watercraft trailer with a gross weight or manufacturer’s
gross vehicle weight rating of 3,000 pounds or more that is manufactured or
assembled on or after January 1, 2008, shall have separate brakes equipped with
hydraulic surge or electrically operated brakes on two wheels.
      (6)   In any combination of motor-drawn trailers or semitrailers equipped
with brakes, means shall be provided for applying the rearmost brakes in
approximate synchronism with the brakes on the towing vehicle, and developing
the required braking effort on the rearmost wheels at the fastest rate; or
means shall be provided for applying braking effort first on the rearmost
brakes; or both of the above means, capable of being used alternatively, may be
employed.
      (7)   Every vehicle and combination of vehicles, except motorcycles and
motorized bicycles, and except trailers and semitrailers of a gross weight of
less than 2,000 pounds, and pole trailers, shall be equipped with parking
brakes adequate to hold the vehicle on any grade on which it is operated, under
all conditions of loading, on a surface free from snow, ice, or loose material.
The parking brakes shall be capable of being applied in conformance with the
foregoing requirements by the driver’s muscular effort or by spring action or
by equivalent means. Their operation may be assisted by the service brakes or
other source of power provided that failure of the service brake actuation
system or other power assisting mechanism will not prevent the parking brakes
from being applied in conformance with the foregoing requirements. The parking
brakes shall be so designed that when once applied they shall remain applied
with the required effectiveness despite exhaustion of any source of energy or
leakage of any kind.
      (8)   The same brake drums, brake shoes and lining assemblies, brake shoe
anchors, and mechanical brake shoe actuation mechanism normally associated with
the wheel brake assemblies may be used for both the service brakes and the
parking brakes. If the means of applying the parking brakes and the service
brakes are connected in any way, they shall be so constructed that failure of
any one part shall not leave the vehicle without operative brakes.
      (9)   Every motor vehicle or combination of motor-drawn vehicles shall,
at all times and under all conditions of loading, be capable of being stopped
on a dry, smooth, level road free from loose material, upon application of the
service or foot brake, within the following specified distances, or shall be
capable of being decelerated at a sustained rate corresponding to these
distances:
         (a)   Vehicles or combinations of vehicles having brakes on all wheels
shall come to a stop in 30 feet or less from a speed of 20 miles per hour.
         (b)   Vehicles or combinations of vehicles not having brakes on all
wheels shall come to a stop in 40 feet or less from a speed of 20 miles per
hour.
      (10)   All brakes shall be maintained in good working order and shall be
so adjusted as to operate as equally as practicable with respect to the wheels
on opposite sides of the vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.20)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
Penalty, see § 337.99
§ 337.19 HORN, SIREN, AND THEFT ALARM SIGNAL.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle when operated upon a street shall be
equipped with a horn which is in good working order and capable of emitting
sound audible, under normal conditions, from a distance of not less than 200
feet.
      (2)   No motor vehicle shall be equipped with, nor shall any person use
upon a vehicle, any siren, whistle or bell. Any vehicle may be equipped with a
theft alarm signal device which shall be so arranged that it cannot be used as
an ordinary warning signal. Every emergency vehicle shall be equipped with a
siren, whistle or bell capable of emitting sound audible under normal
conditions from a distance of not less than 500 feet and of a type approved by
the Director of Public Safety. Such equipment shall not be used except when
such vehicle is operated in response to an emergency call or is in the
immediate pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law, in which case
the driver of the emergency vehicle shall sound such equipment when it is
necessary to warn pedestrians and other drivers of the approach thereof.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.21)   
Penalty, see § 337.99
§ 337.20 MUFFLER; MUFFLER CUTOUT; EXCESSIVE SMOKE, GAS OR NOISE.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle and motorcycle with an internal combustion
engine shall at all times be equipped with a muffler which is in good working
order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise, and no
person shall use a muffler cutout, by-pass, or similar device upon a motor
vehicle on a street. Every motorcycle muffler shall be equipped with baffle
plates.
      (2)   No person shall own, operate, or have in the person’s possession
any motor vehicle or motorcycle equipped with a device for producing excessive
smoke or gas, or so equipped as to permit oil or any other chemical to flow
into or upon the exhaust pipe or muffler of such vehicle, or equipped in any
other way to produce or emit smoke or dangerous or annoying gases from any
portion of such vehicle other than the ordinary gases emitted by the exhaust of
an internal combustion engine under normal operation.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.22)
   (C)   No person shall own, operate or have in his or her possession any
motor vehicle, equipped with a muffler from which the baffle plates, screens or
other original internal parts have been removed and not replaced, or equipped
with an exhaust system or muffler which is defective, inadequate or improperly
maintained, to which has been modified in a manner which will amplify or
increase the noise emitted by the motor of such vehicle above that emitted by
the muffler originally installed on the vehicle.
   (D)   Construction equipment. No person shall operate between the hours of
9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. any pile driver, pneumatic hammer, derrick, hoist or
construction equipment, the use of which is attended by a loud noise, without
the written consent of the City Engineer. Such consent shall only be granted to
accommodate extenuating circumstances such as traffic control and/or emergency
repair situations.
   (E)   Musical and sound instruments. No person shall use, operate, or permit
to be played, used or operated, any radio receiving set, musical instrument,
sound device, or other machine or device for the producing or reproducing of
sound in such manner as to disturb the peace, quiet, and comfort of the
neighboring inhabitants, or at any time with louder volume than is reasonably
necessary for the convenient hearing for the person or persons who are in the
room, vehicle, or chamber in which such machine or device is operated and who
are voluntary listeners thereto.
   (F)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to properly permitted events
within the city limits.
   (G)   Whoever violates divisions (D) through (F) of this section is guilty
of a minor misdemeanor on a first offense; on a second offense within one year
after the first offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree; on each subsequent offense within one year after the first offense, the
person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(Ord. 8989, passed 8-24-04)
§ 337.21 REAR-VIEW MIRROR; CLEAR VIEW TO FRONT, BOTH SIDES AND REAR.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle and motorcycle shall be equipped with a mirror so
located as to reflect to the operator a view of the street to the rear of such
vehicle or motorcycle. Operators of vehicles and motorcycles shall have a clear
and unobstructed view to the front and to both sides of their vehicles and
motorcycles and shall have a clear view to the rear of their vehicles and
motorcycles by mirror.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.23)   
Penalty, see § 337.99
§ 337.22 SIGN OR POSTER UPON WINDSHIELD; WINDSHIELD WIPER.
   (A)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle on a street or highway in this
municipality, other than a motorcycle or motorized bicycle, that is not
equipped with a windshield.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle, other than a bus, with
any sign, poster or other nontransparent material upon the front windshield,
sidewings, side, or rear windows of such vehicle other than a certificate or
other paper required to be displayed by law, except that there may be in the
lower left-hand or right-hand corner of the windshield a sign, poster, or decal
not to exceed four inches in height by six inches in width. No sign, poster,
ordecal shall be displayed in the front windshield in such a manner as to
conceal the vehicle identification number for the motor vehicle when, in
accordance with federal law, that number is located inside the vehicle
passenger compartment and so placed as to be readable through the vehicle
glazing without moving any part of the vehicle.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
driving a passenger car with an electronic device, including an antenna,
electronic tolling or other transponder, camera, directional navigation device,
or other similar electronic device located in the front windshield if either of
the following apply to the device:
         (a)   It is a "vehicle safety technology" as defined in 49 C.F.R. §
393.5 and complies with 49 C.F.R. § 393.60(e)(1)(ii).
         (b)   It does not restrict the vehicle operator's sight lines to the
road and highway signs and signals, and it does not conceal the vehicle
identification number.
      (3)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
driving a commercial car with an electronic device, including an antenna,
electronic tolling or other transponder, camera, directional navigation device,
or other similar electronic device located in the front windshield if either of
the following apply to the device:
         (a)   It is a "vehicle safety technology" as defined in 49 C.F.R. §
393.5 and complies with 49 C.F.R. § 393.60(e)(1)(ii).
         (b)   It does not restrict the vehicle operator's sight lines to the
road and highway signs and signals, and it is mounted not more than 8.5 inches
below the upper edge of the windshield.
   (C)   The windshield on every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a device
for cleaning rain, snow, or other moisture from the windshield, which device
shall be maintained in good working order and so constructed as to be
controlled or operated by the operator of the vehicle.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.24) Penalty, see §
337.99
§ 337.23 LIMITED LOAD EXTENSION ON LEFT SIDE OF PASSENGER VEHICLE.
   (A)   No passenger-type vehicle shall be operated on a street with any load
carried on such vehicle which extends more than six inches beyond the line of
the fenders on the vehicle’s left side.
(R.C. § 4513.30)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
Penalty, see § 337.99
§ 337.24 STOP LIGHTS AND DIRECTIONAL TURN SIGNALS.
   (A)   Stop lights.
      (1)   Every motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, and pole trailer when
operated upon a highway shall be equipped with two or more stop lights, except
that passenger cars manufactured or assembled prior to January 1, 1967,
motorcycles, and motor-driven cycles shall be equipped with at least one stop
light. Stop lights shall be mounted on the rear of the vehicle, actuated upon
application of the service brake, and may be incorporated with other rear
lights. Such stop lights when actuated shall emit a red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear; provided that in the case of a train of
vehicles only the stop lights on the rearmost vehicle need be visible from the
distance specified.
      (2)   Such stop lights when actuated shall give a steady warning light to
the rear of a vehicle or train of vehicles to indicate the intention of the
operator to diminish the speed of or stop a vehicle or train of vehicles.
      (3)   When stop lights are used as required by this section, they shall
be constructed or installed so as to provide adequate and reliable illumination
and shall conform to the appropriate rules and regulations established under
R.C. § 4513.19.
      (4)   Historical motor vehicles as defined in R.C. § 4503.181, not
originally manufactured with stop lights, are not subject to this section.
(R.C. § 4513.071)
   (B)   As provided by §
331.14(A)(4) and R.C. § 4513.261 any motor vehicle may be equipped, and when
required shall be equipped, with directional turn signals capable of clearly
indicating an intention to turn either to the right or to the left and which
shall be visible from both the front and rear. When actuated, the turn signals
shall illuminate and emit a white or amber light to the front of such vehicles
and a red light to the rear of such vehicle.
   (C)   Stop lights and directional turn signals, when lawfully required, or
used as provided in §
331.14(A)(4) to indicate a stop or turn signal, shall be maintained in good
working order. No stop lights or directional turn signals shall project a
glaring or dazzling light when illuminated.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.071)   
Penalty, see § 337.99
§ 337.25 OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   AUTOMOBILE. Any commercial tractor, passenger car, commercial car, or truck
that is required to be factory-equipped with an occupant restraining device for
the operator or any passenger by regulations adopted by the United States
Secretary of Transportation pursuant to the “National Traffic and Motor Vehicle
Safety Act of 1966,” 80 Stat. 719, 15 USC 1392.
   COMMERCIAL TRACTOR, PASSENGER CAR, and COMMERCIAL CAR have the same meanings
as in R.C. § 4501.01.
    OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICE. A seat safety belt, shoulder belt, harness, or
other safety device for restraining a person who is an operator of or passenger
in an automobile and that satisfies the minimum federal vehicle safety
standards established by the United States Department of Transportation.
   PASSENGER. Any person in an automobile, other than its operator, who is
occupying a seating position for which an occupant restraining device is
provided.
   TORT ACTION. A civil action for damages for injury, death, or loss to person
or property. TORT ACTION includes a product liability claim, as defined in R.C.
§ 2307.71, and as asbestos claim, as defined in R.C. § 2307.91, but does not
include a civil action for damages for breach of contract or another agreement
between persons.
   VEHICLE and MOTOR VEHICLE. As used in the definitions of the terms set forth
in division (A)(2) above, VEHICLE and MOTOR VEHICLE have the same meanings as
in R.C. § 4501.01.
   (B)   Prohibited acts. No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate an automobile on any street or highway unless he or she is
wearing all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant
restraining device, or operate a school bus that has an occupant restraining
device installed for use in its operator’s seat unless he or she is wearing all
of the available elements of the device, as properly adjusted;
      (2)   Operate an automobile on any street or highway unless each
passenger in the automobile who is subject to the requirement set forth in
division (B)(3) of this section is wearing all of the available elements of a
properly adjusted occupant restraining device;
      (3)   Occupy, as a passenger, a seating position on the front seat of an
automobile being operated on any street or highway unless he or she is wearing
all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining
device;
      (4)   Operate a taxicab on any street or highway unless all factory-
equipped occupant restraining devices in the taxicab are maintained in usable
form.
    (C)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Division (B)(3) of this section does not apply to a person who is
required by R.C. § 4511.81 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to
be secured in a child restraint device or booster seat.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
an employee of the United States Postal Service or of a newspaper home delivery
service, during any period in which the person is engaged in the operation of
an automobile to deliver mail or newspapers to addressees.
      (3)   Divisions (B)(1) and (B)(3) of this section do not apply to a
person who has an affidavit signed by a physician licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4731 or a chiropractor licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4734 that states the following:
         (a)   That the person has a physical impairment that makes use of an
occupant restraining device impossible or impractical;
         (b)   Whether the physical impairment is temporary, permanent, or
reasonably expected to be permanent;
         (c)   If the physical impairment is temporary, how long the physical
impairment is expected to make the use of an occupant restraining device
impossible or impractical.
      (4)   Divisions (B)(1) and (B)(3) of this section do not apply to a
person who has registered with the Registrar of Motor Vehicles in accordance
with division (C)(5) of this section.
      (5)   A person who has received an affidavit under division (C)(3) of
this section stating that the person has a permanent or reasonably expected to
be permanent physical impairment that makes use of an occupant restraining
device impossible or impracticable may register with the Registrar of Motor
Vehicles attesting to that fact. Upon such registration, the Registrar shall
make that information available in the law enforcement automated data system. A
person included in the database under division (C)(5) of this section is not
required to have the affidavit obtained in accordance with division (C)(3) of
this section in their possession while operating or occupying an automobile.
      (6)   A physician or chiropractor who issues an affidavit for the
purposes of division (C)(3) or (C)(4) of this section is immune from civil
liability arising from any injury or death sustained by the person who was
issued the affidavit due to the failure of the person to wear an occupant
restraining device unless the physician or chiropractor, in issuing the
affidavit, acted in a manner that constituted willful, wanton, or reckless
misconduct.
      (7)   The Registrar of Motor Vehicles shall adopt rules in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 119 establishing a process for a person to be included in the
database under division (C)(5) of this section. The information provided and
included in the database under division (C)(5) of this section is not a public
record subject to inspection or copying under R.C. § 149.43.
   (D)   Officers not permitted to stop cars to determine violation.
Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law enforcement
officer shall cause an operator of an automobile being operated on any street
or highway to stop the automobile for the sole purpose of determining whether a
violation of division (B) of this section has been or is being committed or for
the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or summons for a violation of
that nature or causing the arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person
for a violation of that nature. No law enforcement officer shall view the
interior or visually inspect any automobile being operated on any street or
highway for the sole purpose of determining whether a violation of that nature
has been or is being committed.
   (E)   Use of fines for educational program. All fines collected for
violations of division (B) of this section, or for violations of any municipal
ordinance that is substantively comparable to that division, shall be forwarded
to the Treasurer of State for deposit in the seat belt education fund and
emergency medical services fund as set forth in R.C. § 4513.263(E).
   (F)   Limitations on evidence used for prosecution.  
       (1)   Subject to division (F)(2) of this section, the failure of a
person to wear all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant
restraining device in violation of division (B)(1) or (B)(3) of this section or
the failure of a person to ensure that each minor who is a passenger of an
automobile being operated by that person is wearing all of the available
elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device in violation of
division (B)(2) of this section shall not be considered or used by the trier of
fact in a tort action as evidence of negligence or contributory negligence.
But, the trier of fact may determine based on evidence admitted consistent with
the Ohio Rules of Evidence that the failure contributed to the harm alleged in
the tort action and may diminish a recovery of compensatory damages that
represents non-economic loss, as defined in R.C. § 2307.011, in a tort action
that could have been recovered but for the plaintiff’s failure to wear all of
the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device.
Evidence of that failure shall not be used as a basis for a criminal
prosecution of the person other than a prosecution for a violation of this
section; and shall not be admissible as evidence in a criminal action involving
the person other than a prosecution for a violation of this section.
      (2)   If, at the time of an accident involving a passenger car equipped
with occupant restraining devices, any occupant of the passenger car who
sustained injury or death was not wearing an available occupant restraining
device, was not wearing all of the available elements of such a device, or was
not wearing such a device as properly adjusted, then, consistent with the Rules
of Evidence, the fact that the occupant was not wearing the available occupant
restraining device, was not wearing all of the available elements of such a
device, or was not wearing such a device as properly adjusted is admissible in
evidence in relation to any claim for relief in a tort action to the extent
that the claim for relief satisfies all of the following:
         (a)   It seeks to recover damages for injury or death to the occupant;
         (b)   The defendant in question is the manufacturer, designer,
distributor, or seller of the passenger car;
         (c)   The claim for relief against the defendant in question is that
the injury or death sustained by the occupant was enhanced or aggravated by
some design defect in the passenger car or that the passenger car was not
crashworthy.
    (G)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section shall be fined
$30.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) shall be subject to the penalty
set forth in § 70.99(B).
      (3)   Whoever violates division (B)(3) of this section shall be fined
$20.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (B)(4) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of
division (B)(4) of this section, whoever violates division (B)(4) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4513.263) (Ord. 6164, passed 12-22-87)
Penalty, see § 337.99
Statutory reference:
   Child restraint systems, see § 4511.81
   Installation and sale of seat safety belts, see § 4513.262
§ 337.26 OPERATING MOTOR VEHICLE WHILE WEARING EARPHONES OR EARPLUGS.
   (A)    As used in this section:
      EARPHONES. Any device that covers all or a portion of both ears and that
does either of the following:
         (a)   Through either a physical connection to another device or a
wireless connection, provides the listener with radio programs, music, or other
information;
         (b)   Provides hearing protection.
      EARPHONES does not include speakers or other listening devices that are
built into protective headgear.
      EARPLUGS. Any device that can be inserted into one or both ears and that
does either of the following:
         (a)   Through either a physical connection to another device or a
wireless connection, provides the listener with radio programs, music, or other
information;
         (b)   Provides hearing protection.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle while wearing earphones over,
or earplugs in, both ears.
   (C)   This section does not apply to:
      (1)   Any person wearing a hearing aid;
      (2)   Law enforcement personnel while on duty;
      (3)   Fire Department personnel and emergency medical service personnel
while on duty;
      (4)   Any person engaged in the operation of equipment for use in the
maintenance or repair of any highway;
      (5)   Any person engaged in the operation of refuse collection equipment;
      (6)   Any person wearing earphones or earplugs for hearing protection
while operating a motorcycle.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.84)   
Penalty, see § 337.99
§ 337.27 AIR BAGS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      AIR BAG. Has the same meaning as in 49 C.F.R. § 579.4, as amended.
      COUNTERFEIT AIR BAG. An air bag displaying a mark identical or similar to
the genuine mark of a motor vehicle manufacturer, without the authorization of
the motor vehicle manufacturer.
      NONFUNCTIONAL AIR BAG. Any of the following:
         (a)   A replacement air bag that has been previously deployed or
damaged;
         (b)   A replacement air bag that has an electrical fault that is
detected by the air bag diagnostic system of a vehicle after the air bag is
installed;
         (c)   A counterfeit air bag, air bag cover, or some other object that
is installed in a vehicle to deceive an owner or operator of the vehicle into
believing that a functional air bag has been installed.
   (B)   No person shall install or reinstall in any motor vehicle a
counterfeit or nonfunctional air bag or any object intended to fulfill the
function of an air bag other than an air bag that was designed in conformance
with or that is regulated by Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number 208
for the make, model, and model year of the vehicle, knowing that the object is
not in accordance with that standard.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly manufacture, import, sell, or offer for sale
any of the following:
      (1)   A counterfeit air bag;
      (2)   A nonfunctional air bag;
      (3)   Any other object that is intended to be installed in a motor
vehicle to fulfill the function of an air bag and that is not in conformance
with Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number 208 for the make, model, and
model year of the vehicle in which the object is intended to be installed.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly sell, install, or reinstall a device in a
motor vehicle that causes the diagnostic system of a vehicle to inaccurately
indicate that the vehicle is equipped with a functional air bag.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) or (D) of this section is guilty
of improper replacement of a motor vehicle air bag, a misdemeanor of the first
degree on a first offense. On each subsequent offense, or if the violation
results in serious physical harm to an individual, the person is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (C) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Each manufacture, importation, installation, reinstallation, sale,
or offer for sale in violation of this section shall constitute a separate and
distinct violation.
(R.C. § 4549.20)
§ 337.99 PENALTY.
Editor’s note:
   See §
303.99 for general code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.
CHAPTER 339: COMMERCIAL AND HEAVY VEHICLES
Section
    
339.01   Special permits for vehicles
   
339.02   Vehicles exceeding five tons
   
339.03   Maximum width, height and length
   
339.04   Duty to use state or truck routes
   
339.05   Wheel protectors
   
339.06   Vehicles transporting explosives
   
339.07    Towing requirements; exception to size and weight restrictions
   
339.08   Route and load information
   
339.10   Loads dropping or leaking; removal required
   
339.11   Shifting cargo; loose loads
   
339.12   Use of Jake brakes prohibited
 
   
339.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Arrest notice of drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
   Warning devices when disabled on freeways, see R.C. § 4513.28
Cross-reference:
   Stopping at grade crossings, see §
331.26
§ 339.01 SPECIAL PERMITS FOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   The municipality, with respect to highways under their
jurisdiction, upon application in writing, shall issue a special regional heavy
hauling permit authorizing the applicant to operate or move a vehicle or
combination of vehicles as follows:
            1.   At a size or weight of vehicle or load exceeding the maximum
specified in R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or otherwise not in conformity with
R.C. §§ 4513.01 to 4513.37.
            2.   Upon any highway under the jurisdiction of municipality except
those highways with a condition insufficient to bear the weight of the
vehicle or combination of vehicles as stated in the application.
            3.   Issuance of a special regional heavy hauling permit is subject
to the payment of a fee established by the municipality in accordance with this
section.
         (b)   In circumstances where a person is not eligible to receive a
permit under division (A)(1)(a) of this section, the municipality, with respect
to highways under its jurisdiction, upon application in writing and for good
cause shown, may issue a special permit in writing authorizing the applicant to
operate or move a vehicle or combination of vehicles of a size or weight of
vehicle or load exceeding the maximum specified in R.C. §§ 5577.01 through
5577.09, or otherwise not in conformity with R.C. §§ 4513.01 through 4513.37 or
Chapter 337 of this code, upon any highway under its jurisdiction.
      (2)   (a)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 715.22 and 723.01, the holder of a
permit issued by the Director of Transportation under R.C. § 4513.34 may move
the vehicle or combination of vehicles described in the permit on any highway
that is a part of the state highway system when the movement is partly within
and partly without the corporate limits of the municipality. No local authority
shall require any other permit or license or charge any license fee or other
charge against the holder of a permit for the movement of a vehicle or
combination of vehicles on any highway which is a part of the state highway
system. The Ohio Director of Transportation shall not require the holder of a
permit issued by the municipality to obtain a special permit for the movement
of vehicles or combination of vehicles on highways within the jurisdiction of
the municipality.
         (b)   Except as provided in R.C. § 4513.34(B)(3), permits may be
issued for any period of time not to exceed one year, as the local authority in
its discretion determines advisable or for the duration of any public
construction project.
      (3)   (a)   The application for a permit issued under this section shall
be in the form that the municipality prescribes. The municipality may prescribe
a permit fee to be imposed and collected when any permit described in this
section is issued. The permit fee may be in an amount sufficient to reimburse
the municipality for the administrative costs incurred in issuing the permit,
and also to cover the cost of normal and expected damage caused to the roadway
or a street or highway structure as the result of the operation of the
nonconforming vehicle or combination of vehicles.
         (b)   For the purposes of this section and of rules adopted by the
Director under R.C. § 4513.34, milk transported in bulk by vehicle is deemed a
nondivisible load.
         (c)   For purposes of this section and of rules adopted by the
Director under R.C. § 4513.34, three or fewer aluminum coils, transported by a
vehicle, are deemed a nondivisible load. The Director shall adopt rules
establishing requirements for an aluminum coil permit that are substantially
similar to the requirements for a steel coil permit under O.A.C. Chapter 5501:
2-1.
      (4)   The municipality shall issue a special regional heavy hauling
permit under division (a)(1)A. of this section upon application and payment of
the applicable fee. However, the municipality may issue or withhold a special
permit specified in division (a)(1)B. of this section. If a permit is to be
issued, the municipality may limit or prescribe conditions of operation for the
vehicle, and may require the posting of a bond or other security conditioned
upon the sufficiency of the permit fee to compensate for damage caused to the
roadway or a street or highway structure. In addition, the municipality, as a
condition of issuance of an overweight permit, may require the applicant to
develop and enter into a mutual agreement with the municipality to compensate
for or to repair excess damage caused to the roadway by travel under the
permit.
      (5)   Every permit issued under this section shall be carried in the
vehicle or combination of vehicles to which it refers and shall be open to
inspection by any police officer or authorized agent of any authority granting
the permit. No person shall violate any of the terms of a permit.
      (6)   The Director of Transportation may debar an applicant from applying
for a special permit under this section upon a finding based on a reasonable
belief that the applicant has done any of the actions specified in R.C. §
4513.34(F).
      (7)   Notice and procedures for debarment shall be as provided in R.C. §
4513.34(G).
      (8)   (a)   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under
this section that relate to gross load limits.
         (b)   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to axle load by more than 2,000 pounds per axle or group of
axles.
         (c)   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to an approved route except upon order of a law enforcement
officer or authorized agent of the issuing authority.
      (9)   A permit issued by the municipality under this section for the
operation of a vehicle or combination of vehicles is valid for the purposes of
the vehicle operation in accordance with the conditions and limitations
specified on the permit. Such a permit is voidable by law enforcement only for
operation of a vehicle or combination of vehicles in violation of the weight,
dimension, or route provisions of the permit. However, a permit is not voidable
for operation in violation of a route provision of a permit if the operation is
upon the order of a law enforcement officer.
(R.C. § 4513.34)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99) Penalty, see §
339.99
Statutory reference:
   Oversized vehicles, state permit regulations,see O.A.C. Chapter 5501:2-1
§ 339.02 VEHICLES EXCEEDING FIVE TONS.
   No person shall drive or operate any vehicle used for the transportation of
goods or property, the gross weight of which, with load, exceeds five tons,
upon the streets, bridges and culverts within this municipality where signs are
posted prohibiting such use. Drivers of such vehicles whose gross weight, with
load, exceeds weight limits prescribed by this chapter may deliver or pick up
goods or property at those places located on prohibited streets provided such
vehicles are operated to effect the least amount of travel possible on such
prohibited streets.
Penalty, see § 339.99
§ 339.03 MAXIMUM WIDTH, HEIGHT AND LENGTH.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be operated upon the public highways, streets,
bridges, and culverts within the municipality, whose dimensions exceed those
specified in this section.
   (B)   No such vehicle shall have a width in excess of:
      (1)   104 inches for passenger bus type vehicles operated exclusively
within the municipality.
      (2)   102 inches, excluding such safety devices as are required by law,
for passenger bus type vehicles operated over freeways, and such other state
roads with minimum pavement widths of 22 feet, except those roads or portions
of roads over which operation of 102-inch buses is prohibited by order of the
Director of Transportation.
      (3)   132 inches for traction engines.
      (4)   102 inches for recreational vehicles, excluding safety devices and
retracted awnings and other appurtenances of six inches or less in width and
except that the Director may prohibit the operation of 102-inch recreational
vehicles on designated state highways or portions of highways.
      (5)   102 inches, including load, for all other vehicles, except that the
Director may prohibit the operation of 102-inch vehicles on such state highways
or portions of state highways as the Director designates.
   (C)   No such vehicle shall have a length in excess of:
      (1)   66 feet for passenger bus type vehicles and articulated passenger
bus type vehicles operated by a regional transit authority pursuant to R.C. §§
306.30 to 306.54.
      (2)   45 feet for all other passenger bus type vehicles.
      (3)   53 feet for any semitrailer when operated in a commercial tractor-
semitrailer combination, with or without load, except that the Director may
prohibit the operation of any such commercial tractor-semitrailer combination
on such state highways or portions of state highways as the Director
designates.
      (4)   28½ feet for any semitrailer or trailer when operated in a
commercial tractor- semitrailer-trailer or commercial tractor- semitrailer-
semitrailer combination, except that the Director may prohibit the operation of
any such commercial tractor-semitrailer-trailer or commercial tractor-
semitrailer-semitrailer combination on such state highways or portions of state
highways as the Director designates.
      (5)   (a)   97 feet for drive-away saddlemount vehicle transporter
combinations and drive-away saddlemount with fullmount vehicle transporter
combinations when operated on any interstate, United States route, or state
route, including reasonable access travel on all other roadways for a distance
not to exceed one road mile from any interstate, United States route, or state
route, not to exceed three saddlemounted vehicles, but which may include one
fullmount;
         (b)   75 feet for drive-away saddlemount vehicle transporter
combinations and drive-away saddlemount with fullmount vehicle transporter
combinations when operated on any roadway not designated as an interstate,
United States route, or state route, not to exceed three saddlemounted
vehicles, but which may include one fullmount.
      (6)   65 feet for any other combination of vehicles coupled together,
with or without load, except as provided in division (C)(3) and (4), and in
division (E) below.
      (7)   45 feet for recreational vehicles.
      (8)   50 feet for all other vehicles, except trailers and semitrailers,
with or without load.
   (D)   No such vehicle shall have a height in excess of 13½ feet, with or
without load.
   (E)   An automobile transporter or boat transporter shall be allowed a
length of 65 feet, and a stinger-steered automobile transporter or stinger-
steered boat transporter shall be allowed a length of 75 feet, except that the
load thereon may extend no more than four feet beyond the rear of such vehicles
and may extend no more than three feet beyond the front of such vehicles, and
except further that the Director may prohibit the operation of a stinger-
steered automobile transporter, stinger-steered boat transporter, or a B-train
assembly on any state highway or portion of any state highway that the Director
designates.
   (F)   (1)   The widths prescribed in division (B) of this section shall not
include side mirrors, turn signal lamps, marker lamps, handholds for cab entry
and egress, flexible fender extensions, mud flaps, splash and spray suppressant
devices, and load-induced tire bulge.
      (2)   The widths prescribed in division (B)(5) of this section shall not
include automatic covering devices, tarp and tarp hardware, and tiedown
assemblies, provided these safety devices do not extend more than three inches
from either side of the vehicle.
      (3)   The lengths prescribed in divisions (C)(2) to (C)(7) shall not
include safety devices, bumpers attached to the front or rear of such bus or
combination, non-property carrying devices or components that do not extend
more than 24 inches beyond the rear of the vehicle and are needed for loading
or unloading, B-train assembly used between the first and second semitrailer of
a commercial tractor-semitrailer- semitrailer combination, energy conservation
devices as provided in any regulations adopted by the Secretary of the United
States Department of Transportation, or any noncargo-carrying refrigerator
equipment attached to the front of trailers and semitrailers. In special cases,
vehicles that dimensions exceed those prescribed by this section may operate in
accordance with rules adopted by the Director.
   (G)   (1)   This section does not apply to fire engines, fire trucks, or
other vehicles or apparatus belonging to the municipality or to the volunteer
fire department thereof or used by such department in the discharge of its
functions. This section does not apply to vehicles and pole trailers used in
the transportation of wooden and metal poles, nor to the transportation of
pipes or well-drilling equipment, nor to farm machinery and equipment.
      (2)   The owner or operator of any vehicle, machinery, or equipment not
specifically enumerated in this section but the dimensions of which exceed the
dimensions provided by this section, when operating the same on the highways
and streets of the municipality, shall comply with the rules of the Director
governing such movement. Any person adversely affected shall have the same
right of appeal as provided in R.C. Chapter 119.
      (3)   This section does not require the municipality or any railroad or
other private corporation to provide sufficient vertical clearance to permit
the operation of such vehicle, or to make any changes in or about existing
structures now crossing streets, roads, and other public thoroughfares.
   (H)   As used in this section, RECREATIONAL VEHICLE has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 4501.01.
(R.C. § 5577.05) (Am. Ord. 5832, passed 6-10-86; Am. Ord. 5841, passed 6-24-86)
   (I)   No person shall violate any rule or regulation promulgated by the
Director of Transportation in accordance with R.C. § 5577.05.
(R.C. § 5577.06)
   (J)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second or subsequent offense, such person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 5577.99(C))
§ 339.04 DUTY TO USE STATE OR TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   When streets and highways leading into the municipality are posted
with signs warning operators of vehicles used for the transportation of goods
or property of weight limits and designated routes, such operators must follow
state or truck routes, temporary or permanent.
   (B)   The operator of a vehicle exceeding such weight limits, upon entering
the municipality on a street other than a state or truck route, shall proceed
immediately by the shortest way possible to the nearest state or truck route
leading in the direction in which such vehicle is proceeding, except as
otherwise provided in §
339.02.
   (C)   The operator of a vehicle carrying explosives or hazardous materials
as defined by the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio or the regulations of the
United States Department of Transportation shall operate his or her vehicle
only on the streets and highways designated as truck routes, except for
deliveries. The operator of a vehicle carrying explosives or hazardous
materials may deliver or pick up property at locations off truck routes
provided such vehicles are operated to affect the least amount of travel
possible on such streets other than truck routes.
(Am. Ord. 6198, passed 4-12-88)
Penalty, see § 339.99
§ 339.05 WHEEL PROTECTORS.
   No person shall drive or operate, or cause to be driven or operated, any
commercial car, trailer, or semitrailer, used for the transportation of goods
or property, the gross weight of which, with load, exceeds three tons, upon the
public highways, streets, bridges, and culverts within the municipality, unless
such vehicle is equipped with suitable metal protectors or substantial flexible
flaps on the rearmost wheels of such vehicle or combination of vehicles to
prevent, as far as practicable, the wheels from throwing dirt, water, or other
materials on the windshields of following vehicles. Such protectors or flaps
shall have a ground clearance of not more than one-third of the distance from
the center of the rearmost axle to the center of the flaps under any conditions
of loading of the vehicle, and they shall be at least as wide as the tires they
are protecting. If the vehicle is so designed and constructed that such
requirements are accomplished by means of fenders, body construction, or other
means of enclosure, then no such protectors or flaps are required. Rear wheels
not covered at the top by fenders, bodies, or other parts of the vehicle shall
be covered at the top by protective means extending at least to the center line
of the rearmost axle.
(R.C. § 5577.11)
Penalty, see § 339.99
§ 339.06 VEHICLES TRANSPORTING EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   Any person operating any vehicle transporting explosives upon a
highway shall at all times comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   The vehicle shall be marked or placarded on each side and on the
rear with the word “explosives” in letters not less than eight inches high, or
there shall be displayed on the rear of such vehicle a red flag not less than
24 inches square marked with the word “danger” in white letters 6 inches high,
or shall be marked or placarded in accordance with § 177.823 of the United
States Department of Transportation Regulations.
       (2)   The vehicle shall be equipped with not less than two fire
extinguishers, filled and ready for immediate use, and placed at convenient
points on such vehicle.
      (3)   The Director of Transportation may promulgate such regulations
governing the transportation of explosives and other dangerous articles by
vehicles upon the highway as are reasonably necessary to enforce the provisions
of this traffic code.
(R.C. § 4513.29) (Am. Ord. 6198, passed 4-12-88; Am. Ord. 6313, passed 1-24-89)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
Penalty, see § 339.99
§ 339.07 TOWING REQUIREMENTS; EXCEPTION TO SIZE AND WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   When one vehicle is towing another vehicle, the drawbar or other
connection shall be of sufficient strength to pull all the weight towed
thereby, and the drawbar or other connection shall not exceed 15 feet from one
vehicle to the other, except the connection between any two vehicles
transporting poles, pipe, machinery, or other objects of structural nature
which cannot readily be dismembered.
      (2)   When one vehicle is towing another and the connection consists only
of a chain, rope, or cable, there shall be displayed upon such connection a
white flag or cloth not less than 12 inches square.
   (3)   In addition to such drawbar or other connection, each trailer and each
semitrailer which is not connected to a commercial tractor by means of a fifth
wheel shall be coupled with stay chains or cables to the vehicle by which it is
being drawn. These chains or cables shall be of sufficient size and strength to
prevent the towed vehicle’s parting from the drawing vehicle in case the
drawbar or other connection should break or become disengaged. In case of a
loaded pole trailer, the connecting pole to the drawing vehicle shall be
coupled to the drawing vehicle with stay chains or cables of sufficient size
and strength to prevent the towed vehicle’s parting from the drawing vehicle.
   (4)   Every trailer or semitrailer, except pole and cable trailers and pole
and cable dollies operated by a public utility as defined in R.C. § 5727.01,
shall be equipped with a coupling device which shall be so designed and
constructed that the trailer will follow substantially in the path of the
vehicle drawing it, without whipping or swerving from side to side. Vehicles
used to transport agricultural produce or agricultural production materials
between a local place of storage and supply and the farm, when drawn or towed
on a street or highway at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less, and vehicles
designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage
and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or
highway for a distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of 25 miles per
hour or less, shall have a drawbar or other connection, including the hitch
mounted on the towing vehicle, which shall be of sufficient strength to pull
all the weight towed thereby. Only one such vehicle used to transport
agricultural produce or agricultural production materials as provided in this
section may be towed or drawn at one time except as follows:
         (a)   An agricultural tractor may tow or draw more than one such
vehicle;
         (b)   A pickup truck or straight truck designed by the manufacturer to
carry a load of not less than one-half ton and not more than two tons may tow
or draw not more than two such vehicles that are being used to transport
agricultural produce from the farm to a local place of storage. No vehicle
being so towed by such a pickup truck or straight truck shall be considered to
be a motor vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.32)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
   (C)   Exception to size and weight restrictions.
      (1)   The size and weight provisions of this chapter and R.C. Chapter
5577 do not apply to a any of the following:
         (a)   A person who is engaged in the initial towing or removal of a
wrecked or disabled motor vehicle from the site of an emergency on a public
highway where the vehicle became wrecked or disabled to the nearest site where
the vehicle can be brought into conformance with the requirements of this
chapter and R.C. Chapter 5577, to the nearest storage facility, or to the
nearest qualified repair facility;
         (b)   A person who is en route to the site of an emergency on a public
highway to remove a wrecked or disabled motor vehicle;
         (c)   A person who is returning from delivering a wrecked or disabled
motor vehicle to a site, storage facility, or repair facility as specified in
division (C)(1)(a) of this section.
      (2)   Any subsequent towing of a wrecked or disabled vehicle shall comply
with the size and weight provisions of this chapter and R.C. Chapter 5577.
      (3)   No court shall impose any penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99 or
the civil liability established in R.C. § 5577.12 upon a person who is
operating a vehicle in the manner described in division (C)(1) of this section.
(R.C. § 5577.15)
§ 339.08 ROUTE AND LOAD INFORMATION.
   Drivers of vehicles described in this chapter shall be required, upon
request by a police officer, to give full and true information as to the route
they are following and the name of the consigner and consignee and place of
delivery or removal and the location of any consignment being hauled or goods
being removed, and upon a designation by such police officer of a route to be
followed, shall immediately adopt and pursue such route.
Penalty, see § 339.99
§ 339.09 WEIGHING OF VEHICLE; REMOVAL OF EXCESS LOAD.
   (A)   Any police officer having reason to believe that the weight of a
vehicle and its load is unlawful may require the driver of the vehicle to stop
and submit to a weighing of it by means of a compact, self-contained, portable,
sealed scale specially adapted to determining the wheel loads of vehicles on
highways; a sealed scale permanently installed in a fixed location, having a
load-receiving element specially adapted to determining the wheel loads of
highway vehicles; a sealed scale, permanently installed in a fixed location,
having a load-receiving element specially adapted to determining the combined
load of all wheels on a single axle or on successive axles of a highway
vehicle; or a sealed scale adapted to weighing highway vehicles, loaded or
unloaded.
   (B)   The driver of the vehicle shall, if necessary, be directed to proceed
to the nearest available sealed scales to accomplish the weighing, provided the
scales are within three miles of the point where the vehicle is stopped.
    (C)   Any vehicle stopped in accordance with this section may be held by
the police officer for a reasonable time only to accomplish the weighing as
prescribed by this section.
   (D)   All scales used in determining the lawful weight of a vehicle and its
load shall be annually compared by a municipal, county or state sealer with the
state standards or standards approved by the state, and the scales shall not be
sealed if they do not conform to the state standards or standards approved by
the state.
   (E)   At each end of a permanently installed scale, there shall be a
straight approach in the same plane as the platform of sufficient length and
width to insure the level positioning of vehicles during weight determinations.
During determination of weight by compact, self-contained, portable, sealed
scales, specially adapted to determining the wheel loads of vehicles on
highways, they shall always be used on a level terrain of sufficient length and
width to accommodate the entire vehicle being weighed. Such terrain shall be
level, or if not level, it shall be of such elevation that the difference in
elevation between the wheels on any one axle does not exceed two inches and the
difference in elevation between axles being weighed does not exceed ¼ inch per
foot of the distance between such axles.
   (F)   Whenever an officer, upon weighing a vehicle and load, determines that
the weight is unlawful, he or she may require the driver to stop the vehicle in
a suitable place and remain standing until such portion of the load is removed
as is necessary to reduce the weight of the vehicle to the limit permitted
under R.C. §§ 5577.01 through 5577.14 and this Chapter.
(R.C. § 4513.33)
Penalty, see § 339.99
§ 339.10 LOADS DROPPING OR LEAKING; REMOVAL REQUIRED.
    (A)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any highway unless the vehicle
is so constructed, loaded, or covered as to prevent any of its load from
dropping, shifting, leaking, or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand
or other substance may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or
water or other substance may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or
maintaining the roadway.
   (B)   Except for a farm vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or
agricultural production materials or a rubbish vehicle in the process of
acquiring its load, no vehicle loaded with garbage, swill, cans, bottles, waste
paper, ashes, refuse, trash, rubbish, waste, wire, paper, cartons, boxes,
glass, solid waste, or any other material of an unsanitary nature that is
susceptible to blowing or bouncing from a moving vehicle shall be driven or
moved on any highway unless the load is covered with a sufficient cover to
prevent the load or any part of the load from spilling onto the highway.
(R.C. § 4513.31)
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the driver of a vehicle who unlawfully drops
or deposits or permits the load or any portion there of to be dropped or
deposited upon any street, highway, sidewalk or other public place to
immediately remove the same or cause it to be removed.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
Penalty, see § 339.99
§ 339.11 SHIFTING CARGO; LOOSE LOADS.
    (A)   No person shall drive or require or permit any motor vehicle or
trailer to be driven, unless such motor vehicle or trailer is constructed or
equipped with adequate header boards or similar devices of sufficient strength,
load fastening devices and blocking, and unless the load or cargo thereon is
properly distributed and securely fastened, braced and blocked, to prevent any
portion of the load from penetrating or crushing the driver’s compartment or
cargo compartment wall, or from falling, spilling or rolling upon the roadway,
when such vehicle or trailer is involved in an accident or when subjected to
the maximum braking deceleration of which it is capable.
   (B)   No motor vehicle or trailer shall be driven unless the tailboard or
tailgate, tarpaulins, chains (except ground or contact chains), ropes, stakes,
poles, and the like, or any part of the load, are securely fastened to prevent
dangling, flapping, swinging or falling from the side, end or top of the load
or body. All projecting cargo shall be properly guarded by a red flag or cloth
or a red light or lantern as required by §
337.08.
Penalty, see § 339.99
§ 339.12 USE OF JAKE BRAKES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall drive or operate, or cause to be driven or operated, any
commercial vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer, that is equipped with special
brakes or Jake brakes, in such a manner that the use of such brakes creates an
excessive or unreasonable noise.
(Ord. 7761, passed 2-22-00; Am. Ord. 8095, passed 1-23-01)
Penalty, see § 339.99
§ 339.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates §§
339.03 or
339.12 shall be fined not more than $25 for a first offense; for a second
offense within one year thereafter, such person shall be fined not less than
$10 nor more than $100, or imprisoned not more than ten days, or both; for a
third or subsequent offense within one year after the first offense, such
person shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $200 or imprisoned not
more than 30 days, or both.
(R.C. § 5577.99(C))
     (B)   Whoever violates §
339.05 shall be fined not more than $25.
(R.C. § 5577.99(E)) (Am. Ord. 8096, passed 1-23-01)
Editor’s note:
   See §
303.99 for general code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.
TITLE SEVEN - Parking
   
Chapter 351   Parking Generally
   
Chapter 353   Parking Meters
CHAPTER 351: PARKING GENERALLY
Section
    
351.01    Police may remove unattended vehicle which obstructs traffic
   
351.02   Registered owner prima-facie liable for unlawful parking
   
351.03   Prohibited standing or parking places
   
351.04   Manner of parallel parking; privileges for handicapped
   
351.05   Manner of angle parking
   
351.06   Selling, washing, or repairing vehicle upon roadway
   
351.07   Unattended vehicle; duty to lock ignition, remove key, set brake on
grade
   
351.08   [Reserved]
   
351.09   Bus stops and taxicab stands
   
351.10   Parking in alleys and narrow streets
   
351.11   Parking on off-street public or private property
   
351.12   Moving snow after heavy snowfalls
   
351.13   Handicapped parking spaces
   
351.14   Overtime parking
   
351.15   Parking unsafe vehicles
   
351.16   Prohibiting parking
   
351.17   Parking of semi-tractor/trailer in residential zone
   
351.18   Parking of vehicles containing explosives or hazardous materials
 
   
351.99   Penalty and waiver
 Cross-reference:
   Lights on parked or stopped vehicles, see
§ 337.09
   Off-street parking, see Ch. 1139
   Parking near stopped fire apparatus, see
§ 331.32
   Parking upon sidewalks, street lawns or curbs, see
§ 331.40
   Peddling from motor vehicle, see §
709.03
   Snow removal, see §
541.02
§ 351.01 POLICE MAY REMOVE UNATTENDED VEHICLE WHICH OBSTRUCTS TRAFFIC.
   (A)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a highway in
violation of R.C. § 4511.66 or § 331.28 of this code, such officer may move
such vehicle, or require the driver or other person in charge of the vehicle to
move the same, to a position off the paved or improved or main traveled part of
such highway.
   (B)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any
highway, bridge, or causeway, or in any tunnel, where such vehicles constitutes
an obstruction to traffic, such officer may provide for the removal of such
vehicle to the nearest garage or other place of safety.
(R.C. § 4511.67)
Penalty, see § 351.99
§ 351.02 REGISTERED OWNER PRIMA-FACIE LIABLE FOR UNLAWFUL PARKING.
   In any hearing on a charge of illegally parking a motor vehicle, testimony
that a vehicle bearing a certain license plate was found unlawfully parked as
prohibited by the provisions of this traffic code, and further testimony that
the record of the Ohio Registrar of Motor Vehicles shows that the license plate
was issued to the defendant, shall be a prima-facie evidence that the vehicle
which was unlawfully parked, was so parked by the defendant. A certified
registration copy showing such fact from the Registrar shall be proof of such
ownership.
Penalty, see § 351.99
§ 351.03 PROHIBITED STANDING OR PARKING PLACES.
   (A)   No person shall stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or to comply with the provisions of this
title, or while obeying the directions of a police officer or a traffic-control
device, in any of the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk, except a bicycle;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within ten feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (7)   Within 30 feet of, and upon the approach to, any flashing beacon,
stop sign, or traffic-control device;
      (8)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by a traffic-control device;
      (9)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (10)   Within 20 feet of a driveway entrance to any fire station and, on
the side of the street opposite the entrance to any fire station, within 75
feet of the entrance when it is properly posted with signs;
      (11)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
such standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (12)   Alongside any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street;
      (13)   Upon any bridge or elevated structure upon a highway, or within a
highway tunnel;
      (14)   At any place where signs prohibit stopping;
      (15)   Within one foot of another parked vehicle;
      (16)   On the roadway portion of a freeway, expressway, or thruway;
      (17)   On any portion of a roadway that is designated as No On Street
Parking on the city's Traffic Control Map for a period longer than 30 minutes.
   (B)   A person is permitted, without charge or restriction, to stand or park
on a sidewalk a motor-driven cycle or motor scooter that has an engine not
larger than 150 cubic centimeters, a low-speed micromobility device, or a
bicycle or electric bicycle, provided that the motor-driven cycle, motor
scooter, low-speed micromobility device, bicycle, or electric bicycle does not
impede the normal flow of pedestrian traffic. This division does not authorize
any person to operate a vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4511.711, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within on year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.68) (Am. Ord. 7088, passed 7-11-95; Am. Ord. 2023-021, passed 2-
28-23) Penalty, see §
351.99
§ 351.04 MANNER OF PARALLEL PARKING; PRIVILEGES FOR HANDICAPPED.
    (A)   Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway where there is an
adjacent curb shall be stopped or parked with the right-hand wheels of the
vehicle parallel with and not more than 12 inches from the right-hand curb,
unless it is impossible to approach so close to the curb; in such case the stop
shall be made as close to the curb as possible and only for the time necessary
to discharge and receive passengers or to load or unload merchandise. Local
authorities by ordinance may permit angle parking on any roadway under their
jurisdiction, except that angle parking shall not be permitted on a state route
within a municipal corporation unless an unoccupied roadway width of not less
than 25 feet is available for free-moving traffic.
   (B)   Local authorities by ordinance may permit parking of vehicles with the
left-hand wheels adjacent to and within 12 inches of the left-hand curb of a
one-way roadway.
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Except as provided in division (C)(1)(b) of this section,
no vehicle shall be stopped or parked on a road or highway with the vehicle
facing in a direction other than the direction of travel on that side of the
road or highway.
         (b)   The operator of a motorcycle may back the motorcycle into an
angled parking space so that when the motorcycle is parked it is facing in a
direction other than the direction of travel on the side of the road or
highway.
      (2)   The operator of a motorcycle may back the motorcycle into a parking
space that is located on the side of, and parallel to, a road or highway. The
motorcycle may face any direction when so parked. Not more than two motorcycles
at a time shall be parked in a parking space as described in this division (C)
(2) of this section irrespective of whether or not the space is metered.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any statute or any rule, regulation, resolution, or
ordinance, air compressors, tractors, trucks, and other equipment, while being
used in the construction, reconstruction, installation, repair, or removal of
facilities near, on, over, or under a street or highway, may stop, stand, or
park where necessary in order to perform such work, provided a flag person is
on duty or warning signs or lights are displayed as may be prescribed by the
Director of Transportation.
    (E)   Accessible parking locations and privileges for persons with
disabilities that limit or impair the ability to walk shall be provided and
designated by all political subdivisions and by the state and all agencies and
instrumentalities thereof at all offices and facilities where parking is
provided, whether owned, rented, or leased, and at all publicly owned parking
garages. The locations shall be designated through the posting of an elevated
sign, whether permanently affixed or movable, imprinted with the international
symbol of access and shall be reasonably close to exits, entrances, elevators,
and ramps. All elevated signs posted in accordance with this division and R.C.
§ 3781.111(C) shall be mounted on a fixed or movable post, and the distance
from the ground to the bottom edge of the sign shall measure not less than five
feet. If a new sign or a replacement sign designating an accessible parking
location is posted on or after October 14, 1999, there also shall be affixed
upon the surface of that sign or affixed next to the designating sign a notice
that states the fine applicable for the offense of parking a motor vehicle in
the designated accessible parking location if the motor vehicle is not legally
entitled to be parked in that location.
   (F)   (1)   (a)   No person shall stop, stand, or park any motor vehicle at
accessible parking locations provided under division (E) of this section, or at
accessible clearly marked parking locations provided in or on privately owned
parking lots, parking garages, or other parking areas and designated in
accordance with that division, unless one of the following applies:
            1.   The motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of
a person with a disability that limits or impairs the ability to walk and is
displaying a valid removable windshield placard or accessible license plates;
or
            2.   The motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of
a person with a disability and is displaying a parking card or accessible
license plates.
         (b)   Any motor vehicle that is parked in an accessible marked parking
location in violation of division (F)(1)(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section
may be towed or otherwise removed from the parking location by the law
enforcement agency of the municipality. A motor vehicle that is so towed or
removed shall not be released to its owner until the owner presents proof of
ownership of the motor vehicle and pays all towing and storage fees normally
imposed by the municipality for towing and storing motor vehicles. If the motor
vehicle is a leased vehicle, it shall not be released to the lessee until the
lessee presents proof that that person is the lessee of the motor vehicle and
pays all towing and storage fees normally imposed by the municipality for
towing and storing motor vehicles.
         (c)   If a person is charged with a violation of division (F)(1)(a)1.
or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section, it is an affirmative defense to the charge that
the person suffered an injury not more than 72 hours prior to the time the
person was issued the ticket or citation and that, because of the injury, the
person meets at least one of the criteria contained in R.C. § 4503.44(A)(1).
      (2)    No person shall stop, stand, or park any motor vehicle in an area
that is commonly known as an access aisle, which area is marked by diagonal
stripes and is located immediately adjacent to an accessible parking location
provided under division (E) of this section or at an accessible clearly marked
parking location provided in or on a privately owned parking lot, parking
garage, or other parking area and designated in accordance with that division.
   (G)   When a motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of a
person with a disability that limits or impairs the ability to walk and is
displaying a removable windshield placard or accessible license plates, or when
a motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of a person with a
disability and is displaying a parking card or accessible license plates, the
motor vehicle is permitted to park for a period of two hours in excess of the
legal parking period permitted by local authorities, except where local
ordinances or police rules provide otherwise or where the vehicle is parked in
such a manner as to be clearly a traffic hazard.
   (H)   No owner of an office, facility, or parking garage where accessible
parking locations are required to be designated in accordance with division (E)
of this section shall fail to properly mark the accessible parking locations in
accordance with that division or fail to maintain the markings of the
accessible locations, including the erection and maintenance of the fixed or
movable signs.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require a person or
organization to apply for a removable windshield placard or accessible license
plates if the parking card or accessible license plates issued to the person or
organization under prior law have not expired or been surrendered or revoked.
   (J)   As used in this section:
      ACCESSIBLE LICENSE PLATES and REMOVABLE WINDSHIELD PLACARD. Mean any
license plates, standard removable windshield placard, permanent removable
windshield placard, or temporary removable windshield placard issued under R.C.
§ 4503.41 or 4503.44, and also mean any substantially similar license plates or
removable windshield placard issued by a state, district, country, or
sovereignty.
      PERSON WITH A DISABILITY. Means any person who has lost the use of one or
both legs or one or both arms, who is blind, deaf, or unable to move without
the aid of crutches or a wheelchair, or whose mobility is restricted by a
permanent cardiovascular, pulmonary, or other disabling condition.
      PERSON WITH A DISABILITY THAT LIMITS OR IMPAIRS THE ABILITY TO WALK. Has
the same meaning as in R.C. § 4503.44.
   (K)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (A) or (C) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (F)(1)(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in
division (K)(2)(a) and (b) of this section. Except as otherwise provided in
division (K)(2)(a) of this section, an offender who violates division (F)(1)
(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section shall be fined not less than $250 nor more
than $500. An offender who violates division (F)(1)(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this
section shall be fined not more than $100 if the offender, prior to sentencing,
proves either of the following to the satisfaction of the court:
            1.   At the time of the violation of division (F)(1)(a)1. of this
section, the offender or the person for whose transport the motor vehicle was
being operated had been issued a removable windshield placard that then was
valid or accessible license plates that then were valid but the offender or the
person neglected to display the placard or license plates as described in
division (F)(1)(a)1. of this section.
            2.   At the time of the violation of division (F)(1)(a)2. of this
section, the offender or the person for whose transport the motor vehicle was
being operated had been issued a parking card that then was valid or accessible
license plates that then were valid but the offender or the person neglected to
display the card or license plates as described in division (F)(1)(a)2. of this
section.
         (b)   In no case shall an offender who violates division (F)(1)(a)1.
or (F)(1)(a)2. be sentenced to any term of imprisonment.
         (c)   An arrest or conviction for a violation of division (F)(1)(a)1.
or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section does not constitute a criminal record and need
not be reported by the person so arrested or convicted in response to any
inquiries contained in any application for employment, license, or other right
or privilege, or made in connection with the person’s appearance as a witness.
         (d)   The clerk of the court shall pay every fine collected under
divisions (K)(2) and (K)(3) of this section to the municipality. Except as
provided in division (K)(2) of this section, the municipality shall use the
fine moneys it receives under divisions (K)(2) and (K)(3) of this section to
pay the expenses it incurs in complying with the signage and notice
requirements contained in division (E) of this section. The municipality may
use up to 50% of each fine it receives under divisions (K)(2) and (K)(3) of
this section to pay the costs of educational, advocacy, support, and assistive
technology programs for persons with disabilities, and for public improvements
within the municipality that benefit or assist persons with disabilities, if
governmental agencies or nonprofit organizations offer the programs.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (F)(2) of this section shall be fined not
less than $250 nor more than $500. In no case shall an offender who violates
division (F)(2) of this section be sentenced to any term of imprisonment. An
arrest or conviction for a violation of division (F)(2) of this section does
not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the person so
arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries contained in any application
for employment, license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection
with the person’s appearance as a witness.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (H) of this section shall be punished as
follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (K)(4) of this section,
the offender shall be issued a warning.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation ofdivision (H) of this section or of a municipal
ordinance that is substantially equivalent to that division, the offender shall
not be issued a warning but shall be fined not more than $25 for each parking
location that is not properly marked or whose markings are not properly
maintained.
(R.C. § 4511.69) Penalty, see §
351.99
§ 351.05 MANNER OF ANGLE PARKING.
   Upon streets where angle parking is permitted, no person shall stop, stand
or park a vehicle other than at the angle to the curb or edge of the roadway as
is indicated by appropriate signs or markings.
Penalty, see §
351.99
§ 351.06 SELLING, WASHING, OR REPAIRING VEHICLE UPON ROADWAY.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle upon any roadway for the
principal purpose of:
   (A)   Displaying such vehicle for sale;
   (B)   Washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle except repairs
necessitated by an emergency.
Penalty, see §
351.99
§ 351.07 UNATTENDED VEHICLE; DUTY TO LOCK IGNITION, REMOVE KEY, SET BRAKE ON
GRADE.
   (A)   (1)   No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit
it to stand unattended without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition,
removing the key from the ignition, effectively setting the parking brake, and,
when the motor vehicle is standing upon any grade, turning the front wheels to
the curb or side of the highway.
      (2)   The requirements of this section relating to the stopping of the
engine, locking of the ignition, and removing the key from the ignition of a
motor vehicle do not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   A motor vehicle that is parked on residential property;
         (b)   A motor vehicle that is locked, regardless of where it is
parked;
         (c)   An emergency vehicle;
         (d)   A public safety vehicle.
    (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within on year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.661) Penalty, see §
351.99
§ 351.08 [RESERVED].
Editor’s note:
   The provisions of this section, pertaining to loading zones, were repealed
by Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76. This section has been reserved for future
expansion.
§ 351.09 BUS STOPS AND TAXICAB STANDS.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle other than a bus in a
bus stop, or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand when any such stop or
stand has been officially designated and appropriately posted, except that the
driver of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of
and while actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers when such
stopping does not interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about
to enter such zone, and then only for a period not to exceed three minutes, if
such stopping is not prohibited therein by posted signs.
   (B)   The operator of a bus shall not stop, stand or park such vehicles upon
any street at any place for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers or
their baggage other than at a bus stop so designated and posted as such, except
in case of an emergency.
   (C)   The operator of a bus shall enter a bus stop on a public street in
such a manner that the bus when stopped to load or unload passengers or baggage
shall be in a position with the right front wheel of such vehicle not further
than 18 inches from the curb and the bus approximately parallel to the curb so
as not to unduly impede the movement of other vehicular traffic.
    (D)   The operator of a taxicab shall not stand or park such vehicle upon
any street at any place other than in a taxicab stand so designated and posted
as such. This provision shall not prevent the operator of a taxicab from
temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or parking provisions at
any place for the purpose of and while actually engaged in the expeditions
loading or unloading of passengers.
Penalty, see §
351.99
§ 351.10 PARKING IN ALLEYS AND NARROW STREETS.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle upon a street, other
than an alley, in such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available
less than ten feet of the width of the roadway free for movement of vehicular
traffic, except that a driver may stop temporarily during the actual loading or
unloading of passengers or when directed to by a police officer or traffic
control signal.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided by law, no person shall stop, stand or
park a vehicle within an alley except while actually loading and unloading, and
then only for a period not to exceed 30 minutes.
Penalty, see §
351.99
§ 351.11 PARKING ON OFF-STREET PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   The parking of vehicles on public or private property excluding
dedicated streets and ways set out for public travel and heretofore regulated,
shall be prohibited without the consent of the owner of such private property
or the proper governmental agency in charge of such public property.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked on public property in violation of rules
and regulations established by the governmental agency controlling such public
property.
    (C)   No vehicle shall be parked on any private property in violation of
any regulations established by the owner of such private property.
   (D)   The provision of divisions (B) and (C) hereof shall not be applicable
unless private or public property is posted in a conspicuous manner setting
forth the prohibitions of parking or the conditions and regulations under which
parking is permitted.
   (E)   Upon complaint of the owner or operator of any private parking lot,
the Division of Police may remove and impound any vehicle in violation of this
section, as provided in §
303.10.
(Am. Ord. 5323, passed 6-23-81) Penalty, see §
 351.99
§ 351.12 MOVING SNOW AFTER HEAVY SNOWFALLS.
   (A)   HEAVY SNOW, within the meaning of this section, means a snowfall
having an average depth of
four inches or more or a snowfall having an average depth of at least three
inches, together with a prediction that the total snowfall will exceed four
inches in its average depth, such prediction to be determined by the United
States Weather Bureau at Cincinnati.
   (B)   No owner or person in control of any real estate shall move snow from
his or her private property onto a public street in such an amount as to
obstruct traffic or parking on any public street.
(Ord. 2023-021, passed 2-28-23) Penalty, see §
351.99
§ 351.13 HANDICAPPED PARKING SPACES.
   The City Manager shall be authorized to adopt rules and regulations which
would permit exemptions from the certain requirements of this chapter in the
case of handicapped persons who have filed the required doctor’s certificate.
(Ord. 5380, passed 2-9-82) Penalty, see §
351.99
§ 351.14 OVERTIME PARKING.
   No person shall park a vehicle upon any public street in excess of 72
consecutive hours. This section shall not apply to any “parking meter space” as
defined in §
353.01 of this code.
(Ord. 5769, passed 4-22-86) Penalty, see §
351.99
§ 351.15 PARKING UNSAFE VEHICLES.
   No persons shall park any unsafe vehicle on any highway or public street.
UNSAFE VEHICLE shall be defined as a vehicle which is apparently inoperable by
reason of extensive damage, such damage including, but not limited to, any of
the following: missing wheels, tires, motor or transmission.
(Ord. 5768, passed 4-22-86) Penalty, see §
351.99
§ 351.16 PROHIBITING PARKING.
   (A)   No person shall park a truck or other vehicle, the gross weight of
which, with load, exceeds 7,500 pounds and no person shall park a trailer
having a length exceeding ten feet on any street in any of the following zones
in the city, to wit: R-la, R-lb, R-lc, R-lcC, R-lu, R-2, R-3, PUD, RCD, MHP, or
the Central Business District Zone except for loading or unloading of materials
for periods not to exceed 30 minutes.
   (B)   No person shall park a camping/vacation mobile unit, as defined in §
1131.026, on any street for any period exceeding six hours.
   (C)   No person shall park in on-street areas that are designated and signed
as No Parking Zones for any period exceeding 30 minutes. The Police Department
shall have the authority to grant temporary parking authorization for special
events, etc. not to exceed 12 hours.
(Ord. 6226, passed 5-24-88; Am. Ord. 7153, passed 12-26-95; Am. Ord. 2023-021,
passed 2-28- 23) Penalty, see §
 351.99
§ 351.17 PARKING OF SEMI-TRACTOR/TRAILER IN RESIDENTIAL ZONE.
   No person shall park a semi-tractor and/or trailer, or any truck rated with
a gross vehicle weight in excess of 10,000 pounds, in any residential district
zone or the Central Business District, as defined in the Zoning Code, except
when such vehicle is parked in a completely enclosed garage.
(Ord. 6130, passed 11-10-87; Am. Ord. 2023-021, passed 2-28-23) Penalty, see §
351.99
§ 351.18 PARKING OF VEHICLES CONTAINING EXPLOSIVES OR HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.
   Vehicles containing explosive or hazardous materials shall not be parked in
the city except during delivery of their load. During any delivery the vehicle
must be attended at all times.
(Ord. 6198, passed 4-12-88) Penalty, see §
351.99
§ 351.99 PENALTY AND WAIVER.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which a penalty has not
otherwise been provided shall be fined not more than $250. City Council
recommends that the Lebanon Municipal Court establish the following parking
violation penalty schedule:
 
Handicap Parking Violation      $250
Parking in Prohibited Areas     $50
Parking on Sidewalks            $100
Parking in Fire Lane / Hydrant  $100
Parking on Wrong Side of Street $100
Parking Over Lines              $50
 
(Ord. 2023-021, passed 2-28-23)
CHAPTER 353: PARKING METERS
Section
   
353.01   Definitions
   
353.02   Parking within marked lines of meter space
   
353.03   Deposit of payment required; illegal parking
   
353.04   Parking prohibited in meter space
   
353.05   Defacing meter; use of slugs
   
353.06   Parking meter hours
   
353.07   Handicapped parking spaces [Repealed]
 
   
353.99   Penalty and waiver
Statutory reference:
   Making or using slugs, see R.C. § 2913.33
   Off-street parking facilities, see R.C.§§ 717.05 et seq.
Cross-reference:
   Division of Police duties in regard to parking meters, see §
121.02
   Making or using slugs, see §
507.03
   Registered owner prima-facie liable for unlawful parking, see
§ 351.02
§ 353.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and phrases when used in this chapter shall have the
meaning respectively ascribed to them:
   PARKING METER. A device or system installed for the regulation of parking by
lawful authority. Each parking meter shall display brief directions as to its
operation and meter payment to be deposited. Each parking meter shall contain a
timing mechanism which shall indicate either a balance of legal parking time or
overtime parking by an appropriate signal at the expiration of such lawful
time.
   PARKING METER SPACE. A space within a parking meter area, which is
designated for the parking of a single vehicle by marked lines on the curb or
paved surface area adjacent to a parking meter. Posted notice on the meter or
on signs shall indicate the maximum consecutive parking time limit during which
a vehicle may be legally parked in a particular parking meter space and the
days and hours when the requirement to deposit lawful payment shall apply.
(Ord. 2021-014, passed 2-9-21)
§ 353.02 PARKING WITHIN MARKED LINES OF METER SPACE.
   No person shall park a vehicle in a parking meter space in such a way that
the vehicle shall not be entirely within the limits of the space so designated
by marked lines.
Penalty, see § 353.99
§ 353.03 DEPOSIT OF PAYMENT REQUIRED; ILLEGAL PARKING.
   (A)   No person shall cause, allow or permit a vehicle to occupy a parking
meter space during the hours when the provision applicable to the space are in
effect, unless he or she shall deposit the lawful payment of appropriate
denomination in the adjacent parking meter or area kiosk, as required by
directions.
   (B)   The person is not required to deposit a payment for a meter which
indicates a balance of unused parking time left by the previous occupant of the
space, so long as his or her occupancy of the space does not exceed the
indicated unused parking time.
   (C)   The parking meter space may be lawfully occupied by a vehicle during
the balance of legal parking time shown on the meter provided the occupancy
does not exceed the established maximum time limit.
   (D)   No person shall fail to comply with directions displayed on the
parking meter or kiosk.
   (E)   No person shall cause, allow or permit a vehicle to occupy a meter
space beyond the maximum consecutive parking time limit lawfully prescribed,
for the particular space occupied, by appropriate notice on the meter or on
posted signs.
   (F)   Each two hours of continued violation of this section shall constitute
a separate offense.
(Am. Ord. 6180, passed 2-23-88)
   (G)   Council recommends adoption of the following fine schedule by the
Municipal Court for violations of this section:
      (1)   If paid within 72 hours of violation, $20.
      (2)   If paid thereafter, $40.
      (3)   Meter feeding, $40.
(Res. 6179, passed 2-23-88; Am. Ord. 7726, passed 10-26-99; Am. Ord. 8749,
passed 5-27-03; Am. Ord. 2021-014, passed 2-9-21; Am. Ord. 2023-021, passed 2-
28-23) Penalty, see §
 353.99
§ 353.04 PARKING PROHIBITED IN METER SPACE.
   Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter, no person shall park in a
parking meter space when otherwise directed by a police officer or firefighter
or when parking is prohibited by properly posted signs.
Penalty, see §
353.99
§ 353.05 DEFACING METER; USE OF SLUGS.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Deface, injure, tamper, open or willfully break, destroy or impair the
usefulness of any parking meter.
   (B)   Cause, allow or permit any token, slug, false or counterfeited coin,
device or other substance to be deposited in a parking meter.
Penalty, see §
353.99
Cross-reference:
   Making or using slugs, see §
507.03
§ 353.06 PARKING METER HOURS.
   Parking meters shall be in operation from 8:00 a.m. until 6:00 p.m. Monday
through Saturday.
(Am. Ord. 7916, passed 8-22-00; Am. Ord. 8749, passed 5-27-03; Am. Ord. 2021-
014, passed 2-9-21)
§ 353.07 HANDICAPPED PARKING SPACES. [REPEALED]
Editor’s note:
   This section has been repealed in conjunction with the 1995 revision to this
Code of Ordinances. For current provisions regarding handicapped parking
spaces, see §
351.13.
§ 353.99 PENALTY AND WAIVER.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more
than $250.
   (B)   Any person charged with a violation of any provision of this chapter
for which payment of a prescribed fine may be made, may pay such sum in the
manner prescribed by the Municipal Court. Such payment shall be deemed a plea
of guilty, waiver of court appearance and acknowledgment of conviction of the
alleged offense and may be accepted in full satisfaction of the prescribed
penalty for such alleged violation. Payment of the prescribed fine need not be
accepted when laws prescribe that a certain number of such offenses shall
require court appearance.
(Ord. 2023-021, passed 2-28-23)
TITLE NINE - Pedestrians, Bicycles and Motorcycles
   
Chapter 371   Pedestrians
   
Chapter 373   Bicycles and Motorcycles
   
Chapter 377   Snowmobiles and All Purpose Vehicles
   
Chapter 379   Skateboards and Skates
CHAPTER 371: PEDESTRIANS
Section
   
371.01   Right-of-way of pedestrian in crosswalk [Repealed]
   
371.02   Right-of-way of blind person
   
371.03   Right-of-way yielded by pedestrian [Repealed]
   
371.04   Moving in crosswalk; stepping into street
   
371.05   Walking on path or street; jaywalking [Repealed]
   
371.06   Soliciting rides; riding on outside of vehicle
   
371.07   Operation of electric personal assistive mobility devices
   
371.08   Operation of personal delivery device on sidewalks and crosswalks
   
371.09   Low-speed micromobility devices
 
   
371.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Obedience to traffic control devices, see
§ 313.01
   Pedestrian control signals, see
§ 313.05
§ 371.01 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF PEDESTRIAN IN CROSSWALK.  [REPEALED]
Editor’s note:
   This section was repealed by Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76. For current
provisions regarding right-of-way of pedestrians in crosswalks, see §
331.45.
§ 371.02 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF BLIND PERSON.
   (A)   (1)   As used in this section BLIND PERSON or BLIND PEDESTRIAN means a
person having not more than 20/200 visual acuity in the better eye with
correcting lenses or visual acuity greater than 20/200 but with a limitation in
the fields of vision such that the widest diameter of the visual field subtends
an angle no greater than 20°.
      (2)   The driver of every vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to every
blind pedestrian guided by a guide dog, or carrying a cane which is
predominantly white or metallic in color, with or without a red tip.
   (B)   No person, other than a blind person, while on any public street,
highway, alley or other public thoroughfare shall carry a white cane or
metallic cane, with or without a red tip.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.47)
Penalty, see § 371.99
§ 371.03 RIGHT-OF-WAY YIELDED BY PEDESTRIAN.  [REPEALED]
Editor’s note:
   This section was repealed by Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76. For current
provisions regarding right-of-way yielded by pedestrians, see §
331.46.
§ 371.04 MOVING IN CROSSWALK; STEPPING INTO STREET.
   (A)   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.49)
   (C)   Pedestrians shall not step into or upon a street or highway without
looking in both directions to see what is approaching.
Penalty, see § 371.99
§ 371.05 WALKING ON PATH OR STREET; JAYWALKING.  [REPEALED]
Editor’s note:
   This section was repealed by Ord. 3033, passed 8-10-76. For current
provisions regarding walking on a path or street and jaywalking, see §
331.48. 
§ 371.06 SOLICITING RIDES; RIDING ON OUTSIDE OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person while on a roadway outside a safety zone shall solicit a
ride from the driver of any vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in subsection (2) of this division, no person
shall stand on a highway for the purpose of soliciting employment, business, or
contributions from the occupant of any vehicle.
      (2)   The legislative authority of a municipal corporation, by ordinance,
may authorize the issuance of a permit to a charitable organization to allow a
person acting on behalf of the organization to solicit charitable contributions
from the occupant of a vehicle by standing on a highway, other than a freeway
as provided in R.C. § 4511.051(A), that is under the jurisdiction of the
municipal corporation. The permit shall be valid for only one period of time,
which shall be specified in the permit, in any calendar year. The legislative
authority also may specify the locations where contributions may be solicited
and may impose any other restrictions on or requirements regarding the manner
in which the solicitations are to be conducted that the legislative authority
considers advisable.
      (3)   As used in subsection (2) of this division, CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION
means an organization that has received from the Internal Revenue Service a
currently valid ruling or determination letter recognizing the tax-exempt
status of the organizations pursuant to section 501(c)(3) of the Internal
Revenue Code.
   (C)   No person shall hang onto or ride on the outside of any motor vehicle
while it is moving upon a roadway, except mechanics or test engineers making
repairs or adjustments, or workers performing specialized highway or street
maintenance or construction under authority of a public agency.
   (D)   No operator shall knowingly permit any person to hang onto or ride on
the outside of any motor vehicle while it is moving upon a roadway, except
mechanics or test engineers making repairs or adjustments, or workers
performing specialized highway or street maintenance or construction under
authority of a public agency.
   (E)   No driver of a truck, trailer, or semitrailer shall knowingly permit
any person who has not attained the age of 16 years to ride in the unenclosed
or unroofed cargo storage area of the driver’s vehicle if the vehicle is
traveling faster than 25 miles per hour, unless either of the following
applies:
      (1)   The cargo storage area of the vehicle is equipped with a properly
secured seat to which is attached a seat safety belt that is in compliance with
federal standards for an occupant restraining device as defined in R.C. §
4513.263(A)(2), the seat and seat safety belt were installed at the time the
vehicle was originally assembled, and the person riding in the cargo storage
area is in the seat and is wearing the seat safety belt;
      (2)   An emergency exists that threatens the life of the driver or the
person being transported in the cargo storage area of the truck, trailer, or
semitrailer.
   (F)   No driver of a truck, trailer, or semitrailer shall permit any person,
except for those workers performing specialized highway or street maintenance
or construction under authority of a public agency, to ride in the cargo
storage area or on a tailgate of the driver’s vehicle while the tailgate is
unlatched.
   (G)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
any provision of divisions (A) to (D) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates any provision of divisions (A) to (D) of this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates any provision of divisions
(A) to (D) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates divisions (E) or (F) of this section is guilty of
a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.51)
Penalty, see § 371.99
§ 371.07 OPERATION OF ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   Electric personal assistive mobility devices may be operated on
the public streets, highways, sidewalks, and paths and portions of roadways set
aside for the exclusive use of bicycles in accordance with this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, those sections of
this Traffic Code that by their nature are applicable to an electric personal
assistive mobility device apply to the device and the person operating it
whenever it is operated upon any public street, highway, sidewalk, or path or
upon any portion of a roadway set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
      (3)   The municipality may regulate or prohibit the operation of electric
personal assistive mobility devices on public streets, highways, sidewalks, and
paths, or portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles,
under its jurisdiction.
   (B)   No operator of an electric personal assistive mobility device shall do
any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians and human-powered
vehicles at all times;
      (2)   Fail to give an audible signal before overtaking and passing a
pedestrian;
      (3)   Operate the device at night unless the device or its operator is
equipped with or wearing both of the following:
         (a)   A lamp pointing to the front that emits a white light visible
from a distance of not less than 500 feet;
         (b)   A red reflector facing the rear that is visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet when directly in front of lawful lower
beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle;
      (4)   Operate the device on any portion of a street or highway that has
an established speed limit of 55 miles per hour or more;
      (5)   Operate the device upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of
pedestrians or other specialized use when an appropriate sign giving notice of
the specialized use is posted on the path;
      (6)   If under 18 years of age, operate the device unless wearing a
protective helmet on the person’s head with the chin strap properly fastened;
      (7)   If under 16 years of age, operate the device unless, during the
operation, the person is under the direct visual and audible supervision of
another person who is 18 year of age or older and is responsible for the
immediate care of the person under 16 years of age.
   (C)   No person who is under 14 year of age shall operate an electric
personal assistive mobility device.
   (D)   No person shall distribute or sell an electric personal assistive
mobility device unless the device is accompanied by a written statement that is
substantially equivalent to the following: “WARNING: TO REDUCE THE RISK OF
SERIOUS INJURY, USE ONLY WHILE WEARING FULL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT – HELMET,
WRIST GUARDS, ELBOW PADS, AND KNEE PADS.”
   (E)   Nothing in this section affects or shall be construed to affect any
rule of the Director of Natural Resources or a board of park district
commissioners governing the operation of vehicles on lands under the control of
the Director or board, as applicable.
    (F)    Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (B) or (C) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor and shall be punished as follows:
         (a)   The offender shall be fined $10;
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (B) or (C) of this section or a substantially
similar state law or municipal ordinance, the court, in addition to imposing
the fine required under division (F)(1)(a) of this section, shall do one of the
following:
            1.   Order the impoundment for not less than one day but not more
than 30 days of the electric personal assistive mobility device that was
involved in the current violation of that division. The court shall order the
device to be impounded at a safe indoor location designated by the court and
may assess storage fees of not more than $5 per day; provided the total
storage, processing, and release fees assessed against the offender or the
device in connection with the device’s impoundment or subsequent release shall
not exceed $50.
            2.    If the court does not issue an impoundment order pursuant to
division (F)(1)(b)1. of this section, issue an order prohibiting the offender
from operating any electric personal assistive mobility device on the public
streets, highways, sidewalks, and paths and portions of roadways set aside for
the exclusive use of bicycles for not less than one day but not more than 30
days.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.512)
   (G)   As used in this Code, ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE
means a self-balancing two non-tandem wheeled device that is designed to
transport only one person, has an electric propulsion system of an average of
750 watts, and when ridden on a paved level surface by an operator who weighs
170 pounds has a maximum speed of less than 20 miles per hour.
(R.C. § 4501.01(TT))
§ 371.08 OPERATION OF PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE ON SIDEWALKS AND CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ELIGIBLE ENTITY. Means a corporation, partnership, association, firm,
sole proprietorship, or other entity engaged in business.
      PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE. Means an electrically powered device to which
all of the following apply:
         (a)   The device is intended primarily to transport property and cargo
on sidewalks and crosswalks.
         (b)   The device weighs less than 250 pounds excluding any property or
cargo being carried in the device.
         (c)   The device has a maximum speed of ten miles per hour.
         (d)   The device is equipped with technology that enables the
operation of the device with active control or monitoring by a person, without
active control or monitoring by a person, or both with or without active
control or monitoring by a person.
      PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE OPERATOR. Means an agent of an eligible entity
who exercises direct physical control over, or monitoring of, the navigation
and operation of a personal delivery device. The phrase does not include, with
respect to a delivery or other service rendered by a personal delivery device,
the person who requests the delivery or service. The phrase also does not
include a person who only arranges for and dispatches a personal delivery
device for a delivery or other service.
   (B)   An eligible entity may operate a personal delivery device on sidewalks
and crosswalks so long as all of the following requirements are met:
      (1)   The personal delivery device is operated in accordance with all
regulations, if any, established by each local authority within which the
personal delivery device is operated.
      (2)   A personal delivery device operator is actively controlling or
monitoring the navigation and operation of the personal delivery device.
      (3)   The eligible entity maintains an insurance policy that includes
general liability coverage of not less than $100,000 for damages arising from
the operation of the personal delivery device by the eligible entity and any
agent of the eligible entity.
      (4)   The device is equipped with all of the following:
         (a)   A marker that clearly identifies the name and contact
information of the eligible entity operating the personal delivery device and a
unique identification number;
         (b)   A braking system that enables the personal delivery device to
come to a controlled stop;
         (c)   If the personal delivery device is being operated between sunset
and sunrise, a light on both the front and rear of the personal delivery device
that is visible in clear weather from a distance of at least 500 feet to the
front and rear of the personal delivery device when directly in front of low
beams of headlights on a motor vehicle.
   (C)   No personal delivery device operator shall allow a personal delivery
device to do any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to comply with traffic or pedestrian control devices and
signals;
      (2)   Unreasonably interfere with pedestrians or traffic;
      (3)   Transport any hazardous material that would require a permit issued
by the Public Utilities Commission;
      (4)   Operate on a street or highway, except when crossing the street or
highway within a crosswalk.
   (D)   A personal delivery device has all of the rights and obligations
applicable to a pedestrian under the same circumstances, except that a personal
delivery device shall yield the right-of- way to human pedestrians on sidewalks
and crosswalks.
   (E)   (1)   No person shall operate a personal delivery device unless the
person is authorized to do so under this section and complies with the
requirements of this section.
      (2)   An eligible entity is responsible for both of the following:
         (a)   Any violation of this section that is committed by a personal
delivery device operator; and
         (b)   Any other circumstance, including a technological malfunction,
in which a personal delivery device operates in a manner prohibited by
divisions (C)(1) to (C)(4) of this section.
(R.C. § 4511.513) Penalty, see §
303.99
§ 371.09 LOW-SPEED MICROMOBILITY DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   A low-speed micromobility device may be operated on the public
streets, highways, sidewalks, and shared-use paths, and may be operated on any
portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles in accordance
with this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, those sections of
this title that by their nature
could apply to a low-speed micromobility device do apply to the device and the
person operating it whenever it is operated upon any public street, highway,
sidewalk, or shared-use path, or upon any portion of a roadway set aside for
the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (B)   No operator of a low-speed micromobility device shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Fail to yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians at all times;
      (2)   Fail to give an audible signal before overtaking and passing a
pedestrian;
      (3)   Operate the device at night unless the device or its operator is
equipped with or wearing both of the following:
         (a)   A lamp pointing to the front that emits a white light visible
from a distance of not less than 500 feet;
         (b)   A red reflector facing the rear that is visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet when directly in front of lawful lower
beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle.
   (C)   (1)   No person who is under 16 years of age shall rent a low-speed
micromobility device.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly rent a low-speed micromobility device to
a person who is under 16 years of age.
      (3)   No person shall knowingly rent a low-speed micromobility device on
behalf of a person who is under 16 years of age.
   (D)   No person shall operate a low-speed micromobility device at a speed
greater than 20 miles per hour.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Unless a mens rea is otherwise specified in this section, an
offense established under this section is a strict liability offense and R.C. §
2901.20 does not apply. The designation of that offense as a strict liability
offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for which there
is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability offense.
   (F)   Notwithstanding division (A)(1) of this section, the municipality,
county, township, metropolitan park district, township park district,
recreation district, or any division of the Ohio Department of Natural
Resources if the division has the approval of the Ohio Director of Natural
Resources may do any of the following:
      (1)   Regulate or prohibit the operation of low-speed micromobility
devices on public streets, highways, sidewalks, and shared-use paths, and
portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, under its
jurisdiction;
      (2)   Include low-speed micromobility devices that are adapted to expand
access for people with various physical limitations into a shared bicycle,
shared electric bicycle, or similar vehicle sharing program, under its
jurisdiction;
      (3)   Require the owner or operator of a low-speed micromobility device
rental service or low-speed micromobility device sharing program to maintain
commercial general liability insurance related to the operation of the devices,
with limits of up to $1,000,000 per occurrence and $2,000,000 per aggregate.
(R.C. § 4511.514) Penalty, see §
303.99
§ 371.99 PENALTY.
Editor’s note:
   See §
303.99 for general code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.
CHAPTER 373: BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
Section
   
373.01   Definitions
   
373.02   Code application to bicycles
   
373.03   Rules for bicycles, motorcycles and snowmobiles
   
373.04   Attaching bicycle or sled to vehicle
   
373.05   Riding bicycles and motorcycles abreast
   
373.06   Signal device on bicycle; siren
   
373.07   Lights and reflector on bicycle; brakes
   
373.08   Riding bicycle on right side of roadway; traffic control devices; hand
and arm signals; yield right-of-way
   
373.09   Reckless operation; control course and speed
   
373.10   Parking of bicycle
   
373.11   Riding on sidewalks
   
373.12   Motorized bicycles
   
373.13   Impounding of bicycle
   
373.14   Traffic laws applicable
   
373.15   Registration
   
373.16   Issuance of registration, term, fee and tag or decal
   
373.17   Electric bicycles
 
   
373.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Bicycle regulations to be consistent with state law, see R.C. § 4511.07(A)
(8)
Cross-reference:
   Bicycle defined, see §
301.04
   Motorcycle and motor bike brakes, see §
337.18
   Motorcycle defined, see §
301.21
   Motorcycle headlight, see §
337.03
§ 373.01 DEFINITIONS.
   BICYCLE. A two-wheel vehicle, propelled by human power, having a tandem
arrangement of wheels equipped with tires either of which is 16 inches or more
in diameter.
   DIRECTOR OF SAFETY. The Director of Safety as designated in the Charter of
the City of Lebanon, or any member of the Department of Safety designated by
the Director thereof to act in his or her place, in carrying out the provisions
of this chapter.
   STREET. That portion of the street right-of-way upon which the roadway is
located of any street, alley, avenue, road, boulevard, public way, or parkway
in the city, but shall not include sidewalks.
   TANDEM BICYCLE. Any bicycle having two or more seats.
(Ord. 5874, passed 9-9-86)
§ 373.02 CODE APPLICATION TO BICYCLES.
   (A)   The provisions of this traffic code that are applicable to bicycles
and electric bicycles apply whenever a bicycle or electric bicycle is operated
upon any street or upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (D) of this section, a bicycle operator
or electric bicycle operator who violates any provisions of this title
described in division (A) of this section that is applicable to bicycles or
electric bicycles may be issued a ticket, citation, or summons by a law
enforcement officer for the violation in the same manner as the operator of a
motor vehicle would be cited for the same violation. A person who commits any
such violation while operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall not have any
points assessed against the person’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, or probationary license under R.C. §
4510.036.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (D) of this section, in the case of a
violation of any provision of this title described in division (A) of this
section by a bicycle operator, electric bicycle operator, or motor vehicle
operator when the trier of fact finds that the violation by the motor vehicle
operator endangered the lives of bicycle riders or electric bicycle riders at
the time of the violation, the court, notwithstanding any provision of the Ohio
Revised Code to the contrary, may require the bicycle operator, electric
bicycle operator, or motor vehicle operator to take and successfully complete a
bicycling skills course approved by the court in addition to or in lieu of any
penalty otherwise prescribed by this Traffic Code or the Ohio Revised Code for
that violation.
   (D)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to violations of
R.C. § 4511.19, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 4511.52) (Ord. 5874, passed 9-9-86)
§ 373.03 RULES FOR BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES AND SNOWMOBILES.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, SNOWMOBILE has the same meaning as given
that term in R.C. § 4519.01.
   (B)   (1)   No person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall ride
other than upon or astride the permanent and regular seat attached thereto or
carry any other person upon such bicycle or electric bicycle other than upon a
firmly attached and regular seat thereon, and no person shall ride upon a
bicycle or electric bicycle other than upon such a firmly attached and regular
seat.
      (2)   No person operating a motorcycle shall ride other than upon or
astride the permanent and regular seat or saddle attached thereto, or carry any
other person upon such motorcycle other than upon a firmly attached and regular
seat or saddle thereon, and no person shall ride upon a motorcycle other than
upon such a firmly attached and regular seat or saddle.
      (3)   No person shall ride upon a motorcycle that is equipped with a
saddle other than while sitting astride the saddle, facing forward, with one
leg on each side of the motorcycle.
      (4)   No person shall ride upon a motorcycle that is equipped with a seat
other than while sitting upon the seat.
      (5)   No person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall carry any
package, bundle, or article that prevents the driver from keeping at least one
hand upon the handlebars.
      (6)   No bicycle, electric bicycle, or motorcycle shall be used to carry
more persons at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
No motorcycle shall be operated on a highway when the handlebars rise higher
than the shoulders of the operator when the operator is seated in the
operator’s seat or saddle.
   (C)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(3) of this section, no person
shall operate or be a passenger on a snowmobile or motorcycle without using
safety glasses or other protective eye device. Except as provided in division
(C)(3) of this section, no person who is under the age of 18 years, or who
holds a motorcycle operator’s endorsement or license bearing a “novice”
designation that is currently in effect as provided in R.C. § 4507.13, shall
operate a motorcycle on a highway, or be a passenger on a motorcycle, unless
wearing a protective helmet on the person’s head, and no other person shall be
a passenger on a motorcycle operated by such a person unless similarly wearing
a protective helmet. The helmet, safety glasses, or other protective eye device
shall conform with rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety. The
provisions of this paragraph or a violation thereof shall not be used in the
trial of any civil action.
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (C)(3) of this section, no
person shall operate a motorcycle with a valid temporary instruction permit and
temporary instruction permit identification card issued by the Registrar of
Motor Vehicles pursuant to R.C. § 4507.05 unless the person, at the time of
such operation, is wearing on the person’s head a protective helmet that
conforms with rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety.
         (b)   No person shall operate a motorcycle with a valid temporary
instruction permit and temporary instruction permit identification card issued
by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles pursuant to R.C. § 4507.05 in any of the
following circumstances:
            1.   At any time when lighted lights are required by R.C. § 4513.03
(A)(1);
            2.   While carrying a passenger;
            3.   On any limited access highway or heavily congested roadway.
      (3)   Divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2)(a) of this section do not apply to a
person who operates or is a passenger in an autocycle or cab-enclosed
motorcycle when the occupant compartment top is in place enclosing the
occupants.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting the carrying
of a child in a seat or trailer that is designed for carrying children and is
firmly attached to the bicycle or electric bicycle.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (B) or (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates division (B) or (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within on year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates division (B) or (C)(1) or
(C)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.53) (Ord. 5874, passed 9-9-86) Penalty, see §
373.99
§ 373.04 ATTACHING BICYCLE OR SLED TO VEHICLE.
   (A)   (1)   No person riding upon any bicycle, electric bicycle, coaster,
roller skates, sled, skateboard, or toy vehicle shall attach the same or self
to any vehicle upon a roadway.
      (2)   No operator shall knowingly permit any person riding upon any
bicycle, electric bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, skateboard, or toy
vehicle to attach the same or self to any vehicle while it is moving upon a
roadway.
      (3)   This section does not apply to the towing of a disabled vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within on year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.54) (Ord. 5874, passed 9-9-86)
Penalty, see § 373.99
§ 373.05 RIDING BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES ABREAST.
   (A)   Every person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle upon a roadway
shall ride as near to the right side of the roadway as practicable obeying all
traffic rules applicable to vehicles and exercising due care when passing a
standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction. Where a walking or
bicycle path has been provided adjacent to any road or highway, all
pedestrians, equestrians and bicyclists shall use such path.
   (B)   Persons riding bicycles, electric bicycles, or motorcycles upon a
roadway shall ride not more than two abreast in a single lane, except on paths
or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, electric
bicycles, or motorcycles.
   (C)   This section does not require a person operating a bicycle or electric
bicycle to ride at the edge of the roadway when it is unreasonable or unsafe to
do so. Conditions that may require riding away from the edge of the roadway
include when necessary to avoid fixed or moving objects, parked or moving
vehicles, surface hazards, or if it otherwise is unsafe or impracticable to do
so, including if the lane is too narrow for the bicycle or electric bicycle and
an overtaking vehicle to travel safely side by side within the lane.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within on year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
303.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.55) (Ord. 5874, passed 9-9-86)
Penalty, see § 373.99
§ 373.06 SIGNAL DEVICE ON BICYCLE; SIREN.
   A bicycle or electric bicycle may be equipped with a device capable of
giving an audible signal, except that a bicycle or electric bicycle shall not
be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a bicycle or electric bicycle
any siren or whistle.
(R.C. § 4511.56(C)) (Ord. 5874, passed 9-9-86)
Penalty, see § 373.99
§ 373.07 LIGHTS AND REFLECTOR ON BICYCLE; BRAKES.
   (A)   Every bicycle when in use at the times specified in §
337.02, shall be equipped with the following:
      (1)   A lamp mounted on the front of either the bicycle or the operator
that shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to
the front and 300 feet to the sides. A generator-powered lamp that emits light
only when the bicycle is moving may be used to meet this requirement.
      (2)   A red reflector on the rear that shall be visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet to the rear when directly in front of
lawful lower beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle;
      (3)   A lamp emitting either flashing or steady red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear shall be used in addition to the red
reflector. If the red lamp performs as a reflector in that it is visible as
specified in division (A)(2) of this section, the red lamp may serve as the
reflector and a separate reflector is not required.
   (B)   Additional lamps and reflectors may be used in addition to those
required under division (A) of this section, except that red lamps and red
reflectors shall not be used on the front of the bicycle and white lamps and
white reflectors shall not be used on the rear of the bicycle.
(R.C. § 4511.56(A), (B)) (Ord. 5874, passed 9-9-86)
Penalty, see § 373.99
§ 373.08 RIDING BICYCLE ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY; TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES; HAND
AND ARM SIGNALS; YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   Any person operating a bicycle shall:
   (A)   Ride as near to the right-hand side of the roadway as practicable,
exercising due care when passing a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the
same direction;
   (B)   Obey the instructions of official traffic control devices applicable
to vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police officer;
   (C)   Before changing course, turning or stopping upon a roadway, exercise
due care that the movement can be made with reasonable safety and give the hand
and arm signals required by §
331.15;
   (D)   Yield the right-of-way to pedestrian and vehicular traffic upon the
roadway as lawfully required;
   (E)   Yield the right-of-way to a pedestrian upon a sidewalk;
   (F)   Give timely and audible signal before overtaking and passing a
pedestrian upon a roadway or sidewalk.
(Ord. 5874, passed 9-9-86)
Penalty, see § 373.99
§ 373.09 RECKLESS OPERATION; CONTROL COURSE AND SPEED.
   No person shall operate a bicycle:
   (A)   Without due regard for the safety and rights of pedestrians and
drivers and occupants of all other vehicles, and so as to endanger the life,
limb or property of any person while in the lawful use of the streets or
sidewalks or any other public or private property;
   (B)   Without exercising reasonable and ordinary control over such bicycle;
   (C)   In a weaving or zigzag course unless such irregular course is
necessary for safe operation or in compliance with law;
   (D)   Without both hands upon the handle grips except when necessary to give
the required hand and arm signals;
   (E)   At a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions
then existing.
(Ord. 5874, passed 9-9-86)
Penalty, see § 373.99
§ 373.10 PARKING OF BICYCLE.
   No person shall park a bicycle upon a sidewalk in such a manner so as to
unduly interfere with pedestrian traffic or upon a roadway so as to unduly
interfere with vehicular traffic.
(Ord. 5874, passed 9-9-86)
Penalty, see § 373.99
§ 373.11 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall operate a bicycle upon a sidewalk within a business district
or upon a sidewalk where signs are erected prohibiting such operation.
(Ord. 5874, passed 9-9-86)
Penalty, see § 373.99
§ 373.12 MOTORIZED BICYCLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motorized bicycle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking, unless all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The person is 14 or 15 years of age and holds a valid probationary
motorized bicycle license issued after the person has passed the test provided
for in this section, or the person is 16 years of age or older and holds either
a valid commercial driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4506 or a
driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid motorized bicycle
license issued after the person has passed the test provided for in this
section, except that if a person is 16 years of age, has a valid probationary
motorized bicycle license and desires a motorized bicycle license, the person
is not required to comply with the testing requirements provided for in this
section;
      (2)   The motorized bicycle is equipped in accordance with the rules
adopted under division (B) of this section and is in proper working order;
      (3)   The person, if under 18 years of age, is wearing a protective
helmet on the person’s head with the chin strap properly fastened and the
motorized bicycle is equipped with a rear-view mirror;
      (4)   The person operates the motorized bicycle when practicable within
three feet of the right edge of the roadway obeying all traffic rules
applicable to vehicles.
   (B)   The Director of Public Safety, subject to R.C. §§ 119.01 through
119.13, shall adopt and promulgate rules concerning protective helmets, the
equipment of motorized bicycles, and the testing and qualifications of persons
who do not hold a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license. The test shall
be as near as practicable to the examination required for a motorcycle
operator’s endorsement under R.C. § 4507.11. The test shall also require the
operator to give an actual demonstration of the operator’s ability to operate
and control a motorized bicycle by driving one under the supervision of an
examining officer.
   (C)   Every motorized bicycle license expires on the birthday of the
applicant in the fourth or eighth year after the date it is issued, based on
the period of renewal requested by the applicant. No motorized bicycle license
shall be issued for a period longer than eight years. A person who is 65 years
of age or older may only apply for a motorized bicycle license that expires on
the birthday of the applicant in the fourth year after the date it is issued.
   (D)   No person operating a motorized bicycle shall carry another person
upon the motorized bicycle.
   (E)   The protective helmet and rear-view mirror required by division (A)(3)
of this section shall, on and after January 1, 1985, conform with rules adopted
by the director under division (B) of this section.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (A), (D), or (E) of this section is guilty
of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.521) (Ord. 5874, passed 9-9-86) )
Penalty, see § 373.99
§ 373.13 IMPOUNDING OF BICYCLE.
   Whenever any bicycle shall be operated by any person, in violation of any of
the provisions of this chapter, such bicycle may be seized by any member of the
Division of Police and impounded.
   (A)   Notice of impounding. Upon removal and impounding, the Division of
Police shall notify the bicycle owner of the removal and impounding, the
reasons therefor, and the place of storage.
   (B)   Redemption of bicycle. The Division of Police shall release the
bicycle to the owner only after the owner posts bond to answer the violation
causing such removal and impounding, or pays the fines due for such violation,
or release is authorized by a court of competent jurisdiction, and also pays
the impounding and storage charges.
(Ord. 5874, passed 9-9-86)
Penalty, see § 373.99
§ 373.14 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLICABLE.
   All ordinances of the city pertaining to traffic control and regulation
which are applicable to bicycles shall apply whenever a bicycle is operated on
any street or highway, or upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles, in the city. No bicycle shall be operated at a speed greater than
reasonable under the circumstances.
(Ord. 5874, passed 9-9-86)
Penalty, see § 373.99
§ 373.15 REGISTRATION.
   The Director of Safety shall provide a registration program for all bicycles
operated in the city. Registration shall not be required to operate a bicycle
in the city.
(Ord. 5874, passed 9-9-86; Am. Ord. 6484, passed 4-24-90)
§ 373.16 ISSUANCE OF REGISTRATION, TERM, FEE AND TAG OR DECAL.
   (A)   Upon determination that the bicycle is in good working order and that
the required equipment is properly installed, the Director of Safety shall
issue the registration and at the time of issuance of such registration, shall
complete a registration card, showing the name, age and address of the
applicant, the name and address of the applicant’s parents, guardian or
custodian, if the applicant is a minor, and the make, manufacturer’s number,
color and description of the bicycle. A copy of such registration card shall be
issued to the applicant.
   (B)   Such registration shall be in effect from the date of its issuance.
   (C)   The registration fee to be paid for each bicycle under this chapter
shall be $1 payable in advance. Upon the sale or other transfer of such
vehicle, the registration shall be removed and same shall be delivered to the
Director of Safety, or may upon application without payment of additional fee,
have such plate assigned to another bicycle.
   (D)   When participation in the safety inspection has been authorized by the
Director of Safety by a nonprofit organization, a portion of the registration
fee for those bicycles inspected by the authorized nonprofit organization may
be retained by that organization for its services.
   (E)   The Director of Safety shall provide a tag or decal bearing a
distinctive identification.
   (F)   Before the owner of a registered bicycle shall operate it or permit it
to be operated upon any street or sidewalk of the city, he or she shall cause
its decal or plate to be securely attached in such position that it will be
visible at all times.
(Ord. 5874, passed 9-9-86; Am. Ord. 6484, passed 4-24-90)
§ 373.17 ELECTRIC BICYCLES.
   (A)   (1)   On and after January 1, 2020, manufacturers and distributors of
electric bicycles shall permanently affix a label, in a prominent location, to
each electric bicycle. The label shall specify whether the electric bicycle is
a class 1, class 2, or class 3 electric bicycle, the top assisted speed that
the electric bicycle is capable of reaching, and the motor wattage of the
electric bicycle.
      (2)   No person shall modify an electric bicycle in a manner that changes
the top assisted speed that the electric bicycle is capable of reaching unless
the person also modifies the label required under division (A)(1) of this
section to reflect the modification.
   (B)   (1)   The manufacturer of an electric bicycle shall ensure that the
electric bicycle complies with the equipment and manufacturing requirements for
bicycles established by the consumer product safety commission under 16 C.F.R.
§§ 1512 et seq.
      (2)   The manufacturer shall manufacture all class 1 electric bicycles
and class 3 electric bicycles so that when the rider ceases pedaling the
electric motor ceases to provide assistance. The manufacturer shall manufacture
all class 2 electric bicycles so that when the rider applies the brakes or
releases or activates a switch or similar mechanism the electric motor ceases
to provide assistance.
      (3)   All class 3 electric bicycles shall be equipped with a speedometer
that displays the speed of the electric bicycle in miles per hour.
   (C)   (1)   The operation of a class 1 electric bicycle and a class 2
electric bicycle is permitted on a path set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles or on a shared-use path, unless the county, township, municipal
corporation, other local authority, or state agency as defined in R.C. § 1.60
with control over the path by resolution, ordinance, or rule prohibits the use
of a class 1 electric bicycle or class 2 electric bicycle on such a path.
      (2)   No person shall operate a class 3 electric bicycle on a path set
aside for the exclusive use of bicycles or a shared-use path unless that path
is within or adjacent to a highway or the county, township, municipal
corporation, or local authority, or state agency as defined in R.C. § 1.60 with
control over the path by resolution, ordinance, or rule authorizes the use of a
class 3 electric bicycle on such a path.
      (3)   No person shall operate a class 1 electric bicycle, a class 2
electric bicycle, or a class 3 electric bicycle on a path that is intended to
be used primarily for mountain biking, hiking, equestrian use, or other similar
uses, or any other single track or natural surface trail that has historically
been reserved for non-motorized use, unless the county, township, municipal
corporation, other local authority, or state agency as defined in R.C. § 1.60
with control over the path by resolution, ordinance, or rule authorizes the use
of a class 1 electric bicycle, a class 2 electric bicycle, or a class 3
electric bicycle on such a path.
      (4)   Divisions (C)(2) and (C)(3) of this section do not apply to a law
enforcement officer, or other person sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic
laws of the state, using an electric bicycle while in the performance of the
officer’s duties.
   (D)   (1)   No person under 16 years of age shall operate a class 3 electric
bicycle; however, a person under 16 years of age may ride as a passenger on a
class 3 electric bicycle that is designed to accommodate passengers.
      (2)   No person shall operate or be a passenger on a class 3 electric
bicycle unless the person is wearing a protective helmet that meets the
standards established by the Consumer Product Safety Commission or the American
Society for Testing and Materials.
   (E)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever operates
an electric bicycle in a manner that is prohibited under division (C) of this
section and whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   The offenses established under division (E)(1) of this section are
strict liability offenses and strict liability is a culpable mental state for
purposes of R.C. § 2901.20. The designation of these offenses as strict
liability offenses shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
(R.C. § 4511.522)
§ 373.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which a penalty has
not otherwise been provided, shall be fined not more than $50.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A), (D), or (E) of §
373.12 is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.99(F)) (Ord. 5874, passed 9-9-86)
CHAPTER 377: SNOWMOBILES AND ALL PURPOSE VEHICLES
Section
   
377.01   Definitions
   
377.02   Prohibitions
   
377.03   Equipment
 
   
377.99   Penalties
Cross-reference:
   Safety equipment required while riding, see
§ 373.03
§ 377.01 DEFINITIONS.
   ALL-PURPOSE VEHICLE. Any self- propelled vehicle designed primarily for
cross- country travel on land and water, or on more than one type of terrain,
and steered by wheels or caterpillar treads, or any combination thereof,
including vehicles that operate on a cushion of air, vehicles commonly known as
all-terrain vehicles, all-season vehicles, mini-bikes, and trail bikes. The
term does not include a utility vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4501.01 or any
vehicle principally used in playing golf, any motor vehicle or aircraft
required to be registered under R.C. Chapter 4503 or Chapter 4561, and any
vehicle excepted from definition as a motor vehicle by R.C. § 4501.01(B).
   DEALER. Any person or firm engaged in the business of manufacturing or
selling snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, or all- purpose vehicles at
wholesale or retail, or who rents, leases, or otherwise furnishes snowmobiles,
off-highway motorcycles, or all purpose-vehicles for hire.
   ELECTRONIC and ELECTRONIC RECORD. Have the same meanings as in R.C. §
4501.01.
   ELECTRONIC DEALER. A dealer whom the Registrar of Motor Vehicles designates
under R.C. § 4519.511.
   INTERSTATE HIGHWAY. Any part of the interstate system of highways as defined
in subsection (e), 90 Stat. 431 (1976), 23 U.S.C. 103, as amended.
   LIMITED ACCESS HIGHWAY and FREEWAY. Have the same meanings as given those
terms in Chapter 301 of this code.
   MINI-TRUCK. A vehicle that has four wheels, is propelled by an electric
motor with a rated power of 7,500 watts or less or an internal combustion
engine with a piston displacement capacity of 660 cubic centimeters or less,
has a total dry weight of 900 to 2,200 pounds, contains an enclosed cabin and a
seat for the vehicle operator, resembles a pickup truck or van with a cargo
area or bed located at the rear of the vehicle, and was not originally
manufactured to meet federal motor vehicle safety standards.
   OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLE. Every motorcycle, as defined in R.C. § 4511.01, that
is designed to be operated primarily on lands other than a street or highway.
   OPERATOR.  Any person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile, off- highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle.
   OWNER. Any person or firm other than a lienholder or dealer, having title to
a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all purpose vehicle, or other right to
the possession thereof.
   PROOF OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
4509.01.
   SNOWMOBILE. Any self-propelled vehicle designed primarily for use on snow or
ice, and steered by skis, runners, or caterpillar treads.
   STATE HIGHWAY and STATE ROUTE. Have the same meanings as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   STREET OR HIGHWAY. Has the same meaning as in
Chapter 301 of this code.
(R.C. § 4519.01)
   § 377.02 PROHIBITIONS.
   The applicable provision of the traffic code shall be applied to the
operation of snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, and all-purpose vehicles,
except that no snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle shall
be operated as follows:
   (A)   On any street, highway or sidewalk within the municipality unless
written permission is given by the Director of Safety;
   (B)   On any private property, or in any nursery or planting area, without
the permission of the owner or other person having the right to possession of
the property;
   (C)   On any municipally owned parks or playgrounds, except where a sign has
been posted by the Director of Service allowing such operation;
   (D)   On the tracks or right-of-way of any operating railroad;
   (E)   For the purpose of chasing, pursuing, capturing or killing any animal
or wildfowl;
   (F)   During the time from sunset to sunrise, unless displaying lighted
lights as required by §
377.03 and R.C. § 4519.20.
   (G)   On any limited access highway or freeway or the right-of-way thereof,
except for emergency travel only during such time and in such manner as the
Director of Public Safety shall designate.
   (H)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $50 nor
more than $500, imprisoned not less than three nor more than 30 days, or both.
(Ord. 2019-088, passed 10-22-19)
Penalty, see § 377.99
§ 377.03 EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   The following required items of equipment shall be considered
necessary for the safe operation of snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, and
a11-purpose vehicles when their operation is authorized:
      (1)   At least one headlight having a minimum candlepower of sufficient
intensity to reveal persons and objects at a distance of at least 100 feet
ahead under normal atmospheric conditions during hours of darkness;
      (2)   At least one red tail light having a minimum candlepower of
sufficient intensity to be plainly visible from a distance of 500 feet to the
rear under normal atmospheric conditions during hours of darkness;
      (3)   Adequate brakes. Every snowmobile, while traveling on packed snow,
shall be capable of carrying a driver who weighs 175 pounds or more, and, while
carrying the driver, be capable of stopping in not more than 40 feet from an
initial steady speed of 20 miles per hour, or locking its traction belt;
      (4)   A muffler system capable of precluding the emission of excessive
smoke or exhaust fumes, and of limiting the engine noise of vehicles. Such
requirements shall include sound-dampening equipment so that noise does not
exceed 82 decibels on the “A” scale at 50 feet as measured according to SAEJ192
(September 1970).
   (B)   No person shall operate any snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or any
a11- purpose vehicle in violation of the provisions of this section, except
that equipment specified in divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2) of this section shall
not be required on snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, or a11-purpose
vehicles operated during daylight hours.
(R.C. § 4519.20(A), (B))
   (C)   No person shall sell, offer for sale, lease, rent or otherwise furnish
for hire in this municipality any new snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or
a11-purpose vehicle that fails to comply with any rule adopted by the Ohio
Director of Public Safety under R.C. § 4519.20 after the effective date of the
rule.
(R.C. § 4519.22(A))
   (D)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
§
377.03(B) shall be fined not more than $50. If the offender within the
preceding year previously has committed a violation of §
377.03(B) or of R.C. § 4519.20(B), whoever violates § 377.03(B) shall be fined
not less than $15 nor more than $100, imprisoned not more than three days, or
both.
(R.C. § 4519.20(C))
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (C) of this section shall be fined not more than $50. If the offender
within the preceding year previously has committed a violation of division (C)
of this section or of R.C. § 4519.22(A), whoever violates this section shall be
fined not less than $15 nor more than $100, imprisoned not more than three
days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.22(B))
Penalty, see § 377.99
§ 377.99 PENALTIES.
Editor’s note:
   See §
303.99 for general code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.
CHAPTER 379: SKATEBOARDS AND SKATES
Section
   
379.01   Skateboard defined
   
379.02   Prohibition in Central Business District
   
379.03   Prohibition on real property
 
   
379.99   Penalty
§ 379.01 SKATEBOARD DEFINED.
   SKATEBOARD. Any vehicle or device capable of being operated or ridden by a
person and consisting of a board, plank or platform mounted on wheels or
rollers, whether propelled by gravity, muscle power or mechanical means, which
is not equipped with a positive, mechanical means of steering such vehicle or
device.
(Ord. 7355, passed 3-11-97)
§ 379.02 PROHIBITION IN CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   No person shall operate or ride, or cause to be operated or ridden, a
skateboard or skates within the Central Business District zone (CBD) of the
city.
(Ord. 7355, passed 3-11-97)
Penalty, see § 379.99
§ 379.03 PROHIBITION ON REAL PROPERTY.
   No person shall operate or ride, or cause to be operated or ridden, a
skateboard or skates on private property without the consent of the owner of
such private property. No person shall operate or ride, or cause to be operated
or ridden, a skateboard or skates on public property (excluding sidewalks).
(Ord. 7376, passed 5-27-97)
Penalty, see § 379.99
§ 379.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates §§
379.02 and
379.03 shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 7355, passed 3-11-97; Am. Ord. 7376, passed 5-27-97)
PART FIVE - GENERAL OFFENSES CODE
   
Chapter 501 - General Provisions
   
Chapter 502 - Assault
   
Chapter 503 - Sex Offenses
   
Chapter 504 - Offenses Against Property
   
Chapter 505 - Animals
   
Chapter 506 - Trespass
   
Chapter 507 - Theft and Fraud
   
Chapter 508 - Offenses Against the Public Peace
   
Chapter 509 - Offenses Against the Family and Society
   
Chapter 511 - Fair Housing Law
   
Chapter 513 - Gambling
   
Chapter 517 - Health, Safety and Sanitation
   
Chapter 525 - Liquor Control
   
Chapter 531 - Minors’ Curfew
   
Chapter 537 - Misleading or Deceptive Trade Practices
   
Chapter 541 - Streets and Sidewalks
   
Chapter 549 - Weeds [Repealed]
   
Chapter 599 - Penalties and Sentencing
CHAPTER 501: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
501.01     Meaning of words and phrases
   
501.02     Definitions
   
501.03     False reports to law officers, emergency vehicles, schools
Cross-reference:
   Penalties, misdemeanor classifications and sentencing, see
Ch. 599
§ 501.01 MEANING OF WORDS AND PHRASES.
   The following words and phrases when used in this code, except as otherwise
provided, shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this
chapter.
(Am. Ord. 3043, passed 9-28-76)
§ 501.02 DEFINITIONS.
   CONTRABAND. Any property that is illegal for a person to acquire or possess
under a statute, ordinance, or rule, or that a trier of fact lawfully
determines to be illegal to possess by reason of the property’s involvement in
an offense. CONTRABAND includes, but is not limited to, all of the following:
      (1)   Any controlled substance, as defined in R.C. § 3719.01, or any
device or paraphernalia related thereto;
      (2)   Any unlawful gambling device or paraphernalia;
      (3)   Any dangerous ordnance or obscene material.
   DEADLY FORCE. Any force that carries a substantial risk that it will
proximately result in the death of any person.
   FORCE. Any violence, compulsion, or constraint physically exerted by any
means upon or against a person or thing.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any of the following:
      (1)   A sheriff, deputy sheriff, constable, marshal, deputy marshal,
municipal police officer, member of a police force employed by a metropolitan
housing authority under R.C. § 3735.31(D) or state highway patrol officer;
      (2)   An officer, agent, or employee of the state or any of its agencies,
instrumentalities, or political subdivisions, upon whom, by statute, a duty to
conserve the peace or to enforce all or certain laws is imposed and the
authority to arrest violators is conferred, within the limits of such statutory
duty and authority;
      (3)   The Mayor, in a capacity as chief conservator of the peace within
the municipal corporation;
      (4)   A member of an auxiliary police force organized by county,
township, or municipal law enforcement authorities, within the scope of the
member’s appointment or commission;
      (5)   A person lawfully called pursuant to R.C. § 311.07 to aid a sheriff
in keeping the peace, for the purposes and during the time when the person is
called;
      (6)   A person appointed by a mayor pursuant to R.C. § 737.10 as a
special patrol officer or officer during a riot or emergency, for the purposes
and during the time when the person is appointed;
      (7)   A member of the organized militia of this state or the armed forces
of the United States, lawfully called to duty to aid civil authorities in
keeping the peace or to protect against domestic violence;
      (8)   A prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, secret
service officer, or municipal prosecutor;
      (9)   A veterans’ home police officer appointed under R.C. § 5907.02;
      (10)    A member of a police force employed by a regional transit
authority under R.C. § 306.35(Y);
      (11)    A special police officer employed by a port authority under R.C.
§ 4582.04 or 4582.28.
      (12)    The House of Representatives Sergeant at Arms if the House of
Representatives Sergeant at Arms has arrest authority pursuant to R.C. §
101.311(E)(1) and an Assistant House of Representatives Sergeant at Arms.
      (13) The Senate Sergeant at Arms and an Assistant Senate Sergeant at
Arms;
      (14) A special police officer employed by a municipal corporation at a
municipal airport, or other municipal air navigation facility, that has
scheduled operations, as defined in 14 C.F.R. § 119.3, as amended, and that is
required to be under a security program and is governed by aviation security
rules of the Transportation Security Administration of the United States
Department of Transportation as provided in 49 C.F.R. parts 1542 and 1544, as
amended.
   NOT GUILTY BY REASON OF INSANITY. A person is NOT GUILTY BY REASON OF
INSANITY relative to a charge of an offense only if the person proves, in the
manner specified in R.C. § 2901.05, that at the time of the commission of the
offense, he or she did not know, as a result of a severe mental disease or
defect, the wrongfulness of his or her acts.
   OFFENSE OF VIOLENCE.
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.01, 2903.02, 2903.03, 2903.04, 2903.11,
2903.12, 2903.13, 2903.15, 2903.18, 2903.21, 2903.211, 2903.22, 2905.01,
2905.02, 2905.11, 2905.32, 2907.02, 2907.03, 2907.05, 2909.02, 2909.03,
2909.24, 2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2917.01, 2917.02, 2917.03, 2917.31,
2917.321, 2919.25, 2921.03, 2921.04, 2921.34, or 2923.161, of division (A)(1)
of R.C. § 2903.34, of division (A)(1), (2) or (3) of R.C. § 2911.12, or of
division (B)(1), (2), (3) or (4) of R.C. § 2919.22, or felonious sexual
penetration in violation of former R.C. § 2907.12;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States, substantially equivalent to
any section, division or offense listed in division (1) of this definition;
      (3)   An offense, other than a traffic offense, under an existing or
former municipal ordinance or law of this or any other state or of the United
States, committed purposely or knowingly, and involving physical harm to
persons or a risk of serious physical harm to persons;
      (4)   A conspiracy or attempt to commit, or complicity in committing, any
offense under division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
      (5)   A violation of division (C) of R. C. § 959.131;
   PERSON.
      (1)   (a) Subject to division (2) of this definition, as used in any
section contained in Part V of this code that sets forth a criminal offense,
PERSON includes all of the following:
            1.   An individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust,
partnership and association.
            2.   An unborn human who is viable.
         (b)   As used in any section contained in Title XIII of this code that
does not set forth a criminal offense, PERSON includes an individual,
corporation, business trust, estate, partnership and association.
         (c)   As used in division (1)(a)2. of this definition, UNBORN HUMAN
means an individual organism of the species Homo sapiens from fertilization
until live birth. VIABLE means the stage of development of a human fetus at
which there is a realistic probability of maintaining and nourishing of a life
outside the womb with or without temporary artificial life-sustaining support.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (1)(a) of this definition, in no case
shall the portion of the definition of the term PERSON that is set forth in
division (1)(a)2. of this definition be applied or construed in any section
contained in Title XIII of this code that sets forth a criminal offense in any
of the following manners:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (2)(a) of this
definition, in a manner so that the offense prohibits or is construed as
prohibiting any pregnant woman or her physician from performing an abortion
with the consent of the pregnant woman, with the consent of the pregnant woman
implied by law in a medical emergency, or with the approval of one otherwise
authorized by law to consent to medical treatment on behalf of the pregnant
woman. An abortion that violates the conditions described in the immediately
preceding sentence may be punished as any violation of R.C. §§ 2903.01 through
2903.06, 2903.08, 2903.11 through 2903.14, 2903.21 or 2903.22, as applicable.
An abortion that does not violate the conditions described in the second
immediately preceding sentence but that does violate R.C. §§ 2919.12, 2919.13
(B), 2919.15, 2919.151, 2919.17 or 2919.18 may be punished as a violation of
such section, as applicable. Consent is sufficient under this division if it is
of the type otherwise adequate to permit medical treatment to the pregnant
woman, even if it does not comply with R.C. § 2919.12.
         (b)   In a manner so that the offense is applied or is construed as
applying to a woman based on an act or omission of the woman that occurs while
she is or was pregnant and that results in any of the following:
            1.   Her delivery of a stillborn baby.
            2.   Her causing, in any other manner, the death in utero of a
viable, unborn human that she is carrying.
            3.   Her causing the death of her child who is born alive but who
dies from one or more injuries that are sustained while the child is a viable,
unborn human.
            4.   Her causing her child who is born alive to sustain one or more
injuries while the child is a viable, unborn human.
            5.   Her causing, threatening to cause, or attempting to cause, in
any other manner, an injury, illness, or other psychological illness or
condition, regardless of its duration or gravity, to a viable, unborn human
that she is carrying.
   PHYSICAL HARM TO PERSONS. Any injury, illness, or other physiological
impairment, regardless of its gravity or duration.
   PHYSICAL HARM TO PROPERTY. Any tangible or intangible damage to property
that, in any degree, results in loss to its value or interferes with its use or
enjoyment. PHYSICAL HARM TO PROPERTY does not include wear and tear occasioned
by normal use.
   PRIVILEGE. An immunity, license, or right conferred by law, or bestowed by
express or implied grant, or arising out of status, position, office, or
relationship, or growing out of necessity.
   PROPERTY.
      (1)   Any property, real or personal, tangible or intangible, and any
interest or license in such property. PROPERTY includes, but is not limited to,
cable television service, other telecommunications service, telecommunications
devices, information service, data, computer software, financial instruments
associated with computers, other documents associated with computers, or copies
of documents, whether in computer machine or human-readable form, trade
secrets, trademarks, copyrights, patents, and property protected by a
trademark, copyright or patent. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS ASSOCIATED WITH COMPUTERS
include, but are not limited to, checks, drafts, warrants, money orders, notes
of indebtedness, certificates of deposit, letters of credit, bills of credit or
debit cards, financial transaction authorization mechanisms, marketable
securities, or any computer system representations of any of them.
      (2)   As used in this definition, TRADE SECRET has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 1333.61, and TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE and INFORMATION SERVICE have the
same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      (3)   As used in this definition and as used in the definition for
CONTRABAND, above, CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE, COMPUTER, COMPUTER
SOFTWARE, COMPUTER SYSTEM, COMPUTER NETWORK, DATA, and TELECOMMUNICATIONS
DEVICE have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   RISK. A significant possibility, as contrasted with a remote possibility,
that a certain result may occur or that certain circumstances may exist.
   SCHOOL, SCHOOL BUILDING, and SCHOOL PREMISES. Have the same meanings as in
R.C. § 2925.01.
   SCHOOL ACTIVITY. Any activity held under the auspices of a board of
education of a city, local, exempted village, joint vocational, or cooperative
education school district; a governing authority of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314; a governing board of an educational
service center; or the governing body of a nonpublic school for which the
Director of Education and Workforce prescribes minimum standards under R.C. §
3301.07.
   SCHOOL BUS. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   SCHOOL SAFETY ZONE. Consists of a school, school building, school premises,
school activity, and school bus.
   SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO PERSONS. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any mental illness or condition of such gravity as would normally
require hospitalization or prolonged psychiatric treatment;
      (2)   Any physical harm that carries a substantial risk of death;
      (3)   Any physical harm that involves some permanent incapacity, whether
partial or total, or that involves some temporary, substantial incapacity;
      (4)   Any physical harm that involves some permanent disfigurement, or
that involves some temporary, serious disfigurement;
      (5)   Any physical harm that involves acute pain of such duration as to
result in substantial suffering or that involves any degree of prolonged or
intractable pain.
   SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO PROPERTY. Any physical harm to property that does
either of the following:
      (1)   Results in substantial loss to the value of the property, or
requires a substantial amount of time, effort, or money to repair or replace;
      (2)   Temporarily prevents the use or enjoyment of the property or
substantially interferes with its use or enjoyment for an extended period of
time.
   SUBSTANTIAL RISK. A strong possibility, as contrasted with a remote or
significant possibility, that a certain result may occur or that certain
circumstances may exist.
(R.C. § 2901.01) (Am. Ord. 3043, passed 9-28-76)
§ 501.03 FALSE REPORTS TO LAW OFFICERS, EMERGENCY VEHICLES, SCHOOLS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly give or assist in giving a false or
fictitious call or report to the Division of Fire or other law enforcement
officer, or to any person dispatching or operating an ambulance or other
emergency vehicle with intent to mislead, misdirect or improperly summon such
officer or person.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly give a false or fictitious call or report to
school officials or other persons in charge of locations where groups assemble
when the nature of such false or fictitious call or report results in law
enforcement action.
(Am. Ord. 3043, passed 9-28-76)
Statutory reference:
   Falsification, see R.C. § 2921.13
Cross-reference:
   Presenting false name or information to officer, traffic code, see §
303.12
CHAPTER 502: ASSAULT
Section
   
502.01   Assault
   
502.02   Negligent assault
   
502.03   Aggravated menacing
   
502.04   Menacing
   
502.05     Menacing by stalking
Cross-reference:
   Penalties, misdemeanor classifications and sentencing, see
Ch. 599
§ 502.01 ASSAULT.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cause or attempt to cause physical harm to
another or to another’s unborn.
   (B)   No person shall recklessly cause serious physical harm to another or
to another’s unborn.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of assault. Except as provided
in R.C. § 2903.13(C), assault is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   If an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to assault when it
is a misdemeanor also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a specification as
described in R.C. § 2941.1423 (victim of the offense was a woman whom the
defendant knew was pregnant at the time of the offense) that was included in
the indictment, count in the indictment or information charging the offense,
the court shall sentence the offender to a mandatory jail term as provided in
R.C. § 2929.24(F).
   (E)   A prosecution for a violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this
section does not preclude a prosecution of a violation of any other section of
the Ohio Revised Code. One or more acts, a series of acts, or a course of
behavior that can be prosecuted under division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section
or any other section of the Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under division
(A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section, the other section of the Ohio Revised Code,
or both sections. However, if an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section and also is convicted of
or pleads guilty to a violation of R.C. § 2903.22, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, based on the same conduct involving the same
victim that was the basis of the violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this
section, the offenses are allied offenses of similar import under R.C. §
2941.25.
(R.C. § 2903.13) (Am. Ord. 3043, passed 9-28-76)
Statutory reference:
   Felony offenses, see R.C. § 2903.13(C)(1) – (3)
§ 502.02 NEGLIGENT ASSAULT.
   (A)   No person shall negligently, by means of a deadly weapon or dangerous
ordnance as defined in R.C. § 2923.11, cause physical harm to another or to
another’s unborn.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of negligent assault, a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 2903.14) (Am. Ord. 3043, passed 9-28-76)
§ 502.03 AGGRAVATED MENACING.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cause another to believe that the offender
will cause serious physical harm to the person or property of the other person,
the other person’s unborn, or a member of the other person’s immediate family.
In addition to any other basis for the other person’s belief that the offender
will cause serious physical harm to the person or property of the other person,
the other person’s unborn, or a member of the other person’s immediate family,
the other person’s belief may be based on words or conduct of the offender that
are directed at or identify a corporation, association, or other organization
that employs the other person or to which the other person belongs.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of aggravated menacing. Except
as otherwise provided in R.C. § 2903.21, aggravated menacing is a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
   (C)   As used in this section, ORGANIZATION includes an entity that is a
governmental employer.
(R.C. § 2903.21) (Am. Ord. 3043, passed 9-28-76; Am. Ord. 9106, passed 2-22-05)
§ 502.04 MENACING.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   No person shall knowingly cause another to believe that
the offender will cause physical harm to the person or property of the other
person, the other person's unborn, or a member of the other person's immediate
family. In addition to any other basis for the other person's belief that the
offender will cause physical harm to the person or property of the other
person, the other person's unborn, or a member of the other person's immediate
family, the other person's belief may be based on words or conduct of the
offender that are directed at or identify a corporation, association, or other
organization that employs the other person or to which the other person
belongs.
         (b)   No person shall knowingly place or attempt to place another in
reasonable fear of physical harm or death by displaying a deadly weapon,
regardless of whether the deadly weapon displayed is operable or inoperable, if
either of the following applies:
            1.   The other person is an emergency service responder, the person
knows or reasonably should know that the other person is an emergency service
responder, and it is the person's specific purpose to engage in the specified
conduct against an emergency service responder.
            2.   The other person is a family or household member or co-worker
of an emergency service responder, the person knows or reasonably should know
that the other person is a family or household member or co-worker of an
emergency service responder, and it is the person's specific purpose to engage
in the specified conduct against a family or household member or co-worker of
an emergency service responder.
      (2)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of menacing. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, menacing is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If the victim of the offense is an officer or employee of a public
children services agency or a private child placing agency and the offense
relates to the officer's or employee's performance or anticipated performance
of official responsibilities or duties or if the victim of the offense is an
emergency service responder in the performance of the responder's official
duties, menacing is one of the following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (A)(2)(b) of this
section, a misdemeanor of the first degree;
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to an offense of violence, the victim of that prior offense was an
officer or employee of a public children services agency or private child
placing agency or an emergency service responder, and that prior offense
related to the officer's or employee's performance or anticipated performance
of official responsibilities or duties or to the responder's performance of the
responder's official duties, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (3)   A prosecution for a violation of division (A) of this section does
not preclude a prosecution of a violation of any other section of the Ohio
Revised Code. One or more acts, a series of acts, or a course of behavior that
can be prosecuted under division (A) of this section or any other section of
the Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under division (A) of this section, the
other section of the Ohio Revised Code, or both sections. However, if an
offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of division (A) of
this section and also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of R.C. §
2903.13, or any substantially similar municipal ordinance, based on the same
conduct involving the same victim that was the basis of the violation of
division (A) of this section, the offenses are allied offenses of similar
import under R.C. § 2941.25.
      (4)   As used in this section:
         CO-WORKER. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 2903.13.
         EMERGENCY SERVICE RESPONDER. Has the same meanings as in R.C. §
2903.13.
         FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Have the same meanings as in R.C. §
2903.13.
         ORGANIZATION. Includes an entity that is a governmental employer.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of aggravated
menacing. Except as otherwise provided in this division (B), aggravated
menacing is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the victim of the offense is
an officer or employee of a public children services agency or a private child
placing agency and the offense relates to the officer’s or employee’s
performance or anticipated performance of official responsibilities or duties,
aggravated menacing is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law
or, if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to an
offense of violence, the victim of that prior offense was an officer or
employee of a public children services agency or private child placing agency,
and that prior offense related to the officer’s or employee’s performance or
anticipated performance of official responsibilities or duties, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   As used in this section, ORGANIZATION includes an entity that is a
governmental employer.
(R.C. § 2903.22) (Am. Ord. 3043, passed 9-28-76)
§ 502.05 MENACING BY STALKING.
   (A)   (1)   No person by engaging in a pattern of conduct shall knowingly
cause another person to believe that the offender will cause physical harm to
the other person or a family or household member of the other person or cause
mental distress to the other person or a family or household member of the
other person. In addition to any other basis for the other person’s belief that
the offender will cause physical harm to the other person or the other person’s
family or household member or mental distress to the other person or the other
person’s family or household member, the other person’s belief or mental
distress may be based on words or conduct of the offender that are directed at
or identify a corporation, association, or other organization that employs the
other person or to which the other person belongs.
      (2)   No person, through the use of any form of written communication or
any electronic method of remotely transferring information, including but not
limited to any computer, computer network, computer program, computer system,
or telecommunication device, shall post a message or use any intentionally
written or verbal graphic gesture with purpose to do either of the following:
         (a)   Violate division (A)(1) of this section;
         (b)   Urge or incite another to commit a violation of division (A)(1)
of this section.
      (3)   No person, with a sexual motivation, shall violate division (A)(1)
or (A)(2) of this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of menacing by
stalking.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2) of this section,
menacing by stalking is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Menacing by stalking is a felony, to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law, if any of the following applies:
         (a)   The offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of R.C. § 2903.211 or a violation of R.C. § 2911.211, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to either of these offenses.
         (b)   In committing the offense under division (A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)
(3) of this section, the offender made a threat of physical harm to or against
the victim, or as a result of an offense committed under division (A)(2) or (A)
(3) of this section, a third person induced by the offender’s posted message
made a threat of physical harm to or against the victim.
         (c)   In committing the offense under division (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)
(3) of this section, the offender trespassed on the land or premises where the
victim lives, is employed, or attends school, or as a result of an offense
committed under division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this section, a third person
induced by the offender’s posted message trespassed on the land or premises
where the victim lives, is employed, or attends school.
         (d)   The victim of the offense is a minor.
         (e)   The offender has a history of violence towards the victim or any
other person or a history of other violent acts towards the victim or any other
person.
         (f)   While committing the offense under division (A)(1) of this
section or a violation of division (A)(3) of this section based on conduct in
violation of division (A)(1) of this section, the offender had a deadly weapon
on or about the offender's person or under the offender's control. Division (B)
(2)(f) of this section does not apply in determining the penalty for a
violation of division (A)(2) of this section or a violation of division (A)(3)
of this section based on conduct in violation of division (A)(2) of this
section.
         (g)   At the time of the commission of the offense, the offender was
the subject of a protection order issued under R.C. § 2903.213 or R.C. §
2903.214, regardless of whether or not the person to be protected under the
order is the victim of the offense or another person.
         (h)   In committing the offense under division (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)
(3) of this section, the offender caused serious physical harm to the premises
at which the victim resides, to the real property on
which that premises is located, or to any personal property located on that
premises, or as a result of an offense committed under division (A)(2) of this
section or an offense committed under division (A)(3) of this section based on
a violation of division (A)(2) of this section, a third person induced by the
offender’s posted message caused serious physical harm to that premises, that
real property, or any personal property on that premises.
         (i)   Prior to committing the offense, the offender had been
determined to represent a substantial risk of physical harm to others as
manifested by evidence of then-recent homicidal or other violent behavior,
evidence of then-recent threats that placed another in reasonable fear of
violent behavior and serious harm, or other evidence of then- present
dangerousness.
         (j)   The victim of the offense is an officer or employee of a public
children services agency or a private child placing agency and the offense
relates to the officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated performance
of official responsibilities or duties.
         (k)   The offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to an offense of violence, the victim of that prior offense was an officer or
employee of a public children services agency or private child placing agency,
and that prior offense related to the officer’s or employee’s performance or
anticipated performance of official responsibilities or duties.
   (C)   R.C. § 2919.271 applies in relation to a defendant charged with a
violation of this section.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      COMPUTER, COMPUTER NETWORK, COMPUTER PROGRAM, COMPUTER SYSTEM, and
TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency facility
personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency medical
services personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2133.21.
      FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
person against whom the act prohibited in division (A) of this section is
committed:
            1.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse, or a former spouse of
the person;
            2.   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the person, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the person;
            3.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse, or
former spouse of the person, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
person.
         (b)   The natural parent of any child of whom the person against whom
the act prohibited in division (A) of this section is committed is the other
natural parent or is the putative other natural parent.
      MENTAL DISTRESS. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any mental illness or condition that involves some temporary
substantial incapacity;
         (b)   Any mental illness or condition that would normally require
psychiatric treatment, psychological treatment, or other mental health
services, whether or not any person requested or received psychiatric
treatment, psychological treatment, or other mental health services.
      ORGANIZATION. Includes an entity that is a governmental employer.
      PATTERN OF CONDUCT. Two or more actions or incidents closely related in
time, whether or not there has been a prior conviction based on any of those
actions or incidents, or two or more actions or incidents closely related in
time, whether or not there has been a prior conviction based on any of those
actions or incidents, directed at one or more persons employed by or belonging
to the same corporation, association, or other organization. Actions or
incidents that prevent, obstruct, or delay the performance by a public
official, firefighter, rescuer, emergency medical services person, or emergency
facility person of any authorized act within the public official's,
firefighter's, rescuer's, emergency medical services person's, or emergency
facility person’s official capacity, or the posting of messages, use of
intentionally written or verbal graphic gestures, or receipt of information or
data through the use of any form of written communication or an electronic
method of remotely transferring information, including but not limited to a
computer, computer network, computer program, computer system, or
telecommunications device, may constitute a “pattern of conduct.”
      PERSON LIVING AS A SPOUSE. Means a person who is living or has lived with
the person against whom the act prohibited in division (A) of this section is
committed in a common law marital relationship, who otherwise is cohabiting
with that person, or who otherwise has cohabited with the person within five
years prior to the date of the alleged commission of the act in question.
      POST A MESSAGE. Transferring, sending, posting, publishing,
disseminating, or otherwise  communicating, or attempting to transfer, send,
post, publish, disseminate, or otherwise communicate, any message or
information, whether truthful or untruthful, about an individual, and whether
done under one’s own name, under the name of another, or while impersonating
another.
      PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.01.
      SEXUAL MOTIVATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2971.01.
      THIRD PERSON. In relation to conduct as described in division (A)(2) of
this section, an individual who is neither the offender nor the victim of the
conduct.
   (E)   The prosecution does not need to prove in a prosecution under this
section that a person requested or received psychiatric treatment,
psychological treatment, or other mental heal services in order to show that
the person was caused mental distress as described in the definition for
“mental distress” in division (D) of this section.
   (F)   (1)   This section does not apply to a person solely because the
person provided access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person’s control, including
having provided capabilities that are incidental to providing access or
connection to or from the electronic method of remotely transferring the
information, and that do not include the creation of the content of the
material that is the subject of the access or connection. In addition, any
person providing access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person’s control shall not be
liable for any action voluntarily taken in good faith to block the receipt or
transmission through its service of any information that it believes is or will
be sent in violation of this section.
      (2)   Division (F)(1) of this section does not create an affirmative duty
for any person providing access or connection to or from an electronic method
of remotely transferring information not under that person’s control to block
the receipt or transmission through its service of any information that it
believes is or will be sent in violation of this section except as otherwise
provided by law.
      (3)   Division (F)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who
conspires with a person actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of this section or who knowingly
advertises the availability of material of that nature.
(R.C. § 2903.211)
CHAPTER 503: SEX OFFENSES
Section
   
503.01   Definitions
   
503.02   Sexual imposition
   
503.03   Public indecency
   
503.04   Voyeurism
   
503.05   Polygraph examinations for victims: restrictions on use
   
503.06   Prostitution
   
503.07   Prohibited presence, loitering or prowling at certain locations
   
503.08   Nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual images
 
   
503.99   Sentencing for sexually oriented offenses; sexual predators;
registration
Cross-reference:
   Penalties, misdemeanor classifications and sentencing, see
Ch. 599
§ 503.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in
Chapter 503 of the code:
   MINOR. A person under 18 years of age.
   SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Sexual conduct or sexual contact, or both.
   SEXUAL CONDUCT. Vaginal intercourse between a male and female; anal
intercourse, fellatio, and cunnilingus between persons regardless of sex; and,
without privilege to do so, the insertion, however slight, of any part of the
body or any instrument, apparatus, or other object into the vaginal or anal
opening of another. Penetration, however slight, is sufficient to complete
vaginal or anal intercourse.
   SEXUAL CONTACT. Any touching of an erogenous zone of another, including
without limitation the thigh, genitals, buttock, pubic region, or, if the
person is a female, a breast, for the purpose of sexually arousing or
gratifying either person.
   SPOUSE. A person married to an offender at the time of an alleged offense,
except that such person shall not be considered the spouse when any of the
following apply:
      (1)   When the parties have entered into a written separation agreement
authorized by R.C. § 3103.06;
      (2)   During the pendency of an action between the parties for annulment,
divorce, dissolution of marriage, or legal separation;
      (3)   In the case of an action for legal separation, after the effective
date of the judgment for legal separation.
(R.C. § 2907.01) (Am. Ord. 3043, passed 9-28-76; Am. Ord. 9107, passed 2-22-05)
§ 503.02 SEXUAL IMPOSITION.
   (A)   No person shall have sexual contact with another, not the spouse of
the offender; cause another, not the spouse of the offender, to have sexual
contact with the offender; or cause two or more other persons to have sexual
contact when any of the following applies:
      (1)   The offender knows that the sexual contact is offensive to the
other person, or one of the persons, or is reckless in that regard;
      (2)   The offender knows that the other person’s, or one of the other
person’s, ability to appraise the nature of or control the offender’s or
touching person’s conduct is substantially impaired;
      (3)   The offender knows that the other person or one of the other
persons, submits because of being unaware of the sexual contact; or
      (4)   The other person, or one of the other persons, is 13 years of age
or older but less than 16 years of age, whether or not the offender knows the
age of the person, and the offender is at least 18 years of age and four or
more years older than the other person.
      (5)   The offender is a mental health professional, the other person or
one of the other persons is a mental health client or patient of the offender,
and the offender induces the other person who is the client or patient to
submit by falsely representing to the other person who is the client or patient
that the sexual contact is necessary for mental health treatment purposes.
   (B)   No person shall be convicted of a violation of this section solely
upon the victim’s testimony unsupported by other evidence.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of sexual imposition, a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section, R.C. § 2907.02, 2907.03,
2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.06, former R.C. § 2907.12, or a substantially equivalent
state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of this section is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to three or more violations of this section, R.C. § 2907.02,
2907.03, 2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.06, former R.C. § 2907.12, or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or of any combination of those
sections, a violation of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree and,
notwithstanding the range of jail terms prescribed in R.C. § 2929.24, the court
may impose on the offender a definite jail term of not more than one year.
(R.C. § 2907.06) (Am. Ord. 3043, passed 9-28-76)
§ 503.03 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   (A)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following, under
circumstances in which the person’s conduct is likely to be viewed by and
affront others who are in the person’s physical proximity and who are not
members of the person’s household:
      (1)   Expose the persons’s private parts.
      (2)   Engage in sexual conduct or masturbation.
      (3)   Engage in conduct that to an ordinary observer would appear to be
sexual conduct or masturbation.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following, under circumstances
in which the person’s conduct is likely to be viewed by and affront another
person who is in the person’s physical proximity, who is a minor, and who is
not the spouse of the offender:
      (1)   Engage in masturbation.
      (2)   Engage in sexual conduct.
      (3)   Engage in conduct that to an ordinary observer would appear to be
sexual conduct or masturbation.
      (4)   Expose the person’s private parts with the purpose of personal
sexual arousal or gratification or to lure the minor into sexual activity.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of public indecency and
shall be punished as provided in divisions (C)(2), (C)(3), (C)(4), and (C)(5)
of this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(2), a violation
of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, a violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the third degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by
the offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations
of this section or a substantially equivalent state law municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by the
offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more
violations of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, a violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by
the offender’s conduct was a minor, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(3), a violation
of division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the third
degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to
one violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this section
is a misdemeanor of the second degree or, if any person who was likely to view
and be affronted by the offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section or a substantially equivalent
state law municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if any person who was likely
to view and be affronted by the offender’s conduct was a minor, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(4), a violation
of division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
second degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law
or municipal ordinance, a violation of division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this
section or a substantially equivalent state law municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(5), a violation
of division (B)(4) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation of
this section or a substantially equivalent state law municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (B)(4) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.09)
   (D)   (1)   If either of the following applies, the court may determine at
the time of sentencing whether to classify the offender as a tier I sex
offender/child-victim offender for a violation of division (B)(4) of this
section:
         (a)   The offender is less than ten years older than the other person.
         (b)   The offender is ten or more years older than the other person
and the offender has not previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any
violation of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance.
      (2)   If the offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (B)(4) of this section, is ten or more years older than the other
person, and previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation
of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the court shall issue an order at the time of sentencing that
classifies the offender as a tier I sex offender/child-victim offender subject
to registration under R.C. §§ 2950.04, 2950.041, 2950.05, and 2950.06.
(R.C. § 2907.09)
   (E)   A mother is entitled to breast-feed her baby in any location of a
place of public accommodation, as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, wherein the mother
otherwise is permitted.
(R.C. § 3781.55)
Statutory reference:
   Bail considerations for persons charged, see R.C. § 2907.41
§ 503.04 VOYEURISM.
   (A)   No person, for the purpose of sexually arousing or gratifying the
person’s self, shall commit trespass or otherwise surreptitiously invade the
privacy of another, to spy or eavesdrop upon another.
   (B)   No person, for the purpose of sexually arousing or gratifying the
person’s self, shall commit trespass or otherwise surreptitiously invade the
privacy of another to videotape, film, photograph, or otherwise record the
other person in a state of nudity.
   (C)   No person, for the purpose of sexually arousing or gratifying himself
or herself, shall commit trespass or otherwise surreptitiously invade the
privacy of another to videotape, film, photograph, otherwise record, or spy or
eavesdrop upon the other person in a state of nudity if the other person is a
minor.
   (D)   No person shall secretly or surreptitiously videotape, film,
photograph, or otherwise record another person under or through the clothing
being worn by that person for the purpose of viewing the body of, or the
undergarments worn by, that other person.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of voyeurism.
      (1)   A violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
      (2)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
second degree.
      (3)   A violation of division (D) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (4)   A violation of division (C) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under R.C. § 2907.08.
(R.C. § 2907.08) (Am. Ord. 3043, passed 9-28-76; Am. Ord. 9107, passed 2-22-05)
§ 503.05 POLYGRAPH EXAMINATIONS FOR VICTIMS: RESTRICTIONS ON USE.
   (A)   (1)   A peace officer, prosecutor, other public official, defendant,
defendant's attorney, alleged juvenile offender, or alleged juvenile offender's
attorney shall not ask or require a victim of an alleged sex offense to submit
to a polygraph examination as a condition for proceeding with the investigation
or prosecution of the alleged sex offense.
      (2)   The refusal of the victim of an alleged sex offense to submit to a
polygraph examination shall not prevent the investigation of the alleged sex
offense, the filing of criminal charges with respect to the alleged sex
offense, or the prosecution of the alleged perpetrator of the alleged sex
offense.
   (B)   As used in this section:
      ALLEGED JUVENILE OFFENDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2930.01.
      PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.51.
      POLYGRAPH EXAMINATION. Means any mechanical or electrical instrument or
device of any type used or allegedly used to examine, test, or question an
individual for the purpose of determining the individual’s truthfulness.
      PROSECUTION. Means the prosecution of criminal charges in a criminal
prosecution or the prosecution of a delinquent child complaint in a delinquency
proceeding.
      PROSECUTOR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
      PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 117.01.
      SEX OFFENSE. Means a violation of any provision of §§
133.02 to
133.05 or R.C. §§ 2907.02 to 2907.09.
(R.C. § 2907.10)
§ 503.06 PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   No person shall engage in sexual activity for hire.
   (B)   No person, with knowledge that the person has tested positive as a
carrier of a virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, shall engage
in sexual activity for hire.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
prostitution, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of engaging
in prostitution after a positive HIV test, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.25) (Am. Ord. 3043, passed 9-28-76)
Statutory reference:
   Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see R.C. § 2907.27
§ 503.07 PROHIBITED PRESENCE, LOITERING OR PROWLING AT CERTAIN LOCATIONS.
   (A)   Legislative findings and intent.
      (1)   The findings set forth in the recitals to Ordinance No. 2011-033
are hereby adopted as additional legislative findings.
      (2)   The City Council hereby finds and determines that sex offenders
present an extreme threat to the public safety. Sex offenders are extremely
likely to use physical violence and repeat their offenses, and most commit many
offenses, have many more victims than are ever reported, and are prosecuted for
only a fraction of their crimes. This makes the cost of sex offender
victimization to society at large, while incalculable, clearly exorbitant and a
drain on the resources of the city and society.
      (3)   It is the intent of this section to reduce the potential risk of
harm to children of the community by limiting the opportunity for sex offenders
to be in contact with unsuspecting children in locations that are primarily
designed for use by children, are primarily used by children, or are customary
gathering places for children. This section is not intended to interfere with a
sex offender's ability to participate in his or her own children's activities
occurring at school and at other recreational type facilities, and is also not
intended to interfere with a sex offender's ability to attend church or conduct
business with the government.
   (B)   As used in this section:
      BUSINESS OR TRANSIENT FACILITIES. Includes but is not limited to day care
centers or children's facilities, video arcades, transient carnivals, transient
zoos, school bus stops while any child or children are present or other similar
type places where children congregate.
      CHILD, CHILDREN, OR MINOR. Individuals whose chronological age is under
18 years.
      DAY CARE CENTER. Any child care arrangement which is either required to
be licensed by, or which is exempt from licensure in accordance with state or
local law, including but not limited to, any family child care home, large
family child care home, child care facility, school age child care center,
specialized child care facility for the care of mildly-ill children, after
school programs and child care facilities of a church or parochial school.
      LOITERING AND PROWLING. To linger aimlessly or to move about in a
stealthy manner at a time or in a manner not usual for law abiding individuals,
under circumstances that warrant a justifiable and reasonable alarm or
immediate concern for the safety of persons or property in the vicinity. Among
the circumstances which may be considered in determining whether such alarm or
immediate concern is warranted is the fact that the person takes flight upon
appearance of a law enforcement officer, refuses to  identify himself or
herself, or manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or herself or any object.
Unless flight by the person or other circumstance makes it impracticable, a law
enforcement officer shall, prior to any arrest for an offense under this
section, afford the person an opportunity to dispel any alarm or immediate
concern which would otherwise be warranted by requesting the person to identify
himself or herself and explain his or her presence and conduct. No person shall
be convicted of an offense under this section if the law enforcement officer
did not comply with this procedure or if it appears at trial that the
explanation given by the person is true and, if believed by the officer at the
time, would have dispelled the alarm or immediate concern.
      PARK. Includes all public and private property specifically designated as
being utilized for park and recreational purposes, including public beaches,
regardless of ownership.
      PERMANENT OR STATIONARY FACILITIES. Any public or private schools, public
libraries, public or private playgrounds and/or play facilities, YMCA and YWCA
facilities, Boys and Girls Club's facilities, youth camp grounds, parks, youth
sports facilities, skateparks, public zoos, public swimming pools, and other
similar places where children regularly congregate.
      SAFETY ZONE. On or within 300 feet of the specified location.
      SCHOOL. Any public or private school as defined in R.C. § 2925.01 as it
may be amended or replaced, excluding facilities dedicated exclusively to the
education of adults.
      SEX OFFENDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2950.01.
   (C)   It is prohibited for a sex offender to be on or within a safety zone
for the following specified locations or to loiter or prowl upon locations
adjacent to a safety zone:
      (1)   Permanent facilities which may include but are not limited to the
grounds of any public or private school for children during such times as the
location is being used by children for school activities, latchkey or organized
youth sports or during such times when children otherwise congregate at the
facility, except while the sex offender is in the process of dropping off or
picking up his or her own child or a friend or relative's child (with
permission of the child's parent or legal guardian) from the school, or while
attending a school activity with his or her own child or a friend or relative's
child (with permission of the child's parent or legal guardian) or while on the
school grounds for a school-related activity with the permission of the school;
and
      (2)   Permanent facilities which may include but are not limited to
public or private playgrounds and play facilities, YMCA and YWCA facilities and
Boys and Girls Club's facilities, libraries, parks, youth sports facilities,
youth campgrounds, skating parks and rinks, public swimming pools, amusement
parks, and public zoos during such times as the location is being used by
children or during such times when children congregate at the facility except
while in the process of dropping off or picking up his or her own child or a
friend or relative's child (with permission of the child's parent or legal
guardian) from one of these facilities or locations or while attending an
activity with his or her own child or a friend or relative's child (with
permission of the child's parent or legal guardian) or while in the presence of
his or her own child or a friend or relative's child (with permission of the
child's parent or legal guardian) at one of these facilities or locations or
when attending an adults only function.
      (3)   For the purposes of determining the minimum distance separation
requirement, distance shall be measured by following a straight line from the
outer property line of the facility primarily designed for use by, or are
primarily used by children.
      (4)   This prohibition does not apply to single trips while traveling
past a location specified in this section while enroute to another destination.
      (5)   This prohibition does not apply to traveling to or from or
attendance at religious services.
      (6)   This prohibition does not apply to traveling to or from or being at
a government building for the purpose of conducting official business.
      (7)   This prohibition does not apply to the sex offender's place of
residence when regulated by state law such as R.C. § 2950.034 as it may be
amended or replaced.
      (8)   This prohibition does not apply to a sex offender that is at a
permanent facility when the facility is a voting or voter registration location
and the sex offender is present for the purposes of voting or registering
during the hours designated for voting or registration process but only for the
time required to complete the voting or registration process.
   (D)   It is prohibited for a sex offender to be on or within a safety zone
for the following specified locations or to loiter or prowl upon locations
adjacent to a safety zone:
      (1)   Business or transient facilities which may include but are not
limited to day care centers except while the sex offender is in the process of
dropping off or picking up his or her own child or a friend or relative's child
(with permission of the child's parent or legal guardian) from the facility, or
while attending an activity in the facility with his or her own child or a
friend or relative's child (with permission of the child's parent or legal
guardian) or while on the facility grounds for a facility related activity with
the permission of the facility;
      (2)   Business or transient facilities which may include but are not
limited to video arcades, transient carnivals, transient zoos, or school bus
stops while any child or children are present. This includes the parking areas
designated for use in connection with the business or transient facilities.
      (3)   For the purposes of determining the minimum distance separation
requirement, distance shall be measured by following a straight line from the
outer property line of the facility primarily designed for use by, or are
primarily used by children.
      (4)   This prohibition does not apply to single trips while traveling
past a location specified in this section while enroute to another destination.
      (5)   This prohibition does not apply to traveling to or from or
attendance at religious services.
      (6)   This prohibition does not apply to traveling to or from or being at
a government building for the purpose of conducting official business.
      (7)   This prohibition does not apply to the sex offender's place of
residence when regulated by state law such as R.C. § 2950.034 as it may be
amended or replaced.
      (8)   This prohibition does not apply to a sex offender that is at a
permanent facility when the facility is a voting or voter registration location
and the sex offender is present for the purposes of voting or registering
during the hours designated for voting or registration process, but only for
the time required to complete the voting or registration process.
   (E)   For all activities involving the dropping off or picking up of a child
or children as authorized above, or attending an activity involving a child or
children as authorized above or traveling, attending services, or conducting
official business, the sex offender may not remain or loiter any longer than is
reasonably necessary to accomplish the task.
   (F)   School officials, park workers, library staff, YMCA and YWCA staff,
Boys and Girls Club staff, day care operators, video arcade, amusement park and
zoo workers and all others working at permanent or business facilities
primarily designed for use by, or primarily used by children are encouraged to
assist law enforcement in its efforts to protect children.
   (G)   The city may pursue any enforcement action or legal remedy available
under controlling state law and any legal remedy available to the city to
include, but not be limited to, a fine not exceeding $500 or by imprisonment
for a term not exceeding 60 days or by both fine and imprisonment, unless
otherwise authorized by law.
   (H)   Each separate occurrence shall be a separate violation of this
section.
   (I)   It is prohibited for a sex offender to be on or within a safety zone
for the following specified locations or to loiter or prowl upon locations
adjacent to a safety zone:
      (1)   Permanent facilities which may include but are not limited to the
grounds of any public or private school for children during such times as the
location is being used by children for school activities, latchkey or organized
youth sports or during such times when children otherwise congregate at the
facility, except while the sex offender is in the process of dropping off or
picking up his or her own child or a friend or relative's child (with
permission of the child's parent or legal guardian) from the school, or while
attending a school activity with his or her own child or a friend or relative's
child (with permission of the child's parent or legal guardian) or while on the
school grounds for a school-related activity with the permission of the school;
and
      (2)   Permanent facilities which may include but are not limited to
public or private playgrounds and play facilities, YMCA and YWCA facilities and
Boys and Girls Club's facilities, libraries, parks, youth sports facilities,
youth campgrounds, skating parks and rinks, public swimming pools, amusement
parks, and public zoos during such times as the location is being used by
children or during such times when children congregate at the facility except
while in the process of dropping off or picking up his or her own child or a
friend or relative's child (with permission of the child's parent or legal
guardian) from one of these facilities or locations or while attending an
activity with his or her own child or a friend or relative's child (with
permission of the child's parent or legal guardian) or while in the presence of
his or her own child or a friend or relative's child (with permission of the
child's parent or legal guardian) at one of these facilities or locations or
when attending an adults only function.
      (3)   For the purposes of determining the minimum distance separation
requirement, distance shall be measured by following a straight line from the
outer property line of the facility primarily designed for use by, or are
primarily used by children.
      (4)   This prohibition does not apply to single trips while traveling
past a location specified in this section while enroute to another destination.
      (5)   This prohibition does not apply to traveling to or from or
attendance at religious services.
      (6)   This prohibition does not apply to traveling to or from or being at
a government building for the purpose of conducting official business.
      (7)   This prohibition does not apply to the sex offender's place of
residence when regulated by state law such as R.C. § 2950.034 as it may be
amended or replaced.
      (8)   This prohibition does not apply to a sex offender that is at a
permanent facility when the facility is a voting or voter registration location
and the sex offender is present for the purposes of voting or registering
during the hours designated for voting or registration process but only for the
time required to complete the voting or registration process.
   (J)   It is prohibited for a sex offender to be on or within a safety zone
for the following specified locations or to loiter or prowl upon locations
adjacent to a safety zone:
      (1)   Business or transient facilities which may include but are not
limited to day care centers except while the sex offender is in the process of
dropping off or picking up his or her own child or a friend or relative's child
(with permission of the child's parent or legal guardian) from the facility, or
while attending an activity in the facility with his or her own child or a
friend or relative's child (with permission of the child's parent or legal
guardian) or while on the facility grounds for a facility related activity with
the permission of the facility;
      (2)   Business or transient facilities which may include but are not
limited to video arcades, transient carnivals, transient zoos, or school bus
stops while any child or children are present. This includes the parking areas
designated for use in connection with the business or transient facilities.
      (3)   For the purposes of determining the minimum distance separation
requirement, distance shall be measured by following a straight line from the
outer property line of the facility primarily designed for use by, or are
primarily used by children.
      (4)   This prohibition does not apply to single trips while traveling
past a location specified in this section while enroute to another destination.
      (5)   This prohibition does not apply to traveling to or from or
attendance at religious services.
      (6)   This prohibition does not apply to traveling to or from or being at
a government building for the purpose of conducting official business.
      (7)   This prohibition does not apply to the sex offender's place of
residence when regulated by state law such as R.C. § 2950.034 as it may be
amended or replaced.
      (8)   This prohibition does not apply to a sex offender that is at a
permanent facility when the facility is a voting or voter registration location
and the sex offender is present for the purposes of voting or registering
during the hours designated for voting or registration process, but only for
the time required to complete the voting or registration process.
   (K)   For all activities involving the dropping off or picking up of a child
or children as authorized above, or attending an activity involving a child or
children as authorized above or traveling, attending services, or conducting
official business, the sex offender may not remain or loiter any longer than is
reasonably necessary to accomplish the task.
   (L)   School officials, park workers, library staff, YMCA and YWCA staff,
Boys and Girls Club staff, day care operators, video arcade, amusement park and
zoo workers and all others working at permanent or business facilities
primarily designed for use by, or primarily used by children are encouraged to
assist law enforcement in its efforts to protect children.
   (M)   Penalties. The city may pursue any enforcement action or legal remedy
available under controlling state law and any legal remedy available to the
city to include, but not be limited to, a fine not exceeding $500 or by
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 60 days or by both fine and imprisonment,
unless otherwise authorized by law. Each separate occurrence shall be a
separate violation of this section.
   (N)   Preemption and sunset. In the event any state or federal law is
enacted which is more restrictive in nature as to where a sex offender may
physically be located, those portions of this section that conflict with the
state or federal law will cease to be in effect. In addition, this section
shall automatically sunset upon the effective date of any state or federal law
which preempts other regulations related to the subject matter and restrictions
contained in this section.
(Ord. 2011-033, passed 4-26-11)
§ 503.08 NONCONSENSUAL DISSEMINATION OF PRIVATE SEXUAL IMAGES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      CABLE SERVICE PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.01.
      DIRECT-TO-HOME SATELLITE SERVICE. Has the meaning defined in 47 U.S.C. §
303, as amended.
      DISSEMINATE. Means to post, distribute, or publish on a computer device,
computer network, web site, or other electronic device or medium of
communication.
      IMAGE. Means a photograph, film, videotape, digital recording, or other
depiction or portrayal of a person.
      INTERACTIVE COMPUTER SERVICE. Has the meaning defined in the
“Telecommunications Act of 1996”, 47 U.S.C. § 230, as amended.
      INTERNET PROVIDER. Means a provider of internet service, including all of
the following:
         (a)   Broadband service, however defined or classified by the Federal
Communications Commission;
         (b)   Information service or telecommunications service, both as
defined in the “Telecommunications Act of 1996”, 47 U.S.C. § 153, as amended;
         (c)   Internet protocol- enabled services, as defined in R.C. §
4927.01.
      MOBILE SERVICE. Has the meaning defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153, as amended.
      SEXUAL ACT. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Sexual activity;
         (b)   Masturbation;
         (c)   An act involving a bodily substance that is performed for the
purpose of sexual arousal or gratification;
         (d)   Sado-masochistic abuse.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIER. Has the meaning defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153,
as amended.
      VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.21.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly disseminate an image of another person if
all of the following apply:
      (1)   The person in the image is 18 years of age or older.
      (2)   The person in the image can be identified from the image itself or
from information displayed in connection with the image and the offender
supplied the identifying information.
      (3)   The person in the image is in a state of nudity or is engaged in a
sexual act.
      (4)   The image is disseminated without consent from the person in the
image.
      (5)   The image is disseminated with intent to harm the person in the
image.
   (C)   This section does not prohibit the dissemination of an image if any of
the following apply:
      (1)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of a criminal
investigation that is otherwise lawful.
      (2)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of, or in connection
with, the reporting of unlawful conduct.
      (3)   The image is part of a news report or commentary or an artistic or
expressive work, such as a performance, work of art, literary work, theatrical
work, musical work, motion picture, film, or audiovisual work.
      (4)   The image is disseminated by a law enforcement officer, or a
corrections officer or guard in a detention facility, acting within the scope
of the person’s official duties.
      (5)   The image is disseminated for another lawful public purpose.
      (6)   The person in the image is knowingly and willingly in a state of
nudity or engaged in a sexual act and is knowingly and willingly in a location
in which the person does not have a reasonable expectation of privacy.
      (7)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of medical treatment or
examination.
   (D)   The following entities are not liable for a violation of this section
solely as a result of an image or other information provided by another person:
      (1)   A provider of interactive computer service;
      (2)   A mobile service;
      (3)   A telecommunications carrier;
      (4)   An internet provider;
      (5)   A cable service provider;
      (6)   A direct-to-home satellite service;
      (7)   A video service provider.
   (E)   Any conduct that is a violation of this section and any other section
of this Code or the Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under this section, the
other section, or both sections.
   (F)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (F)(1)(b), (F)(1)
(c), or (F)(1)(d) of this section, whoever violates this section is guilty of
nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual images, a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of this section or any substantially equivalent state law
or municipal ordinance, nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual images is
a misdemeanor of the second degree.
         (c)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section or any substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, nonconsensual dissemination of
private sexual images is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (d)   If the offender is under 18 years of age and the person in the
image is not more than five years older than the offender, the offender shall
not be prosecuted under this section.
      (2)   In addition to any other penalty or disposition authorized or
required by law, the court may order any person who is convicted of a violation
of this section or who is adjudicated delinquent by reason of a violation of
this section to criminally forfeit all of the following property to the state
under R.C. Chapter 2981:
         (a)   Any profits or proceeds and any property the person has acquired
or maintained in violation of this section that the sentencing court determines
to have been acquired or maintained as a result of the violation;
         (b)   Any interest in, securities of, claim against, or property or
contractual right of any kind affording a source of influence over any
enterprise that the person has established, operated, controlled, or conducted
in violation of this section that the sentencing court determines to have been
acquired or maintained as a result of the violation.
   (G)   A victim of a violation of this section may commence a civil cause of
action against the offender, as described in R.C. § 2307.66.
(R.C. § 2917.211)
§ 503.99 SENTENCING FOR SEXUALLY ORIENTED OFFENSES; SEXUAL PREDATORS;
REGISTRATION.
   (A)   If an offender is being sentenced for a sexually oriented offense or
child-victim oriented offense that is a misdemeanor committed on or after
January 1, 1997, and the offender is a tier III sex offender/child-victim
offender relative to the offense or the offense is any offense listed in R.C. §
2901.07(D)(1) to (D)(3), the judge shall include in the offender’s sentence a
statement that the offender is a tier III sex offender/child-victim offender,
shall comply with the requirements of R.C. § 2950.03, and shall require the
offender to submit to a DNA specimen collection procedure pursuant to R.C. §
2901.07.
   (B)   If an offender is being sentenced for a sexually oriented offense or a
child-victim oriented offense that is a misdemeanor committed on or after
January 1, 1997, the judge shall include in the sentence a summary of the
offender’s duties imposed under R.C. §§ 2950.04, 2950.041, 2950.05, and
2950.06, and the duration of the duties. The judge shall inform the offender,
at the time of sentencing, of those duties and of their duration. If required
under R.C. § 2950.03(A)(2), the judge shall perform the duties specified in
that section or, if required under R.C. § 2950.03(A)(6), the judge shall
perform the duties specified in that division.
(R.C. § 2929.23)
CHAPTER 504: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
504.01   Criminal damaging or endangering
   
504.02   Criminal mischief
   
504.03   Vehicular vandalism
Cross-reference:
   Penalties, misdemeanor classifications and sentencing, see
Ch. 599
§ 504.01 CRIMINAL DAMAGING OR ENDANGERING.
   (A)   No person shall cause or create a substantial risk of physical harm to
any property of another without the other person's consent:
      (1)   Knowingly, by any means; or
      (2)   Recklessly, by means of fire, explosion, flood, poison gas, poison,
radioactive material, caustic or corrosive material, or other inherently
dangerous agency or substance.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal damaging or
endangering, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If violation of this section
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, criminal damaging or endangering
is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the property involved in a violation
of this section is an aircraft, an aircraft engine, propeller, appliance, spare
part, or any other equipment or implement used or intended to be used in the
operation of an aircraft and if the violation creates a risk of physical harm
to any person, criminal damaging or endangering is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law. If the property involved in a violation of this
section is an aircraft, an aircraft engine, propeller, appliance, spare part,
or any other equipment or implement used or intended to be used in the
operation of an aircraft and if the violation creates a substantial risk of
physical harm to any person or if the property involved in a violation of this
section is an occupied aircraft, criminal damaging or endangering is a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C.§ 2909.06) (Am. Ord. 3043, passed 9-28-76; Am. Ord. 9108, passed 2-22-05)
§ 504.02 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   (A)   No person shall:
      (1)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage,
destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper with the either of the following:
         (a)   The property of another;
         (b)   One’s own residential real property with the purpose to decrease
the value of or enjoyment of the residential real property, if both of the
following apply:
            1.   The residential real property is subject to a mortgage.
            2.   The person has been served with a summons and complaint in a
pending residential mortgage loan foreclosure action relating to that real
property. As used in this division, “pending” includes the time between
judgment entry and confirmation of sale.
      (2)   With purpose to interfere with the use or enjoyment of property of
another, employ a tear gas device, stink bomb, smoke generator, or other device
releasing a substance that is harmful or offensive to persons exposed, or that
tends to cause public alarm;
      (3)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage,
destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper with a bench mark, triangulation
station, boundary marker, or other survey station, monument, or marker;
      (4)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage,
destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper with any safety device, the property of
another, or the property of the offender when required or placed for the safety
of others, so as to destroy or diminish its effectiveness or availability for
its intended purpose;
      (5)   With purpose to interfere with the use or enjoyment of the property
of another, set a fire on the land of another or place personal property that
has been set on fire on the land of another, which fire or personal property is
outside and apart from any building, other structure, or personal property that
is on that land;
      (6)   Without privilege to do so, and with intent to impair the
functioning of any computer, computer system, computer network, computer
software, or computer program, knowingly do any of the following:
         (a)   In any manner or by any means, including but not limited to,
computer hacking, alter, damage, destroy, or modify a computer, computer
system, computer network, computer software, or computer program or data
contained in a computer, computer system, computer network, computer software,
or computer program;
         (b)   Introduce a computer contaminant into a computer, computer
system, computer network, computer software, or computer program.
      (7)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly destroy or improperly tamper
with a critical infrastructure facility.
   (B)   As used in this section:
      CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2911.21.
      IMPROPERLY TAMPER. Means to change the physical location or the physical
condition of the property.
      SAFETY DEVICE. Means any fire extinguisher, fire hose, or fire axe, or
any fire escape, emergency exit, or emergency escape equipment, or any life
line, life-saving ring, life preserver, or life boat or raft, or any alarm,
light, flare, signal, sign, or notice intended to warn of danger or emergency,
or intended for other safety purposes, or any guard railing or safety
barricade, or any traffic sign or signal, or any railroad grade crossing sign,
signal, or gate, or any first aid or survival equipment, or any other device,
apparatus, or equipment intended for protecting or preserving the safety of
persons or property.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal mischief,
and shall be punished as provided in division (C)(2), (C)(3), or (C)(4) of this
section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the third degree. Except as otherwise provided
in this division, if the violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
or (A)(5) of this section creates a risk of physical harm to any person,
criminal mischief committed in violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3),
(A)(4), or (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
property involved in the violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
or (A)(5) of this section is an aircraft, an aircraft engine, propeller,
appliance, spare part, fuel, lubricant, hydraulic fluid, any other equipment,
implement, or material used or intended to be used in the operation of an
aircraft, or any cargo carried or intended to be carried in an aircraft and if
the violation creates any risk of physical harm to any person, or if the
aircraft in question is an occupied aircraft, criminal mischief committed in
violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of this section
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (A)(6) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the value of the computer, computer system, computer
network, computer software, computer program, or data involved in the violation
of division (A)(6) of this section or the loss to the victim resulting from the
violation is $1,000 or more, or if the computer, computer system, computer
network, computer software, computer program, or data involved in the violation
of division (A)(6) is used or intended to be used in the operation of an
aircraft and the violation creates any risk of physical harm to any person, or
if the aircraft in question is an occupied aircraft, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (A)(6) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)   Criminal mischief committed in violation of division (A)(7) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.07) (Am. Ord. 3043, passed 9-28-76)
§ 504.03 VEHICULAR VANDALISM.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ALLEY, STREET, STREETCAR, TRACKLESS TROLLEY and VEHICLE. Have the same
meanings as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      HIGHWAY. Means any highway as defined in R.C. § 4511.01 or any lane,
road, street, alley, bridge, or overpass.
      VESSEL and WATERS IN THIS STATE. Have the same meanings as in R.C. §
1547.01.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly, and by any means, drop or throw any object
at, onto, or in the path of any of the following:
      (1)   Any vehicle, streetcar, or trackless trolley on a highway;
      (2)   Any boat or vessel on any of the waters in this state.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of vehicular vandalism. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, vehicular vandalism is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the
violation of this section creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any
person or the violation of this section causes serious physical harm to
property, vehicular vandalism is a felony in the fourth degree to be prosecuted
under R.C. § 2909.09. Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the
violation of this section causes physical harm to any person, vehicular
vandalism is a felony of the third degree to be prosecuted under R.C. §
2909.09. If the violation of this section causes serious physical harm to any
person, vehicular vandalism is a felony of the second degree to be prosecuted
under R.C. § 2909.09.
(Ord. 9108, passed 2-22-05)
CHAPTER 505: ANIMALS
Section
   
505.01   Animals and dogs running at large
   
505.02   Barking dogs
   
505.03   Abandoning animals
   
505.04   Killing, injuring or poisoning animals
   
505.05   Cruelty to animals; cruelty to companion animals
   
505.06   Dog may be killed for certain acts; owner liable for damages
   
505.07   Prohibiting the owning or harboring of pit bull terriers [Repealed]
   
505.08   Removal of dog excrement
   
505.09   Vicious dogs
   
505.10   Sexual conduct with an animal
 
   
505.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Penalties, misdemeanor classifications and sentencing, see
Ch. 599
§ 505.01 ANIMALS AND DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   Animals running at large.
      (1)   No person, who is the owner or keeper of horses, mules, cattle,
bison, sheep, goats, swine, llamas, alpacas, or poultry, shall permit them to
run at large in the public road, highway, street, lane, or alley, or upon
unenclosed land, or cause the animals to be herded, kept, or detained for the
purpose of grazing on premises other than those owned or lawfully occupied by
the owner or keeper of the animals.
(R.C. § 951.02)
      (2)   Whoever recklessly violates division (A)(1) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 951.99)
      (3)   The owner or keeper of an animal described in division (A)(1) of
this section who negligently permits it to run at large in violation of
division (A)(1) of this section is liable for all damages resulting from
injury, death, or loss to person or property caused by the animal in any of the
places specified in division (A)(1) of this section or upon the premises of
another without reference to the fence that may enclose the premises.
      (4)   The running at large of any animal specified in division (A)(1) of
this section in or upon any of the places specified in division (A)(1) of this
section is prima facie evidence in a civil action for damages under division
(A)(3) of this section that the owner or keeper of the animal negligently
permitted the animal to run at large in violation of division (A)(1) of this
section.
(R.C. § 951.10)
   (B)   Dogs running at large; dangerous dogs; debarked or surgically silenced
dangerous dogs.
      (1)   As used in this division (B), DANGEROUS DOG has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 955.11.
      (2)   No owner, keeper, or harborer of any female dog shall permit it to
go beyond the premises of the owner, keeper, or harborer at any time the dog is
in heat unless the dog is properly in leash.
      (3)   Except when a dog is lawfully engaged in hunting and accompanied by
the owner, keeper, harborer, or handler of the dog, no owner, keeper, or
harborer of any dog shall fail at any time to do either of the following:
         (a)   Keep the dog physically confined or restrained upon the premises
of the owner, keeper, or harborer by a leash, tether, adequate fence,
supervision, or secure enclosure to prevent escape;
         (b)   Keep the dog under the reasonable control of some person.
      (4)   Except when a dangerous dog is lawfully engaged in hunting or
training for the purpose of hunting and is accompanied by the owner, keeper,
harborer, or handler of the dog, no owner, keeper, or harborer of a dangerous
dog shall fail to do either of the following:
         (a)   While the dog is on the premises of the owner, keeper, or
harborer, securely confine it at all times in a locked pen that has a top,
locked fenced yard, or other locked enclosure that has a top.
         (b)   While the dog is off the premises of the owner, keeper, or
harborer, keep that dog on a chain-link leash or tether that is not more than
six feet in length and additionally do at least one of the following: keep the
dog in a locked pen that has a top, locked fenced yard, or other locked
enclosure that has a top; have the leash or tether controlled by a person who
is of suitable age and discretion or securely attach, tie, or affix the leash
or tether to the ground or a stationary object or fixture so that the dog is
adequately restrained and station a person in close enough proximity to that
dog so as to prevent it from causing injury to any person; or muzzle that dog.
      (5)   No person who has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or
more violations of division (B)(3) of this section involving the same dog and
no owner, keeper, or harborer of a dangerous dog shall fail to do the
following:
         (a)   Obtain liability insurance with an insurer authorized to write
liability insurance in this state providing coverage in each occurrence because
of damage or bodily injury to or death of a person caused by the dangerous dog
if so ordered by a court and provide proof of that liability insurance upon
request to any law enforcement officer, county dog warden, or public health
official charged with enforcing this section;
         (b)   Obtain a dangerous dog registration certificate from the County
Auditor pursuant to division (B)(9) of this section, affix a tag that
identifies the dog as a dangerous dog to the dog’s collar, and ensure that the
dog wears the collar and tag at all times;
         (c)   Notify the local dog warden immediately if any of the following
occurs:
            1.   The dog is loose or unconfined.
            2.   The dog bites a person, unless the dog is on the property of
the owner of the dog, and the person who is bitten is unlawfully trespassing or
committing a criminal act within the boundaries of that property.
            3.   The dog attacks another animal while the dog is off the
property of the owner of the dog.
         (d)   If the dog is sold, given to another person, or dies, notify the
County Auditor within ten days of the sale, transfer, or death.
      (6)   No person shall do any of the following:
         (a)   Debark or surgically silence a dog that the person knows or has
reason to believe is a dangerous dog;
         (b)   Possess a dangerous dog if the person knows or has reason to
believe that the dog has been debarked or surgically silenced;
         (c)   Falsely attest on a waiver form provided by the veterinarian
under division (B)(7) of this section that the person’s dog is not a dangerous
dog or otherwise provide false information on that written waiver form.
      (7)   Before a veterinarian debarks or surgically silences a dog, the
veterinarian may give the owner of the dog a written waiver form that attests
that the dog is not a dangerous dog. The written waiver form shall include all
of the following:
         (a)   The veterinarian’s license number and current business address;
         (b)   The number of the license of the dog if the dog is licensed;
         (c)   A reasonable description of the age, coloring, and gender of the
dog as well as any notable markings on the dog;
         (d)   The signature of the owner of the dog attesting that the owner’s
dog is not a dangerous dog;
         (e)   A statement that R.C. § 955.22(F) prohibits any person from
doing any of the following:
            1.   Debarking or surgically silencing a dog that the person knows
or has reason to believe is a dangerous dog;
            2.   Possessing a dangerous dog if the person knows or has reason
to believe that the dog has been debarked or surgically silenced;
            3.   Falsely attesting on a waiver form provided by the
veterinarian under division (G) of R.C. § 955.22 that the person’s dog is not a
dangerous dog or otherwise provide false information on that written waiver
form.
      (8)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of a violation of division
(B)(6) of this section that the veterinarian who is charged with the violation
obtained, prior to debarking or surgically silencing the dog, a written waiver
form that complies with division (B)(7) of this section and that attests that
the dog is not a dangerous dog.
      (9)   (a)   The County Auditor shall issue a dangerous dog registration
certificate to a person who is the owner of a dog, who is 18 years of age or
older, and who provides the following to the County Auditor:
            1.   A fee of $50;
            2.   The person’s address, phone number, and other appropriate
means for the local dog warden or County Auditor to contact the person;
            3.   With respect to the person and the dog for which the
registration is sought, all of the following:
               a.   Either satisfactory evidence of the dog’s current rabies
vaccination or a statement from a licensed veterinarian that a rabies
vaccination is medically contraindicated for the dog;
               b.    Either satisfactory evidence of the fact that the dog has
been neutered or spayed or a statement from a licensed veterinarian that
neutering or spaying of the dog is medically contraindicated;
               c.    Satisfactory evidence of the fact that the person has
posted and will continue to post clearly visible signs at the person’s
residence warning both minors and adults of the presence of a dangerous dog on
the property;
               d.    Satisfactory evidence of the fact that the dog has been
permanently identified by means of a microchip and the dog’s microchip number.
         (b)   Upon the issuance of a dangerous dog registration certificate to
the owner of a dog, the County Auditor shall provide the owner with a uniformly
designed tag that identifies the animal as a dangerous dog. The owner shall
renew the certificate annually for the same fee and in the same manner as the
initial certificate was obtained. If a certificate holder relocates to a new
county, the certificate holder shall follow the procedure in division (B)(9)
(c)2. of this section and, upon the expiration of the certificate issued in the
original county, shall renew the certificate in the new county.
         (c)   1.   If the owner of a dangerous dog for whom a registration
certificate has previously been obtained relocates to a new address within the
same county, the owner shall provide notice of the new address to the County
Auditor within ten days of relocating to the new address.
            2.   If the owner of a dangerous dog for whom a registration
certificate has previously been obtained relocates to a new address within
another county, the owner shall do both of the following within ten days of
relocating to the new address:
               a.    Provide written notice of the new address and a copy of
the original dangerous dog registration certificate to the County Auditor of
the new county;
               b.    Provide written notice of the new address to the County
Auditor of the county where the owner previously resided.
         (d)   The owner of a dangerous dog shall present the dangerous dog
registration certificate upon being requested to do so by any law enforcement
officer, dog warden, or public health official charged with enforcing this
section.
(R.C. § 955.22)
   (C)   Hearing.
      (1)   The municipal court or county court that has territorial
jurisdiction over the residence of the owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog
shall conduct any hearing concerning the designation of the dog as a nuisance
dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog.
      (2)   If a person who is authorized to enforce this chapter has
reasonable cause to believe that a dog in the person’s jurisdiction is a
nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog, the person shall notify the owner,
keeper, or harborer of that dog, by certified mail or in person, of both of the
following:
         (a)   That the person has designated the dog a nuisance dog, dangerous
dog, or vicious dog, as applicable;
         (b)   That the owner, keeper, or harborer of the dog may request a
hearing regarding the designation in accordance with this division (C). The
notice shall include instructions for filing a request for a hearing in the
county in which the dog’s owner, keeper, or harborer resides.
      (3)   If the owner, keeper, or harborer of the dog disagrees with the
designation of the dog as a nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog, as
applicable, the owner, keeper, or harborer, not later than ten days after
receiving notification of the designation, may request a hearing regarding the
determination. The request for a hearing shall be in writing and shall be filed
with the municipal court or county court that has territorial jurisdiction over
the residence of the dog’s owner, keeper, or harborer. At the hearing, the
person who designated the dog as a nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog
has the burden of proving, by clear and convincing evidence, that the dog is a
nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog. The owner, keeper, or harborer of
the dog or the person who designated the dog as a nuisance dog, dangerous dog,
or vicious dog may appeal the court’s final determination as in any other case
filed in that court.
      (4)   A court, upon motion of an owner, keeper, or harborer or an
attorney representing the owner, keeper, or harborer, may order that the dog
designated as a nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog be held in the
possession of the owner, keeper, or harborer until the court makes a final
determination under this section or during the pendency of an appeal, as
applicable. Until the court makes a final determination and during the pendency
of any appeal, the dog shall be confined or restrained in accordance with the
provisions of division (B)(4) that apply to dangerous dogs regardless of
whether the dog has been designated as a vicious dog or a nuisance dog rather
than a dangerous dog. The owner, keeper, or harborer of the dog shall not be
required to comply with any other requirements established in this Code or the
Ohio Revised Code that concern a nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog,
as applicable, until the court makes a final determination and during the
pendency of any appeal.
      (5)   If a dog is finally determined under this division (C), or on
appeal as described in this division (C), to be a vicious dog, R.C. § 955.11(D)
and divisions (B)(4) to (B)(9) of this section apply with respect to the dog
and the owner, keeper, or harborer of the dog as if the dog were a dangerous
dog, and R.C. § 955.54 applies with respect to the dog as if it were a
dangerous dog, and the court shall issue an order that specifies that those
provisions apply with respect to the dog and the owner, keeper, or harborer in
that manner. As part of the order, the court shall require the owner, keeper,
or harborer to obtain the liability insurance required under division (B)(5)(a)
in an amount described in division (D)(4)(b) of this section.
      (6)   As used in this division (C), NUISANCE DOG, DANGEROUS DOG, and
VICIOUS DOG have the same meanings as in R.C. § 955.11.
(R.C. § 955.222)
   (D)   Penalty.
      (1)   (a)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section or commits a
violation of division (B)(3) of this section that involves a dog that is not a
nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog shall be fined not less than $25 or
more than $100 on a first offense, and on each subsequent offense shall be
fined not less than $75 or more than $250 and may be imprisoned for not more
than 30 days.
         (b)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in division (D)(1)(a) of
this section, if the offender is guilty of a violation of division (B)(2) of
this section or a violation of division (B)(3) of this section that involves a
dog that is not a nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog, the court may
order the offender to personally supervise the dog that the offender owns,
keeps, or harbors, to cause that dog to complete dog obedience training, or to
do both.
(R.C. § 955.99(E))
      (2)   (a)   Whoever commits a violation of division (B)(3) of this
section that involves a nuisance dog is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on the
first offense and of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on each subsequent
offense involving the same dog. Upon a person being convicted of or pleading
guilty to a third violation of division (B)(3) of this section involving the
same dog, the court shall require the offender to register the involved dog as
a dangerous dog.
         (b)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in division (D)(2)(a) of
this section, if a violation of division (B)(3) of this section involves a
nuisance dog, the court may order the offender to personally supervise the
nuisance dog that the offender owns, keeps, or harbors, to cause that dog to
complete dog obedience training, or to do both.
(R.C. § 955.99(F))
      (3)   Whoever commits a violation of division (B)(3) of this section that
involves a dangerous dog, or a violation of division (B)(4) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and of a
misdemeanor of the third degree on each subsequent offense. Additionally, the
court may order the offender to personally supervise the dangerous dog that the
offender owns, keeps, or harbors, to cause that dog to complete dog obedience
training, or to do both, and the court may order the offender to obtain
liability insurance pursuant to division (B)(5) of this section. The court, in
the alternative, may order the dangerous dog to be humanely destroyed by a
licensed veterinarian, the county dog warden, or the county humane society at
the owner’s expense. With respect to a violation of division (B)(3) of this
section that involves a dangerous dog, until the court makes a final
determination and during the pendency of any appeal of a violation of that
division and at the discretion of the dog warden, the dog shall be confined or
restrained in accordance with division (B)(4) of this section or at the county
dog pound at the owner’s expense.
(R.C. § 955.99(G))
      (4)   (a)   Whoever commits a violation of division (B)(3) of this
section that involves a vicious dog is guilty of one of the following:
            1.   A felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law if the
dog kills or seriously injures a person. Additionally, the court shall order
that the vicious dog be humanely destroyed by a licensed veterinarian, the
county dog warden, or the county humane society at the owner’s expense.
            2.   A misdemeanor of the first degree if the dog causes serious
injury to a person. Additionally, the court may order the vicious dog to be
humanely destroyed by a licensed veterinarian, the county dog warden, or the
county humane society at the owner’s expense.
         (b)   If the court does not order the vicious dog to be destroyed
under division (D)(4)(a)2. of this section, the court shall issue an order that
specifies that § 90.28(D) and divisions (B)(4) to (B)(9) of this section apply
with respect to the dog and the owner, keeper, or harborer of the dog as if the
dog were a dangerous dog and that § 90.36 applies with respect to the dog as if
it were a dangerous dog. As part of the order, the court shall order the
offender to obtain the liability insurance required under division (B)(5)(a) of
this section in an amount, exclusive of interest and costs, that equals or
exceeds $100,000. Until the court makes a final determination and during the
pendency of any appeal of a violation of division (B)(3) of this section and at
the discretion of the dog warden, the dog shall be confined or restrained in
accordance with the provisions described in division (B)(4) of this section or
at the county dog pound at the owner’s expense.
(R.C. § 955.99(H))
      (5)   Whoever violates division (B)(5)(b) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 955.99(J))
      (6)   Whoever violates division (B)(6)(a), (B)(6)(b), or (B)(6)(c) of
this section is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law. Additionally, the court shall order that the dog involved in the violation
be humanely destroyed by a licensed veterinarian, the county dog warden, or the
county humane society. Until the court makes a final determination and during
the pendency of any appeal of a violation of division (B)(6)(a), (B)(6)(b), or
(B)(6)(c) of this section and at the discretion of the dog warden, the dog
shall be confined or restrained in accordance with the provisions of division
(B)(4) of this section or at the county dog pound at the owner’s expense.
(R.C. § 955.99(L))
      (7)   Whoever violates division (B)(5)(a), (B)(5)(c), or (B)(5)(d) of
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 955.99(M))
      (8)   Whoever violates division (B)(9)(d) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 955.99(N))
      (9)   (a)   If a dog is confined at the county dog pound pursuant to
division (D)(3), (D)(4), or (D)(6) of this section, the county dog warden shall
give written notice of the confinement to the owner of the dog. If the county
dog warden is unable to give the notice to the owner of the dog, the county dog
warden shall post the notice on the door of the residence of the owner of the
dog or in another conspicuous place on the premises at which the dog was
seized. The notice shall include a statement that a security in the amount of
$100 is due to the county dog warden within ten days to secure payment of all
reasonable expenses, including medical care and boarding of the dog for 60
days, expected to be incurred by the county dog pound in caring for the dog
pending the determination. The county dog warden may draw from the security any
actual costs incurred in caring for the dog.
         (b)   If the person ordered to post security under division (D)(9)(a)
of this section does not do so within ten days of the confinement of the
animal, the dog is forfeited, and the county dog warden may determine the
disposition of the dog unless the court issues an order that specifies
otherwise.
         (c)   Not more than ten days after the court makes a final
determination under division (D)(3), (D)(4), or (D)(6) of this section, the
county dog warden shall provide the owner of the dog with the actual cost of
the confinement of the dog. If the county dog warden finds that the security
provided under division (D)(9)(a) of this section is less than the actual cost
of confinement of the dog, the owner shall remit the difference between the
security provided and the actual cost to the county dog warden within 30 days
after the court’s determination. If the county dog warden finds that the
security provided under division (D)(9)(a) of this section is greater than that
actual cost, the county dog warden shall remit the difference between the
security provided and the actual cost to the owner within 30 days after the
court’s determination.
(R.C. § 955.99(P))
      (10)   As used in this division (D), NUISANCE DOG, DANGEROUS DOG, and
VICIOUS DOG have the same meanings as in R.C. § 955.11.
(R.C. § 955.99(Q))
Statutory reference:
   Power of municipality to regulate animals running at large, see R.C. §§
715.23 and 955.221
§ 505.02 BARKING DOGS.
   No person shall harbor or keep a dog that, by loud and frequent or habitual
barking, howling or yelping, shall cause annoyance or disturbance to the
neighborhood.
Penalty, see § 505.99
§ 505.03 ABANDONING ANIMALS.
   No owner or keeper of a dog, cat or other domestic animal shall abandon such
animal.
(R.C. § 959.01)
Penalty, see § 505.99
§ 505.04 KILLING, INJURING OR POISONING ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall maliciously, or willfully and without the consent of
the owner, kill or injure a horse, mare, foal, filly, jack, mule, sheep, goat,
cow, steer, bull, heifer, ass, ox, swine, dog, cat, or other domestic animal
that is the property of another. This section does not apply to a licensed
veterinarian acting in an official capacity.
(R.C. § 959.02)
   (B)   No person shall maliciously, or willfully and without the consent of
the owner, administer poison, except a licensed veterinarian acting in such
capacity, to a horse, mare, foal, filly, jack, mule, sheep, goat, cow, steer,
bull, heifer, ass, ox, swine, dog, cat, poultry, or any other domestic animal
that is the property of another; and no person shall, willfully and without the
consent of the owner, place any poisoned food where it may be easily found and
eaten by any of these animals, either upon his or her own lands or the lands of
another.
(R.C. § 959.03)
Penalty, see § 505.99
§ 505.05 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS; CRUELTY TO COMPANION ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall:
      (1)   Torture an animal, deprive one of necessary sustenance,
unnecessarily or cruelly beat, needlessly mutilate or kill, or impound or
confine an animal without supplying it during the confinement with a sufficient
quantity of good wholesome food and water;
      (2)   Impound or confine an animal without affording it, during the
confinement, access to shelter from wind, rain, snow, or excessive direct
sunlight, if it can reasonably be expected that the animal would otherwise
become sick or in some other way suffer. This subsection does not apply to
animals impounded or confined prior to slaughter. For the purpose of this
section, SHELTER means an artificial enclosure, windbreak, sunshade, or natural
windbreak or sunshade that is developed from the earth’s contour, tree
development, or vegetation.
      (3)   Carry or convey an animal in a cruel or inhuman manner;
      (4)   Keep animals other than cattle, poultry or fowl, swine, sheep, or
goats in an enclosure without wholesome exercise and change of air, nor feed
cows on food that produces impure or unwholesome milk;
      (5)   Detain livestock in railroad cars or compartments longer than 28
hours after they are so placed without supplying them with necessary food,
water, and attention, nor permit the stock to be so crowded as to overlie,
crush, wound, or kill each other.
   (B)   Upon the written request of the owner or person in custody of any
particular shipment of livestock, which written request shall be separate and
apart from any printed bill of lading or other railroad form, the length of
time in which the livestock may be detained in any cars or compartment without
food, water, and attention may be extended to 36 hours without penalty
therefor. Division (A) of this section does not prevent the dehorning of
cattle.
   (C)   All fines collected for violations of division (A) of this section
shall be paid to the society or association for the prevention of cruelty to
animals, if there is one in the city; otherwise, all fines shall be paid to the
general fund.
(R.C. § 959.13)
   (D)   Cruelty to companion animals.
      (1)   As used in this section:
         ANIMAL RESCUE FOR DOGS. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 956.01.
         BOARDING KENNEL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 956.01.
         CAPTIVE WHITE-TAILED DEER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1531.01.
         COMPANION ANIMAL. Means any animal that is kept inside a residential
dwelling and any dog or cat regardless of where it is kept, including a pet
store as defined in R.C. § 956.01. COMPANION ANIMAL does not include livestock
or any wild animal.
         CRUELTY.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1717.01.
         DOG KENNEL. Means an animal rescue for dogs, a boarding kennel, or a
training kennel.
         FEDERAL ANIMAL WELFARE ACT. Means the “Laboratory Animal Act of 1966,”
Pub. L. No. 89-544, 80 Stat. 350 (1966), 7 U.S.C. §§ 2131 et seq., as amended
by the “Animal Welfare Act of 1970,” Pub. L. No. 91-579, 84 Stat. 1560 (1970),
the “Animal Welfare Act Amendments of 1976,” Pub. L. No. 94-279, 90 Stat. 417
(1976), and the “Food Security Act of 1985,” Pub. L. No. 99-198, 99 Stat. 1354
(1985), and as it may be subsequently amended.
         LIVESTOCK. Means horses, mules, and other equidae; cattle, sheep,
goats, and other bovidae; swine and other suidae; poultry; alpacas; llamas;
captive white-tailed deer; and any other animal that is raised or maintained
domestically for food or fiber.
         PRACTICE OF VETERINARY MEDICINE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
4741.01.
         RESIDENTIAL DWELLING. Means a structure or shelter or the portion of a
structure or shelter that is used by one or more humans for the purpose of a
habitation.
         SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM. Means any of the following:
            1.   Physical harm that carries an unnecessary or unjustifiable
substantial risk of death;
            2.   Physical harm that involves either partial or total permanent
incapacity;
            3.   Physical harm that involves acute pain of a duration that
results in substantial suffering or that involves any degree of prolonged or
intractable pain.
         TORMENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1717.01.
         TORTURE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1717.01.
         WILD ANIMAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1531.01.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly torture, torment, needlessly mutilate or
maim, cruelly beat, poison, needlessly kill, or commit an act of cruelty
against a companion animal.
      (3)   No person shall knowingly cause serious physical harm to a
companion animal.
      (4)   No person who confines or who is the custodian or caretaker of a
companion animal shall negligently do any of the following:
         (a)   Torture, torment, or commit an act of cruelty against the
companion animal;
         (b)   Deprive the companion animal of necessary sustenance or confine
the companion animal without supplying it during the confinement with
sufficient quantities of good, wholesome food and water if it can reasonably be
expected that the companion animal would become sick or suffer in any other way
as a result of or due to the deprivation or confinement;
         (c)   Impound or confine the companion animal without affording it,
during the impoundment or confinement, with access to shelter from heat, cold,
wind, rain, snow, or excessive direct sunlight if it can reasonably be expected
that the companion animal would become sick or suffer in any other way as a
result of or due to the lack of adequate shelter.
      (5)   No person who confines or who is the custodian or caretaker of a
companion animal shall recklessly deprive the companion animal of necessary
sustenance or confine the companion animal without supplying it during the
confinement with sufficient quantities of good, wholesome food and water.
      (6)   No owner, manager, or employee of a dog kennel who confines or is
the custodian or caretaker of a companion animal shall knowingly do any of the
following:
         (a)   Torture, torment, needlessly mutilate or maim, cruelly beat,
poison, needlessly kill, or commit an act of cruelty against the companion
animal;
         (b)   Deprive the companion animal of necessary sustenance or confine
the companion animal without supplying it during the confinement with
sufficient quantities of good, wholesome food and water if it is reasonably
expected that the companion animal would die or experience unnecessary or
unjustifiable pain or suffering as a result of the deprivation or confinement;
         (c)   Impound or confine the companion animal without affording it,
during the impoundment or confinement, with access to shelter from heat, cold,
wind, rain, snow, or excessive direct sunlight if it is reasonably expected
that the companion animal would die or experience unnecessary or unjustifiable
pain or suffering as a result of or due to the lack of adequate shelter.
      (7)   No owner, manager, or employee of a dog kennel who confines or is
the custodian or caretaker of a companion animal shall negligently do any of
the following:
         (a)   Torture, torment, or commit an act of cruelty against the
companion animal;
         (b)   Deprive the companion animal of necessary sustenance or confine
the companion animal without supplying it during the confinement with
sufficient quantities of good, wholesome food and water if it can reasonably be
expected that the companion animal would become sick or suffer in any other way
as a result of or due to the deprivation or confinement;
         (c)   Impound or confine the companion animal without affording it,
during the impoundment or confinement, with access to shelter from heat, cold,
wind, rain, snow, or excessive direct sunlight if it can reasonably be expected
that the companion animal would become sick or suffer in any other way as a
result of or due to the lack of adequate shelter.
      (8)   Divisions (D)(2), (D)(3), (D)(4), (D)(5), (D)(6), and (D)(7) of
this section do not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   A companion animal used in scientific research conducted by an
institution in accordance with the federal animal welfare act and related
regulations;
         (b)   The lawful practice of veterinary medicine by a person who has
been issued a license, temporary permit, or registration certificate to do so
under R.C. Chapter 4741;
         (c)   Dogs being used or intended for use for hunting or field trial
purposes, provided that the dogs are being treated in accordance with usual and
commonly accepted practices for the care of hunting dogs;
         (d)   The use of common training devices, if the companion animal is
being treated in accordance with usual and commonly accepted practices for the
training of animals;
         (e)   The administering of medicine to a companion animal that was
properly prescribed by a person who has been issued a license, temporary
permit, or registration certificate under R.C. Chapter 4741.
      (9)   Notwithstanding any section of the Ohio Revised Code that otherwise
provides for the distribution of fine moneys, the Clerk of Court shall forward
all fines the Clerk collects that are so imposed for any violation of this
division (D) to the Treasurer of the municipality, whose county humane society
or law enforcement agency is to be paid the fine money as determined under this
division. The Treasurer shall pay the fine moneys to the county humane society
or the county, township, municipal corporation, or state law enforcement agency
in this state that primarily was responsible for or involved in the
investigation and prosecution of the violation. If a county humane society
receives any fine moneys under this division, the county humane society shall
use the fine moneys either to provide the training that is required for humane
society agents under R.C. § 1717.061 or to provide additional training for
humane society agents.
(R.C. § 959.131) Penalty, see §
505.99
Statutory reference:
   Impoundment of companion animals; notice and hearing, see R.C. § 959.132
§ 505.06 DOG MAY BE KILLED FOR CERTAIN ACTS; OWNER LIABLE FOR DAMAGES.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of R.C. § 955.261(A)(2) and (3), a dog that
is chasing or approaching in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack,
that attempts to bite or otherwise endanger, or that kills or injures a person,
or a dog that chases, threatens, harasses, injures, or kills livestock,
poultry, other domestic animal, or other animal, that is the property of
another person, except a cat or another dog, can be killed at the time of that
chasing, threatening, harassment, approaching, attempt, killing, or injury. If,
in attempting to kill such a dog, a person wounds it, the person is not liable
to prosecution under the penal laws that punish cruelty to animals. Nothing in
this section precludes a law enforcement officer from killing a dog that
attacks a police dog as defined in R.C. § 2921.321.
   (B)   The owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog is liable in damages for any
injury, death, or loss to person or property that is caused by the dog, unless
the injury, death, or loss was caused to the person or property of an
individual who, at the time, was committing or attempting to commit a trespass
or other criminal offense on the property of the owner, keeper, or harborer, or
was committing or attempting to commit a criminal offense against any person,
or was teasing, tormenting, or abusing the dog on the owner’s, keeper’s, or
harborer’s property.
(R.C. § 955.28)
Penalty, see § 505.99
§ 505.07 PROHIBITING THE OWNING OR HARBORING OF PIT BULL TERRIERS. [REPEALED]
Editor's note:
   Section 505.07 was repealed by Ordinance No. 2012-054, passed May 22, 2012.
§ 505.08 REMOVAL OF DOG EXCREMENT.
   (A)   No person shall permit a dog under his or her control to be upon
public property or upon the property of another, without the consent of the
owner or occupant of the property, and fail to remove immediately any excrement
deposited by such dog under his or her control.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to guide dogs under the control of a
blind person.
(Ord. 6569, passed 1-22-91)
Penalty, see § 505.99
§ 505.09 VICIOUS DOGS.
   (A)   No person owning or harboring or having the care of a vicious dog
shall suffer or permit such animal to go unconfined on the premises of such
person.
   (B)   No person owning or harboring or having the care of a vicious dog
shall suffer or permit such dog to go beyond the premises of such person unless
such dog is securely leashed or otherwise securely restrained.
   (C)   Definitions.
      (1)   A vicious dog is “unconfined” as the term is used in this section
if such dog is not securely confined indoors or confined in a securely enclosed
and locked pen or a dog run area upon the premises of the person described in
division (A) of this section. Such pen or dog run area must also have either
sides six feet high or a secure top.
      (2)   A “vicious dog” as the term is used in this section means:
         (a)   Any dog which without provocation has caused injury to a person;
         (b)   Any dog that has been trained for dog fighting or is kept
primarily or in part for the purpose of dog fighting;
         (c)   Any dog that has been used in the commission of a crime; or
         (d)   Divisions (C)(2)(a) through (C)(2)(c) of this section are
necessary controls for the unrestrained activity of vicious animals which
threaten the safety and pleasantness of streets, parks, sidewalks, yards and
all areas of the city; and lack of knowledge or lack of intent is not a defense
to a violation thereof.
         (e)   “Vicious dog” does not include either of the following:
            1.   A police dog that has killed or caused serious injury to any
person while the police dog is being used to assist one or more law enforcement
officers in the performance of their official duties.
            2.   A dog that has killed or caused serious injury to any person
while a person was committing or attempting to commit a trespass or other
criminal offense or the property of the owner, keeper, or harborer of the dog.
      (3)   “Without provocation” means that the dog was not teased, tormented,
or abused by a person, or that the dog was not coming to the aid or the defense
of a person who was not engaged in illegal or criminal activity and who was not
using the dog as a means of carrying out such activity.
(Ord. 8189, passed 5-22-01; Am. Ord. 2012-054, passed 5-22-12) Penalty, see §
505.99
§ 505.10 SEXUAL CONDUCT WITH AN ANIMAL.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ANIMAL. Means a nonhuman mammal, bird, reptile, or amphibian, either dead
or alive.
      OFFENSE. Means a violation of this section or an attempt, in violation of
R.C. § 2923.02, to violate this section.
      OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 959.132.
      SEXUAL CONDUCT. Means either of the following committed for the purpose
of sexual gratification:
         (a)   Any act done between a person and animal that involves contact
of the penis of one and the vulva of the other, the penis of one and the penis
of the other, the penis of one and the anus of the other, the mouth of one and
the penis of the other, the mouth of one and the anus of the other, the vulva
of one and the vulva of the other, the mouth of one and the vulva of the other,
any other contact between a reproductive organ of one and a reproductive organ
of the other, or any other insertion of a reproductive organ of one into an
orifice of the other;
         (b)   Without a bona fide veterinary or animal husbandry purpose to do
so, the insertion, however slight, of any part of a person’s body or any
instrument, apparatus, or other object into the vaginal, anal, or reproductive
opening of an animal.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly engage in sexual conduct with an animal or
knowingly possess, sell, or purchase an animal with the intent that it be
subjected to sexual conduct.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly organize, promote, aid, or abet in the
conduct of an act involving any sexual conduct with an animal.
(R.C. § 959.21)
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
second degree. In addition, the court may order the offender to forfeit the
animal or livestock and may provide for its disposition including but not
limited to the sale of the animal or livestock. If an animal or livestock is
forfeited and sold pursuant to this division, the proceeds from the sale first
shall be applied to pay the expenses incurred with regard to the care of the
animal from the time it was taken from the custody of the former owner. The
balance of the proceeds from the sale, if any, shall be paid to the former
owner of the animal.
(R.C. § 959.99(D))
      (2)   If a court has reason to believe that a person who is convicted of
or pleads guilty to a violation of this section suffers from a mental or
emotional disorder that contributed to the violation, the court may impose as a
community control sanction or as a condition of probation a requirement that
the offender undergo psychological evaluation or counseling. The court shall
order the offender to pay the costs of the evaluation or counseling.
(R.C. § 959.99(E)(7))
§ 505.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates §§
505.02 or 505.08 shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
   (B)   Whoever violates §
505.04(A), if the value of the animal killed or the injury done amounts to less
than $300, is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree; if the value of the
animal killed or the injury done amounts to $300 or more, whoever violates §
505.04(A) is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 959.99(B))
   (C)   Whoever violates §
505.05(A) is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree. In addition, the
court may order the offender to forfeit the animal or livestock and may provide
for its disposition including, but not limited to, the sale of the animal or
livestock. If an animal or livestock is forfeited and sold pursuant to this
division, the proceeds from the sale first shall be applied to pay the expenses
incurred with regard to the care of the animal from the time it was taken from
the custody of the former owner. The balance of the proceeds from the sale, if
any, shall be paid to the former owner of the animal.
(R.C. § 959.99(D))
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates §
505.05(D)(2) or (D)(5) is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree on a
first offense and a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law on each
subsequent offense.
      (2)   Whoever violates §
505.05(D)(3) of this section is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates §
505.05(D)(4) is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree on a first offense
and a misdemeanor of the first degree on each subsequent offense.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (D)(6) of this section is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (D)(7) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (6)   (a)   A court may order a person who is convicted of or pleads
guilty to a violation of §
505.05(D) to forfeit to an impounding agency, as defined in R.C. § 959.132, any
or all of the companion animals in that person's ownership or care. The court
also may prohibit or place limitations on the person's ability to own or care
for any companion animals for a specified or indefinite period of time.
         (b)   A court may order a person who is convicted of or pleads guilty
to a violation of division (A) of this section or division (D) of this section
to reimburse an impounding agency for the reasonably necessary costs incurred
by the agency for the care of a companion animal that the agency impounded as a
result of the investigation or prosecution of the violation, provided that the
costs were not otherwise paid under R.C. § 959.132.
      (7)   If a court has reason to believe that a person who is convicted of
or pleads guilty to a violation of division (D) of this section has a mental or
emotional disorder that contributed to the violation, the court may impose as a
community control sanction or as a condition of probation a requirement that
the offender undergo psychological evaluation or counseling. The court shall
order the offender to pay the costs of the evaluation or counseling.
(R.C. § 959.99(E))
   (E)   Whoever violates §
505.03 is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree on a first offense and a
misdemeanor of the first degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 959.99(E)(3))
   (F)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter, for which another
penalty is not specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(Am. Ord. 6498, passed 6-12-90; Am. Ord. 6569, passed 1-22-91)
CHAPTER 506: TRESPASS
Section
   
506.01   Criminal trespass
Cross-reference:
   Penalties, misdemeanor classifications and sentencing, see
Ch. 599
§ 506.01 CRIMINAL TRESPASS.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly enter or remain on the land or premises of another;
      (2)   Knowingly enter or remain on the land or premises of another, the
use of which is lawfully restricted to certain persons, purposes, modes, or
hours, when the offender knows the offender is in violation of any such
restriction or is reckless in that regard;
      (3)   Recklessly enter or remain on the land or premises of another, as
to which notice against unauthorized access or presence is given by actual
communication to the offender, or in a manner prescribed by law, or by posting
in a manner reasonably calculated to come to the attention of potential
intruders, or by fencing or other enclosure manifestly designed to restrict
access;
      (4)   Being on the land or premises of another, negligently fail or
refuse to leave upon being notified by signage posted in a conspicuous place or
otherwise being notified to do so by the owner or occupant, or the agent or
servant of either;
      (5)   Knowingly enter or remain on a critical infrastructure facility.
   (B)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that the land or
premises involved was owned, controlled, or in custody of a public agency.
   (C)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that the offender was
authorized to enter or remain on the land or premises involved, when the
authorization was secured by deception.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal trespass.
Criminal trespass in violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), or (A)(4) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Criminal trespass in
violation of division (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (2)   Notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.28, if the person, in committing the
violation of this section, used a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-
purpose vehicle, the court shall impose a fine of two times the usual amount
imposed for the violation.
      (3)   If an offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to two or more violations of this section, R.C. § 2911.21 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, and the offender, in committing each violation,
used a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all- purpose vehicle, the court,
in addition to or independent of all other penalties imposed for the violation,
may impound the certificate of registration of that snowmobile or off-highway
motorcycle or the certificate of registration and license plate of that all-
purpose vehicle for not less than 60 days. In such a case, R.C. § 4519.47
applies.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of the Ohio Revised Code, if the
offender, in committing the violation of this section, used an all-purpose
vehicle, the Clerk of the Court shall pay the fine imposed pursuant to this
section to the State Recreational Vehicle Fund created by R.C. § 4519.11.
   (F)   As used in divisions (A) through (E) of this section:
      ALL-PURPOSE VEHICLE, OFF- HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLE, and SNOWMOBILE. Have the
same meanings as in R.C. § 4519.01.
      CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY. Means:
         (a)   One of the following, if completely enclosed by a fence or other
physical barrier that is obviously designed to exclude intruders, or if clearly
marked with signs that are reasonably likely to come to the attention of
potential intruders and that indicate entry is forbidden without site
authorization:
            1.   A petroleum or alumina refinery;
            2.   An electric generating facility, substation, switching
station, electrical control center, or electric transmission and distribution
lines and associated equipment;
            3.   A chemical, polymer, or rubber manufacturing facility;
            4.   A water intake structure, water treatment facility, waste
water facility, drainage facility, water management facility, or any similar
water or sewage treatment system and its water and sewage piping;
            5.   A natural gas company facility or interstate natural gas
pipeline, including a pipeline interconnection, a natural gas compressor
station and associated facilities, city gate or town border station, metering
station, above-ground piping, regulator station, valve site, delivery station,
fabricated assembly, or any other part of a natural gas storage facility
involved in the gathering, storage, transmission, or distribution of gas;
            6.   A telecommunications central switching office or remote
switching facility or an equivalent network facility that serves a similar
purpose;
            7.   Wireline or wireless telecommunications infrastructure,
including telecommunications towers and telephone poles and lines, including
fiber optic lines;
            8.   A port, trucking terminal, or other freight transportation
facility;
            9.   A gas processing plant, including a plant used in the
processing, treatment, or fractionation of natural gas or natural gas liquids;
            10.   A transmission facility used by a federally licensed radio or
television station;
            11.   A steel- making facility that uses an electric arc furnace to
make steel;
            12.   A facility identified and regulated by the United States
Department of Homeland Security’s Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards
Program under 6 C.F.R. part 27;
            13.   A dam that is regulated by the state or federal government;
            14.   A crude oil or refined products storage and distribution
facility, including valve sites, pipeline interconnections, pump station,
metering station, below- or above- ground pipeline, or piping and truck loading
or off- loading facility;
            15.   A video service network and broadband infrastructure,
including associated buildings and facilities, video service headends, towers,
utility poles, and utility lines such as fiber optic lines. As used in this
division, “video service network” has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.21.
            16.   Any above- ground portion of an oil, gas, hazardous liquid or
chemical pipeline, tank, or other storage facility;
            17.   Any above- ground portion of a well, well pad, or production
operation;
            18.   A laydown area or construction site for pipe and other
equipment intended for use on an interstate or intrastate natural gas or crude
oil pipeline;
            19.   Any mining operation, including any processing equipment,
batching operation, or support facility for that mining operation.
         (b)   With respect to a video service network or broadband or wireless
telecommunications infrastructure, the above- ground portion of a facility
installed in a public right-of-way on a utility pole or in a conduit;
         (c)   Any railroad property;
         (d)   An electronic asset of any of the following:
            1.   An electric light company that is a public utility under R.C.
§ 4905.02;
            2.   An electric cooperative, as defined in R.C. § 4928.01;
            3.   A municipal electric utility, as defined in R.C. § 4928.01;
            4.   A natural gas company that is a public utility under R.C. §
4905.02;
            5.   A telephone company that is a public utility under R.C. §
4905.02;
            6.   A video service provider, including a cable operator, as those
terms are defined in R.C. § 1332.21.
      ELECTRONIC ASSET. Includes, but is not limited to, the hardware,
software, and data of a programmable electronic device; all communications,
operations, and customer data networks; and the contents of those data
networks.
      LAND or PREMISES. Includes any land, building, structure, or place
belonging to, controlled by, or in custody of another, and any separate
enclosure or room, or portion thereof.
      PRODUCTION OPERATION, WELL, and WELL PAD. Have the same meanings as in
R.C. § 1509.01.
(R.C. § 2911.21) (Am. Ord. 3043, passed 9-28-76)
CHAPTER 507: THEFT AND FRAUD
Section
   
507.01   Definitions
   
507.02     Unauthorized use of property or access to computer systems
   
507.03   Making or using slugs
   
507.04   Personating an officer
   
507.05   Defrauding creditors
   
507.06   Passing bad checks
   
507.07   Motion picture piracy
   
507.08   Diminishing or interfering with forfeitable property
Cross-reference:
   Penalties, misdemeanor classifications and sentencing, see
Ch. 599
§ 507.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   ACTIVE DUTY SERVICE MEMBER. Any member of the armed forces of the United
States performing active duty under Title 10 of the United States Code.
   ANHYDROUS AMMONIA. A compound formed by the combination of two gaseous
elements, nitrogen and hydrogen, in the manner described below. Anhydrous
ammonia is one part nitrogen to three parts hydrogen (NH3). Anhydrous ammonia
by weight is fourteen parts nitrogen to three parts hydrogen, which is
approximately 82% nitrogen to 18% hydrogen.
   CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE. Any services provided by or through the facilities
of any cable television system or other similar closed circuit coaxial cable
communications system, or any microwave or similar transmission service used in
connection with any cable television system or other similar closed circuit
coaxial cable communications system.
   COIN MACHINE. Any mechanical or electronic device designed to do both of the
following:
      (1)   Receive a coin, bill, or token made for that purpose;
      (2)   In return for the insertion or deposit of a coin, bill, or token,
automatically dispense property, provide a service, or grant a license.
   COMPUTER. An electronic device that performs logical, arithmetic, and memory
functions by the manipulation of electronic or magnetic impulses. COMPUTER
includes, but is not limited to, all input, output, processing, storage,
computer program, or communication facilities that are connected, or related,
in a computer system or network to an electronic device of that nature.
   COMPUTER CONTAMINANT. Means a computer program that is designed to modify,
damage, destroy, disable, deny or degrade access to, allow unauthorized access
to, functionally impair, record, or transmit information within a computer,
computer system, or computer network without the express or implied consent of
the owner or other person authorized to give consent and that is of a type or
kind described in divisions (1) through (4) of this definition or of a type or
kind similar to a type or kind described in divisions (1) through (4) of this
definition:
      (1)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “viruses” and
“worms” that are self-replicating or self-propagating and that are designed to
contaminate other computer programs, compromise computer security, consume
computer resources, modify, destroy, record, or transmit data, or disrupt the
normal operation of the computer, computer system, or computer network;
      (2)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “Trojans” or “Trojan
horses” that are not self-replicating or self-propagating and that are designed
to compromise computer security, consume computer resources, modify, destroy,
record, or transmit data, or disrupt the normal operation of the computer,
computer system, or computer network;
      (3)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “zombies” that are
designed to use a computer without the knowledge and consent of the owner, or
other person authorized to give consent, and that are designed to send large
quantities of data to a targeted computer network for the purpose of degrading
the targeted computer’s or network’s performance, or denying access through the
network to the targeted computer or network, resulting in what is commonly
known as “denial of service” or “distributed denial of service” attacks;
      (4)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “trap doors”, “back
doors”, or “root kits” that are designed to bypass standard authentication
software and that are designed to allow access or use of a computer without the
knowledge or consent of the owner, or other person authorized to give consent.
   COMPUTER HACKING.
      (1)   COMPUTER HACKING means any of the following:
         (a)   Gaining access or attempting to gain access to all or part of a
computer, computer system, or a computer network without express or implied
authorization with the intent to defraud or with intent to commit a crime;
         (b)   Misusing computer or network services including but not limited
to mail transfer programs, file transfer programs, proxy servers, and web
servers by performing functions not authorized by the owner of the computer,
computer system, or computer network or other person authorized to give
consent. As used in this division, “misuse of computer and network services”
includes but is not limited to the unauthorized use of any of the following:
            1.   Mail transfer programs to send mail to persons other than the
authorized users of that computer or computer network;
            2.   File transfer program services or proxy servers to access
other computers, computer systems, or computer networks;
            3.   Web servers to redirect users to other web pages or web
servers.
         (c)   1.   Subject to division (1)(c)2. of this definition, using a
group of computer programs commonly known as “port scanners” or “probes” to
intentionally access any computer, computer system, or computer network without
the permission of the owner of the computer, computer system, or computer
network or other person authorized to give consent. The group of computer
programs referred to in this division includes but is not limited to those
computer programs that use a computer network to access a computer, computer
system, or another computer network to determine any of the following: the
presence or types of computers or computer systems on a network; the computer
network’s facilities and capabilities; the availability of computer or network
services; the presence or versions of computer software including but not
limited to operating systems, computer services, or computer contaminants; the
presence of a known computer software deficiency that can be used to gain
unauthorized access to a computer, computer system, or computer network; or any
other information about a computer, computer system, or computer network not
necessary for the normal and lawful operation of the computer initiating the
access.
            2.   The group of computer programs referred to in division (1)
(c)1. of this definition does not include standard computer software used for
the normal operation, administration, management, and test of a computer,
computer system, or computer network including but not limited to domain name
services, mail transfer services, and other operating system services, computer
programs commonly called “ping”, “tcpdump”, and “traceroute” and other network
monitoring and management computer software, and computer programs commonly
knows as “nslookup” and “whois” and other systems administration computer
software.
         (d)   The intentional use of a computer, computer system, or a
computer network in a manner that exceeds any right or permission granted by
the owner of the computer, computer system, or computer network or other person
authorized to give consent.
      (2)   COMPUTER HACKING does not include the introduction of a computer
contaminant, as defined in this section, into a computer, computer system,
computer program, or computer network.
   COMPUTER NETWORK. A set of related and remotely connected computers and
communication facilities that includes more than one computer system that has
the capability to transmit among the connected computers and communication
facilities through the use of computer facilities.
   COMPUTER PROGRAM. An ordered set of data representing coded instructions or
statements that when executed by a computer cause the computer to process data.
   COMPUTER SERVICES. Includes, but is not limited to, the use of a computer
system, computer network, computer program, data that is prepared for computer
use, or data that is contained within a computer system or computer network.
   COMPUTER SOFTWARE. Computer programs, procedures, and other documentation
associated with the operation of a computer system.
   COMPUTER SYSTEM. A computer and related devices, whether connected or
unconnected, including, but not limited to, data input, output, and storage
devices, data communications links, and computer programs and data that make
the system capable of performing specified special purpose data processing
tasks.
   COUNTERFEIT TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. A telecommunications device that,
alone or with another telecommunications device, has been altered, constructed,
manufactured, or programmed to acquire, intercept, receive, or otherwise
facilitate the use of a telecommunications service or information service
without the authority or consent of the provider of the telecommunications
service or information service. The phrase includes but is not limited to a
clone telephone, clone microchip, tumbler telephone, or tumbler microchip; a
wireless scanning device capable of acquiring, intercepting, receiving, or
otherwise facilitating the use of telecommunications service or information
service without immediate detection; or a device, equipment, hardware, or
software designed for, or capable of, altering or changing the electronic
serial number in a wireless telephone.
   CREATE A SUBSTANTIAL RISK OF SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO ANY PERSON. Includes
the creation of a substantial risk of serious physical harm to any emergency
personnel.
   CREDIT CARD. Includes, but is not limited to, a card, code, device, or other
means of access to a customer’s account for the purpose of obtaining money,
property, labor, or services on credit, or for initiating an electronic fund
transfer at a point-of-sale terminal, an automated teller machine, or a cash
dispensing machine. It also includes a county procurement card issued under
R.C. § 301.29.
   DANGEROUS DRUG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   DATA. A representation of information, knowledge, facts, concepts, or
instructions that are being or have been prepared in a formalized manner and
that are intended for use in a computer, computer system or computer network.
For purposes of R.C. § 2913.47, DATA has the additional meaning set forth in
division (A) of that section.
   DECEPTION. Knowingly deceiving another or causing another to be deceived, by
any false or misleading representation, by withholding information, by
preventing another from acquiring information, or by any other conduct, act, or
omission that creates, confirms, or perpetuates a false impression in another,
including a false impression as to law, value, state of mind, or other
objective or subjective fact.
   DEFRAUD. To knowingly obtain, by deception, some benefit for oneself or
another, or to knowingly cause, by deception, some detriment to another.
   DEPRIVE. To do any of the following:
      (1)   Withhold property of another permanently, or for a period that
appropriates a substantial portion of its value or use, or with purpose to
restore it only upon payment of a reward or other consideration;
      (2)   Dispose of property so as to make it unlikely that the owner will
recover it;
      (3)   Accept, use, or appropriate money, property, or services, with
purpose not to give proper consideration in return for the money, property, or
services, and without reasonable justification or excuse for not giving proper
consideration.
   DISABLED ADULT. A person who is 18 years of age or older and has some
impairment of body or mind that makes the person unable to work at any
substantially remunerative employment that the person otherwise would be able
to perform and that will, with reasonable probability, continue for a period of
at least 12 months without any present indication of recovery from the
impairment, or who is 18 years of age or older and has been certified as
permanently and totally disabled by an agency of this state or the United
States that has the function of so classifying persons.
   DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
   ELDERLY PERSON. A person who is 65 years of age or older.
   ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER has the same meaning as in 92 Stat. 3728, 15 USC
1693a, as amended.
   EMERGENCY PERSONNEL. Means any of the following persons:
      (1)   A peace officer, as defined in R.C. § 2935.01;
      (2)   A member of a fire department or other firefighting agency of a
municipal corporation, township, township fire district, joint fire district,
other political subdivision, or combination of political subdivisions;
      (3)   A member of a private fire company, as defined in R.C. § 9.60, or a
volunteer firefighter;
      (4)    A member of a joint ambulance district or joint emergency medical
services district;
      (5)   An emergency medical technician-basic, emergency medical
technician-intermediate, emergency medical technician-paramedic, ambulance
operator, or other member of an emergency medical service that is owned of
operated by a political subdivision or a private entity;
      (6)   The State Fire Marshal, the Chief Deputy State Fire Marshal, or an
assistant state fire marshal;
      (7)   A fire prevention officer of a political subdivision or an arson,
fire, or similar investigator of a political subdivision.
   FEDERALLY-LICENSED FIREARMS DEALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5502.63.
   FIREARM and DANGEROUS ORDNANCE. Have the same meaning as in R.C. § 2923.11.
   FORGE. To fabricate or create, in whole or in part and by any means, any
spurious writing, or to make, execute, alter, complete, reproduce, or otherwise
purport to authenticate any writing, when the writing in fact is not
authenticated by that conduct.
   GAIN ACCESS. To approach, instruct, communicate with, store data in,
retrieve data from, or otherwise make use of any resources of a computer,
computer system, or computer network, or any cable service or cable system both
as defined in R.C. § 2913.04.
   INFORMATION SERVICE.
      (1)   Subject to division (2) of this definition, the offering of a
capability for generating, acquiring, storing, transforming, processing,
retrieving, utilizing, or making available information via telecommunications,
including but not limited to electronic publishing.
      (2)   INFORMATION SERVICE does not include any use of a capability of a
type described in division (1) of this definition for the management, control,
or operation of a telecommunications system or the management of a
telecommunications service.
   INTERNET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 341.42.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   OCCUPIED STRUCTURE. Means any house, building, outbuilding, watercraft,
aircraft, railroad car, truck, trailer, tent, or other structure, vehicle, or
shelter, or any portion thereof, to which any of the following applies:
      (1)   It is maintained as a permanent or temporary dwelling, even though
it is temporarily unoccupied and whether nor not any person is actually
present;
      (2)   At the time, it is occupied as the permanent or temporary
habitation of any person, whether or not any person is actually present;
      (3)   At the time, it is specially adapted for the overnight
accommodation of any person, whether or not any person is actually present;
      (4)   At the time, any person is present or likely to be present in it.
   OWNER. Any person, other than the actor, who is the owner of, or who has
possession or control of, or who has any license or interest in property or
services, even though the ownership, possession, control, license, or interest
is unlawful.
   POLICE DOG OR HORSE and SERVICE DOG. Have the same meanings as in R.C. §
2921.321.
   POLITICAL SUBDIVISION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2744.01.
   RENTED PROPERTY. Personal property in which the right of possession and use
of the property is for a short and possibly indeterminate term in return for
consideration; the renter generally controls the duration of possession of the
property, within any applicable maximum or minimum term; and the amount of
consideration is generally determined by the duration of possession of the
property.
   SERVICES. Includes labor, personal services, professional services, rental
services, public utility services including wireless service as defined in R.C.
§ 128.01(F)(1), common carrier services, and food, drink, transportation,
entertainment, and cable television services and, for purposes of R.C. §
2913.04 or any substantially similar municipal ordinance, includes cable
services as defined in that section.
   SLUG. An object that, by virtue of its size, shape, composition, or other
quality, is capable of being inserted or deposited in a coin machine as an
improper substitute for a genuine coin, bill, or token made for that purpose.
   STATE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2744.01.
   TELECOMMUNICATION. The origination, emission, dissemination, transmission,
or reception of data, images, signals, sounds, or other intelligence or
equivalence or intelligence of any nature over any communications system by any
method, including but not limited to a fiber optic, electronic, magnetic,
optical, digital or analog method.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Any instrument, equipment, machine, or other
device that facilitates telecommunication, including but not  limited to a
computer, computer network, computer chip, computer circuit, scanner,
telephone, cellular telephone, pager, personal communications device,
transponder, receiver, radio, modem, or device that enables the use of a modem.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. The providing, allowing, facilitating, or
generating of any form of telecommunication through the use of a
telecommunications device over a telecommunications system.
   THEFT OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2911.12, 2911.13,
2911.31, 2911.32, 2913.02, 2913.03, 2913.04, 2913.041, 2913.11, 2913.21,
2913.31, 2913.32, 2913.33, 2913.34, 2913.40, 2913.42, 2913.43, 2913.44,
2913.45, 2913.47, former R.C. § 2913.47 or 2913.48, or R.C. § 2913.51, 2915.05,
or 2921.41;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States substantially equivalent to any
section listed in division (1) of this definition;
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former municipal ordinance or law
of this or any other state or of the United States involving robbery, burglary,
breaking and entering, theft, embezzlement, wrongful conversion, forgery,
counterfeiting, deceit, or fraud;
      (4)   A conspiracy or attempt to commit, or complicity in committing any
offense under division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
   UTTER. To issue, publish, transfer, use, put or send into circulation,
deliver, or display.
   VALUE.VALUE OF STOLEN PROPERTY as defined in R.C. § 2913.61.
   WRITING. Any computer software, document, letter, memorandum, note, paper,
plate, data, film, or other thing having in or upon it any written, type-
written, or printed matter, and any token, stamp, seal, credit card, badge,
trademark, label, or other symbol of value, right, privilege, license, or
identification.
(R.C. § 2909.01, 2913.01) (Am. Ord. 6164, passed 12-22-87; Am. Ord. 9109,
passed 2-22-05)
§ 507.02 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF PROPERTY OR ACCESS TO COMPUTER SYSTEMS.
   (A)   No person, in any manner and by any means, including but not limited
to computer hacking, shall knowingly use or operate the property of another
without the consent of the owner or person authorized to give consent.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly gain access to, attempt to gain access to,
or cause access to be gained to any computer, computer system, computer
network, cable service, cable system, telecommunications device,
telecommunications service, or information service without the consent of, or
beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of, the owner of the
computer, computer system, computer network, cable service, cable system,
telecommunications device, telecommunications service, or information service
or other person authorized to give consent.
   (C)   Except as permitted under R.C. § 5503.101, no person shall knowingly
gain access to, attempt to gain access to, cause access to be granted to, or
disseminate information gained from access to the law enforcement automated
database system created pursuant to R.C. § 5503.10 without the consent of, or
beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of, the chair of the Law
Enforcement Automated Data System Steering Committee.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly gain access to, attempt to gain access to,
cause access to be granted to, or disseminate information gained from access to
the Ohio law enforcement gateway established and operated pursuant to R.C. §
109.57(C)(1) without the consent of, or beyond the scope of the express or
implied consent of, the Superintendent of the Bureau of Criminal Identification
and Investigation.
   (E)   The affirmative defenses contained in R.C. § 2913.03(C) are
affirmative defenses to a charge under this section.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of property. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
unauthorized use of property is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (1)   If unauthorized use of property is committed for the purpose of
devising or executing a scheme to defraud or to obtain property or services,
unauthorized use of property is whichever of the following is applicable:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided below, unauthorized use of property
is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the value of the property or services or the loss to the
victim is $1,000 or more, it is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (2)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled
adult, unauthorized use of property is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of computer, cable, or telecommunication property, a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (H)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of the law enforcement automated database system, a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (I)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of the Ohio law enforcement gateway, a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
   (J)   As used in this section:
      CABLE OPERATOR means any person or group of persons that does either of
the following:
         (a)   Provides cable service over a cable system and directly through
one or more affiliates owns a significant interest in that cable system;
         (b)   Otherwise controls or is responsible for, through any
arrangement, the management and operation of a cable system.
      CABLE SERVICE means any of the following:
         (a)   The one-way transmission to subscribers of video programming or
of information that a cable operator makes available to all subscribers
generally;
         (b)   Subscriber interaction, if any, that is required for the
selection or use of video programming or of information that a cable operator
makes available to all subscribers generally, both as described in division (a)
of this definition;
         (c)   Any cable television service.
      CABLE SYSTEM means any facility, consisting of a set of closed
transmission paths and associated signal generation, reception, and control
equipment that is designed to provide cable service that includes video
programming and that is provided to multiple subscribers within a community.
CABLE SYSTEM does not include any of the following:
         (a)   Any facility that serves only to retransmit the television
signals of one or more television broadcast stations;
         (b)   Any facility that serves subscribers without using any public
right-of-way;
         (c)   Any facility of a common carrier that, under 47 U.S.C. 522(7)
(c), is excluded from the term “cable system” as defined in 47 U.S.C. 522(7);
         (d)   Any open video system that complies with 47 U.S.C. 573;
         (e)   Any facility of any electric utility used solely for operating
its electric utility system.
(R.C. § 2913.04)
§ 507.03 MAKING OR USING SLUGS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Insert or deposit a slug in a coin machine, with purpose to
defraud.
      (2)   Make, possess, or dispose of a slug, with purpose of enabling
another to defraud by inserting or depositing it in a coin machine.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making or using slugs, a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2913.33)
§ 507.04 PERSONATING AN OFFICER.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she is
facilitating a fraud, or with purpose to induce another to purchase property or
services, shall personate a law enforcement officer, or an inspector,
investigator, or agent of any governmental agency.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of personating an officer, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2913.44)
§ 507.05 DEFRAUDING CREDITORS.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud one or more of his or her
creditors, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Remove, conceal, destroy, encumber, convey, or otherwise deal with
any of his or her property;
      (2)   Misrepresent or refuse to disclose to a fiduciary appointed to
administer or manage his or her affairs or estate, the existence, amount, or
location of any of his or her property, or any other information regarding such
property that he or she is legally required to furnish to the fiduciary.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of defrauding creditors, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the property involved is
$1,000 or more, defrauding creditors is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.45)
§ 507.06 PASSING BAD CHECKS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      CHECK. Includes any form of debit from a demand deposit account,
including but not limited to any of the following:
         (a)   A check, bill of exchange, draft, order of withdrawal, or
similar negotiable or non- negotiable instrument;
         (b)   An electronic check, electronic transaction, debit card
transaction, check card transaction, substitute check, web check, or any form
of automated clearing house transaction.
      ISSUE A CHECK. Causing any form of debit from a demand deposit account.
   (B)   No person, with purpose to defraud, shall issue or transfer or cause
to be issued or transferred a check or other negotiable instrument, knowing
that it will be dishonored or knowing that a person has ordered or will order
stop payment on the check or other negotiable instrument.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, a person who issues or transfers a check
or other negotiable instrument is presumed to know that it will be dishonored,
if either of the following occurs:
      (1)   The drawer has no account with the drawee at the time of issue or
the stated date, whichever is later.
      (2)   The check or other negotiable instrument was properly refused
payment for insufficient funds upon presentment within 30 days after issue or
the stated date, whichever is later, and the liability of the drawer, endorser,
or any party who may be liable thereon is not discharged by payment or
satisfaction within ten days after receiving notice of dishonor.
   (D)   In determining the value of the payment for purposes of division (E)
of this section, the court may aggregate all checks and other negotiable
instruments that the offender issued or transferred or caused to be issued or
transferred in violation of division (B) of this section within a period of 180
consecutive days.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of passing bad checks. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, passing bad checks is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the check or checks or other negotiable instrument or
instruments are issued or transferred to a single vendor or single other person
for the payment of $1,000 or more, or if the check or checks or other
negotiable instrument or instruments are issued or transferred to multiple
vendors or persons for the payment of $1,500 or more, passing bad checks is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.11) (Ord. 6164, passed 12-22-87)
§ 507.07 MOTION PICTURE PIRACY.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      AUDIOVISUAL RECORDING FUNCTION means the capability of a device to record
or transmit a motion picture or any part of a motion picture by means of any
technology existing on, or developed after, March 9, 2004.
      FACILITY means a movie theater.
   (B)   No person, without the written consent of the owner or lessee of the
facility and of the licensor of the motion picture, shall knowingly operate an
audi ovisual recording function of a device in a facility in which the motion
picture is being shown.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of motion
picture piracy, a misdemeanor of the first degree on the first offense and a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
   (D)   This section does not prohibit or restrict a lawfully authorized
investigative, law enforcement, protective, or intelligence gathering employee
or agent of the government of this state or a political subdivision of this
state, or of the federal government, when acting in an official capacity, from
operating an audiovisual recording function of a device in any facility in
which a motion picture is being shown.
   (E)   Division (B) of this section does not limit or affect the application
of any other prohibition in this code or the Ohio Revised Code. Any act that is
a violation of both division (B) of this section and another provision of this
code or the Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under this section, under the
other provision of this code or the Ohio Revised Code, or under both this
section and the other provision of this code or the Ohio Revised Code.
(R.C. § 2913.07)
§ 507.08 DIMINISHING OR INTERFERING WITH FORFEITABLE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall destroy, damage, remove, or transfer property that is
subject to forfeiture or otherwise take any action in regard to property that
is subject to forfeiture with purpose to do any of the following:
      (1)   Prevent or impair the state’s or political subdivision’s lawful
authority to take the property into its custody or controlunder R.C. Chapter
2981 or to continue holding the property under its lawful custody or control;
      (2)   Impair or defeat the court’s continuing jurisdiction over the
person and property;
      (3)   Devalue property that the person knows, or has reasonable cause to
believe, is subject to forfeiture proceedings under R.C. Chapter 2981.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interference with or
diminishing forfeitable property. Except as otherwise provided in this division
(B), interference with or diminishing forfeitable property is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the value of the property is $1,000 or more, interference
with or diminishing forfeitable property is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2981.07)
CHAPTER 508: OFFENSES AGAINST THE PUBLIC PEACE
Section
   
508.01   Failure to disperse
   
508.02   Justifiable use of force to suppress riot
   
508.03   Disorderly conduct
   
508.04   Disturbing a lawful meeting
   
508.05   Misconduct at an emergency
   
508.06   Telecommunications harassment
   
508.07   Public meetings, permit required
   
508.08   Disturbing lawful assemblage
   
508.09   Riot
   
508.10   Making false alarms
   
508.11   Resisting or abusing an official [Repealed]
   
508.12   Conduct towards police officer [Repealed]
   
508.13   Concealed handgun possession on city owned property/buildings
   
508.14   Slingshot, bow and arrow or air gun
   
508.15   Assaulting police dog, horse, or service dog; penalty
   
508.16   Impeding public passage of an emergency service responder
 
   
508.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Penalties, misdemeanor classifications and sentencing, see
Ch. 599
§ 508.01 FAILURE TO DISPERSE.
   (A)   Where five or more persons are participating in a course of disorderly
conduct in violation of §
508.03, and there are other persons in the vicinity whose presence creates the
likelihood of physical harm to persons or property or of serious public
inconvenience, annoyance, or alarm, a law enforcement officer or other public
official may order the participants and such other persons to disperse. No
person shall knowingly fail to obey such order.
   (B)   Nothing in this section requires persons to disperse who are peaceably
assembled for a lawful purpose.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to disperse.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3) of this section,
failure to disperse is a minor misdemeanor.
      (3)   Failure to disperse is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if the
failure to obey the order described in division (A) of this section creates the
likelihood of physical harm to persons or is committed at the scene of a fire,
accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind.
(R.C. § 2917.04) (Am. Ord. 3043, passed 9-28-76)
§ 508.02 JUSTIFIABLE USE OF FORCE TO SUPPRESS RIOT.
   A law enforcement officer or firefighter, engaged in suppressing riot or in
protecting persons or property during riot:
   (A)   Is justified in using force, other than deadly force, when and to the
extent he or she has probable cause to believe such force is necessary to
disperse or apprehend rioters;
   (B)   Is justified in using force, including deadly force, when and to the
extent he or she has probable cause to believe such force is necessary to
disperse or apprehend rioters whose conduct is creating a substantial risk of
serious physical harm to persons.
(R.C. § 2917.05) (Am. Ord. 3043, passed 9-28-76)
§ 508.03 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall recklessly cause inconvenience, annoyance, or alarm to
another, by doing any of the following:
      (1)   Engaging in fighting, in threatening harm to persons or property,
or in violent or turbulent behavior;
      (2)   Making unreasonable noise, including recorded or broadcast sounds,
or an offensively coarse utterance, gesture, or display, or communicating
unwarranted and grossly abusive language to any person;
      (3)   Insulting, taunting, or challenging another, under circumstances in
which that conduct is likely to provoke a violent response;
      (4)   Hindering or preventing the movement of persons on a public street,
road, highway, or right-of-way, or to, from, within, or upon public or private
property, so as to interfere with the rights of others, and by any act that
serves no lawful and reasonable purpose of the offender;
      (5)   Creating a condition that is physically offensive to persons or
that presents a risk of physical harm to persons or property, by any act that
serves no lawful and reasonable purpose of the offender.
   (B)   No person, while voluntarily intoxicated, shall do either of the
following:
      (1)   In a public place or in the presence of two or more persons, engage
in conduct likely to be offensive or to cause inconvenience, annoyance, or
alarm to persons of ordinary sensibilities, which conduct the offender, if he
or she were not intoxicated, should know is likely to have such effect on
others;
      (2)   Engage in conduct or create a condition that presents a risk of
physical harm to himself, herself or another, or to the property of another.
   (C)   Violation of any statute or ordinance of which an element is operating
a motor vehicle, locomotive, watercraft, aircraft, or other vehicle while under
the influence of alcohol or any drug of abuse, is not a violation of division
(B) of this section.
   (D)   If a person appears to an ordinary observer to be intoxicated, it is
probable cause to believe that the person is voluntarily intoxicated for
purposes of division (B) of this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disorderly conduct.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (E)(2) and (E)(3) of this
section, disorderly conduct is a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Disorderly conduct is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if any of
the following applies:
         (a)   The offender persists in disorderly conduct after reasonable
warning or request to desist.
         (b)   The offense is committed in the vicinity of a school or in a
school safety zone.
         (c)   The offense is committed in the presence of any law enforcement
officer, firefighter, rescuer, medical person, emergency medical services
person, or other authorized person who is engaged in the person’s duties at the
scene of a fire, accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind.
         (d)   The offense is committed in the presence of any emergency
facility person who is engaged in the person’s duties in an emergency facility.
      (3)   If an offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to three or more violations of division (B) of this section, R.C. § 2917.11(B),
or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a violation
of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (F)   As used in this section:
   COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A SCHOOL . Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2925.01.
   EMERGENCY FACILITY . Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.04.
   EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON . Is the singular of "emergency facility
personnel" as defined in R.C. § 2909.04.
   EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON . Is the singular of "emergency medical
services personnel" as defined in R.C. § 2133.21.
(R.C. § 2917.11) (Am. Ord. 3043, passed 9-28-76; Am. Ord. 6384, passed 7-25-89)
§ 508.04 DISTURBING A LAWFUL MEETING.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to prevent or disrupt a lawful meeting,
procession, or gathering, shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Do any act that obstructs or interferes with the due conduct of
such meeting, procession, or gathering;
      (2)   Make any utterance, gesture, or display that outrages the
sensibilities of the group.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disturbing a lawful
meeting. Except as otherwise provided in this division, disturbing a lawful
meeting is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Disturbing a lawful meeting is a
misdemeanor of the first degree if either of the following applies:
      (1)   The violation is committed with the intent to disturb or disquiet
any assemblage of people met for religious worship at a tax-exempt place of
worship, regardless of whether the conduct is within the place at which the
assemblage is held or is on the property on which that place is located and
disturbs the order and solemnity of the assemblage.
      (2)   The violation is committed with the intent to prevent, disrupt, or
interfere with a virtual meeting or gathering of people for religious worship,
through use of a computer, computer system, telecommunications device, or other
electronic device or system, or in any other manner.
   (C)   As used in this section:
      COMPUTER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      COMPUTER SYSTEM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      VIRTUAL MEETING OR GATHERING. A meeting or gathering by interactive video
conference or teleconference, or by a combination thereof.
(R.C. § 2917.12) (Am. Ord. 3043, passed 9-28-76)
§ 508.05 MISCONDUCT AT AN EMERGENCY.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Hamper the lawful operations of any law enforcement officer,
firefighter, rescuer, medical person, emergency medical services person, or
other authorized person, engaged in the person's duties at the scene of a fire,
accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind;
      (2)   Hamper the lawful activities of any emergency facility person who
is engaged in the person's duties in an emergency facility;
      (3)   Fail to obey the lawful order of any law enforcement officer
engaged in the law enforcement officer's duties at the scene of or in
connection with a fire, accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit access or deny
information to any news media representative in the lawful exercise of the news
media representative's duties.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of misconduct at an emergency.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, misconduct at an emergency is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If violation of this section creates a risk
of physical harm to persons or property, misconduct at an emergency is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   As used in this section:
   EMERGENCY FACILITY . Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.04.
   EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON . Is the singular of "emergency facility
personnel" as defined in R.C. § 2909.04.
   EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON . Is the singular of "emergency medical
services personnel" as defined in R.C. § 2133.21.
(R.C. § 2917.13) (Am. Ord. 3043, passed 9-28-76)
§ 508.06 TELECOMMUNICATIONS HARASSMENT.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make or cause to be made a
telecommunication, or knowingly permit a telecommunication to be made from a
telecommunications device under the person’s control, to another, if the caller
does any of the following:
      (1)   Makes the telecommunication with purpose to harass, intimidate, or
abuse any person at the premises to which the telecommunication is made,
whether or not actual communication takes place between the caller and a
recipient;
      (2)   Describes, suggests, requests, or proposes that the caller, the
recipient of the telecommunication, or any other person engage in any sexual
activity, and the recipient or another person at the premises to which the
telecommunication is made has requested, in a previous telecommunication or in
the immediate telecommunication, that the caller not make a telecommunication
to the recipient or to the premises to which the telecommunication is made;
      (3)   During the telecommunication, violates § 502.03;
      (4)   Knowingly states to the recipient of the telecommunication that the
caller intends to cause damage to or destroy public or private property, and
the recipient, any member of the recipient’s family, or any other person who
resides at the premises to which the telecommunication is made owns, leases,
resides, or works in, will at the time of the destruction or damaging be near
or in, has the responsibility of protecting, or insures the property that will
be destroyed or damaged;
      (5)   Knowingly makes the telecommunication to the recipient of the
telecommunication, to another person at the premises to which the
telecommunication is made, or to those premises, and the recipient of the or
another person at those premises previously has told the caller not make a
telecommunication to those premises or to any persons at those premises;
      (6)   Knowingly makes any comment, request, suggestion, or proposal to
the recipient of the telecommunication that is threatening, intimidating,
menacing, coercive, or obscene with the intent to abuse, threaten, or harass
the recipient;
      (7)   Without a lawful business purpose, knowingly interrupts the
telecommunication service of any person;
      (8)   Without a lawful business purpose, knowingly transmits to any
person, regardless of whether the telecommunication is heard in its entirety,
any file, document, or other communication that prevents that person from using
the person’s telephone service or electronic communication device;
      (9)   Knowingly makes any false statement concerning the death, injury,
illness, disfigurement, reputation, indecent conduct, or criminal conduct of
the recipient of the telecommunication or family or household member of the
recipient with purpose to abuse, threaten, intimidate, or harass the recipient;
      (10)   Knowingly incites another person through a telecommunication or
other means to harass or participate in the harassment of a person;
      (11)   Knowingly alarms the recipient by making a telecommunication
without a lawful purpose at an hour or hours known to be inconvenient to the
recipient and in an offensive or repetitive manner.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall make or cause to be made a telecommunication, or
permit a telecommunication to be made from a telecommunications device under
the person’s control, with purpose to abuse, threaten, or harass another
person.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly post a text or audio statement or an
image on an internet web site or web page for the purpose of abusing,
threatening, or harassing another person.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of telecommunications
harassment.
      (2)   A violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(5), (A)(6), (A)
(7), (A)(8), (A)(9), (A)(10), or (A)(11) or (B) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree on a first offense and a felony on each
subsequent offense, which shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(3), a violation
of division (A)(4) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree on a
first offense and a felony on each subsequent offense, to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If a violation of division (A)(4) of this section
results in economic harm of $1,000 or more, telecommunications harassment is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (D)   No cause of action may be asserted in any court of this municipality
against any provider of a telecommunications service, interactive computer
service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, or against any
officer, employee, or agent of a telecommunications service, interactive
computer service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, for any
injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly arises out of the
provider’s, officer’s, employee’s, or agent’s provision of information,
facilities, or assistance in accordance with the terms of a court order that is
issued in relation to the investigation or prosecution of an alleged violation
of this section. A provider of a telecommunications service, interactive
computer service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, or an
officer, employee, or agent of a telecommunications service, interactive
computer service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, is
immune from any civil or criminal liability for injury, death, or loss to
person or property that allegedly arises out of the provider’s, officer’s,
employees, or agent’s provision of information, facilities, or assistance in
accordance with the terms of a court order that is issued in relation to the
investigation or prosecution of an alleged violation of this section.
   (E)   (1)   This section does not apply to a person solely because the
person provided access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person’s control, including
having provided capabilities that are incidental to providing access or
connection to or from the electronic method of remotely transferring the
information, and that do not include the creation of the content of the
material that is the subject of the access or connection. In addition, any
person providing access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person’s control shall not be
liable for any action voluntarily taken in good faith to block the receipt or
transmission through its service of any information that the person believes
is, or will be sent, in violation of this section.
      (2)   Division (E)(1) of this section does not create an affirmative duty
for any person providing access or connection to or from an electronic method
of remotely transferring information not under that person’s control to block
the receipt or transmission through its service of any information that it
believes is, or will be sent, in violation of this section except as otherwise
provided by law.
      (3)   Division (E)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who
conspires with a person actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of this section or who knowingly
advertises the availability of material of that nature.
      (4)   A provider or user of an interactive computer service, as defined
in 47 U.S.C. § 230, shall neither be treated as the publisher or speaker of any
information provided by another information content provider, as defined in 47
U.S.C. § 230, nor held civilly or criminally liable for the creation or
development of information provided by another information content provider, as
defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230. Nothing in this division shall be construed to
protect a person from liability to the extent that the person developed or
created any content in violation of this section.
   (F)   Divisions (A)(5) to (A)(11) and (B)(2) of this section do not apply to
a person who, while employed or contracted by a newspaper, magazine, press
association, news agency, news wire service, cable channel or cable operator,
or radio or television station, is gathering, processing, transmitting,
compiling, editing, or disseminating information for the general public within
the scope of the person’s employment in that capacity or the person’s
contractual authority in that capacity.
   (G)   As used in this section:
   CABLE OPERATOR has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.21.
   CALLER means the person described in division (A) of this section who makes
or causes to be made a  telecommunication or who permits a telecommunication to
be made from a telecommunications device under that person’s control.
   ECONOMIC HARM means all direct, incidental and consequential pecuniary harm
suffered by a victim as a result of the criminal conduct. The term includes but
is not limited to all of the following:
      (1)   All wages, salaries or other compensation lost as a result of the
criminal conduct;
      (2)   The cost of all wages, salaries or other compensation paid to
employees for time those employees are prevented from working as a result of
the criminal conduct;
      (3)   The overhead costs incurred from the time that a business is shut
down as a result of the criminal conduct;
      (4)   The loss of value to tangible or intangible property that was
damaged as a result of the criminal conduct.
   FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER means any of the following:
      (1)   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
recipient of the telecommunication against whom the act prohibited in division
(A)(9) of this section is committed:
         (a)   A spouse, a person living as a spouse, or a former spouse of the
recipient;
         (b)   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the recipient, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the recipient;
         (c)   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse, or
former spouse of the recipient, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
recipient.
      (2)   The natural parent of any child of whom the recipient of the
telecommunication against whom the act prohibited in division (A)(9) of this
section is committed is the other natural parent or is the putative other
natural parent.
   PERSON LIVING AS A SPOUSE means a person who is living or has lived with the
recipient of the telecommunication against whom the act prohibited in division
(A)(9) of this section is committed in a common law marital relationship, who
otherwise is cohabiting with the recipient, or who otherwise has cohabited with
the recipient within five years prior to the date of the alleged commission of
the act in question.
   SEXUAL ACTIVITY has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
   TELECOMMUNICATION and TELECOM- MUNICATIONS DEVICE have the same meanings as
in R.C. § 2913.01.
   (H)   Nothing in this section prohibits a person from making a
telecommunication to a debtor that is in compliance with the Fair Debt
Collection Practices Act, 15 U.S.C. 1692, as amended, or the Telephone Consumer
Protection Act, 47 U.S.C. 227, as amended.
(R.C. § 2917.21) (Am. Ord. 3043, passed 9-28-76)
§ 508.07 PUBLIC MEETINGS, PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall hold any public meeting in any street, alley, lane or
other public place of the city for the purpose of lecturing or for any
religious purpose or for any other purpose not named herein, whereby a number
of people are or are likely to be gathered together so as to interfere with the
free and uninterrupted use of the streets, alleys, avenues or other public
places in the city, without having first obtained a permit to do so from the
City Manager as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Any person desiring a permit for a public street meeting must make
application to the City Manager for a permit as required.
   (C)   Such application shall be in writing and shall state the nature or the
object for which the permit is desired, the location of the meeting, the dates
and the hours when it is desired to hold the meeting, and the purpose thereof.
   (D)   The City Manager shall thereupon, if in his or her opinion such public
meeting will not unnecessarily interfere with traffic upon the public
thoroughfares and will not be detrimental to the public health, morals, welfare
or safety, issue a permit in writing to the applicant granting permission for
the holding of the public meeting according to the terms of the application or
with such modification as to time, place and purpose as may to the City Manager
seem necessary in order to conserve the public morals, health, welfare or
safety, or to facilitate the traffic on the streets of the city.
   (E)   The City Manager may, in his or her discretion, at any time revoke any
permit issued hereunder upon satisfactory evidence that provisions of this
section are about to be or have been violated.
(Am. Ord. 3043, passed 9-28-76)
§ 508.08 DISTURBING LAWFUL ASSEMBLAGE.
   No person shall willfully interrupt or disturb a lawful assemblage of
persons or a person while he or she is at or about the place where such
assemblage is to be held, or is or has been held.
(Am. Ord. 3043, passed 9-28-76)
Penalty, see § 508.99
§ 508.09 RIOT.
   (A)   No person shall participate with four or more others in a course of
disorderly conduct in violation of § 508.03:
      (1)   With purpose to commit or facilitate the commission of a
misdemeanor, other than disorderly conduct;
      (2)   With purpose to intimidate a public official or employee into
taking or refraining from official action, or with purpose to hinder, impede,
or obstruct a function of government;
      (3)   With purpose to hinder, impede, or obstruct the orderly process of
administration or instruction at an educational institution, or to interfere
with or disrupt lawful activities carried on at such institution.
   (B)   No person shall participate with four or more others with purpose to
do an act with unlawful force or violence, even though such act might otherwise
be lawful.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of riot, a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 2917.03) (Am. Ord. 3043, passed 9-28-76)
   (D)   For the purposes of prosecuting violations of this section, the
prosecution is not required to allege or prove that the offender expressly
agreed with four or more others to commit any act that constitutes a violation
this section prior to or while committing those acts.
(R.C. § 2917.031)
§ 508.10 MAKING FALSE ALARMS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Initiate or circulate a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime, or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
of warning is false and likely to cause public inconvenience or alarm;
      (2)   Knowingly cause a false alarm of fire or other emergency to be
transmitted to or within any organization, public or private, for dealing with
emergencies involving a risk of physical harm to persons or property;
      (3)   Report to any law enforcement agency an alleged offense or other
incident within its concern, knowing that such offense did not occur;
      (4)   Initiate or circulate a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime, or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false and likely to impede the operation of a critical
infrastructure facility.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any person conducting an authorized
fire or emergency drill.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making false alarms. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, making false alarms is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If a violation of this section results in economic harm of
$1,000 or more, making false alarms is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If a violation of this section pertains to a purported,
threatened, or actual use of a weapon of mass destruction, making false alarms
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (D)   (1)   It is not a defense to a charge under this section that pertains
to a purported or threatened use of a weapon of mass destruction that the
offender did not possess or have the ability to use a weapon of mass
destruction or that what was represented to be a weapon of mass destruction was
not a weapon of mass destruction.
      (2)   Any act that is a violation of this section and any other section
of the Ohio Revised Code or this Code of Ordinances may be prosecuted under
this section, the other section, or both sections.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2911.21.
      ECONOMIC HARM and WEAPON OF MASS DESTRUCTION. Have the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2917.31.
(R.C. § 2917.32) (Am. Ord. 3043, passed 9-28-76)
§ 508.11 RESISTING OR ABUSING AN OFFICIAL. [REPEALED]
Editor's note:
   Section 508.11 was repealed by Ordinance No. 9022, passed October 26, 2004.
§ 508.12 CONDUCT TOWARDS POLICE OFFICER. [REPEALED]
Editor's note:
   Section 508.12 was repealed by Ordinance No. 9022, passed October 26, 2004.
§ 508.13 CONCEALED HANDGUN POSSESSION ON CITY OWNED PROPERTY/BUILDINGS.
   Pursuant to R.C. § 2923.126, a licensee under R.C. § 2923.125 or 2923.1213
is authorized to carry a concealed handgun in the City of Lebanon, Ohio City
Building located at 50 South Broadway, Lebanon, Ohio, except during the
operation of any function of the Lebanon Municipal Court.
(Ord. 2020-022, passed 3-10-20)
§ 508.14 SLINGSHOT, BOW AND ARROW OR AIR GUN.
   No person shall maliciously or recklessly, by hand or by means of a
slingshot, bow, zip gun, air gun or other similar device, throw, shoot, cast or
sling any stone, arrow, pellet or other similar missile.
(Ord. 5268, passed 12-9-80)
Penalty, see § 508.99
§ 508.15 ASSAULTING POLICE DOG, HORSE, OR SERVICE DOG; PENALTY.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cause, or attempt to cause, physical harm to
a police dog or horse in either of the following circumstances:
      (1)   The police dog or horse is assisting a law enforcement officer in
the performance of the officer's official duties at the time the physical harm
is caused or attempted.
      (2)   The police dog or horse is not assisting a law enforcement officer
in the performance of the officer's official duties at the time the physical
harm is caused or attempted, but the offender has actual knowledge that the dog
or horse is a police dog or horse.
   (B)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following:
      (1)   Taunt, torment, or strike a police dog or horse;
      (2)   Throw an object or substance at a police dog or horse;
      (3)   Interfere with or obstruct a police dog or horse, or interfere with
or obstruct a law enforcement officer who is being assisted by a police dog or
horse, in a manner that does any of the following:
         (a)   Inhibits or restricts the law enforcement officer's control of
the police dog or horse;
         (b)   Deprives the law enforcement officer of control of the police
dog or horse;
         (c)   Releases the police dog or horse from its area of control;
         (d)   Enters the area of control of the police dog or horse without
the consent of the law enforcement officer, including placing food or any other
object or substance into that area;
         (e)   Inhibits or restricts the ability of the police dog or horse to
assist a law enforcement officer;
      (4)   Engage in any conduct that is likely to cause serious physical
injury or death to a police dog or horse;
      (5)   If the person is the owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog, fail to
reasonably restrain the dog from taunting, tormenting, chasing, approaching in
a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack, or attempting to bite or
otherwise endanger a police dog or horse that at the time of the conduct is
assisting a law enforcement officer in the performance of the officer's duties
or that the person knows is a police dog or horse.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly cause, or attempt to cause, physical harm to
a service dog in either of the following circumstances:
      (1)   The service dog is assisting or serving a blind, deaf, or mobility
impaired person or person with a seizure disorder at the time the physical harm
is caused or attempted.
      (2)   The service dog is not assisting or serving a blind, deaf, or
mobility impaired person or person with a seizure disorder at the time the
physical harm is caused or attempted, but the offender has actual knowledge
that the dog is a service dog.
   (D)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following:
      (1)   Taunt, torment, or strike a service dog;
      (2)   Throw an object or substance at a service dog;
      (3)   Interfere with or obstruct a service dog, or interfere with or
obstruct a blind, deaf, or mobility impaired person or person with a seizure
disorder who is being assisted or served by a service dog, in a manner that
does any of the following:
         (a)   Inhibits or restricts the assisted or served person's control of
the service dog;
         (b)   Deprives the assisted or served person of control of the service
dog;
         (c)   Releases the service dog from its area of control;
         (d)   Enters the area of control of the service dog without the
consent of the assisted or served person, including placing food or any other
object or substance into that area;
         (e)   Inhibits or restricts the ability of the service dog to assist
the assisted or served person;
      (4)   Engage in any conduct that is likely to cause serious physical
injury or death to a service dog;
      (5)   If the person is the owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog, fail to
reasonably restrain the dog from taunting, tormenting, chasing, approaching in
a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack, or attempting to bite or
otherwise endanger a service dog that at the time of the conduct is assisting
or serving a blind, deaf, or mobility impaired person or person with a seizure
disorder or that the person knows is a service dog.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
assaulting a police dog or horse. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, assaulting a police dog or horse is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. If the violation results in the death of the police dog or horse,
assaulting a police dog or horse is a felony of the third degree to be
prosecuted under R.C. § 2921.321. If the violation results in serious physical
harm to the police dog or horse other than its death, assaulting a police dog
or horse is a felony of the fourth degree to be prosecuted under R.C. §
2921.321. If the violation results in physical harm to the police dog or horse
other than death or serious physical harm, assaulting a police dog or horse is
a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
harassing a police dog or horse. Except as otherwise provided this division,
harassing a police dog or horse is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
violation results in the death of the police dog or horse, harassing a police
dog or horse is a felony of the third degree to be prosecuted under R.C. §
2921.321. If the violation results in serious physical harm to the police dog
or horse but does not result in its death, harassing a police dog or horse is a
felony of the fourth degree to be prosecuted under R.C. § 2921.321. If the
violation results in physical harm to the police dog or horse but does not
result in its death or in serious physical harm to it, harassing a police dog
or horse is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of
assaulting a service dog. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
assaulting a service dog is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
violation results in the death of the service dog, assaulting a service dog is
a felony of the third degree to be prosecuted under R.C. § 2921.321. If the
violation results in serious physical harm to the service dog other than its
death, assaulting a service dog is a felony of the fourth degree to be
prosecuted under R.C. §
      (4)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of
harassing a service dog. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
harassing a service dog is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the violation
results in the death of the service dog, harassing a service dog is a felony of
the third degree to be prosecuted under R.C. § 2921.321. If the violation
results in serious physical harm to the service dog but does not result in its
death, harassing a service dog is a felony of the fourth degree to be
prosecuted under R.C. § 2921.321. If the violation results in physical harm to
the service dog but does not result in the death or in serious physical harm to
it, harassing a service dog is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (5)   In addition to any other sanction or penalty imposed for the
offense under this section, R.C. Chapter 2929 or any other provision of the
Revised Code, whoever violates division (A), (B), (C), or (D) of this section
is responsible for the payment of all of the following:
         (a)   Any veterinary bill or bill for medication incurred as a result
of the violation by the Police Department regarding a violation of division (A)
or (B) of this section or by the blind, deaf, or mobility impaired person or
person with a seizure disorder assisted or served by the service dog regarding
a violation of division (C) or (D) of this section;
         (b)   The cost of any damaged equipment that results from the
violation;
         (c)   If the violation did not result in the death of the police dog
or horse or the service dog that was the subject of the violation and if, as a
result of that dog or horse being the subject of the violation, the dog or
horse needs further training or retraining to be able to continue in the
capacity of a police dog or horse or a service dog, the cost of any further
training or retraining of that dog or horse by a law enforcement officer or by
the blind, deaf, or mobility impaired person or person with a seizure disorder
assisted or served by the service dog;
         (d)   If the violation resulted in the death of the police dog or
horse or the service dog that was the subject of the violation or resulted in
serious physical harm to that dog or horse to the extent that the dog or horse
needs to be replaced on either a temporary or a permanent basis, the cost of
replacing that dog or horse and of any further training of a new police dog or
horse or a new service dog by a law enforcement officer or by the blind, deaf,
or mobility impaired person or person with a seizure disorder assisted or
served by the service dog, which replacement or training is required because of
the death of or the serious physical harm to the dog or horse that was the
subject of the violation.
   (F)   This section does not apply to a licensed veterinarian whose conduct
is in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4741.
   (G)   This section only applies to an offender who knows or should know at
the time of the violation that the police dog or horse or service dog that is
the subject of a violation under this section is a police dog or horse or
service dog.
   (H)   As used in this section:
      BLIND and MOBILITY IMPAIRED PERSON. Have the same meaning as in R.C. §
955.011.
      PHYSICAL HARM. Any injury, illness, or other psychological impairment,
regardless of its gravity or duration.
      POLICE DOG OR HORSE. A dog or horse that has been trained and may be used
to assist law enforcement officers in the performance of their official duties.
      SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM. Any of the following:
         (a)   Any physical harm that carries a substantial risk of death.
         (b)   Any physical harm that causes permanent maiming or that involves
some temporary, substantial maiming.
         (c)   Any physical harm that causes acute pain of a duration that
results in substantial suffering.
      SERVICE DOG. A dog that serves as a guide or leader for a blind person,
serves as a listener for a deaf person, provides support or assistance for a
mobility impaired person, or serves as a seizure assistance, seizure response,
or seizure alert dog for a person with any seizure disorder.
(Ord. 9110, passed 2-22-05)
§ 508.16 IMPEDING PUBLIC PASSAGE OF AN EMERGENCY SERVICE RESPONDER.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall recklessly obstruct any
highway, street, sidewalk, or any other public passage in such a manner as to
render the highway, street, sidewalk, or passage impassable without
unreasonable inconvenience or hazard if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The obstruction prevents an emergency vehicle from accessing a
highway or street, prevents an emergency service responder from responding to
an emergency, or prevents an emergency vehicle or an emergency service
responder from having access to an exit from an emergency.
      (2)   Upon receipt of a request or order from an emergency service
responder to remove or cease the obstruction, the person refuses to remove or
cease the obstruction.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not limit or affect the application
of R.C. § 2921.31 or any other section of the Ohio Revised Code. Any conduct
that is a violation of division (A) of this section and that also is a
violation of R.C. § 2921.31 or any other section of the Ohio Revised Code may
be prosecuted under this section, the other section of the Ohio Revised Code,
or both sections.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawfully impeding public
passage of an emergency service responder, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   As used in this section, EMERGENCY SERVICE RESPONDER has the same
meaning as in R.C. § 2903.13.
(R.C. § 2917.14)
§ 508.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty is
otherwise provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(Am. Ord. 3043, passed 9-28-76)
CHAPTER 509: OFFENSES AGAINST THE FAMILY AND SOCIETY
Section
   
509.01   Compounding a crime
   
509.02   Failure to report a crime
   
509.03   Obstructing official business
   
509.04   Resisting arrest
   
509.05   Attempt
   
509.06   Complicity
   
509.07   Failure to disclose personal information
   
509.08   Misuse of 9-1-1 system
   
509.09   Definitions
   
509.10   Abortion prohibited
   
509.11   Medical necessity exception
   
509.12   Medical necessity requirements
   
509.13   Abortifacient prohibition
   
509.14   Protection of children born alive
   
509.15   Immunity of the mother
   
509.16   Saving clause
Cross-reference:
   Penalties, misdemeanor classifications and sentencing, see
Ch. 599
§ 509.01 COMPOUNDING A CRIME.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly demand, accept, or agree to accept anything
of value in consideration of abandoning or agreeing to abandon a pending
criminal prosecution.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section when both
of the following apply:
      (1)   The pending prosecution involved is for a violation of §
507.06 of this code or for a violation of R.C. §§ 2913.02, 2913.11, 2913.21(B)
(2) or 2913.47, of which the actor under this section was the victim.
      (2)   The thing of value demanded, accepted, or agreed to be accepted, in
consideration of abandoning or agreeing to abandon the prosecution, did not
exceed an amount that the actor reasonably believed due him or her as
restitution for the loss caused him or her by the offense.
   (C)   When a prosecuting witness abandons or agrees to abandon a prosecution
under division (B) of this section, the abandonment or agreement in no way
binds the city to abandoning the prosecution.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of compounding a crime, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2921.21) (Am. Ord. 3043, passed 9-28-76)
§ 509.02 FAILURE TO REPORT A CRIME.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2) of this section, no
person, knowing that a felony has been or is being committed, shall knowingly
fail to report the information to law enforcement authorities.
      (2)   No person, knowing that a violation of R.C. § 2913.04(B) has been
or is being committed or that the person has received information derived from
such a violation, shall knowingly fail to report the violation to law
enforcement authorities.
   (B)   Except for conditions that are within the scope of division (E) of
this section, no person giving aid to a sick or injured person shall
negligently fail to report to law enforcement authorities any gunshot or stab
wound treated or observed by the person, or any serious physical harm to
persons that the person knows or has reasonable cause to believe resulted from
an offense of violence.
   (C)   No person who discovers the body or acquires the first knowledge of
the death of a person shall fail to report the death immediately to a physician
or advanced practice registered nurse whom the person knows to be treating the
deceased for a condition from which death at such time would not be unexpected,
or to a law enforcement officer, an ambulance service, an emergency squad, or
the coroner in a political subdivision in which the body is discovered, the
death is believed to have occurred, or knowledge concerning the death is
obtained. For purposes of this division, “advanced practice registered nurse”
does not include a certified registered nurse anesthetist.
   (D)   No person shall fail to provide upon request of the person to whom a
report required by division (C) of this section, or to any law enforcement
officer who has reasonable cause to assert the authority to investigate the
circumstances surrounding the death, any facts within his or her knowledge that
may have a bearing on the investigation of the death.
   (E)   (1)   As used in this division, BURN INJURY means any of the
following:
         (a)   Second or third degree burns;
         (b)   Any burns to the upper respiratory tract or laryngeal edema due
to the inhalation of superheated air;
         (c)   Any burn injury or wound that may result in death.
      (2)   No physician, nurse, physician assistant, or limited practitioner
who, outside a hospital, sanitarium, or other medical facility, attends or
treats a person who has sustained a burn injury inflicted by an explosion or
other incendiary device, or that shows evidence of having been inflicted in a
violent, malicious, or criminal manner, shall fail to report the burn injury
immediately to the local arson bureau, if there is such a bureau in the
jurisdiction in which the person is attended or treated, or otherwise to local
law enforcement authorities.
      (3)   No manager, superintendent, or other person in charge of a
hospital, sanitarium, or other medical facility in which a person is attended
or treated for any burn injury inflicted by an explosion or other incendiary
device, or that shows evidence of having been inflicted in a violent,
malicious, or criminal manner, shall fail to report the burn injury immediately
to the local arson bureau, if there is such a bureau in the jurisdiction in
which the person is attended or treated, or otherwise to local law enforcement
authorities.
      (4)   No person who is required to report any burn injury under division
(E)(2) or (3) of this section shall fail to file, within three working days
after attending or treating the victim, a written report of the burn injury
with the office of the state fire marshal. The report shall be made on a form
provided by the state fire marshal.
      (5)   Anyone participating in the making of reports under division (E) of
this section or anyone participating in a judicial proceeding resulting from
the reports is immune from any civil or criminal liability that otherwise might
be incurred or imposed as a result of such actions. Notwithstanding R.C. §
4731.22, the physician-patient relationship or advanced practice registered
nurse-patient relationship is not a ground for excluding evidence regarding a
person’s burn injury or the cause of the burn injury in any judicial proceeding
resulting from a report submitted under division (E) of this section.
   (F)   (1)   Any doctor of medicine or osteopathic medicine, hospital intern
or resident, nurse, psychologist, social worker, independent social worker,
social work assistant, licensed professional clinical counselor, licensed
professional counselor, independent marriage and family therapist, or marriage
and family therapist who knows or has reasonable cause to believe that a
patient or client has been the victim of domestic violence, as defined in R.C.
§ 3113.31, shall note that knowledge or belief and the basis for it in the
patient’s or client’s records.
      (2)   Notwithstanding R.C. § 4731.22, the physician-patient privilege or
advanced practice registered nurse-patient privilege shall not be a ground for
excluding any information regarding the report containing the knowledge or
belief noted under division (F)(1) of this section, and the information may be
admitted as evidence in accordance with the Rules of Evidence.
   (G)   Division (A) or (D) of this section does not require disclosure of
information, when any of the following applies:
      (1)   The information is privileged by reason of the relationship between
attorney and client; physician and patient; advanced practice registered nurse
and patient; licensed psychologist or licensed school psychologist and client;
licensed professional clinical counselor, licensed professional counselor,
independent social worker, social worker, independent marriage and family
therapist, or marriage and family therapist and client; member of the clergy,
rabbi, minister, or priest and any person communicating information
confidentially to the member of the clergy, rabbi, minister, or priest for a
religious counseling purpose of a professional character; husband and wife; or
a communications assistant and those who are a party to a telecommunications
relay service call.
      (2)   The information would tend to incriminate a member of the actor’s
immediate family.
      (3)   Disclosure of the information would amount to revealing a news
source, privileged under R.C. §§ 2739.04 or 2739.12.
      (4)   Disclosure of the information would amount to disclosure by a
member of the ordained clergy of an organized religious body of a confidential
communication made to that member of the clergy in that member's capacity as a
member of the clergy by a person seeking the aid or counsel of that member of
the clergy.
      (5)   Disclosure would amount to revealing information acquired by the
actor in the course of the actor's duties in connection with a bona fide
program of treatment or services for persons with drug dependencies or persons
in danger of drug dependence, which program is maintained or conducted by a
hospital, clinic, person, agency, or community addiction services provider
whose alcohol and drug addiction services are certified pursuant to R.C. §
5119.36.
      (6)   Disclosure would amount to revealing information acquired by the
actor in the course of the actor's duties in connection with a bona fide
program for providing counseling services to victims of crimes that are
violations of R.C. § 2907.02 or R.C. § 2907.05 or to victims of felonious
sexual penetration in violation of former R.C. § 2907.12. As used in this
division, "counseling services" include services provided in an informal
setting by a person who, by education or experience, is competent to provide
those services.
      (7)   As used herein, COUNSELING SERVICES include services provided in an
informal  setting by a person who, by education or experience, is competent to
provide such services.
   (H)   No disclosure of information pursuant to this section gives rise to
any liability or recrimination for a breach of privilege or confidence.
   (I)   Whoever violates division (A) or (B) of this section is guilty of
failure to report a crime. Violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Violation of division (A)(2) or (B) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (J)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty of
failure to report knowledge of a death, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (K)   (1)   Whoever negligently violates division (E) of this section is
guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Whoever knowingly violates division (E) of this section is guilty
of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (L)   As used in this section, NURSE includes an advanced practice
registered nurse, registered nurse, and licensed practical nurse.
(R.C. § 2921.22) (Am. Ord. 3043, passed 9-28-76)
§ 509.03 OBSTRUCTING OFFICIAL BUSINESS.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so and with purpose to prevent,
obstruct, or delay the performance by a public official of any authorized act
within the public official’s official capacity, shall do any act that hampers
or impedes a public official in the performance of the public official’s lawful
duties.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of obstructing official
business. Except as otherwise provided in this division, obstructing official
business is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If a violation of this section
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, obstructing official business is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.31) (Am. Ord. 3043, passed 9-28-76)
§ 509.04 RESISTING ARREST.
   (A)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of himself, herself or another.
   (B)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of the person or another person and, during the course of or as a
result of the resistance or interference, cause physical harm to a law
enforcement officer.
   (C)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of the person or another person if either of the following
applies:
      (1)   The offender, during the course of or as a result of the resistance
or interference, recklessly causes physical harm to a law enforcement officer
by means of a deadly weapon; or
      (2)   The offender, during the course of the resistance or interference,
brandishes a deadly weapon.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of resisting arrest. A
violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. A violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. A violation of division (C) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (E)   As used in this section, DEADLY WEAPON has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 2923.11.
(R.C. § 2921.33) (Am. Ord. 3043, passed 9-28-76)
Statutory reference:
   Unlawful taking of deadly weapon from a law enforcement officer, felony
offense, see R.C. § 2911.01
§ 509.05 ATTEMPT.
   (A)   No person, purposely or knowingly, and when purpose or knowledge is
sufficient culpability for the commission of an offense, shall engage in
conduct that, if successful, would constitute or result in the offense.
   (B)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that, in retrospect,
commission of the offense that was the object of the attempt was either
factually or legally impossible under the attendant circumstances, if that
offense could have been committed had the attendant circumstances been as the
actor believed them to be.
   (C)   No person who is convicted of committing a specific offense, of
complicity in the commission of the offense, or of conspiracy to commit the
offense, shall be convicted of an attempt to commit the same offense in
violation of this section.
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that the
actor abandoned his or her effort to commit the offense or otherwise prevented
its commission, under circumstances manifesting a complete and voluntary
renunciation of his or her criminal purpose.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of an attempt to commit an
offense. An attempt to commit aggravated murder, murder, or an offense for
which the maximum penalty is imprisonment for life is a felony of the first
degree, to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. An attempt to commit a
drug abuse offense for which the penalty is determined by the amount or number
of unit doses of the controlled substance involved in the drug abuse offense is
an offense of the same degree as the drug abuse offense attempted would be if
that drug abuse offense had been committed and had involved an amount or number
of unit doses of the controlled substance that is within the next lower range
of controlled substance amounts than was involved in the attempt. An attempt to
commit any other offense is an offense of the next lesser degree than the
offense attempted. In the case of an attempt to commit an offense other than a
violation of R.C. Chapter 3734 that is not specifically classified, an attempt
is a misdemeanor of the first degree if the offense attempted is a felony, and
a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if the offense attempted is a misdemeanor.
In the case of an attempt to commit a violation of any provision of R.C.
Chapter 3734, other than R.C. §3734.18, that relates to hazardous wastes, an
attempt is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. An attempt to
commit a minor misdemeanor, or to engage in a conspiracy, is not an offense
under this section.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
      MOTOR VEHICLE has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
(R.C. § 2923.02) (Am. Ord. 3043, passed 9-28-76)
§ 509.06 COMPLICITY.
   (A)   No person, acting with the kind of culpability required for the
commission of an offense, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Solicit or procure another to commit the offense;
      (2)   Aid or abet another in committing the offense;
      (3)   Conspire with another to commit the offense in violation of R.C. §
2923.01;
      (4)   Cause an innocent or irresponsible person to commit the offense.
   (B)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that no person with
whom the accused was in complicity has been convicted as a principal offender.
   (C)   No person shall be convicted of complicity under this section unless
an offense is actually committed, but a person may be convicted of complicity
in an attempt to commit an offense in violation of R.C. § 2923.02.
   (D)   If an alleged accomplice of the defendant testifies against the
defendant in a case in which the defendant is charged with complicity in the
commission of or an attempt to commit an offense, an attempt to commit an
offense, or an offense, the court shall charge the jury in accordance with R.C.
§ 2923.03(D).
   (E)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that,
prior to the commission of or attempt to commit the offense, the actor
terminated his or her complicity, under circumstances manifesting a complete
and voluntary renunciation of his or her criminal purpose.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of complicity in the
commission of an offense, and shall be prosecuted and punished as if he or she
were a principal offender. A charge of complicity may be stated in terms of
this section, or in terms of the principal offense.
(R.C. § 2923.03) (Am. Ord. 3043, passed 9-28-76)
§ 509.07 FAILURE TO DISCLOSE PERSONAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   No person who is in a public place shall refuse to disclose the
person’s name, address, or date of birth, when requested by a law enforcement
officer who reasonably suspects either of the following:
      (1)   The person is committing, has committed, or is about to commit a
criminal offense.
      (2)   The person witnessed any of the following:
         (a)   An offense of violence that would constitute a felony under the
laws of this state;
         (b)   A felony offense that causes or results in, or creates a
substantial risk of, serious physical harm to another person or property;
         (c)   Any attempt or conspiracy to commit, or complicity in
committing, any offenses identified in division (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)(b) of this
section;
         (d)   Any conduct reasonably indicating that any offense identified in
division (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)(b) of this section or any attempt, conspiracy, or
complicity described in division (A)(2)(c) of this section has been, is being,
or is about to be committed.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of failure to
disclose one’s personal information, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (C)   Nothing in division (A) of this section requires a person to answer
any questions beyond that person’s name, address, or date of birth. Nothing in
division (A) of this section authorizes a law enforcement officer to arrest a
person for not providing any information beyond the person’s name, address, or
date of birth or for refusing to describe the offense observed.
   (D)   It is not a violation of division (A) of this section to refuse to
answer a question that would reveal a person’s age or date of birth if age is
an element of the crime that the person is suspected of committing.
(R.C. § 2921.29)
   (E)   No person entering an airport, train station, port, or other similar
critical transportation infrastructure site shall refuse to show identification
when requested by a law enforcement officer when there is a threat to security
and the law enforcement officer is requiring identification of all persons
entering the site.
   (F)   A law enforcement officer may prevent any person who refuses to show
identification when asked under the circumstances described in division (E) of
this section from entering the critical transportation infrastructure site.
(R.C. § 2909.31)
§ 509.08 MISUSE OF 9-1-1 SYSTEM.
   (A)   As used in this section, 9-1-1 SYSTEM means a system through which
individuals can request emergency service using the access number 9-1-1.
(R.C. § 128.01(A))
   (B)   No person shall knowingly use the telephone number of a 9-1-1 system
established under R.C. Chapter 128 to report an emergency if the person knows
that no emergency exists.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly use a 9-1-1 system for a purpose other than
obtaining emergency service.
   (D)   No person shall disclose or use any information concerning telephone
numbers, addresses, or names obtained from the database that serves the public
safety answering point of a 9-1-1 system established under R.C. Chapter 128,
except for any of the following purposes or under any of the following
circumstances:
      (1)   For the purpose of the 9-1-1 system;
      (2)   For the purpose of responding to an emergency call to an emergency
service provider;
      (3)   In the circumstance of the inadvertent disclosure of such
information due solely to technology of the wireless telephone network portion
of the 9-1-1 system not allowing access to the database to be restricted to 9-
1-1 specific answering lines at a public safety answering point;
      (4)   In the circumstance of access to a database being given by a
telephone company that is a wireless service provider to a public utility or
municipal utility in handling customer calls in times of public emergency or
service outages. The charge, terms, and conditions for the disclosure or use of
such information for the purpose of such access to a database shall be subject
to the jurisdiction of the Steering Committee:
      (5)   In the circumstance of access to a database given by a telephone
company that is a wireline service provider to a state and local government in
warning of a public emergency, as determined by the Steering Committee. The
charge, terms and conditions for the disclosure or use of that information for
the purpose of access to a database is subject to the jurisdiction of the
Steering Committee.
(R.C. § 128.96(F) - (H))
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 128.99(A), (B))
§ 509.09 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in §§
509.09 through
509.16 of the Lebanon Code of Ordinances, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   ABORTION.
      (1)   The purposeful termination of a human pregnancy with an intention
other than to produce a live birth or to remove a dead fetus or embryo.
      (2)   The term ABORTION does not include either:
         (a)   In vitro fertilization or fertility treatments of any type; or
         (b)   The use, prescription, administration, procuring, or selling of
Plan B, morning-after pills, intrauterine devices, or any other type of
contraception or emergency contraception.
   DRUG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   PHYSICIAN. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.113.
   REASONABLE MEDICAL JUDGMENT. A medical judgment that would be made by a
reasonably prudent physician, knowledgeable about the case and the treatment
possibilities with respect to the medical conditions involved.
   UNBORN CHILD. An individual organism of the species homo sapiens from
fertilization until live birth.
(Ord. 2022-101, passed 9-19-22)
§ 509.10 ABORTION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall purposely cause or induce an abortion by either of the
following:
      (1)   Prescribing, administering, or personally furnishing a drug or
substance;
      (2)   Using an instrument or other means.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of criminal
abortion, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(Ord. 2022-101, passed 9-19-22)
§ 509.11 MEDICAL NECESSITY EXCEPTION.
   (A)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under §
509.10 of the Lebanon Code of Ordinances that the abortion was purposely
performed or induced or purposely attempted to be performed or induced by a
physician and that the physician determined, in the physician's reasonable
medical judgment, based on the facts known to the physician at that time, that
the abortion was necessary to prevent the death of the pregnant woman or a
serious risk of the substantial and irreversible impairment of a major bodily
function of the pregnant woman.
   (B)   No abortion shall be considered necessary under division (A) of this
section on the basis of a claim or diagnosis that the pregnant woman will
engage in conduct that would result in the pregnant woman's death or a
substantial and irreversible impairment of a major bodily function of the
pregnant woman or based on any reason related to the woman's mental health.
(Ord. 2022-101, passed 9-19-22)
§ 509.12 MEDICAL NECESSITY REQUIREMENTS.
   Except when a medical emergency exists that prevents compliance with one or
more of the following conditions, the affirmative defense set forth in §
509.11 of the Lebanon Code of Ordinances does not apply unless the physician
who purposely performs or induces or purposely attempts to perform or induce
the abortion complies with all of the following conditions:
   (A)   The physician who purposely performs or induces or purposely attempts
to perform or induce the abortion certifies in writing that, in the physician's
reasonable medical judgment, based on the facts known to the physician at that
time, the abortion is necessary to prevent the death of the pregnant woman or a
serious risk of the substantial and irreversible impairment of a major bodily
function of the pregnant woman.
   (B)   A different physician not professionally related to the physician
described in division (A) of this section certifies in writing that, in that
different physician's reasonable medical judgment, based on the facts known to
that different physician at that time, the abortion is necessary to prevent the
death of the pregnant woman or a serious risk of the substantial and
irreversible impairment of a major bodily function of the pregnant woman.
   (C)   The physician purposely performs or induces or purposely attempts to
perform or induce the abortion in a hospital or other health care facility that
has appropriate neonatal services for premature infants.
   (D)   The physician who purposely performs or induces or purposely attempts
to perform or induce the abortion terminates or attempts to terminate the
pregnancy in the manner that provides the best opportunity for the unborn child
to survive, unless that physician determines, in the physician's reasonable
medical judgment, based on the facts known to the physician at that time, that
the termination of the pregnancy in that manner poses a greater risk of the
death of the pregnant woman or a greater risk of the substantial and
irreversible impairment of a major bodily function of the pregnant woman than
would other available methods of abortion.
   (E)   The physician certifies in writing the available methods or techniques
considered and the reasons for choosing the method or technique employed.
   (F)   The physician who purposely performs or induces or purposely attempts
to perform or induce the abortion has arranged for the attendance in the same
room in which the abortion is to be performed or induced or attempted to be
performed or induced at least one other physician who is to take control of,
provide immediate medical care for, and take all reasonable steps necessary to
preserve the life and health of the unborn child immediately upon the child's
complete expulsion or extraction from the pregnant woman.
(Ord. 2022-101, passed 9-19-22)
§ 509.13 ABORTIFACIENT PROHIBITION.
   (A)   No person shall purposely manufacture, possess for sale or
distribution, advertise, or hold oneself out as possessing for sale or
distribution, or sell or distribute, any drugs, medicine, instrument, or
device, when any of the following apply:
      (1)   The person knows or has reasonable cause to believe that such drug,
medicine, instrument, or device is capable of causing an abortion and is used
primarily for that purpose.
      (2)   The person knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
recipient to whom the person sells or distributes such drug, medicine,
instrument, or device intends to use it to cause an abortion.
      (3)   The person directly or indirectly represents that such drug,
medicine, instrument, or device is effective in causing an abortion, regardless
of whether it is effective as represented.
   (B)   This section does not prohibit a manufacturer or distributor of drugs
or surgical supplies, or a pharmacist or physician, from lawfully
manufacturing, possessing, selling, or distributing, in the usual course of
that person's business or profession, any drug, medicine, instrument, or thing
intended for any lawful medical purpose, including an abortion, that meets the
affirmative defense as provided in §§
509.11 and
509.12 of the Lebanon Code of Ordinances.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of promoting abortion, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(Ord. 2022-101, passed 9-19-22)
§ 509.14 PROTECTION OF CHILDREN BORN ALIVE.
   (A)   No person shall purposely take the life of a child born by attempted
abortion who is alive when removed from the uterus of the pregnant woman.
   (B)   No person who performs an abortion shall purposely fail to use
reasonable medical judgment to preserve the life of a child who is alive when
removed from the uterus of the pregnant woman.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of abortion manslaughter, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(Ord. 2022-101, passed 9-19-22)
§ 509.15 IMMUNITY OF THE MOTHER.
   (A)   A woman on whom an abortion was induced or attempted shall be immune
from prosecution for any violation of §§
509.10 to
509.14 of the Lebanon Code of Ordinances based upon that abortion or attempted
abortion.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under §§
509.10 to
509.14 of the Lebanon Code of Ordinances that the allegedly unlawful conduct is
expressly authorized under general Ohio law binding upon the City of Lebanon.
(Ord. 2022-101, passed 9-19-22)
§ 509.16 SAVING CLAUSE.
   If any provision, sentence, clause, section, or part of §§
509.09 through
509.15 or the application thereof to any person or circumstance is held
unconstitutional, illegal, or invalid, such unconstitutionality, illegality, or
invalidity shall affect only such provision, sentence, clause, section, or part
of §§
509.09 through
509.15 and shall not affect or impair any of the remaining provisions,
sentences, clauses, sections, or other parts of §§
509.09 through
509.15. It is hereby declared to be the intention of Council of Lebanon that §§
509.09 through
509.15 would have been adopted had such unconstitutional, illegal, or invalid
provisions, sentences, clauses, sections, or parts thereof, not been included
therein.
(Ord. 2022-101, passed 9-19-22)
CHAPTER 511: FAIR HOUSING LAW
Section
   
511.01   Definitions
   
511.02   Unlawful discriminatory practices
   
511.03   Enforcement
   
511.04   Violation, real estate broker
   
511.05   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Interference with right of person to engage in housing transactions because
of race, religion, or the like, see R.C. § 2927.03
§ 511.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meaning
ascribed to them in this section unless a different meaning is clearly
indicated in the context.
   DISCRIMINATE.  Includes segregate or separate.
   HOUSING ACCOMMODATIONS. Includes any building or structure or portion
thereof that is used or occupied, or is intended, arranged, or designed to be
used or occupied as the home residence or sleeping place of one or more
individuals, groups or families, whether or not living independently of each
other; and any vacant land offered for sale or lease. It also includes any
housing accommodations held or offered for sale or rent by a real estate
broker, salesperson or agent, or by any other person pursuant to authorization
of the owner, by the owner or by his or her legal representative.
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, partnerships, associations,
organizations, corporations, legal representatives, trustees, trustees in
bankruptcy, receivers and other organized groups of persons. It also includes,
but is not limited to any owner, lessor, assignor, builder, manager, broker,
salesman, agent, insurance representative, employee, lending institution, and
the state and all political subdivisions, authorities, agencies, boards and
commissions thereof.
   UNLAWFUL DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICE.  Any act prohibited by this chapter.
(Ord. 1759, passed 2-27-73; Am. Ord. 4082, passed 4-25-78; Am. Ord. 7500,
passed 4-28-99)
§ 511.02 UNLAWFUL DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES.
   It shall be an unlawful discriminatory practice for any person to:
   (A)   Refuse to sell, transfer, assign, rent, lease, sublease, finance,
insure or otherwise deny or withhold housing accommodation from any person
because of race, color, religion, sex, ancestry or national origin, disability
or familial status of any prospective owner, occupant or user of such housing.
   (B)   Represent to any person that housing is not available for inspection
when in fact it is so available.
   (C)   Refuse to lend money, whether or not secured by mortgage or otherwise,
for the acquisition, construction, rehabilitation, repair or maintenance of
housing, or otherwise withhold financing of housing from any person because of
the race, color, religion, sex, ancestry or national origin, disability or
familial status of any present or prospective owner, occupant, or user of such
housing, provided such person, whether an individual, corporation, or
association of any type lends money as one of the principal aspects of his or
her business or incidental to his or her principal business and not only as a
part of the purchase price of an owner-occupied residence he or she is selling
not merely casually or occasionally to a relative or friend.
   (D)   Discriminate against any person in the terms or conditions of selling,
transferring, assigning, renting, leasing, or subleasing any housing or in
furnishing facilities, services, or privileges in connection with the
ownership, occupancy, or use of any housing because of race, color, sex,
religion, ancestry or national origin, disability or familial status of any
present or prospective owner, occupant or user of such housing.
   (E)   Discriminate against any person in the terms or conditions of any loan
of money, whether or not secured by mortgage or otherwise, for the acquisition,
construction, rehabilitation, repair or maintenance of housing because of the
race, color, sex, religion, ancestry or national origin, disability or familial
status of any present or prospective owner, occupant or user of such housing.
   (F)   Print, publish, or circulate any statement or advertisement relating
to the sale, transfer, assignment, rental, lease, insuring sublease or
acquisition of any housing or the loan of money, whether or not secured by
mortgage or otherwise, for the acquisition, construction, rehabilitation,
repair, or maintenance of housing that indicates any preference, limitation,
specification or discrimination based on race, color, sex, religion, ancestry
or national origin, disability or familial status.
   (G)   Make any inquiry, elicit any information, make or keep any record, or
use any form of application containing questions or entries concerning race,
color, sex, religion, ancestry or national origin, disability or familial
status in connection with the sale or lease of any housing or the loan of any
money, whether or not secured by mortgage or otherwise, for the acquisition,
construction, rehabilitation, repair or maintenance of housing.
   (H)   Include in any transfer, insurance policy, rental or lease of housing
any restrictive covenant, or honor or exercise, or attempt to honor or
exercise, any such restrictive covenant, provided that the prior inclusion of a
restrictive covenant in the chain of title shall not be deemed a violation of
this provision.
   (I)   Induce or solicit or attempt to induce or solicit a housing listing,
sale or transaction by representing that a change has occurred or may occur
with respect to the racial, religious, or ethnic composition of the block,
neighborhood or area in which the property is located, or induce or solicit or
attempt to induce or solicit such sale or listing by representing that the
presence or anticipated presence of persons of any race, color, sex, religion,
ancestry or national origin in the area will or may have results such as the
following:
      (1)   The lowering of property values.
      (2)   A change in the racial, religious or ethnic composition of the
block, neighborhood or area in which the property is located.
      (3)   An increase in criminal or antisocial behavior in the area.
      (4)   A decline in the quality of the schools serving the area.
   (J)   Deny any person access to or membership or participation in any
multiple-listing service, real estate broker’s organization, or other service,
organization or facility relating to the business of selling or renting housing
accommodations, or to discrimination against him or her in the terms or
conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on account of race,
color, sex, religion, national origin or ancestry, disability or familial
status.
   (K)   Coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any person in the
exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having exercised or
enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged any other
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or protected by this
chapter.
   (L)   Whether or not acting under color of law, by force or threat of force
willfully injure, intimidate, or interfere with, or attempt to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
      (1)   Any person because of his or her race, color, sex, religion,
national origin or ancestry, disability or familial status and because he or
she is or has been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, insuring, occupying
or contracting or negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or
occupation of any dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service,
organization or facility relating to business of selling or renting housing
accommodations.
      (2)   Any person because he or she is or has been:
         (a)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
sex, religion, national origin, or ancestry, in any of the activities,
services, organizations or facilities described in division (L)(1) of this
section.
         (b)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection to participate.
   (M)   Discourage or attempt to discourage the purchase by a prospective
purchaser of housing by representing that any block, neighborhood or area has
or might undergo a change with respect to the religious, racial or nationality
composition of the block, neighborhood or area.
   (N)   Discriminate in any manner against any other person because he or she
has opposed any unlawful practice defined in this chapter, or because he or she
has made a charge, testified, or participated in any manner in any
investigation, proceeding or bearing under this chapter.
   (O)   Aid, abet, incite, compel or coerce the doing of any act declared by
this chapter to be an unlawful discriminatory practice, or to obstruct or
prevent any person from complying with this chapter, or any order issued
thereunder, or to attempt directly or indirectly to commit any act declared by
this chapter to be an unlawful discriminatory practice.
   Nothing in this chapter shall bar any religious or denominational
institution or organization, or any charitable or educational organization that
is operated, supervised or controlled by or in connection with a religious
organization, or any bona fide private or fraternal organization, from giving
preference to persons of the same religion or denomination, or to members of
such private or fraternal organization, or from making such selection as is
calculated by such organization to promote the religious principles or the
aims, purposes, or fraternal principles for which it is established or
maintained.
(Ord. 1759, passed 2-27-73; Am. Ord. 4082, passed 4-25-78; Am. Ord. 7500,
passed 4-28-98) Penalty, see §
511.05
§ 511.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The City Manager shall designate one or more employees in the
administrative services of the city to serve, in addition to other duties, as
“Housing Compliance Officer.”
   (B)   When any person files a complaint in writing with the Housing
Compliance Officer charging that an unlawful discriminatory practice has been
committed, the Housing Compliance Officer shall conduct an investigation of
such complaint.
   (C)   The Housing Compliance Officer shall conduct investigations of alleged
unlawful discriminatory practices and, subject to legal limitations, shall have
access at all reasonable times to premises, records, documents, individuals,
and other evidence or possible sources of evidence and may examine, record and
copy such materials and take and record the testimony or statement of such
persons as are reasonably necessary for the furtherance of the investigation.
   (D)   In such investigations, the Housing Compliance Officer shall comply
with the Fourth Amendment to the United States Constitution relating to
unreasonable searches and seizures. The Housing Compliance Officer may ask that
Council issue subpoenas to compel access to or the production of such
materials, or the appearance of such persons, and may issue interrogatories to
a respondent.
   (E)   The Housing Compliance Officer shall attempt to achieve a just
resolution of the complaint and to obtain assurances, where appropriate, that
the person charged with an unlawful discriminatory practice will satisfactorily
remedy any violations of the rights of the person aggrieved and will take such
action as will assure the elimination of discriminatory housing practices or
the prevention of their occurrence in the future. The terms of such agreement
shall be reduced to a written conciliation agreement, signed by both parties.
   (F)   The Housing Compliance Officer shall maintain records and statistics
regarding the enforcement, implementation and effect of discriminatory
practices in housing.
   (G)   In the event that efforts to secure compliance with this chapter by
the Housing Compliance Officer are unsuccessful, the complainant may file a
civil action in Lebanon Municipal Court.
(Ord. 1759, passed 2-27-73; Am. Ord. 4082, passed 4-25-78)
§ 511.04 VIOLATION, REAL ESTATE BROKER/INSURANCE REPRESENTATIVE.
   If it has been determined that a real estate broker or insurance
representative has repeatedly violated this chapter, the Housing Compliance
Officer may notify the Ohio Real Estate Commission for such action as it may
deem appropriate.
(Ord. 1759, passed 2-27-73; Am. Ord. 4082, passed 4-25-78; Am. Ord. 7500,
passed 4-28-99)
§ 511.05 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates this chapter shall be fined not more than $500.
(Ord. 1759, passed 2-27-73; Am. Ord. 4082, passed 4-25-78)
CHAPTER 513: GAMBLING
Section
   
513.01   Definitions
   
513.02   Gambling
   
513.03   Operating a gambling house
   
513.04   Public gaming
   
513.05   Cheating
   
513.06   Prohibitions where instant bingo game is conducted
   
513.07   Raffle drawings
   
513.08   Instant bingo other than at bingo sessions
   
513.09   Restrictions on owner or lessor of location at instant bingo
   
513.10   Skill-based amusement machines; prohibited conduct
   
513.11   Electronic instant bingo; prohibited conduct
Cross-reference:
   Penalties, misdemeanor classifications and sentencing, see
Ch. 599
§ 513.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BET. The hazarding of anything of value upon the result of an event,
undertaking, or contingency, but does not include a bona fide business risk.
   BINGO. Means either of the following:
      (1)   A game with all of the following characteristics:
         (a)   The participants use bingo cards or sheets, including paper
formats and electronic representation or image formats, that are divided into
25 spaces arranged in 5 horizontal and 5 vertical rows of spaces, with each
space, except the central space, being designated by a combination of a letter
and a number and with the central space being designated as a free space;
         (b)   The participants cover the spaces on the bingo cards or sheets
that correspond to combinations of letters and numbers that are announced by a
bingo game operator;
         (c)   A bingo game operator announces combinations of letters and
numbers that appear on objects that a bingo game operator selects by chance,
either manually or mechanically, from a receptacle that contains 75 objects at
the beginning of each game, each object marked by a different combination of a
letter and a number that corresponds to one of the 75 possible combinations of
a letter and a number that can appear on the bingo cards or sheets;
         (d)   The winner of the bingo game includes any participant who
properly announces during the interval between the announcements of letters and
numbers, as described in division (1)(c) of this definition, that a
predetermined and preannounced pattern of spaces has been covered on a bingo
card or sheet being used by the participant.
      (2)   Instant bingo, electronic instant bingo, and raffles.
   BINGO GAME OPERATOR. Any person, except security personnel, who performs
work or labor at the site of bingo including but not limited to collecting
money from participants, handing out bingo cards or sheets or objects to cover
spaces on bingo cards or sheets, selecting from a receptacle the objects that
contain the combination of letters and numbers that appear on bingo cards or
sheets, calling out the  combinations of letters and numbers, distributing
prizes, selling or redeeming instant bingo tickets or cards, selling or
redeeming electronic instant bingo tickets, credits, or vouchers, accessing an
electronic instant bingo system other than as a participant, supervising the
operation of a punch board, selling raffle tickets, selecting raffle tickets
from a receptacle and announcing the winning numbers in a raffle, and
preparing, selling, and serving food or beverages. “Bingo game operator” does
not include a person who is installing, maintaining, updating, or repairing an
electronic instant bingo system.
   BINGO SESSION. A period that includes both of the following:
      (1)   Not to exceed five continuous hours for the conduct of one or more
games described in division (1) of the definition of "bingo" in this section,
instant bingo, and electronic instant bingo;
      (2)   A period for the conduct of instant bingo and electronic instant
bingo for not more than two hours before and not more than two hours after the
period described in division (1) of this definition.
   BINGO SUPPLIES. Bingo cards or sheets; instant bingo tickets or cards;
electronic bingo aids; raffle tickets; punch boards; seal cards; instant bingo
ticket dispensers; electronic instant bingo systems; and devices for selecting
or displaying the combination of bingo letters and numbers or raffle tickets.
Items that are "bingo supplies" are not gambling devices if sold or otherwise
provided, and used, in accordance with this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915. For
purposes of this chapter, "bingo supplies" are not to be considered equipment
used to conduct a bingo game.
   BOOKMAKING. The business of receiving or paying off bets.
   CHAMBER OF COMMERCE.  Any organization of individuals, professionals, and
businesses that has the purpose to advance the commercial, financial,
industrial, and civic interests of the community and that is, and has received
from the Internal Revenue Service a determination letter that  currently is in
effect stating that the organization is, exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(6).
   CHARITABLE BINGO GAME.  Any bingo game described in divisions (1) or (2) of
the definition of “bingo” in this section that is conducted by a charitable
organization that has obtained a license pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08 and the
proceeds of which are used for a charitable purpose.
   CHARITABLE INSTANT BINGO ORGANIZATION. An organization that is exempt from
federal income taxation under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3) and is
a charitable organization as defined in this section. A CHARITABLE INSTANT
BINGO ORGANIZATION does not include a charitable organization that is exempt
from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3)
and that is created by a veteran's organization, a fraternal organization, or a
sporting organization in regards to bingo conducted or assisted by a veteran's
organization or a fraternal organization pursuant to R.C. § 2915.13, or any
substantially similar municipal ordinance.
   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, “charitable
organization” means either of the following:
         (a)   An organization that is exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3);
         (b)   A volunteer rescue service organization, volunteer firefighter’s
organization, veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC 501(c)(4),
501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10) or 501(c)(19).
      (2)   To qualify as a charitable organization, an organization shall have
been in continuous existence as such in this state for a period of two years
immediately preceding either the making of an application for a bingo license
under R.C. § 2915.08 or the conducting of any game of chance as provided in
R.C. § 2915.02(D), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   CHARITABLE PURPOSE. Means that the net profit of bingo, other than instant
bingo or electronic instant bingo, is used by, or is given, donated, or
otherwise transferred to, any of the following:
      (1)   Any organization that is described in IRC 509(a)(1), 509(a)(2), or
509(a)(3) and is either a governmental unit or an organization that is tax
exempt under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3);
      (2)   A veteran's organization that is a post, chapter, or organization
of veterans, or an auxiliary unit or society of, or a trust or foundation for,
any such post, chapter, or organization organized in the United States or any
of its possessions, at least 75% of the members of which are veterans and
substantially all of the other members of which are individuals who are
spouses, widows, or widowers of veterans, or such individuals, provided that no
part of the net earnings of such post, chapter, or organization inures to the
benefit of any private shareholder or individual, and further provided that the
net profit is used by the post, chapter, or organization for the charitable
purposes set forth in R.C. § 5739.02(B)(12), is used for awarding scholarships
to or for attendance at an institution mentioned in that division of the
Revised Code, is donated to a governmental agency, or is used for nonprofit
youth activities, the purchase of United States or Ohio flags that are donated
to schools, youth groups, or other bona fide nonprofit organizations, promotion
of patriotism, or disaster relief;
      (3)   A fraternal organization that has been in continuous existence in
this state for 15 years and that uses the net profit exclusively for religious,
charitable, scientific, literary, or educational purposes, or for the
prevention of cruelty to children or animals, if contributions for such use
would qualify as a deductible charitable contribution under IRC 170;
      (4)   A volunteer firefighter's organization that uses the net profit for
the purposes set forth in the definition of “volunteer firefighter's
organization” in this section.
   COMMUNITY ACTION AGENCY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 122.66.
   CONDUCT. To back, promote, organize, manage, carry on, sponsor, or prepare
for the operation of bingo or a game of chance, a scheme of chance, or a
sweepstakes.
   DEAL. A single game of instant bingo tickets, or a single game of electronic
instant bingo tickets, all with the same serial number.
   DISTRIBUTOR. Any person who purchases or obtains bingo supplies and who does
either of the following:
      (1)   Sells, offers for sale, or otherwise provides or offers to provide
the bingo supplies to another person for use in this state;
      (2)   Modifies, converts, adds to, or removes parts from the bingo
supplies to further their promotion or sale for use in this state.
   ELECTRONIC BINGO AID.
      (1)   ELECTRONIC BINGO AID means an electronic device used by a
participant to monitor bingo cards or sheets purchased at the time and place of
a bingo session and that does all of the following:
         (a)   It provides a means for a participant to input numbers and
letters announced by a bingo caller.
         (b)   It compares the numbers and letters entered by the participant
to the bingo faces previously stored in the memory of the device.
         (c)   It identifies a winning bingo pattern.
      (2)   ELECTRONIC BINGO AID does not include any device into which a coin,
currency, token, or an equivalent is inserted to activate play.
   ELECTRONIC INSTANT BINGO.
      (1)   A form of bingo that consists of an electronic or digital
representation of instant bingo in which a participant wins a prize if the
participant's electronic instant bingo ticket contains a combination of numbers
or symbols that was designated in advance as a winning combination, and to
which all of the following apply:
         (a)   Each deal has a predetermined, finite number of winning and
losing tickets and a predetermined prize amount and deal structure, provided
that there may be multiple winning combinations in each deal and multiple
winning tickets.
         (b)   Each electronic instant bingo ticket within a deal has a unique
serial number that is not regenerated.
         (c)   Each electronic instant bingo ticket within a deal is sold for
the same price.
         (d)   After a participant purchases an electronic instant bingo
ticket, the combination of numbers or symbols on the ticket is revealed to the
participant.
         (e)   The reveal of numbers or symbols on the ticket may incorporate
an entertainment or bonus theme, provided that the reveal does not include
spinning reels that resemble a slot machine.
         (f)   The reveal theme, if any, does not require additional
consideration or award any prize other than any predetermined prize associated
with the electronic instant bingo ticket.
      (2)   The term shall not include any of the following:
         (a)   Any game, entertainment, or bonus theme that replicates or
simulates any of the following:
            1.   The gambling games of keno, blackjack, roulette, poker, craps,
other casino-style table games;
            2.   Horse racing;
            3.   Gambling games offered in this state on slot machines or video
lottery terminals. As used in this division, "video lottery terminal" has the
same meaning as in R.C. § 3770.21.
         (b)   Any device operated by dropping one or more coins or tokens into
a slot and pulling a handle or pushing a button or touchpoint on a touchscreen
to activate one to three or more rotating reels marked into horizontal segments
by varying symbols, where the predetermined prize amount depends on how and how
many of the symbols line up when the rotating reels come to a rest;
         (c)   Any device that includes a coin or token slot, tray, or hopper
and the ability to dispense coins, cash, tokens, or anything of value other
than a credit ticket voucher.
   ELECTRONIC INSTANT BINGO SYSTEM. Means both of the following:
      (1)   A mechanical, electronic, digital, or video device and associated
software to which all of the following apply:
         (a)   It is used by not more than one player at a time to play
electronic instant bingo on a single screen that is physically connected to the
device;
         (b)   It is located on the premises of the principal place of business
of a veteran's or fraternal organization that holds a type II or type III bingo
license to conduct electronic instant bingo at that location issued under R.C.
§ 2915.08.
      (2)   Any associated equipment or software used to manage, monitor, or
document any aspect of electronic instant bingo.
   EXPENSES. The reasonable amount of gross profit actually expended for all of
the following:
      (1)   The purchase or lease of bingo supplies;
      (2)   The annual license fee required under R.C. § 2915.08;
      (3)   Bank fees and service charges for a bingo session or game account
described in R.C. § 2915.10;
      (4)   Audits and accounting services;
      (5)   Safes;
      (6)   Cash registers;
      (7)   Hiring security personnel;
      (8)   Advertising bingo;
      (9)   Renting premises in which to conduct a bingo session;
      (10)   Tables and chairs;
      (11)   Expenses for maintaining and operating a charitable organization's
facilities, including, but not limited to, a post home, club house, lounge,
tavern, or canteen and any grounds attached to the post home, club house,
lounge, tavern, or canteen;
      (12)   Payment of real property taxes and assessments that are levied on
a premises on which bingo is conducted;
      (13)   Any other product or service directly related to the conduct of
bingo that is authorized in rules adopted by the Attorney General under R.C. §
2915.08(F)(1).
   FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION. Any society, order, state headquarters, or
association within this state, except a college or high school fraternity, that
is not organized for profit, that is a branch, lodge, or chapter of a national
or state organization, that exists exclusively for the common business or
sodality of its members.
   GAMBLING DEVICE. Means any of the following:
      (1)   A book, totalizer, or other equipment used for recording bets;
      (2)   A ticket, token, or other device representing a chance, share, or
interest in a scheme of chance or evidencing a bet;
      (3)   A deck of cards, dice, gaming table, roulette wheel, slot machine,
or other apparatus designed for use in connection with a game of chance;
      (4)   Any equipment, device, apparatus, or paraphernalia specially
designed for gambling purposes;
      (5)   Bingo supplies sold or otherwise provided, or used, in violation of
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
   GAMBLING OFFENSE. Means any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. Chapter 2915;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States substantially equivalent to any
provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915 or a violation of R.C. § 2915.06
as it existed prior to July 1, 1996;
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former municipal ordinance or law
of this or any other state or of the United States, of which gambling is an
element;
      (4)   A conspiracy or attempt to commit, or complicity in committing, any
offense under division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
   GAME FLARE. The board or placard, or electronic representation of a board or
placard, that accompanies each deal of instant bingo or electronic instant
bingo tickets and that includes the following information for the game:
      (1)   The name of the game;
      (2)   The manufacturer's name or distinctive logo;
      (3)   The form number;
      (4)   The ticket count;
      (5)   The prize structure, including the number of winning tickets by
denomination and the respective winning symbol or number combinations for the
winning tickets;
      (6)   The cost per play;
      (7)   The serial number of the game.
   GAME OF CHANCE. Poker, craps, roulette, or other game in which a player
gives anything of value in the hope of gain, the outcome of which is determined
largely by chance, but does not include bingo.
   GAME OF CHANCE CONDUCTED FOR PROFIT. Any game of chance designed to produce
income for the person who conducts or operates the game of chance, but does not
include bingo.
   GROSS ANNUAL REVENUES. The annual gross receipts derived from the conduct of
bingo described in division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in this section
plus the annual net profit derived from the conduct of bingo described in
division (2) of the definition of “bingo” in this section.
   GROSS PROFIT. Means gross receipts minus the amount actually expended for
the payment of prize awards.
   GROSS RECEIPTS. All money or assets, including admission fees, that a person
receives from bingo without the deduction of any amounts for prizes paid out or
for the expenses of conducting bingo. GROSS RECEIPTS does not include any money
directly taken in from the sale of food or beverages by a charitable
organization conducting bingo, or by a bona fide auxiliary unit or society of a
charitable organization conducting bingo, provided all of the following apply:
      (1)   The auxiliary unit or society has been in existence as a bona fide
auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization for at least two years
prior to conducting bingo.
      (2)   The person who purchases the food or beverage receives nothing of
value except the food or beverage and items customarily received with the
purchase of that food or beverage.
      (3)   The food and beverages are sold at customary and reasonable prices.
   HISTORIC RAILROAD. All or a portion of the tracks and right-of-way of a
railroad that was owned and operated by a for profit common carrier in this
state at any time prior to January 1, 1950.
   INSTANT BINGO. A form of bingo that shall use folded or banded tickets or
paper cards with perforated break-open tabs, a face of which is covered or
otherwise hidden from view to conceal a number, letter, or symbol, or set of
numbers, letters, or symbols, some of which have been designated in advance as
prize winners, and may also include games in which some winners are determined
by the random selection of one or more bingo numbers by the use of a seal card
or bingo blower. "Instant bingo" also includes a punch board game. In all
"instant bingo" the prize amount and structure shall be predetermined. The term
does not include electronic instant bingo or any device that is activated by
the insertion of a coin,  currency, token, or an equivalent, and that contains
as one of its components a video display monitor that is capable of displaying
numbers, letters, symbols, or characters in winning or losing combinations.
   INSTANT BINGO TICKET DISPENSER. A mechanical device that dispenses an
instant bingo ticket or card as the sole item of value dispensed and that has
the following characteristics:
      (1)   It is activated upon the insertion of United States currency.
      (2)   It performs no gaming functions.
      (3)   It does not contain a video display monitor or generate noise.
      (4)   It is not capable of displaying any numbers, letters, symbols, or
characters in winning or losing combinations.
      (5)   It does not simulate or display rolling or spinning reels.
      (6)   It is incapable of determining whether a dispensed bingo ticket or
card is a winning or non-winning ticket or card and requires a winning ticket
or card to be paid by a bingo game operator.
      (7)   It may provide accounting and security features to aid in
accounting for the instant bingo tickets or cards it dispenses.
      (8)   It is not part of an electronic network and is not interactive.
   IRC or INTERNAL REVENUE CODE. The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, 100 Stat.
2085, 26 U.S.C. §§ 1 et seq., as now or hereafter amended.
   MANUFACTURER. Any person who assembles completed bingo supplies from raw
materials, other items, or subparts or who modifies, converts, adds to, or
removes parts from bingo supplies to further their promotion or sale.
   MERCHANDISE PRIZE. Any item of value, but shall not include any of the
following:
      (1)   Cash, gift cards, or any equivalent thereof;
      (2)   Plays on games of chance, state lottery tickets, or bingo;
      (3)   Firearms, tobacco, or alcoholic beverages; or
      (4)   A redeemable voucher that is redeemable for any of the items listed
in division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
   NET PROFIT. Means gross profit minus expenses.
   NET PROFIT FROM THE PROCEEDS OF THE SALE OF INSTANT BINGO OR ELECTRONIC
INSTANT BINGO. Gross profit minus the ordinary, necessary, and reasonable
expense expended for the purchase of bingo supplies for the purpose of
conducting instant bingo or electronic instant bingo, and, in the case of
instant bingo or electronic instant bingo conducted by a veteran's, fraternal,
or sporting organization, minus the payment by that organization of real
property taxes and assessments levied on a premises on which instant bingo or
electronic instant bingo is conducted.
   PARTICIPANT. Any person who plays bingo.
   PERSON. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1.59 and includes any firm or any
other legal entity, however organized.
   POOL NOT CONDUCTED FOR PROFIT. A scheme in which a participant gives a
valuable consideration for a chance to win a prize and the total amount of
consideration wagered is distributed to a participant or participants.
   PUNCH BOARD. A form of instant bingo that uses a board containing a number
of holes or receptacles of uniform size in which are placed,  mechanically and
randomly, serially numbered slips of paper that may be punched or drawn from
the hole or receptacle. A player may punch or draw the numbered slips of paper
from the holes or receptacles and obtain the prize established for the game if
the number drawn corresponds to a winning number or, if the punch board
includes the use of a seal card, a potential winning number.
   RAFFLE. A form of bingo in which the one or more prizes are won by one or
more persons who have purchased a raffle ticket. The one or more winners of the
raffle are determined by drawing a ticket stub or other detachable section from
a receptacle containing ticket stubs or detachable sections corresponding to
all tickets sold for the raffle. The term does not include the drawing of a
ticket stub or other detachable section of a ticket purchased to attend a
professional sporting event if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The ticket stub or other detachable section is used to select the
winner of a free prize given away at the professional sporting event; and
      (2)   The cost of the ticket is the same as the cost of a ticket to the
professional sporting event on days when no free prize is given away.
   REDEEMABLE VOUCHER. Any ticket, token, coupon, receipt, or other noncash
representation of value.
   RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION. Any church, body of communicants, or group that is
not organized or operated for profit and that gathers in common membership for
regular worship and religious observances.
   REVOKE. To void permanently all rights and privileges of the holder of a
license issued under R.C. §§ 2915.08, 2915.081, or 2915.082 or a charitable
gaming license issued by another jurisdiction.
   SCHEME OF CHANCE. 
      (1)   A slot machine unless authorized under R.C. Chapter 3772, lottery
unless authorized under R.C. Chapter 3770, numbers game, pool conducted for
profit, or other scheme in which a participant gives a valuable consideration
for a chance to win a prize, but does not include bingo, a skill-based
amusement machine, or a pool not conducted for profit. SCHEME OF CHANCE
includes the use of an electronic device to reveal the results of a game entry
if valuable consideration is paid, directly or indirectly, for a chance to win
a prize. Valuable consideration is deemed to be paid for a chance to win a
prize in the following instances:
         (a)   Less than 50% of the goods or services sold by a scheme of
chance operator in exchange for game entries are used or redeemed by
participants at any one location;
         (b)   Less than 50% of participants who purchase goods or services at
any one location do not accept, use, or redeem the goods or services sold or
purportedly sold;
         (c)   More than 50% of prizes at any one location are revealed to
participants through an electronic device simulating a game of chance or a
“casino game” as defined in R.C. § 3772.01;
         (d)   The good or service sold by a scheme of chance operator in
exchange for a game entry cannot be used or redeemed in the manner advertised;
         (e)   A participant pays more than fair market value for goods or
services offered by a scheme of chance operator in order to receive one or more
game entries;
         (f)   A participant may use the electronic device to purchase
additional game entries;
         (g)   A participant may purchase additional game entries by using
points or credits won as prizes while using the electronic device;
         (h)   A scheme of chance operator pays out in prize money more than
20% of the gross revenue received at one location; or
         (i)   A participant makes a purchase or exchange in order to obtain
any good or service that may be used to facilitate play on the electronic
device.
      (2)   As used in this division, “electronic device” means a mechanical,
video, digital, or electronic machine or device that is capable of displaying
information on a screen or other mechanism and that is owned, leased, or
otherwise possessed by any person conducting a scheme of chance, or by that
person’s partners, affiliates, subsidiaries, or contractors. "Electronic
device" does not include an electronic instant bingo system.
   SEAL CARD. A form of instant bingo that uses instant bingo tickets in
conjunction with a board or placard that contains one or more seals that, when
removed or opened, reveal predesignated winning numbers, letters, or symbols.
   SECURITY PERSONNEL. Includes any person who either is a sheriff, deputy
sheriff, marshal, deputy marshal, township constable, or member of an organized
police department of a municipal corporation or has successfully completed a
peace officer's training course pursuant to R.C. §§ 109.71 to 109.79 and who is
hired to provide security for the premises on which bingo is conducted.
   SKILL-BASED AMUSEMENT MACHINE. 
      (1)   (a)   A mechanical, video, digital, or electronic device that
rewards the player or players, if at all, only with merchandise prizes or with
redeemable vouchers redeemable only for merchandise prizes, provided that with
respect to rewards for playing the game all of the following apply:
            1.   The wholesale value of a merchandise prize awarded as a result
of the single play of a machine does not exceed $10;
            2.   Redeemable vouchers awarded for any single play of a machine
are not redeemable for a merchandise prize with a wholesale value of more than
$10;
            3.   Redeemable vouchers are not redeemable for a merchandise prize
that has a wholesale value of more than $10 times the fewest number of single
plays necessary to accrue the redeemable vouchers required to obtain that
prize; and
            4.   Any redeemable vouchers or merchandise prizes are distributed
at the site of the skill-based amusement machine at the time of play.
         (b)   A card for the purchase of gasoline is a redeemable voucher for
purposes of division (1) of this definition even if the skill-based amusement
machine for the play of which the card is awarded is located at a place where
gasoline may not be legally distributed to the public or the card is not
redeemable at the location of, or at the time of playing, the skill-based
amusement machine.
      (2)   A device shall not be considered a skill-based amusement machine
and shall be considered a slot machine if it pays cash or one or more of the
following apply:
         (a)   The ability of a player to succeed at the game is impacted by
the number or ratio of prior wins to prior losses of players playing the game;
         (b)   Any reward of redeemable vouchers is not based solely on the
player achieving the object of the game or the players score;
         (c)   The outcome of the game, or the value of the redeemable voucher
or merchandise prize awarded for winning the game, can be controlled by a
source other than any player playing the game;
         (d)   The success of any player is or may be determined by a chance
event that cannot be altered by player actions;
         (e)   The ability of any player to succeed at the game is determined
by game features not visible or known to the player;
         (f)   The ability of the player to succeed at the game is impacted by
the exercise of a skill that no reasonable player could exercise.
      (3)   All of the following apply to any machine that is operated as
described in division (1) of this definition:
         (a)   As used in this definition of SKILL-BASED AMUSEMENT MACHINE,
GAME and PLAY mean one event from the initial activation of the machine until
the results of play are determined without payment of additional consideration.
An individual utilizing a machine that involves a single game, play, contest,
competition, or tournament may be awarded redeemable vouchers or merchandise
prizes based on the results of play.
         (b)   Advance play for a single game, play, contest, competition, or
tournament participation may be purchased. The cost of the contest,
competition, or tournament participation may be greater than a single non-
contest, competition, or tournament play.
         (c)   To the extent that the machine is used in a contest,
competition, or tournament, that contest, competition, or tournament has a
defined starting and ending date and is open to participants in competition for
scoring and ranking results toward the awarding of redeemable vouchers or
merchandise prizes that are stated prior to the start of the contest,
competition, or tournament.
      (4)   For purposes of division (1) of this definition, the mere presence
of a device, such as a pin-setting, ball-releasing, or scoring mechanism, that
does not contribute to or affect the outcome of the play of the game does not
make the device a skill-based amusement machine.
   SLOT MACHINE. 
      (1)   Means either of the following:
         (a)   Any mechanical, electronic, video, or digital device that is
capable of accepting anything of value, directly or indirectly, from or on
behalf of a player who gives the thing of value in the hope of gain;
         (b)   Any mechanical, electronic, video, or digital device that is
capable of accepting anything of value, directly or indirectly, from or on
behalf of a player to conduct bingo or a scheme or game of chance.
      (2)   The term does not include a skill-based amusement machine, an
instant bingo ticket dispenser, or an electronic instant bingo system.
   SPORTING ORGANIZATION. A hunting, fishing, or trapping organization, other
than a college or high school fraternity or sorority, that is not organized for
profit, that is affiliated with a state or national sporting organization,
including but not limited to, the League of Ohio Sportsmen, and that has been
in continuous existence in this state for a period of three years.
   SUSPEND. To interrupt temporarily all rights and privileges of the holder of
a license issued under R.C. §§ 2915.08, 2915.081, or 2915.082 or a charitable
gaming license issued by another jurisdiction.
   SWEEPSTAKES. Any game, contest, advertising scheme or plan, or other
promotion where consideration is not required for a person to enter to win or
become eligible to receive any prize, the determination of which is based upon
chance. SWEEPSTAKES does not include bingo as authorized under R.C. Chapter
2915, pari- mutuel wagering as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3769, lotteries
conducted by the State Lottery Commission as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3770,
and casino gaming as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3772.
   SWEEPSTAKES TERMINAL DEVICE.
      (1)   A mechanical, video, digital, or electronic machine or device that
is owned, leased, or otherwise possessed by any person conducting a
sweepstakes, or by that person’s partners, affiliates, subsidiaries, or
contractors, that is intended to be used by a sweepstakes participant, and that
is capable of displaying information on a screen or other mechanism. A device
is a sweepstakes terminal device if any of the following apply:
         (a)   The device uses a simulated game terminal as a representation of
the prizes associated with the results of the sweepstakes entries.
         (b)   The device utilizes software such that the simulated game
influences or determines the winning of or value of the prize.
         (c)   The device selects prizes from a predetermined finite pool of
entries.
         (d)   The device utilizes a mechanism that reveals the content of a
predetermined sweepstakes entry.
         (e)   The device predetermines the prize results and stores those
results for delivery at the time the sweepstakes entry results are revealed.
         (f)   The device utilizes software to create a game result.
         (g)   The device reveals the prize incrementally, even though the
device does not influence the awarding of the prize or the value of any prize
awarded.
         (h)   The device determines and associates the prize with an entry or
entries at the time the sweepstakes is entered.
      (2)   As used in this definition and in § 513.02:
         (a)   ENTER. The act by which a person becomes eligible to receive any
prize offered in a sweepstakes.
         (b)   ENTRY. One event from the initial activation of the sweepstakes
terminal device until all the sweepstakes prize results from that activation
are revealed.
         (c)   PRIZE. Any gift, award, gratuity, good, service, credit, reward,
or any other thing of value that may be transferred to a person, whether
possession of the prize is actually transferred, or placed on an account or
other record as evidence of the intent to transfer the prize.
         (d)   SWEEPSTAKES TERMINAL DEVICE FACILITY. Any location in this state
where a sweepstakes terminal device is provided to a sweepstakes participant,
except as provided in § 513.02(G) and R.C. § 2915.02(G).
   VETERAN'S ORGANIZATION. Any individual post or state headquarters of a
national veteran's association or an auxiliary unit of any individual post of a
national veteran's association, which post, state headquarters, or auxiliary
unit is incorporated as a nonprofit corporation and either has received a
letter from the state headquarters of the National Veteran's Association
indicating that the individual post or auxiliary unit is in good standing with
the nationalveteran's association or has received a letter from the National
Veteran's Association indicating that the state headquarters is in good
standing with the National Veteran's Association. As used in this definition,
NATIONAL VETERAN'S ASSOCIATION means any veteran's association that has been in
continuous existence as such for a period of at least five years and either is
incorporated by an act of the United States Congress or has a national dues-
paying membership of at least 5,000 persons.
   VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTER'S ORGANIZAT-ION. Any organization of volunteer
firefighters, as defined in R.C. § 146.01, that is organized and operated
exclusively to provide financial support for a volunteer fire department or a
volunteer fire company and that is recognized or ratified by a county,
municipal corporation, or township.
   VOLUNTEER RESCUE SERVICE ORGAN-IZATION. Any organization of volunteers
organized to function as an emergency medical service organization, as defined
in R.C. § 4765.01.
   YOUTH ATHLETIC ORGANIZATION. Any organization, not organized for profit,
that is organized and operated exclusively to provide financial support to, or
to operate, athletic activities for persons who are 21 years of age or younger
by means of sponsoring, organizing, operating, or contributing to the support
of an athletic team, club, league, or association.
   YOUTH ATHLETIC PARK ORGANIZATION. Any organization, not organized for
profit, that satisfies both of the following:
      (1)   It owns, operates, and maintains playing fields that satisfy both
of the following:
         (a)   The playing fields are used for athletic activities by one or
more organizations, not organized for profit, each of which is organized and
operated exclusively to provide financial support to, or to operate, athletic
activities for persons who are 18 years of age or younger by means of
sponsoring, organizing, operating, or contributing to the support of an
athletic team, club, league, or association.
         (b)   The playing fields are not used for any profit-making activity
at any time during the year.
      (2)   It uses the proceeds of bingo it conducts exclusively for the
operation, maintenance, and improvement of its playing fields of the type
described in division (1) of this definition.
(R.C. § 2915.01) (Ord. 5885, passed 10-14-86)
§ 513.02 GAMBLING.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Engage in bookmaking, or knowingly engage in conduct that
facilitates bookmaking.
      (2)   Establish, promote, or operate or knowingly engage in conduct that
facilitates any game of chance conducted for profit or any scheme of chance.
      (3)   Knowingly procure, transmit, exchange, or engage in conduct that
facilitates the procurement, transmission, or exchange of information for use
in establishing odds or determining winners in connection with bookmaking or
with any game of chance conducted for profit or any scheme of chance.
      (4)   Engage in betting or in playing any scheme or game of chance as a
substantial source of income or livelihood.
      (5)   Conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a sweepstakes with the
use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes terminal device facility
and either:
         (a)   Give to another person any item described in R.C. § 2915.01(VV)
(1), (VV)(2), (VV)(3), or (VV)(4) as a prize for playing or participating in a
sweepstakes; or
         (b)   Give to another person any merchandise prize, or a redeemable
voucher for a merchandise prize, the wholesale value of which is in excess of
$10 and which is awarded as a single entry for playing or participating in a
sweepstakes. Redeemable vouchers shall not be redeemable for a merchandise
prize that has a wholesale value of more than $10.
      (6)   Conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a sweepstakes with the
use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes terminal device facility
without first obtaining a current annual “certificate of registration” from the
Attorney General as required by R.C. § 2915.02(F).
      (7)   With purpose to violate division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
(A)(5) or (A)(6) of this section, acquire, possess, control, or operate any
gambling device.
   (B)   For purposes of division (A)(1) of this section, a person facilitates
bookmaking if the person in any way knowingly aids an illegal bookmaking
operation, including, without limitation, placing a bet with a person engaged
in or facilitating illegal bookmaking. For purposes of division (A)(2) of this
section, a person facilitates a game of chance conducted for profit or a scheme
of chance if the person in any way knowingly aids in the conduct oroperation of
any such game or scheme, including, without limitation, playing any such game
or scheme.
   (C)   This section does not prohibit conduct in connection with gambling
expressly permitted by law.
   (D)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   Games of chance, if all of the following apply:
         (a)   The games of chance are not craps for money or roulette for
money.
         (b)   The games of chance are conducted by a charitable organization
that is and has received from the Internal Revenue Service a determination
letter that is currently in effect, stating that the organization is exempt
from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3).
         (c)   The games of chance are conducted at festivals of the charitable
organization that are conducted not more than a total of five days a calendar
year, and are conducted on premises owned by the charitable organization for a
period of no less than one year immediately preceding the conducting of the
games of chance, on premises leased from a governmental unit, or on premises
that are leased from a veteran's or fraternal organization and that have been
owned by the lessor veteran's or fraternal organization for a period of no less
than one year immediately preceding the conducting of the games of chance. A
charitable organization shall not lease premises from a veteran's or fraternal
organization to conduct a festival described in this division, if the veteran's
or fraternal organization already has leased the premises 12 times during the
preceding year to charitable organizations for that purpose. If a charitable
organization leases premises from a veteran's or fraternal organization to
conduct a festival described in this division, the charitable organization
shall not pay a rental rate for the premises per day of the festival that
exceeds the rental rate per bingo session that a charitable organization may
pay under R.C. § 2915.09(B)(1) or a substantially similar municipal ordinance
when it leases premises from another charitable organization to conduct bingo
games.
         (d)   All of the money or assets received from the games of chance
after deduction only of prizes paid out during the conduct of the games of
chance are used by, given, donated or otherwise transferred to any organization
that is described in IRC 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a
governmental unit or an organization that is tax exempt under IRC 501(a) and
described in IRC 501(c)(3).
         (e)   The games of chance are not conducted during or within ten hours
of a bingo game conducted for amusement purposes only pursuant to R.C. §
2915.12 or a substantially similar municipal ordinance. No person shall receive
any commission, wage, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity, or other form of
compensation, directly or indirectly, for operating or assisting in the
operation of any game of chance.
      (2)   Any tag fishing tournament, as defined in R.C. § 1531.01, operated
under a permit issued under R.C. § 1533.92.
      (3)   Bingo conducted by a charitable organization that holds a license
issued under R.C. § 2915.08.
   (E)   Division (D) of this section shall not be construed to authorize the
sale, lease, or other temporary or permanent transfer of the right to conduct
games of chance, as granted by that division, by any charitable organization
that is granted that right.
   (F)   Any person desiring to conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a
sweepstakes with the use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes
terminal device facility shall first register with the Office of the Attorney
General and obtain an annual certificate of registration by providing a filing
fee of $200 and all information as required by rule adopted under R.C. §
2915.02(H). Not later than the tenth day of each month, each sweepstakes
terminal device operator shall file a sweepstakes terminal device monthly
report with the Attorney General and provide a filing fee of $50 and all
information required by rule adopted under R.C. § 2915.02(H). All information
provided to the Attorney General under this division shall be available to law
enforcement upon request.
   (G)   (1)   A person may apply to the Attorney General, on a form prescribed
by the Attorney General, for a certificate of compliance that the person is not
operating a sweepstakes terminal device facility. The form shall require the
person to include the address of the business location where sweepstakes
terminal devices will be used and to make the following certifications:
         (a)   That the person will not use more than two sweepstakes terminal
devices at the business location;
         (b)   That the retail value of sweepstakes prizes to be awarded at the
business location using sweepstakes terminal devices during a reporting period
will be less than 3% of the gross revenue received at the business location
during the reporting period;
         (c)   That no other form of gaming except lottery ticket sales as
authorized under R.C. Chapter 3770 will be conducted at the business location
or in an adjoining area of the business location;
         (d)   That any sweepstakes terminal device at the business location
will not allow any deposit of any money, coin, or token, or the use of any
credit card, debit card, prepaid card, or any other method of similar payment
to be used, directly or indirectly, to participate in a sweepstakes;
         (e)   That notification of any prize will not take place on the same
day as a participant’s sweepstakes entry; and
         (f)   That the person consents to provide any other information to the
Attorney General as required by rule adopted under R.C. § 2915.02(H).
      (2)   The filing fee for a certificate of compliance is $250. The
Attorney General may charge up to an additional $250 for reasonable expenses
resulting from any investigation related to an application for a certificate of
compliance.
      (3)   A certificate of compliance is effective for one year. The
certificate holder may reapply for a certificate of compliance. A person issued
a certificate of compliance shall file semiannual reports with the Attorney
General stating the number of sweepstakes terminal devices at the business
location and that the retail value of prizes awarded at the business location
using sweepstakes terminal devices is less than 3% of the gross revenue
received at the business location.
   (H)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of gambling, a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling
offense, gambling is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
Notwithstanding this division, failing to file a sweepstakes terminal device
monthly report as required by division (f) of this section or the semiannual
report required by division (g) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 2915.02(A) - (G), (K)) (Ord. 5885, passed 10-14-86)
§ 513.03 OPERATING A GAMBLING HOUSE.
   (A)   No person, being the owner or lessee, or having custody, control, or
supervision of premises, shall:
      (1)   Use or occupy such premises for gambling in violation of
§ 513.02 of this code;
      (2)   Recklessly permit such premises to be used or occupied for gambling
in violation of
§ 513.02 of this code;
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of operating a gambling house,
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been
convicted of a gambling offense, operating a gambling house is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   Premises used or occupied in violation of this section constitute a
nuisance subject to abatement under R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2915.03) (Ord. 5885, passed 10-14-86)
§ 513.04 PUBLIC GAMING.
   (A)   No person, while at a hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall,
or other place of public accommodation, business, amusement, or resort shall
make a bet or play any game of chance or scheme of chance.
   (B)   No person, being the owner or lessee, or having custody, control, or
supervision of a hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall, or other place
of public accommodation, business, amusement, or resort shall recklessly permit
those premises to be used or occupied in violation of division (A) of this
section.
   (C)   Divisions (A) and (B) of this section do not prohibit conduct in
connection with gambling expressly permitted by law.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of public gaming. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, public gaming is a minor misdemeanor. If
the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling offense, public
gaming is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (E)   Premises used or occupied in violation of division (B) of this section
constitute a nuisance subject to abatement under R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2915.04) (Ord. 5885, passed 10-14-86)
§ 513.05 CHEATING.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall engage in conduct designed to corrupt the outcome
of any of the following:
      (1)   The subject of a bet;
      (2)   A contest of knowledge, skill, or endurance that is not an athletic
or sporting event;
      (3)   A scheme or game of chance;
      (4)   Bingo.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Offer, give, solicit, or accept anything of value to corrupt the
outcome of an athletic or sporting event;
      (2)   Engage in conduct designed to corrupt the outcome of an athletic or
sporting event.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
cheating. Except as otherwise provided in this division, cheating is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the potential gain from the cheating is
$1,000 or more, or if the offender previously has been convicted of any
gambling offense or of any theft offense as defined in §
513.01, then cheating is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
corrupting sports. Corrupting sports is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.05) (Ord. 5885, passed 10-14-86)
§ 513.06 PROHIBITIONS WHERE INSTANT BINGO GAME IS CONDUCTED.
   (A)   No charitable organization that conducts instant bingo shall do any of
the following:
      (1)   Fail to comply with the requirements of R.C. § 2915.09(A)(1), (A)
(2), and (A)(3), or any substantially similar municipal ordinance;
      (2)   Conduct instant bingo unless either of the following applies:
         (a)   That organization is, and has received from the Internal Revenue
Service a determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the
organization is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a), is
described in IRC 501(c)(3), is a charitable organization as defined in R.C. §
2915.01, is in good standing in the state pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08, and is in
compliance with R.C. Chapter 1716;
         (b)   That organization is, and has received from the Internal Revenue
Service a determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the
organization is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a), is
described in IRC 501(c)(7), (c)(8), (c)(10), or (c)(19) or is a veteran's
organization described in IRC 501(c)(4), and conducts instant bingo under R.C.
§ 2915.13.
      (3)   Conduct instant bingo on any day, at any time, or at any premises
not specified on the organization's license issued pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08;
      (4)   Permit any person whom the organization knows or should have known
has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any jurisdiction to be a
bingo game operator in the conduct of instant bingo;
      (5)   Purchase or lease supplies used to conduct instant bingo or punch
board games from any person except a distributor licensed under R.C. §
2915.081;
      (6)   Sell or provide any instant bingo ticket or card for a price
different from the price printed on it by the manufacturer on either the
instant bingo ticket or card or on the game flare;
      (7)   Sell an instant bingo ticket or card to a person under 18 years of
age;
      (8)   Fail to keep unsold instant bingo tickets or cards for less than
three years;
      (9)   Pay any compensation to a bingo game operator for conducting
instant bingo that is conducted by the organization or for preparing, selling,
or serving food or beverages at the site of the instant bingo game, permit any
auxiliary unit or society of the organization to pay compensation to any bingo
game operator who prepares, sells, or serves food or beverages at an instant
bingo game conducted by the organization, or permit any auxiliary unit or
society of the organization to prepare, sell, or serve food or beverages at an
instant bingo game conducted by the organization, if the auxiliary unit or
society pays any compensation to the bingo game operators who prepare, sell, or
serve the food or beverages;
      (10)      Pay fees to any person for any services performed in relation
to an instant bingo game, except as provided in R.C. § 2915.093(D);
      (11)   Pay fees to any person who provides refreshments to the
participants in an instant bingo game;
      (12)   (a)   Allow instant bingo tickets or cards to be sold to bingo
game operators at a premises at which the organization sells instant bingo
tickets or cards or to be sold to employees of a D permit holder who are
working at a premises at which instant bingo tickets or cards are sold;
         (b)   Division (A)(12)(a) of this section does not prohibit a licensed
charitable organization or a bingo game operator from giving any person an
instant bingo ticket as a prize in place of a cash prize won by a participant
in an instant bingo game. In no case shall an instant bingo ticket or card be
sold or provided for a price different from the price printed on it by the
manufacturer on either the instant bingo ticket or card or on the game flare.
      (13)   Fail to display its bingo license, and the serial numbers of the
deal of instant bingo tickets or cards to be sold, conspicuously at each
premises at which it sells instant bingo tickets or cards;
      (14)   Possess a deal of instant bingo tickets or cards that was not
purchased from a distributor licensed under R.C. § 2915.081 as reflected on an
invoice issued by the distributor that contains all of the information required
by R.C. § 2915.10(E);
      (15)   Fail, once it opens a deal of instant bingo tickets or cards, to
continue to sell the tickets or cards in that deal until the tickets or cards
with the top two highest tiers of prizes in that deal are sold;
      (16)   Possess bingo supplies that were not obtained in accordance with
R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (B)   A charitable organization may purchase, lease, or use instant bingo
ticket dispensers to sell instant bingo tickets or cards.
   (C)   Pursuant to R.C. § 2915.091(C), the Attorney General may adopt rules
in accordance with R.C. Chapter 119 that govern the conduct of instant bingo by
charitable organizations.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section or a rule adopted under
division (C) of this section is guilty of illegal instant bingo conduct. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, illegal instant bingo conduct is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of a violation of division (A) of this section or of such a rule adopted under
division (C) of this section, illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.091)
§ 513.07 RAFFLE DRAWINGS.
   (A)   (1)   Subject to division (A)(2) of this section, a person or entity
may conduct a raffle to raise money for the person or entity and does not need
a license to conduct bingo in order to conduct a raffle drawing that is not for
profit if the person or entity is any of the following:
         (a)   Exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and
described in IRC § 501(c)(3);
         (b)   A school district, community school established under R.C.
Chapter 3314, STEM school established under R.C. Chapter 3326, college-
preparatory boarding school established under R.C. Chapter 3328, or chartered
nonpublic school;
         (c)   Exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and
described in IRC § 501(c)(4), 501(c)(6), 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10), or
501(c)(19).
      (2)   If a person or entity that is described in division (A)(1)(c) of
this section conducts a raffle, the person or entity shall distribute at least
50% of the net profit from the raffle to a charitable purpose described in R.C.
§ 2915.01(V) or to a department or agency of the federal government, the state,
or any political subdivision.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (A) of this section, no person shall
conduct a raffle drawing that is for profit or a raffle drawing that is not for
profit.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of illegal
conduct of a raffle. Except as otherwise provided in this division, illegal
conduct of a raffle is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of a violation of division (B) of this section,
illegal conduct of a raffle is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2915.092)
§ 513.08 INSTANT BINGO OTHER THAN AT BINGO SESSIONS.
   (A)   As used in this section, RETAIL INCOME FROM ALL COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY
means the income that a person receives from the provision of goods, services,
or activities that are provided at the location where instant bingo other than
at a bingo session is conducted, including the sale of instant bingo tickets. A
religious organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC
501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3), at not more than one location at which
it conducts its charitable programs, may include donations from its members and
guests as retail income.
   (B)   (1)   If a charitable instant bingo organization conducts instant
bingo other than at a bingo session under a type III license issued under R.C.
§ 2915.08, the charitable instant bingo organization shall enter into a written
contract with the owner or lessor of the location at which the instant bingo is
conducted to allow the owner or lessor to assist in the conduct of instant
bingo other than at a bingo session, identify each location where the instant
bingo other than at a bingo session is being conducted, and identify the owner
or lessor of each location.
      (2)   A charitable instant bingo organization that conducts instant bingo
other than at a bingo session under a type III license issued under R.C. §
2915.08 is not required to enter into a written contract with the owner or
lessor of the location at which the instant bingo is conducted provided that
the owner or lessor is not assisting in the conduct of the instant bingo other
than at a bingo session and provided that the conduct of the instant bingo
other than at a bingo session at that location is not more than five days per
calendar year and not more than ten hours per day.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (F) of this section, charitable instant
bingo organization shall conduct instant bingo other than at a bingo session at
a location where the primary source of retail income from all commercial
activity at that location is the sale of instant bingo tickets.
   (D)   (1)   The owner or lessor of a location that enters into a contract
pursuant to division (C) of this section shall pay the full gross profit to the
charitable instant bingo organization, in return for the deal of instant bingo
tickets. The owner or lessor may retain the money that the owner or lessor
receives for selling the instant bingo tickets, provided, however, that after
the deal has been sold, the owner or lessor shall pay to the charitable instant
bingo organization the value of any unredeemed instant bingo prizes remaining
in the deal of instant bingo tickets.
      (2)   The charitable instant bingo organization shall pay 6% of the total
gross receipts of any deal of instant bingo tickets for the purpose of
reimbursing the owner or lessor for expenses described in this division.
      (3)   As used in this division, EXPENSES means those items provided for
in R.C. § 2915.01(GG)(4), (GG)(5), (GG)(6), (GG)(7), (GG)(8), (GG)(12), and
(GG)(13) and that percentage of the owner’s or lessor’s rent for the location
where instant bingo is conducted. Expenses, in the aggregate, shall not exceed
6% of the total gross receipts of any deal of instant bingo tickets.
      (4)   As used in this division, FULL GROSS PROFIT means the amount by
which the total receipts of all instant bingo tickets, if the deal has been
sold in full, exceeds the amount that would be paid out if all prizes were
redeemed.
   (E)   A charitable instant bingo organization shall provide the Attorney
General with all of the following information:
      (1)   That the charitable instant bingo organization has terminated a
contract entered into pursuant to division (B) of this section with an owner or
lessor of a location;
      (2)   That the charitable instant bingo organization has entered into a
written contract pursuant to division (B) of this section with a new owner or
lessor of a location;
      (3)   That the charitable instant bingo organization is aware of conduct
by the owner or lessor of a location at which instant bingo is conducted that
is in violation of R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (F)   Division (C) of this section does not apply to a volunteer
firefighter's organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under
IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3), that conducts instant bingo other
than at a bingo session on the premises where the organization conducts
firefighter training, that has conducted instant bingo continuously for at
least five years prior to July 1, 2003, and that, during each of those five
years, had gross receipts of at least $1,500,000.
(R.C. § 2915.093)
   (G)   (1)   Subject to the requirements of R.C. §§ 2915.14 and 2915.15
concerning electronic instant bingo, a veteran's organization, a fraternal
organization, or a sporting organization authorized to conduct a bingo session
pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2915 may conduct instant bingo, electronic instant
bingo, or both other than at a bingo session under a type III license issued
under R.C. § 2915.08 if all of the following apply:
         (a)   The veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization limits the sale of instant bingo or electronic instant bingo to 12
hours during any day, provided that the sale does not begin earlier than 10:00
a.m. and ends not later than 2:00 a.m.
         (b)   The veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization limits the sale of instant bingo or electronic instant bingo to
its own premises and to its own members and invited guests.
         (c)   The veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization is raising money for an organization that is described in IRC §
509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a governmental unit or an
organization that maintains its principal place of business in this state, that
is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC
§ 501(c)(3), and that is in good standing in this state and executes a written
contract with that organization as required in division (G)(2) of this section.
      (2)   If a veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization authorized to conduct instant bingo or electronic instant bingo
pursuant to division (G)(1) of this section is raising money for another
organization that is described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is
either a governmental unit or an organization that maintains its principal
place of business in this state, that is exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c), and that is in good standing
in this state, the veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization shall execute a written contract with the organization that is
described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a governmental
unit or an organization that maintains its principal place of business in this
state, that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and
described in IRC § 501(c), and that is in good standing in this state in order
to conduct instant bingo or electronic instant bingo. That contract shall
include a statement of the percentage of the net proceeds that the veteran's,
fraternal, or sporting organization will be distributing to the organization
that is described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a
governmental unit or an organization that maintains its principal place of
business in this state, that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC §
501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3), and that is in good standing in this
state.
      (3)   (a)   If a veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or
sporting organization authorized to conduct instant bingo or electronic instant
bingo pursuant to division (G)(1) of this section has been issued a liquor
permit under R.C. Chapter 4303, that permit may be subject to suspension,
revocation, or cancellation if the veteran's organization, fraternal
organization, or sporting organization violates a provision of this chapter or
R.C. Chapter 2915.
         (b)   No veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization that enters into a written contract pursuant to division (G)(2) of
this section shall violate any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915,
or permit, aid, or abet any other person in violating any provision of this
chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
      (4)   A veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization shall give all required proceeds earned from the conduct of
instant bingo or electronic instant bingo to the organization with which the
veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or sporting organization has
entered into a written contract.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (G) of this section is guilty of illegal
instant bingo or electronic instant bingo conduct. Except as otherwise provided
in this division, illegal instant bingo or electronic instant bingo conduct is
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been
convicted of a violation of division (G) of this section, illegal instant bingo
or electronic instant bingo conduct is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.13)
§ 513.09 RESTRICTIONS ON OWNER OR LESSOR OF LOCATION AT INSTANT BINGO.
   (A)   No owner or lessor of a location shall assist a charitable instant
bingo organization in the conduct of instant bingo other than at a bingo
session at that location unless the owner or lessor has entered into a written
contract, as described in R.C. § 2915.093, with the charitable instant bingo
organization to assist in the conduct of instant bingo other than at a bingo
session.
   (B)   The location of the lessor or owner shall be designated as a location
where the charitable instant bingo organization conducts instant bingo other
than at a bingo session.
   (C)   No owner or lessor of a location that enters into a written contract
as prescribed in division (A) of this section shall violate any provision of
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915, or permit, aid, or abet any other person in
violating any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (D)   No owner or lessor of a location that enters into a written contract
as prescribed in division (A) of this section shall violate the terms of the
contract.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty
of illegal instant bingo conduct. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, illegal instant bingo conduct is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of division (C) or
(D) of this section, illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If an owner or lessor of a location knowingly, intentionally, or
recklessly violates division (C) or (D) of this section, any license that the
owner or lessor holds for the retail sale of any goods on the owner's or
lessor's premises that is issued by the state or a political subdivision is
subject to suspension, revocation, or payment of a monetary penalty at the
request of the Attorney General.
(R.C. § 2915.094)
§ 513.10 SKILL-BASED AMUSEMENT MACHINES; PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall give to another person any item described in division
(1), (2), (3), or (4) of the definition for “merchandise prize” in §
513.01 in exchange for a noncash prize, toy, or novelty received as a reward
for playing or operating a skill-based amusement machine or for a free or
reduced-price game won on a skill-based amusement machine.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of skill-based
amusement machine prohibited conduct. A violation of division (A) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree for each redemption of a prize
that is involved in the violation. If the offender previously has been
convicted of a violation of division (A) of this section, a violation of that
division is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.06)
   (C)   Any regulation of skill-based amusement machines shall be governed by
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915 and not by R.C. Chapter 1345.
(R.C. § 2915.061)
§ 513.11 ELECTRONIC INSTANT BINGO; PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   No charitable organization shall conduct electronic instant bingo
unless all of the following are true:
      (1)   The organization is a veteran's organization described in R.C. §
2915.01(J), or is a fraternal organization described in R.C. § 2915.01(L), and
the organization qualified as a veteran's organization or fraternal
organization, as applicable, on or before June 30, 2021.
      (2)   The organization is a veteran's organization described in IRC § 501
(c)(4) or is, and has received from the Internal Revenue Service a
determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the organization
is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a), and is described in
IRC § 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10), or 501(c)(19).
      (3)   The organization has not conducted a raffle in violation of R.C. §
2915.092(B) using an electronic raffle machine, as described in Ohio Veterans
and Fraternal Charitable Coalition v. DeWine, Case No. 13-CV-13610 (C.P.
Franklin Co. February 23, 2018), at any time on or after January 1, 2022.
   (B)   No charitable organization that conducts electronic instant bingo
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Possess an electronic instant bingo system that was not obtained in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 2915 or with any rule adopted under R.C. Chapter
2915;
      (2)   Conduct electronic instant bingo on any day, at any time, or on any
premises not specified on the organization's type II or type III license issued
under R.C. § 2915.08;
      (3)   Hold more than one valid license to conduct electronic instant
bingo at any one time;
      (4)   Conduct electronic instant bingo on more than one premises or on
any premises other than the charitable organization's principal place of
business;
      (5)   Operate more than ten electronic bingo systems at the premises on
which the charitable organization conducts electronic instant bingo under its
license;
      (6)   Fail to display both of the following conspicuously at the premises
on which the charitable organization conducts electronic instant bingo:
         (a)   The charitable organization's bingo license;
         (b)   The serial number of each deal of electronic instant bingo
tickets being sold.
      (7)   Permit any person the charitable organization knows, or should have
known, to be under 18 years of age to play electronic instant bingo;
      (8)   Sell or provide to any person an electronic instant bingo ticket
for a price different from the price displayed on the game flare for that deal,
except that the charitable organization may give a participant who wins an
electronic instant bingo game an electronic instant bingo ticket as a prize in
place of a cash prize;
      (9)   Fail, once an electronic instant bingo deal is begun, to continue
to sell tickets in that deal until all prizes have been awarded;
      (10)   Permit any person whom the organization knows, or should have
known, has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any jurisdiction
to be a bingo game operator in the conduct of electronic instant bingo;
      (11)   Permit a bingo game operator to play electronic instant bingo;
      (12)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(12)(b) of this
section, pay compensation to a bingo game operator for conducting electronic
instant bingo.
         (b)   Division (B)(12)(a) of this section does not prohibit an
employee of a veteran's organization or fraternal organization from redeeming
electronic instant bingo tickets or vouchers for the organization's members or
invited guests, so long as no portion of the employee's compensation is paid
from any bingo receipts.
      (13)   Pay consulting fees to any person in relation to electronic
instant bingo.
   (C)   No person shall sell, offer to sell, or otherwise provide or offer to
provide an electronic instant bingo system to any person for use in this
municipality unless the electronic instant bingo system has been approved under
R.C. § 2915.15.
   (D)   Whoever knowingly violates division (A), (B), or (C) of this section
or a rule adopted under R.C. § 2915.14(D) is guilty of illegal electronic
instant bingo conduct. Illegal electronic instant bingo conduct is a
misdemeanor of the first degree, except that if the offender previously has
been convicted of a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or state law, or of a rule adopted
under R.C. § 2915.14(D), illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.14)
CHAPTER 517: HEALTH, SAFETY AND SANITATION
Section
   
517.01     Storing of junk and other waste matter on private property to be a
nuisance
   
517.02     Littering and deposit of garbage, rubbish or junk
   
517.03     Stagnant water
   
517.04     Noxious or offensive odors
   
517.05     Smoking prohibited in municipal facilities and vehicles
   
517.06   Adult use cannabis control; limitations on conduct by individuals
 
   
517.99     Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Nuisances, state law provisions, see R.C. Chapter 3767
Cross-reference:
   Penalties, misdemeanor classifications and sentencing, see
Ch. 599
§ 517.01 STORING OF JUNK AND OTHER WASTE MATTER ON PRIVATE PROPERTY TO BE A
NUISANCE.
   (A)   Definitions. JUNK, TRASH, LITTER and REFUSE are defined as any and all
waste matter, whether reusable or not, that is offensive to the public health,
safety or to the aesthetics of the neighborhood, and includes, but not be
limited to, wrecked and/or abandoned automobiles, trucks, tractors, machinery
of any kind, and parts thereof, stoves, ice boxes, refrigerators, or other
airtight or semi-airtight containers that have a capacity of 1½ cubic feet or
more and an opening of 50 square inches or more, and that have doors or lids
equipped with hinges, latches, or other fastening devices capable of securing
such doors or lids, garbage, waste, rubbish, ashes, cans, bottles, wire, paper,
cartons, and boxes.
   (B)   Nuisance. The storage of junk, trash, litter and refuse on private
property and not inside a building within the city where such storage is not
authorized by the zoning code is a nuisance.
   (C)   Notices. The City Manager or any city employee designated by the City
Manager upon observing any violation of this chapter shall issue a notice
directed to the owner of record of the property on which such nuisance exists,
as shown in the records of the Warren County Recorder, or to the occupant of
such property, or to both. The notice shall describe the violation and shall
establish a reasonable time for the abatement of the nuisance by such owner
and/or occupant, which time shall be not less than two days not more than ten
days following service of the notice.
   (D)   Service of notice. The City Manager or any city employee designated by
the City Manager shall make service and return of the notice upon the owner
and/or occupant of the property where such nuisance exists.
   (E)   Investigation. Following expiration of the time established in the
notice for the abatement of the nuisance, the City Manager or any city employee
designated by the City Manager shall investigate to determine whether or not
the nuisance has been abated. In the event the owner and/or occupant of the
property where such nuisance exists has failed within the required time to
abate the nuisance, then the person who investigated whether such nuisance had
been abated may file a complaint charging violation of this section.
   (F)   Abatement by city. If the nuisance is not abated within the required
time, the City Manager may cause the abatement of the nuisance and shall report
the cost thereof to City Council. The City Council may direct its Clerk to make
a written return to the Warren County Auditor of the actions of the city
pursuant to this chapter with a statement of the charges for the services
rendered by or to the city, the amount paid for the performance of any labor to
abate the nuisance and the proper description of the premises. Such amounts,
when allowed, shall be entered upon the tax duplicate, shall be a lien upon
such lands from the date of entry, and shall be collected as other taxes and
returned to the city’s general fund.
   (G)   Further proceedings. In addition to the remedies set forth in this
section, the City Council may authorize the City Attorney to institute such
proceedings as may be appropriate to recover the costs of abatement of the
nuisance from any owner and/or occupant of the property on which such nuisance
was found.
(Am. Ord. 3043, passed 9-28-76; Am. Ord. 6571, passed 1-8-91; Am. Ord. 6752,
passed 7-14-92; Am. Ord. 6937, passed 4-12-94)
Penalty, see § 517.99
§ 517.02 LITTERING AND DEPOSIT OF GARBAGE, RUBBISH OR JUNK.
   (A)   No person shall place or dispose of in any manner, upon any public
property or upon the premises of another, any junk, trash, litter or refuse.
   (B)   No person shall cause or permit any junk, trash, litter, debris or
refuse to be collected or to be scattered about his or her own premises or
obstruct, impede, divert, corrupt or render unwholesome or impure any culvert,
drain, or natural watercourse.
(Am. Ord. 3043, passed 9-28-76; Am. Ord. 6937, passed 4-12-94)
Penalty, see § 517.99
§ 517.03 STAGNANT WATER.
   No person, being the owner or occupant of any property within the city,
shall permit water to accumulate and become stagnant thereon.
(Am. Ord. 3043, passed 9-28-76; Am. Ord. 6937, passed 4-12-94)
Penalty, see § 517.99
§ 517.04 NOXIOUS OR OFFENSIVE ODORS.
   (A)   No person shall erect, continue, use or maintain a building, structure
or place for the exercise of a trade, employment or business, or for the
keeping or feeding of an animal that, by occasioning noxious exhalations or
noisome or offensive smells, becomes injurious to the health, comfort or
property of individuals or of the public.
   (B)   No person shall cause or allow offal, filth, or noisome substances to
be collected or remain upon any public or private property within the city.
(R.C. § 3767.13(A) and (B)) (Am. Ord. 3043, passed 9-28-76; Am. Ord. 6937,
passed 4-12-94)
Penalty, see § 517.99
§ 517.05 SMOKING PROHIBITED IN MUNICIPAL FACILITIES AND VEHICLES.
   No person shall smoke in any municipal facility, structure, building or
vehicle, except as permitted by regulations established by the City Manager.
(Ord. 6813, passed 1-26-93)
§ 517.06 ADULT USE CANNABIS CONTROL; LIMITATIONS ON CONDUCT BY INDIVIDUALS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3780 and notwithstanding
any conflicting provision of this code or the Ohio Revised Code, an adult use
consumer, may do the following:
      (1)   Use adult use cannabis;
      (2)   Possess, transfer without remuneration to another adult consumer,
or transport adult use cannabis, subject to division (B) of this section; and
      (3)   Purchase adult use cannabis from an adult use dispensary per day in
amounts that do not exceed the possession limits set forth in division (B)(1)
of this section.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3796:
      (1)   The amount of cannabis that may be possessed by an adult use
consumer shall not exceed:
         (a)   Two and one-half ounces of adult use cannabis in any form except
adult use extract; and
         (b)   Fifteen grams of adult use cannabis in the form of adult use
extract.
      (2)   The amount of cannabis that may be transferred by an adult use
consumer without remuneration and not advertised or promoted to the public
shall not exceed:
         (a)   Two and one-half ounces of adult use cannabis in any form except
adult use extract; and
         (b)   Fifteen grams of adult use cannabis in the form of adult use
extract.
      (3)   The amount of cannabis that may be transported by an adult use
consumer shall not exceed:
         (a)   Two and one-half ounces of adult use cannabis in any form except
adult use extract; and
         (b)   Fifteen grams of adult use cannabis in the form of adult use
extract.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3780, an adult use
consumer shall not be subject to arrest, criminal prosecution, or civil penalty
for engaging in any of the activities authorized under R.C. Chapter 3780,
including:
      (1)   Obtaining, using, possessing, or transporting adult use cannabis;
      (2)   Performing conduct authorized under R.C. § 3780.29;
      (3)   Acquiring, possessing, using, purchasing, manufacturing, selling,
or transporting paraphernalia; and
      (4)   Assisting another adult use consumer, or allowing property to be
used, in any of the acts authorized by R.C. Chapter 3780.
   (D)   (1)   An individual is prohibited from operating a vehicle, motor
vehicle, streetcar, trackless trolley, bike, watercraft, or aircraft while
using adult use cannabis or while under the influence of adult use cannabis and
is subject to R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance
for any violation of this division.
      (2)   An individual is prohibited from smoking, vaporizing, or using any
other combustible adult use cannabis product while in a vehicle, motor vehicle,
streetcar, trackless trolley, bike, watercraft, or aircraft and is subject to
R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance for any
violation of this division.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3780, no individual under
21 years of age shall knowingly show or give false information concerning the
individual’s name, age, or other identification for the purpose of purchasing
adult use cannabis from an adult use dispensary licensed under R.C. Chapter
3780.
   (F)   Nothing in R.C. Chapter 3780 is intended to permit the transfer or
sale of adult use cannabis, with or without remuneration, to an individual
under 21 years of age, or to allow an individual under 21 years of age to
purchase, possess, use, process, transport, or cultivate cannabis except where
authorized by R.C. Chapter 3796.
   (G)   It is unlawful for any parent or guardian to knowingly permit their
residence, any other private property under their control, or any vehicle,
conveyance, or watercraft under their control to be used by an invitee of the
parent’s child or the guardian’s ward, if the invitee is under 21 years of age,
in a manner that constitutes a violation of R.C. Chapter 3780.
      (1)   A parent or guardian is deemed to have knowingly permitted their
residence, any other private property under their control, or any vehicle,
conveyance, or watercraft under their control to be used in violation of R.C.
Chapter 3780 if they knowingly authorize or permit consumption of cannabis by
underage invitees.
      (2)   Where the residence or other property has an owner and a tenant or
lessee, the trier of fact may infer that the residence or other property is
occupied only by the tenant or lessee.
(R.C. § 3780.36)
   (H)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3796, R.C. § 2925.11
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance shall apply when an adult use
consumer possesses an amount of cannabis greater than the limits set forth in
division (B)(1) of this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3780, an adult use
consumer who uses adult use cannabis in public areas, or who violates division
(D)(2) of this section as a passenger, is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (3)   (a)   An individual under 21 years of age who knowingly shows or
gives false information concerning the individual’s name, age, or other
identification for the purpose of purchasing or otherwise obtaining adult use
cannabis from an adult use dispensary licensed under R.C. Chapter 3780 is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If, in committing a first
violation, the offender presented to an adult use dispensary licensed under
R.C. Chapter 3780 a false, fictitious, or altered identification card, a false
or fictitious driver’s license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver’s
license issued by any state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not less than $250 and not
more than $1,000, and may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more
than six months.
         (b)   On a second violation in which, for the second time, the
offender presented to an adult use dispensary licensed under R.C. Chapter 3780
a false, fictitious, or altered identification card, a false or fictitious
driver’s license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver’s license issued
by any state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the first degree and shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $1,000,
and may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than six months. The
court also may impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege from
the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7). The court, in lieu of suspending
the offender’s temporary instruction permit, probationary driver’s license, or
driver’s license, instead may order the offender to perform a determinate
number of hours of community service, with the court determining the actual
number of hours and the nature of the community service the offender shall
perform.
         (c)   On a third or subsequent violation in which, for the third or
subsequent time, the offender presented to an adult use dispensary licensed
under R.C. Chapter 3780 a false, fictitious, or altered identification card, a
false or fictitious driver’s license purportedly issued by any state, or a
driver’s license issued by any state that has been altered, the offender is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not less than
$500 nor more than $1,000, and may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of
not more than six months. Except as provided in this division, the court also
may impose a class six suspension of the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(6), and the court may order that the suspension
or denial remain in effect until the offender attains the age of 21 years. The
court, in lieu of suspending the offender’s temporary instruction permit,
probationary driver’s license, or driver’s license, instead may order the
offender to perform a determinate number of hours of community service, with
the court determining the actual number of hours and the nature of the
community service the offender shall perform.
      (4)   An individual who is under 21 years of age and who solicits another
individual to purchase adult use cannabis from an adult use dispensary licensed
under R.C. Chapter 3780 is guilty of:
         (a)   For a first violation, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; and
         (b)   For a second or subsequent violation, a misdemeanor of the
second degree.
      (5)   An employee or agent of an adult use dispensary licensed under R.C.
Chapter 3780 who knowingly sells cannabis to an individual under 21 years of
age is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (6)   Any individual who violates R.C. § 3780.10(A), or R.C. § 3780.29
(F), is guilty of the illegal trafficking in drugs under R.C. § 2925.03 and the
illegal manufacture of drugs under R.C. § 2925.04.
      (7)   Any individual who violates division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this
section guilty of the illegal trafficking in drugs under R.C. § 2925.03.
      (8)   Any individual who violates R.C. § 3780.20(B) is guilty of illegal
dispensing of drug samples under R.C. § 2925.36 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
      (9)   (a)   An individual who violates division (G) of this section is
guilty of:
            1.   For a first violation, a misdemeanor of the third degree; and
            2.   For a second or subsequent violation, a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
         (b)   If a violation of division (G) of this section directly or
indirectly results in great bodily harm or death to any individual, the
individual violating division (G) is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 3780.99)
§ 517.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. Each day’s continued violation shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Am. Ord. 3043, passed 9-28-76; Am. Ord. 6752, passed 7-14-92; Am. Ord. 6937,
passed 4-12-94; Am. Ord. 6813, passed 1-26-93)
CHAPTER 525: LIQUOR CONTROL
Section
   
525.01     Definitions
   
525.02     Sales to minors
   
525.03     Restrictions on the sale of beer and liquor
   
525.04     Permit required
 
   
525.99     Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Penalties, misdemeanor classifications and sentencing, see
Ch. 599
§ 525.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL. Ethyl alcohol, whether rectified or diluted with water or not,
whatever its origin may be, and includes synthetic ethyl alcohol. The term does
not include denatured alcohol and wood alcohol.
   AT RETAIL.  For use or consumption by the purchaser and not for resale.
   BEER.
      (1)   Includes all beverages brewed or fermented wholly or in part from
malt products and containing 0.5% or more of alcohol by volume.
      (2)   Beer, regardless of the percent of the alcohol by volume, is not
intoxicating liquor for purposes of this code, the Ohio Revised Code, or any
rules adopted under it.
   CIDER. All liquids that are fit to use for beverage purposes that contain
0.5% of alcohol by weight, and that are made through the normal alcoholic
fermentation of the juice of sound, ripe apples, including, without limitation,
flavored, sparkling, or carbonated cider and cider made from pure condensed
apple must.
   CLUB.  A corporation or association of individuals organized in good faith
for social, recreational, benevolent, charitable, fraternal, political,
patriotic, or athletic purposes, that is the owner, lessor, or occupant of a
permanent building or part of a permanent building operated solely for such
purposes, membership in which entails the prepayment of regular dues, and
includes the place so operated.
   COMMUNITY FACILITY. Either of the following:
      (1)   Any convention, sports or entertainment facility or complex, or any
combination of these, that is used by or accessible to the general public and
that is owned or operated in whole or in part by the state, a state agency, or
a political subdivision of the state or that is leased from, or located on
property owned by or leased from, the state, a state agency, a political
subdivision of the state, or a convention facilities authority created pursuant
to R.C. § 351.02;
      (2)   An area designated as a community entertainment district pursuant
to R.C. § 4301.80.
   CONTROLLED ACCESS ALCOHOL AND BEVERAGE CABINET.  A closed container, either
refrigerated, in whole or in part, or nonrefrigerated, access to the interior
of which is restricted by means of a device that requires the use of a key,
magnetic card, or similar device and from which beer, intoxicating liquor,
other beverages, or food may be sold.
   ENCLOSED SHOPPING CENTER. A group of retail sales and service business
establishments that face into an enclosed mall, share common ingress, egress,
and parking facilities, and are situated on a tract of land that contains an
area of not less than 500,000 square feet. ENCLOSED SHOPPING CENTER also
includes not more than one business establishment that is located within a
free-standing building on such a tract of land, so long as the sale of beer and
intoxicating liquor on the tract of land was approved in an election held under
former R.C. § 4301.353.
   HOTEL. The same meaning as in R.C. § 3731.01, subject to the exceptions
mentioned in R.C. § 3731.03.
   INTOXICATING LIQUOR  and LIQUOR.  All liquids and compounds, other than
beer, containing 0.5% or more of alcohol by volume that are fit to use for
beverage purposes, from whatever source and by whatever process produced, by
whatever name called, and whether they are medicated, proprietary, or patented.
INTOXICATING LIQUOR and LIQUOR  include cider and alcohol, and all solids and
confections which contain 0.5% or more of alcohol by volume.
   LOW-ALCOHOL BEVERAGE. Any brewed or fermented malt product or any product
made from the fermented juices of grapes, fruits, or other agricultural
products that contains either no alcohol or less than ½ of 1% of alcohol by
volume. The beverages described in this definition do not include a soft drink
such as root beer, birch beer, or ginger beer.
   MANUFACTURE. All processes by which beer or intoxicating liquor is produced,
whether by distillation, rectifying, fortifying, blending, fermentation, or
brewing, or in any other manner.
   MANUFACTURER. Any person engaged in the business of manufacturing beer or
intoxicating liquor.
   MIXED BEVERAGES.    Includes bottled and prepared cordials, cocktails,
highballs, and solids and confections that are obtained by mixing any type of
whiskey, neutral spirits, brandy, gin or other distilled spirits with, or over,
carbonated or plain water, pure  juices from flowers and plants, and other
flavoring materials. The completed product shall contain not less than 0.5% of
alcohol by volume and not more than 21% of alcohol by volume. The phrase
includes the contents of a pod.
   NIGHTCLUB. A place habitually operated for profit, where food is served for
consumption on the premises, and one or more forms of amusement are provided or
permitted for a consideration that may be in the form of a cover charge or may
be included in the price of the food and beverages, or both, purchased by
patrons.
   PERSON. Includes firms and corporations.
   PHARMACY. An establishment, as defined in R.C. § 4729.01, that is under the
management or control of a licensed pharmacist in accordance with R.C. §
4729.27.
   POD. Means a sealed capsule made from plastic, glass, aluminum, or a
combination thereof to which all of the following apply:
      (1)   The capsule contains intoxicating liquor of more than 21% of
alcohol by volume.
      (2)   The capsule also contains a concentrated flavoring mixture.
      (3)   The contents of the capsule are not readily accessible or intended
for consumption unless certain manufacturer’s processing instructions are
followed.
      (4)   The instructions include releasing the contents of the capsule
through a machine specifically designed to process the contents.
      (5)   After being properly processed according to the manufacturer’s
instructions, the final product produced from the capsule contains not less
than 0.5% of alcohol by volume and not more than 21% of alcohol by volume.
   RESTAURANT. A place located in a permanent building provided with space and
accommodations wherein, in consideration of the payment of money, hot meals are
habitually prepared, sold, and served at noon and evening, as the principal
business of the place. The term does not include pharmacies, confectionery
stores, lunch stands, nightclubs, and filling stations.
   SALE and SELL. The exchange, barter, gift, offer for sale, sale,
distribution, and delivery of any kind, and the transfer of title or possession
of beer and intoxicating liquor either by constructive or actual delivery by
any means or devices whatever, including the sale of beer or intoxicating
liquor by means of a controlled access alcohol and beverage cabinet pursuant to
R.C. § 4301.21. The terms do not include the mere solicitation of orders for
beer or intoxicating liquor from the holders of permits issued by the
department of liquor control authorizing the sale of the beer or intoxicating
liquor, but no solicitor shall solicit any orders until the solicitor has been
registered with the division pursuant to R.C. § 4303.25.
   SALES AREA OR TERRITORY. An exclusive geographic area or territory that is
assigned to a particular A or B permit holder and that either has one or more
political subdivisions as its boundaries or consists of an area of land with
readily identifiable geographic boundaries. SALES AREA OR TERRITORY does not
include, however, any particular retail location in an exclusive geographic
area or territory that had been assigned to another A or B permit holder before
April 9, 2001.
   SEALED CONTAINER. Any container having a capacity of not more than 128 fluid
ounces, the opening of which is closed to prevent the entrance of air.
   SPIRITUOUS LIQUOR. All intoxicating liquors containing more than 21% of
alcohol by volume. The phrase does not include the contents of a pod.
   VEHICLE. All means of transportation by land, by water, or by air, and
everything made use of in any way for such transportation.
   WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTOR and DISTRIBUTOR. A person engaged in the business of
selling to retail dealers for purposes of resale.
   WINE. All liquids fit to use for beverage purposes containing not less than
0.5% of alcohol by volume and not more than 21% of alcohol by volume, that is
made from the fermented juices of grapes, fruits, or other agricultural
products. The term includes cider, except as used in R.C. §§ 4301.13, 4301.421,
4301.422, 4301.432, and 4301.44, and, for purposes of determining the rate of
the tax that applies, R.C. § 4301.43(B), the term does not include cider.
(R.C. §§ 4301.01, 4301.244)
§ 525.02 SALES TO MINORS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C. Chapter 4301,
no person shall sell beer or intoxicating liquor to an underage person, shall
buy beer or intoxicating liquor for an underage person, or shall furnish it to
an underage person unless given by a physician in the regular line of the
physician’s practice or given for established religious purposes or unless the
underage person is supervised by a parent, spouse, or legal guardian. In
proceedings before the liquor control commission, no permit holder, or no
employee or agent of a permit holder, charged with a violation of this division
shall be charged, for the same offense, with a violation of §
525.03(A)(1) or R.C. §4301.22(A)(1).
   (B)   No person who is the owner or occupant of any public or private place
shall knowingly allow any underage person to remain in or on the place while
possessing or consuming beer or intoxicating liquor, unless the intoxicating
liquor or beer is given to the person possessing or consuming it by that
person’s parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian and
the parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian is present
at the time of the person’s possession or consumption of the beer or
intoxicating liquor. An owner of a public or private place is not liable for
acts or omissions in violation of this division that are committed by a lessee
of that place, unless the owner authorizes or acquiesces in the lessee’s acts
or omissions.
   (C)   No person shall engage or use accommodations at a hotel, inn, cabin,
campground, or restaurant when the person knows or has reason to know either of
the following:
      (1)   That beer or intoxicating liquor will be consumed by an underage
person on the premises of the accommodations that the person engages or uses,
unless the person engaging or using the accommodations is the spouse of the
underage person and who is not an underage person, or is the parent or legal
guardian of all of the underage persons who consume beer or intoxicating liquor
on the premises and that person is on the premises at all times when beer or
intoxicating liquor is being consumed by an underage person.
      (2)   That a drug of abuse will be consumed on the premises of the
accommodations by any person, except a person who obtained the drug of abuse
pursuant to a prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized
to prescribe drugs and has the drug of abuse in the original container in which
it was dispensed to the person.
   (D)   (1)   No person is required to permit the engagement of accommodations
at any hotel, inn, cabin, or campground by an underage person or for an
underage person, if the person engaging the accommodations knows or has reason
to know that the underage person is intoxicated, or that the underage person
possesses any beer or intoxicating liquor and is not supervised by a parent,
spouse, who is not an underage person, or legal guardian who is or will be
present at all times when the beer or intoxicating liquor is being consumed by
the underage person.
      (2)   No underage person shall knowingly engage or attempt to engage
accommodations at any hotel, inn, cabin, or campground by presenting
identification that falsely indicates that the underage person is 21 years of
age or older for the purpose of violating this section.
   (E)   (1)   No underage person shall knowingly order, pay for, share the
cost of, attempt to purchase, possess, or consume any beer or intoxicating
liquor in any public or private place. No underage person shall knowingly be
under the influence of any beer or intoxicating liquor in any public place. The
prohibitions set forth in this division against an underage person knowingly
possessing, consuming, or being under the influence of any beer or intoxicating
liquor shall not apply if the underage person is supervised by a parent, spouse
who is not an underage person, or legal guardian, or the beer or intoxicating
liquor is given by a physician in the regular line of the physician's practice
or given for established religious purposes.
      (2)   (a)   If a person is charged with violating division (E)(1) of this
section in a complaint filed under R.C. § 2151.27, the court may order the
child into a diversion program specified by the court and hold the complaint in
abeyance pending successful completion of the diversion program. A child is
ineligible to enter into a diversion program under this division if the child
previously has been diverted pursuant to this division. If the child completes
the diversion program to the satisfaction of the court, the court shall dismiss
the complaint and order the child's record in the case sealed under R.C. §
2151.358(D)(3). If the child fails to satisfactorily complete the diversion
program, the court shall proceed with the complaint.
         (b)   If a person is charged in a criminal complaint with violating
division (E)(1) of this section, R.C. § 2935.36 shall apply to the offense,
except thata person is ineligible for diversion under that section if the
person previously has been diverted pursuant to divisions (E)(2)(a) or (E)(2)
(b) of this section. If the person completes the diversion program to the
satisfaction of the court, the court shall dismiss the complaint and order the
record in the case sealed under R.C. § 2953.33. If the person fails to
satisfactorily complete the diversion program, the court shall proceed with the
complaint.
   (F)   No parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian of
a minor shall knowingly permit the minor to violate this section or R.C. §§
4301.63, 4301.633, or 4301.634, or any substantially similar municipal
ordinance.
   (G)   The operator of any hotel, inn, cabin, or campground shall make the
provisions of this section available in writing to any person engaging or using
accommodations at the hotel, inn, cabin, or campground.
   (H)   As used in this section:
      DRUG OF ABUSE  has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.011.
      HOTEL has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3731.01.
      LICENSED HEALTH PROFESSIONAL AUTHORIZED TO PRESCRIBE DRUGS and
PRESCRIPTION have the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
      MINOR means a person under the age of 18 years.
      UNDERAGE PERSON means a person under the age of 21 years.
(R.C. § 4301.69)
   (I)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C. Chapter 4301,
no person under the age of 21 years shall purchase beer or intoxicating liquor.
(R.C. § 4301.63)
(Am. Ord. 6032, passed 1-27-87; Am. Ord. 6196, passed 3-22-88; Am. Ord. 6222,
passed 4-26-86)
Penalty, see § 525.99
§ 525.03 RESTRICTIONS ON SALE OF BEER AND LIQUOR.
   Sales of beer and intoxicating liquor under all classes of permits and from
state liquor stores are subject to the following restrictions, in addition to
those imposed by the rules or orders of the state department of liquor control.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C. Chapter
4301, no beer or intoxicating liquor shall be sold to any person under 21 years
of age.
      (2)   No low-alcohol beverage shall be sold to any person under 18 years
of age. No permit issued by the division shall be suspended, revoked, or
cancelled because of a violation of this subdivision (A)(2).
      (3)   Except as provided in division (A)(4) of this section, all of the
following apply to the handling, serving, and selling of beer and intoxicating
liquor by a person employed by a permit holder:
         (a)   No person under 19 years of age shall sell beer across a bar.
         (b)   No person under 21 years of age shall sell wine, mixed
beverages, or spirituous liquor across a bar.
         (c)   No person under 18 years of age shall otherwise handle, serve,
or sell beer or intoxicating liquor.
      (4)   Any person employed by a permit holder may handle beer or
intoxicating liquor in sealed containers in connection with manufacturing,
storage, warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading, and
may handle beer or intoxicating liquor in open containers in connection with
cleaning tables or handling empty bottles or glasses.
   (B)   No permit holder and no agent or employee of a permit holder shall
sell or furnish beer or intoxicating liquor to an intoxicated person.
   (C)   (1)   No sales of intoxicating liquor shall be made after 2:30 a.m. on
Sunday, except that under either of the following circumstances:
         (a)   Intoxicating liquor may be sold on Sunday under authority of a
permit which authorizes Sunday sale.
         (b)   Spiritous liquor may be sold on Sunday by any person awarded an
agency contract under R.C. § 4301.17 if the sale of spiritous liquor is
authorized in the applicable precinct as the result of an election on question
(B)(1) or (B)(2) of R.C. § 4301.351 and if the agency contract authorizes the
sale of spiritous liquor on Sunday.
      (2)   This section does not prevent the municipality from adopting a
closing hour for the sale of intoxicating liquor earlier than 2:30 a.m. on
Sunday or to provide that no intoxicating liquor may be sold prior to that hour
on Sunday.
   (D)   (1)   No holder of a permit shall give away any beer or intoxicating
liquor of any kind at any timein connection with the permit holder's business.
However, with the exception of an A-1-A permit holder that also has been issued
an A-2 or A-2f permit, an A-1-A, A-1c, or D permit holder may provide to a
paying customer not more than a total of four tasting samples of beer, wine, or
spirituous liquor, as authorized by the applicable permit, in any twenty-four-
hour period. The permit holder shall provide the tasting samples free of
charge, at the permit holder’s expense, only to a person who is 21 years of age
or older. The person shall consume the tasting samples on the premises of the
permit holder. A distributor is not responsible for the costs of providing
tasting samples authorized under division (A)(4) of this section.
      (2)   As used in division (A)(4) of this section:
         TASTING SAMPLE. Means one of the following, as applicable:
            1.   An amount not to exceed two ounces of beer;
            2.   An amount not to exceed two ounces of wine;
            3.   An amount not to exceed a quarter ounce of spirituous liquor.
         D PERMIT HOLDER. Means a person that has been issued a D-1, D-2, D-2x,
D-3, D-3a, D-3 x, D-4, D-5, D-5a, D-5c, D-5d, D-5e, D-5f, D-5g, D-5h, D-5i, D-
5j, D-5k, D-5l, D-5m, D-5n, D-5o, D-6, or D-7 permit.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, no retail permit holder
shall display or permit the display on the outside of any licensed retail
premises, on any lot of ground on which the licensed premises are situated, or
on the exterior of any building of which the licensed premises are a part, any
sign, illustration, or advertisement bearing the name, brand name, trade name,
trademark, designation, or other emblem of, or indicating the manufacturer,
producer, distributor, place of manufacture, production, or distribution of,
any beer or intoxicatingliquor. Signs, illustrations, or advertisements bearing
the name, brand name, trade name, trademark, designation, or other emblem of or
indicating the manufacturer, producer, distributor, place of manufacture,
production, or distribution of beer or intoxicating liquor may be displayed and
permitted to be displayed on the interior or in the show windows of any
licensed premises, if the particular brand or type of product so advertised is
actually available for sale on the premises at the time of that display. The
liquor control commission shall determine by rule the size and character of
those signs, illustrations, or advertisements.
   (F)   No retail permit holder shall possess on the licensed premises any
barrel or other container from which beer is drawn, unless there is attached to
the spigot or other dispensing apparatus the name of the manufacturer of the
product contained in the barrel or other container, provided that, if the beer
is served at a bar, the manufacturer’s name or brand shall appear in full view
of the purchaser. The commission shall regulate the size and character of the
devices provided for in this section.
   (G)   The sale of gift certificates for the purchase of beer, wine, or mixed
beverages shall be permitted for the purchase of beer, wine, or mixed beverages
for on- or off-premises consumption. Limitations on the use of a gift
certificate for the purchase of beer, wine, or mixed beverages for on- or off-
premises consumption may be expressed by clearly stamping or typing on the face
of the certificate that the certificate may not be used for the purchase of
beer, wine, or mixed beverages for on-premises consumption.
(R.C. § 4301.22)
Penalty, see § 525.99
§ 525.04 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, personally or by the person’s agent or employee, shall
manufacture, manufacture for sale, offer, keep or possess for sale, furnish or
sell, or solicit the purchase or sale of any beer or intoxicating liquor in
this municipality, or transport, import, or cause to be transported or imported
any beer, intoxicating liquor or alcohol in or into this municipality for
delivery, use or sale, unless the person shall have fully complied with R.C.
Chapters 4301 and 4303 or is the holder of a permit issued by the Department of
Liquor Control and in force at the time.
   (B)   No manufacturer, supplier, wholesale distributor, broker, or retailer
of beer or intoxicating liquor, or other person shall employ, retain, or
otherwise utilize any person in this state to act as an employee, agent,
solicitor, or salesperson, or act in any other representative capacity to sell,
solicit, take orders, or receive offers to purchase or expressions of interest
to purchase beer or intoxicating liquor from any person, at any location other
than a liquor permit premises, except as specifically authorized by R.C.
Chapter 4301 or R.C. Chapter 4303 or rules adopted thereunder. No function,
event, or party shall take place at any location other than a liquor permit
premises where any person acts in any manner to sell, solicit, take orders, or
receive offers to purchase or expressions of intent to purchase beer or
intoxicating liquor to or from any person, except as specifically authorized by
R.C. Chapter 4301 or R.C. Chapter 4303 Code or rules adopted thereunder.
(R.C. § 4303.25)
Penalty, see § 525.99
§ 525.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates §
525.02(A) is guilty of a misdemeanor, shall be fined not less than $500 and not
more than $1000, and, in addition to the fine, may be imprisoned for a definite
term of not more than six months.
(R.C. § 4301.99(I))
   (B)   Whoever violates §
525.02(B), (C), (D), or (F) is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
   (C)   Whoever violates §
525.02(I) shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $100. The court
imposing a fine for a violation of §
525.02(I) may order that the fine be paid by the performance of public work at
a reasonable hour rate established by the court. The court shall designate the
time within which the public work shall be completed.
(R.C. § 4301.99(E))
   (D)   Whoever violates §
525.03(A)(1) is guilty of a misdemeanor, shall be fined not less than $500 and
not more than $1000, and, in addition to the fine, may be imprisoned for a
definite term of not more than 60 days.
(R.C. § 4301.99(H))
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates §
525.03(A)(1) or (3), (B) or (C) is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates §
525.02(E)(1) is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree. If an offender who
violates §
525.02(E)(1) was under the age of 18 years at the time of the offense and the
offense occurred while the offender was the operator of or a passenger in a
motor vehicle, the court, in addition to any other penalties it imposes upon
the offender, shall suspend the offender's temporary instruction permit or
probationary driver's license for a period of not less than six months and not
more than one year. If the offender is 15 years and six months of age or older
and has not been issued a temporary instruction permit or probationary driver's
license, the offender shall not be eligible to be issued such a license or
permit for a period of six months. If the offender has not attained the age of
15 years and six months, the offender shall not be eligible to be issued a
temporary instruction permit until the offender attains the age of 16 years.
(R.C. § 4301.99(D))
   (F)   Whoever violates §
525.03(A)(2) or (D) is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(B))
   (G)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty is
otherwise provided, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(Am. Ord. 6032, passed 1-27-87)
CHAPTER 531: MINORS’ CURFEW
Section
   
531.01     Definitions
   
531.02     Curfew hours; prohibited conduct; exceptions
   
531.03     Parents’ responsibilities
   
531.04     Owners’ and operators’ responsibilities
   
531.05   Parental responsibilities
 
   
531.99     Enforcement and penalties
§ 531.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRIVE OR RIDE AIMLESSLY. To drive or to ride as a passenger in or upon any
public place by an unnecessarily circuitous route or to retrace the same route.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately owned place of business carried on for a
profit, or any place of amusement or entertainment to which the public is
invited.
   MINOR. Any person under the age of 18 years.
   OFFICIAL CITY TIME. Eastern Standard Time.
   OPERATOR. Any individual, firm, association, partnership, or corporation
operating, managing or conducting any establishment; whenever used on any
clause prescribing a penalty, the term OPERATOR, as applied to associations or
partnerships, includes the members or partners thereof, and as applied to a
corporation, includes the officers thereof.
   PARENT. Any natural parent of a minor, a guardian or any adult person 21
years of age or over, responsible for the care and custody of a minor.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any public street, highway, road, alley, park, playground,
public building or vacant lot.
   REMAIN. To loiter, idle, wander, stroll or play in or upon.
(Am. Ord. 3043, passed 9-28-76; Am. Ord. 7356, passed 4-22-97)
§ 531.02 CURFEW HOURS; PROHIBITED CONDUCT; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No minor shall remain in or upon any public place or any establishment
between the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the following day, official
city time, except that on Fridays and Saturdays the hours shall be from 12:00
midnight to 6:00 a.m.
   (B)   No minor enrolled in a public school shall remain in or upon any
public place or establishment during the school hours of the minor’s school.
   (C)   No minor shall drive or ride aimlessly in an automobile, a truck or a
motorcycle between the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the following day,
official city time, except that on Fridays and Saturdays the hours shall be
from 12:00 midnight to 6:00 a.m.
   (D)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any minor
accompanied by a parent, or to a minor upon an errand or other legitimate
business directed by such minor’s parent, or to any minor who is engaged in
gainful lawful employment during the school/curfew hours or to a minor
traveling from a scheduled school activity or event during the curfew hours.
   (E)   Any school, church, lodge or other organization that desires to hold
any activity for minors under 18 years of age, and which activity shall require
such minors to be out at a later hour than provided in this section, shall make
application to the City Manager for permission to have the minors stay out to a
later hour. The application shall state the time the activity will end, and the
minors who attend such activity shall be required to be off the streets and
public places one hour after the activity is ended.
(Am. Ord. 3043, passed 9-28-76; Am. Ord. 7356, passed 4-22-97)
Penalty, see § 531.99
§ 531.03 PARENTS’ RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   No parent shall knowingly permit any minor to remain in or upon any
public place or any establishment between the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
of the following day, official city time, except that on Fridays and Saturdays
the hours shall be from 12:00 midnight to 6:00 a.m.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any parent who
accompanies a minor, or to a parent who directs a minor upon an errand or other
legitimate business, or to any parent of a minor engaged in gainful lawful
employment during the curfew hours, or to any parent of a minor who shall
attend any activity in accordance with the provisions of §
531.02(E).
(Am. Ord. 3043, passed 9-28-76; Am. Ord. 7356, passed 4-22-97)
Penalty, see § 531.99
§ 531.04 OWNERS’ AND OPERATORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   No operator of an establishment or their agents or employees shall
knowingly permit any minor to remain upon the premises of such establishment
between the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the following day, official
city time, except that on Fridays and Saturdays the hours shall be from 12:00
midnight to 6:00 a.m.
(Am. Ord. 3043, passed 9-28-76; Am. Ord. 7356, passed 4-22-97)
Penalty, see § 531.99
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any minor
accompanied by a parent or to a minor upon an errand or other legitimate
business directed by such minor’s parent.
(Ord. 7356, passed 4-22-97)
§ 531.05 PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   A parent who has parental rights and responsibilities for the care of
a minor and is the residential parent and legal custodian of such minor, a
guardian who has custody of such minor, or other custodian of such minor, is
charged with the control of the minor and shall have the power to exercise
parental control and authority over the minor.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for a parent, legal custodian, legal guardian,
or other person lawfully charged with the care of a minor, to fail to supervise
such minor.
      (2)   Parental responsibility to supervise such minor and exercise
parental control with regard to such minor includes, but is not limited to, the
following duties:
         (a)   To keep illegal drugs out of the home and out of possession of
such minor, except those drugs duly prescribed by a licensed physician or other
authorized medical professional;
         (b)   To exercise and have in place reasonable controls so as to
prevent such minor from maliciously or willfully damaging, defacing or
destroying real or personal property belonging to others, including real or
personal property of the city;
         (c)   To exercise and have in place reasonable controls so as to
prevent such minor from engaging in theft of property or keeping in his or her
possession property known to be stolen;
         (d)   To exercise and have in place reasonable controls so as to
prevent such minor from engaging in violent or assaultive behavior directed at
persons.
      (3)   An adjudication that a minor has been found a “delinquent child,”
as defined in R.C. § 2151.02 for criminal conduct other than that which would
lead to a “status” crime violation, such as a curfew or truancy violation, or
has been found guilty of a criminal conviction when said minor has been tried
as an adult, shall be prima facie evidence that said parent or guardian failed
to supervise the minor.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to public children’s services agencies as
defined in R.C. § 2151.011, or to foster parents.
   (C)   In a prosecution of a person for failing to supervise a minor under
division (A) of this section, it is an affirmative defense that the person:
      (1)   Is the victim of the act that brings the minor within the
jurisdiction of the juvenile court, or
      (2)   reported the act to the appropriate authorities, or
      (3)   is charged with the parental control and authority over a minor who
is a “mentally retarded person” or a “developmentally disabled person” as these
terms are defined in R.C. § 5321.01.
(Ord. 7356, passed 4-22-97; Am. Ord. 2019-088, passed 10-22-19)
§ 531.99 ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any police officer who finds a minor violating any provisions of §
531.02 shall obtain information from such minor as to his or her name and
address, age, and the name of his or her parent or parents. The minor shall
thereupon be instructed to proceed to his or her home forthwith. A written
notice shall then be mailed by the Chief of Police to the parent or parents of
the minor, advising of the violation of §
531.02.
   (B)   Any parent who shall violate any provision of §
531.03, after having received notice of a prior violation as provided in
division (A) hereof, shall be fined not more than $100, together with costs.
   (C)   Any operator of an establishment and any agents or employees of any
operator who shall violate the provisions of §
531.04 shall be fined not more than $100, together with costs.
   (D)   Whoever violates §
531.05 is guilty of failing to supervise a minor. Upon first conviction, the
offender shall be subject to a fine of up to $250 and/or ordered to perform
community service. The fine and/or community service will be suspended if the
offender completes a parenting training class designated by the city. In
addition to any fine or order imposed pursuant to this section the Court may
order the offender to make restitution to any victim of the minor’s conduct.
The amount of restitution shall not exceed the statutory liability for parents
established in R.C. § 3109.09 and R.C. § 3109.10.
   (E)   Each violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Am. Ord. 3043, passed 9-28-76)
   (F)   For a conviction of a second offense and/or additional offenses, the
offender shall be subject to a fine of up to $500 and/or ordered to perform
community service for each offense.
(Ord. 7356, passed 4-22-97)
CHAPTER 537: MISLEADING OR DECEPTIVE TRADE PRACTICES
Section
   
537.01     Misleading or deceptive trade practices
Cross-reference:
   Penalties, misdemeanor classifications and sentencing, see
Ch. 599
§ 537.01 MISLEADING OR DECEPTIVE TRADE PRACTICES.
   (A)   No person shall engage in a deceptive trade practice when, in the
course of the person’s business, vocation or occupation, the person does any of
the following:
      (1)   Passes off goods or services as those of another;
      (2)   Causes likelihood of confusion or misunderstanding as to the
source, sponsorship, approval, or certification of goods or services;
      (3)   Causes likelihood of confusion or misunderstanding as to
affiliation, connection, or association with, or certification by, another;
      (4)   Uses deceptive representations or designations of geographic origin
in connection with goods or services;
      (5)   Lists a fictitious business name in a local telephone directory
that is published on or after the effective date of this amendment, in
circumstances in which all of the following apply:
         (a)   The person’s fictitious business name is not registered as a
trade name with, or its use as a fictitious name has not been reported to, the
Secretary of State under R.C. §§ 1329.01 through 1329.10.
         (b)   The person’s listed fictitious business name misrepresents the
geographic location of the person, because that name includes a reference to a
political subdivision or another geographic area of this state, the person does
not have business premises in that political subdivision or other geographic
area from which the person sells, leases, rents or otherwise provides
particular goods or services in this state, and the person’s use of that name
causes a likelihood of confusion or misunderstanding by consumers as to the
geographic location with which the consumers are dealing in the purchase,
lease, rental, or other provision of, or will be dealing in the resolution of
problems that may arise in connection with, particular goods or services.
         (c)   The local telephone directory listing of the person’s fictitious
business name does not identify the political subdivision and, if the person is
not located in this state, the state in which are located the person’s business
premises with which consumers are dealing in the purchase, lease, rental, or
other provision of, or will be dealing in the resolution of problems that may
arise in connection with, particular goods or services.
         (d)   Telephone calls to the local telephone number listed for the
person’s fictitious business name routinely are forwarded or otherwise
transferred to business premises of the person that are located outside the
calling area covered by the local telephone directory.
      (6)   Lists a fictitious business name in a directory assistance database
on or after the effective date of this amendment, the circumstances described
in divisions (A)(5)(a) and (b) of this section apply regarding the person’s
listed fictitious business name, and telephone calls to the local telephone
number listed for the person’s fictitious business name routinely are forwarded
or otherwise transferred to business premises of the person that are located
outside the local calling area;
      (7)   Represents that goods or services have sponsorship, approval,
characteristics, ingredients, uses, benefits, or quantities that they do not
have or that a person has a sponsorship, approval, status, affiliation, or
connection that the person does not have;
      (8)   Represents that goods are original or new if they are deteriorated,
altered, reconditioned, reclaimed, used, or secondhand;
      (9)   Represents that goods or services are of a particular standard,
quality, or grade, or that goods are of a particular style or model, if they
are another;
      (10)   Disparages the goods, services, or business of another by false
representation of fact;
      (11)   Advertises goods or services with intent not to supply reasonably
expectable public demand, unless the advertisement discloses a limitation of
quantity;
      (12)   Makes false statements of fact concerning the reasons for,
existence of, or amounts of price reductions;
      (13)   Advertises goods or services with intent not to supply reasonably
expectable public demand, unless the advertisement discloses a limitation of
quantity.
   (B)   In order to prevail in a civil action under R.C. § 4165.03 that seeks
injunctive relief or an award of damages and that is based on one or more
deceptive trade practices listed in division (A) of this section, a complainant
need not prove competition between the parties to the civil action.
   (C)   This section does not affect unfair trade practices that are otherwise
actionable at common law or under other sections of the Ohio Revised Code.
   (D)   A telephone company, provider of directory assistance, publisher of a
local telephone directory, or officer, employee, or agent of the company,
provider, or publisher shall not be liable in a civil action under R.C. §
4165.03 for publishing in any directory or directory assistance database the
listing of a fictitious business name of a person who commits a deceptive trade
practice that is listed in division (A) of this section unless the telephone
company, provider of directory assistance, publisher of a local telephone
directory, or officer, employee, or agent of the company, provider, or
publisher is the person who committed the deceptive trade practice listed in
division (A) of this section.
(R.C. § 4165.02)
   (E)   This section does not apply to either of the following:
      (1)   Conduct that is in compliance with the orders or rules of, or a
statute administered by, a federal, state or local governmental agency;
      (2)   Publishers, broadcasters, printers, or other persons who are
engaged in the dissemination of information or reproduction of printed or
pictorial matter and who publish, broadcast, or reproduce material without
knowledge of its deceptive character.
   (F)   Divisions (A)(2) and (A)(3) do not apply to the use of a service mark,
trademark, certification mark, collective mark, trade name, or other trade
identification that was used and not abandoned before September 25, 1969, if
the use was in good faith and otherwise is lawful except for the provisions of
this chapter.
(R.C. § 4165.04)
Statutory reference:
   Injunctions and damages, see R.C. § 4165.03
CHAPTER 541: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
541.01     Streets, sidewalks, etc., to be kept free of obstructions
   
541.02     Snow removal
   
541.03     Sidewalk nuisances
 
   
541.99     Penalty
§ 541.01 STREETS, SIDEWALKS, ETC., TO BE KEPT FREE OF OBSTRUCTIONS.
   The streets, alleys, sidewalks and gutters of the city shall at all times be
kept clean and free from all obstructions by the owner, occupant or person
having control of the property abutting thereon.
(Am. Ord. 3043, passed 9-28-76)
Penalty, see § 541.99  
§ 541.02 SNOW REMOVAL.
   (A)   The owner, occupant or person having the care of any building or lot
of land bordering on any street with graded or paved sidewalk, within the first
four hours after daylight, following or during a fall of snow, shall cause the
snow to be removed from such sidewalk.
   (B)   Whenever any sidewalk or any part thereof shall become encumbered with
ice, the owner, occupant or person in control, within the first four hours
after daylight, following or during its formation, shall cause such sidewalk to
be made safe by removing such ice or sprinkling the same with sand, salt or
other suitable substance.
(Am. Ord. 3043, passed 9-28-76)
Penalty, see § 541.99
§ 541.03 SIDEWALK NUISANCES.
   (A)   No person shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a sidewalk or
playground any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails or other articles that may
damage or injure any person or animal traveling along or upon such sidewalk or
playground.
   (B)   No person shall walk on or allow any animal upon, or injure or deface
in any way any soft or newly laid sidewalk pavement.
   (C)   No person shall place, deposit or maintain any merchandise, goods,
material or equipment upon any public sidewalk, except for such reasonable time
as may be actually necessary for the delivery or pickup of such articles. In no
case shall the obstruction remain on such sidewalk for more than one hour.
   (D)   No person shall unload upon, or transport any heavy merchandise,
goods, material or equipment over or across any sidewalk or curb without first
placing some sufficient protection over the pavement to protect against damage
or injury.
   (E)   No person shall allow any cellar or trap door, coal chute or elevator
or lift opening in any sidewalk to remain open without providing suitable
safeguards to protect and warn pedestrian traffic of the dangerous condition.
(Am. Ord. 3043, passed 9-28-76)
Penalty, see § 541.99
§ 541.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more than
$150 for each offense.
(Am. Ord. 3043, passed 9-28-76)
CHAPTER 549: WEEDS [REPEALED]
CHAPTER 599: PENALTIES AND SENTENCING
Section
   
599.01     Definitions
   
599.02     Penalties for misdemeanors
   
599.03     Imposing sentence for misdemeanor
   
599.04     Modification of sentence [Repealed]
   
599.05     Payment of costs of confinement
§ 599.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS OFFENDER. A person who has committed an offense, whose history,
character, and condition reveal a substantial risk that he or she will be a
danger to others, and whose conduct has been characterized by a pattern or
repetitive, compulsive, or aggressive behavior with heedless indifference to
the consequences.
   REPEAT OFFENDER.  A person who has a history of persistent criminal
activity, and whose character and condition reveal a substantial risk that the
person will commit another offense. It is prima-facie evidence that a person is
a repeat offender if any of the following apply:
      (1)   Having been convicted of one or more offenses of violence and
having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for any such offense, the person
commits a subsequent offense of violence;
      (2)   Having been convicted of one or more sexually oriented offenses as
defined in R.C. § 2950.01 and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for
one or more of those offenses, the person commits a subsequent sexually
oriented offense;
      (3)   Having been convicted of one or more theft offenses as defined in
R.C. § 2913.01 and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for one or more
of those theft offenses, the person commits a subsequent theft offense;
      (4)   Having been convicted of one or more felony drug abuse offenses as
defined in R.C. § 2925.01 and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for
one or more of those felony drug abuse offenses, the person commits a
subsequent felony drug abuse offense;
      (5)   Having been convicted of two or more felonies and having been
imprisoned pursuant to sentence for one or more felonies, the person commits a
subsequent offense;
      (6)   Having been convicted of three or more offenses of any type or
degree other than traffic offenses, alcoholic intoxication offenses, or minor
misdemeanors and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for any such
offense, the person commits a subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 2935.36) (Am. Ord. 3043, passed 9-28-76)
§ 599.02 PENALTIES FOR MISDEMEANORS.
   (A)   Except where otherwise specifically classified within the body of the
section of a chapter of this title, a violation of such section shall be deemed
a misdemeanor punishable upon conviction by a fine of not more than $500,
imprisonment of not more than six months, or both.
(R.C. § 715.67)
   (B)   Considerations in misdemeanor sentencing.
      (1)   A court that sentences an offender for a misdemeanor violation of
any provision of the Ohio Revised Code, or of any municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to a misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor violation of a
provision of the Ohio Revised Code, or minor misdemeanor shall be guided by the
overriding purposes of misdemeanor sentencing. The overriding purposes of
misdemeanor sentencing are to protect the public from future crime by the
offender and others and to punish the offender. To achieve those purposes, the
sentencing court shall consider the impact of the offense upon the victim and
the need for changing the offender’s behavior, rehabilitating the defender, and
making restitution to the victim of the offense, the public, or the victim and
the public.
      (2)   A sentence imposed for a misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor violation
of an Ohio Revised Code provision or for a violation of a municipal ordinance
that is subject to division (B)(1) of this section shall be reasonably
calculated to achieve the two overriding purposes of misdemeanor sentencing set
forth in division (B)(1) of this section, commensurate with and not demeaning
to the seriousness of the offender’s conduct and its impact upon the victim,
and consistent with sentences imposed for similar offenses committed by similar
offenders.
      (3)   A court that imposes a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor
violation of an Ohio Revised Code provision or for a violation of a municipal
ordinance that is subject to division (B)(1) of this section or minor
misdemeanor shall not base the sentence upon the race, ethnic background,
gender, or religion of the offender.
      (4)   Divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) of this section shall not apply to any
offense that is disposed of by a traffic violations bureau of any court
pursuant to Traffic Rule 13 and shall not apply to any violation of any
provision of the Ohio Revised Code that is a minor misdemeanor and that is
disposed of without a court appearance. Divisions (B)(1) to (B)(3) of this
section do not affect any penalties established by the municipality for a
violation of its ordinances that are not substantially equivalent to a
misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor violation of a provision of the Ohio Revised
Code.
(R.C. § 2929.21)
   (C)   Misdemeanor jail terms.
      (1)   Except as provided in §
599.03 or
503.99 of this code or R.C. § 2929.22 or 2929.23 or division (C)(5) of this
section and unless another term is required or authorized pursuant to law, if
the sentencing court imposing a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor
elects or is required to impose a jail term on the offender pursuant to this
chapter, the court shall impose a definite jail term that shall be one of the
following:
         (a)   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than 180 days;
         (b)   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than 90 days;
         (c)   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than 60 days;
         (d)   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than 30 days.
      (2)   (a)   A court that sentences an offender to a jail term under
division (C) of this section may permit the offender to serve the sentence in
intermittent confinement or may authorize a limited release of the offender as
provided in division (E)(2) of this section. The court retains jurisdiction
over every offender sentenced to jail to modify the jail sentence imposed at
any time, but the court shall not reduce any mandatory jail term.
         (b)   1.   If a prosecutor, as defined in R.C. § 2935.01, has filed a
notice with the court that the prosecutor wants to be notified about a
particular case and if the court is considering modifying the jail sentence of
the offender in that case, the court shall notify the prosecutor that the court
is considering modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case. The
prosecutor may request a hearing regarding the court’s consideration of
modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case, and, if the
prosecutor requests a hearing, the court shall notify the eligible offender of
the hearing.
            2.   If the prosecutor requests a hearing regarding the court’s
consideration of modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case, the
court shall hold the hearing before considering whether or not to release the
offender from the offender’s jail sentence.
      (3)   If a court sentences an offender to a jail term under division (C)
of this section and the court assigns the offender to a county jail that has
established a county jail industry program pursuant to R.C. § 5147.30, the
court shall specify, as part of the sentence, whether the offender may be
considered for participation in the program. During the offender’s term in the
county jail, the court retains jurisdiction to modify its specification
regarding the offender’s participation in the county jail industry program.
      (4)   If a person sentenced to a jail term pursuant to division (C) of
this section, the court may impose as part of the sentence pursuant to R.C. §
2929.28 a reimbursement sanction, and, if the local detention facility in which
the term is to be served is covered by a policy adopted pursuant to R.C. §§
307.93, 341.14, 341.19, 341.21, 341.23, 753.02, 753.04, 753.16, 2301.56, or
2947.19 and R.C. § 2929.37, both of the following apply:
         (a)   The court shall specify both of the following as part of the
sentence:
            1.   If the person is presented with an itemized bill pursuant to
R.C. § 2929.37 for payment of the costs of confinement, the person is required
to pay the bill in accordance with that section.
            2.   If the person does not dispute the bill described in division
(C)(4)(a)1. of this section and does not pay the bill by the times specified in
R.C. § 2929.37, the clerk of the court may issue a certificate of judgment
against the person as described in that section.
         (b)   The sentence automatically includes any certificate of judgment
issued as described in division (C)(4)(a)2. of this section.
      (5)   (a)   If an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
misdemeanor violation of R.C. § 2907.23, 2907.24, 2907.241, or 2907.25, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and to a specification of the
type described in R.C. § 2941.1421 and if the court imposes a jail term on the
offender for the misdemeanor violation, the court may impose upon the offender
an additional definite jail term as follows:
            1.   Subject to division (C)(5)(a)2. of this section, an additional
definite jail term of not more than 60 days;
            2.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one or more misdemeanor or felony violations of R.C. § 2907.22,
2907.23, 2907.24, 2907.241, or 2907.25, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, and also was convicted of or pleaded guilty to a
specification of the type described in R.C. § 2941.1421 regarding one or more
of those violations, an additional definite jail term of not more than 120
days.
         (b)   In lieu of imposing an additional definite jail term under
division (C)(5)(a) of this section, the court may directly impose on the
offender a sanction that requires the offender to wear a real-time processing,
continual tracking electronic monitoring device during the period of time
specified by the court. The period of time specified by the court shall equal
the duration of an additional jail term that the court could have imposed upon
the offender under division (C)(5)(a) of this section. A sanction imposed under
this division shall commence on the date specified by the court, provided that
the sanction shall not commence until after the offender has served the jail
term imposed for the misdemeanor violation of R.C. § 2907.23, 2907.24,
2907.241, or 2907.25, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and
any residential sanction imposed for the violation under division (E) of this
section or R.C. § 2929.26. A sanction imposed under this division shall be
considered to be a community control sanction for purposes of division (D) of
this section or R.C. § 2929.25, and all provisions of this Code and the Ohio
Revised Code that pertain to community control sanctions shall apply to a
sanction imposed under this division, except to the extent that they would by
their nature be clearly inapplicable. The offender shall pay all costs
associated with a sanction imposed under this division, including the cost of
the use of the monitoring device.
      (6)   If an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor
violation of R.C. § 2903.13 and also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
specification of the type described in R.C. § 2941.1423 that charges that the
victim of the violation was a woman whom the offender knew was pregnant at the
time of the violation, the court shall impose on the offender a mandatory jail
term that is a definite term of at least 30 days.
      (7)   If a court sentences an offender to a jail term under this division
(C), the sentencing court retains jurisdiction over the offender and the jail
term. Upon motion of either party or upon the court’s own motion, the court, in
the court’s sole discretion and as the circumstances warrant, may substitute
one or more community control sanctions under division (E) or (F) of this
section for any jail days that are not mandatory jail days.
(R.C. § 2929.24)
   (D)   Misdemeanor community control sanctions.
      (1)   (a)   Except as provided in §§
599.03 and
503.99 of this Code or R.C. §§ 2929.22 and 2929.23 or when a jail term is
required by law, in sentencing an offender for a misdemeanor, other than a
minor misdemeanor, the sentencing court may do either of the following:
            1.   Directly impose a sentence that consists of one or more
community control sanctions authorized by divisions (E), (F), or (G) of this
section. The court may impose any other conditions of release under a community
control sanction that the court considers appropriate. If the court imposes a
jail term upon the offender, the court may impose any community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions in addition to the jail
term.
            2.   Impose a jail term under division (C) of this section from the
range of jail terms authorized under that division for the offense, suspend all
or a portion of the jail term imposed, and place the offender under a community
control sanction or combination of community control sanctions authorized under
divisions (E), (F), or (G) of this section.
         (b)   The duration of all community control sanctions imposed upon an
offender and in effect for an offender at any time shall not exceed five years.
         (c)   At sentencing, if a court directly imposes a community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions pursuant to division (D)
(1)(a)1. of this section, the court shall state the duration of the community
control sanctions imposed and shall notify the offender that if any of the
conditions of the community control sanctions are violated the court may do any
of the following:
            1.   Impose a longer time under the same community control sanction
if the total time under all of the offender’s community control sanctions does
not exceed the five- year limit specified in division (D)(1)(b) of this
section;
            2.   Impose a more restrictive community control sanction under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section, but the court is not required to
impose any particular sanction or sanctions;
            3.   Impose a definite jail term from the range of jail terms
authorized for the offense under division (C) of this section.
      (2)   If a court sentences an offender to any community control sanction
or combination of community control sanctions pursuant to division (D)(1)(a)1.
of this section, the sentencing court retains jurisdiction over the offender
and the period of community control for the duration of the period of community
control. Upon the motion of either party or on the court’s own motion, the
court, in the court’s sole discretion and as the circumstances warrant, may
modify the community control sanctions or conditions of release previously
imposed, substitute a community control sanction or condition of release for
another community control sanction or condition of release previously imposed,
or impose an additional community control sanction or condition of release.
      (3)   (a)   If a court sentences an offender to any community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions authorized under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section, the court shall place the offender
under the general control and supervision of the court or of a department of
probation in the jurisdiction that serves the court for purposes of reporting
to the court a violation of any of the conditions of the sanctions imposed. If
the offender resides in another jurisdiction and a department of probation has
been established to serve the municipal court or county court in that
jurisdiction, the sentencing court may request the municipal court or the
county court to receive the offender into the general control and supervision
of that department of probation for purposes of reporting to the sentencing
court a violation of any of the conditions of the sanctions imposed. The
sentencing court retains jurisdiction over any offender whom it sentences for
the duration of the sanction or sanctions imposed.
         (b)   The sentencing court shall require as a condition of any
community control sanction that the offender abide by the law and not leave the
state without the permission of the court or the offender’s probation officer.
In the interests of doing justice, rehabilitating the offender, and ensuring
the offender’s good behavior, the court may impose additional requirements on
the offender. The offender’s compliance with the additional requirements also
shall be a condition of the community control sanction imposed upon the
offender.
      (4)   (a)   If the court imposing sentence upon an offender sentences the
offender to any community control sanction or combination of community control
sanctions authorized under division (E), (F), or (G) of this section, and the
offender violates any of the conditions of the sanctions, the public or private
person or entity that supervises or administers the program or activity that
comprises the sanction shall report the violation directly to the sentencing
court or to the department of probation or probation officer with general
control and supervision over the offender. If the public or private person or
entity reports the violation to the department of probation or probation
officer, the department or officer shall report the violation to the sentencing
court.
         (b)   Except as provided in division (D)(4)(c) of this section, if an
offender violates any condition of a community control sanction, the sentencing
court may impose upon the violator one or more of the following penalties:
            1.   A longer time under the same community control sanction if the
total time under all of the community control sanctions imposed on the violator
does not exceed the five-year limit specified in division (D)(1)(b) of this
section;
            2.   A more restrictive community control sanction;
            3.   A combination of community control sanctions, including a jail
term.
         (c)   If an offender was acting pursuant to R.C. § 2925.11(B)(2)(b),
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or a related provision
under R.C. § 2925.12, R.C. § 2925.14, or R.C. § 2925.141, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, and in so doing violated the conditions of a
community control sanction based on a minor drug possession offense, as defined
in R.C. § 2925.11, or violated R.C. § 2925.12, R.C. § 2925.14(C)(1), or R.C. §
2925.141, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the sentencing
court shall not impose any of the penalties described in division (D)(4)(b) of
this section based on the violation.
         (d)   If the court imposes a jail term upon a violator pursuant to
division (D)(4)(b) of this section, the total time spent in jail for the
misdemeanor offense and the violation of a condition of the community control
sanction shall not exceed the maximum jail term available for the offense for
which the sanction that was violated was imposed. The court may reduce the
longer period of time that the violator is required to spend under the longer
sanction or the more restrictive sanction imposed under division (D)(4)(b) of
this section by all or part of the time the violator successfully spent under
the sanction that was initially imposed.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if an offender, for
a significant period of time, fulfills the conditions of a community control
sanction imposed pursuant to division (E), (F), or (G) of this section in an
exemplary manner, the court may reduce the period of time under the community
control sanction or impose a less restrictive community control sanction.
Fulfilling the conditions of a community control sanction does not relieve the
offender of a duty to make restitution under division (G) of this section.
(R.C. § 2929.25)
   (E)   Community residential sanction.
      (1)   Except when a mandatory jail term is required by law, the court
imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a minor misdemeanor, may
impose upon the offender any community residential sanction or combination of
community residential sanctions under this division (E). Community residential
sanctions include, but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   A term of up to 180 days in a halfway house or a term in a
halfway house not to exceed the longest jail term available for the offense,
whichever is shorter, if the political subdivision that would have
responsibility for paying the costs of confining the offender in a jail has
entered into a contract with the halfway house for use of the facility for
misdemeanor offenders;
         (b)   If the offender is an eligible offender, as defined in R.C. §
307.932, a term in a community alternative sentencing center or district
community alternative sentencing center established and operated in accordance
with that section, in the circumstances specified in that section, with one of
the conditions of the sanction being that the offender successfully complete
the portion of the sentence to be served in the center.
      (2)   A sentence to a community residential sanction under division (E)
(1)(b) of this section shall be in accordance with R.C. § 307.932. In all other
cases, the court that sentences an offender to a community residential sanction
under this division (E) may do either or both of the following:
         (a)   Permit the offender to serve the offender’s sentence in
intermittent confinement, overnight, on weekends or at any other time or times
that will allow the offender to continue at the offender’s occupation or care
for the offender’s family;
         (b)   Authorize the offender to be released so that the offender may
seek or maintain employment, receive education or training, receive treatment,
perform community service, or otherwise fulfill an obligation imposed by law or
by the court. A release pursuant to this division shall be only for the
duration of time that is needed to fulfill the purpose of the release and for
travel that reasonably is necessary to fulfill the purposes of release.
      (3)   The court may order that a reasonable portion of the income earned
by the offender upon a release pursuant to division (E)(2) of this section be
applied to any financial sanction imposed under division (G) of this section.
      (4)   No court shall sentence any person to a prison term for a
misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor or to a jail term for a minor misdemeanor.
      (5)   If a court sentences a person who has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a misdemeanor to a community residential sanction as described in
division (E)(1) of this section, at the time of reception and at other times
the person in charge of the operation of the halfway house, community
alternative sentencing center, district community alternative sentencing
center, or other place at which the offender will serve the residential
sanction determines to be appropriate, the person in charge of the operation of
the halfway house, community alternative sentencing center, district community
alternative sentencing center, or other place may cause the convicted offender
to be examined and tested for tuberculosis, HIV infection, hepatitis,
including, but not limited to, hepatitis A, B, and C, and other contagious
diseases. The person in charge of the operation of the halfway house, community
alternative sentencing center, district community alternative sentencing
center, or other place at which the offender will serve the residential
sanction may cause a convicted offender in the halfway house, community
alternative sentencing center, district community alternative sentencing
center, or other place who refuses to be tested or treated for tuberculosis,
HIV infection, hepatitis, including, but not limited to, hepatitis A, B, and C,
or another contagious disease to be tested and treated involuntarily.
      (6)   The municipality may enter into a contract with a halfway house for
use of the halfway house to house misdemeanor offenders under a sanction
imposed under division (E)(1)(a) of this section.
(R.C. § 2929.26)
   (F)   Nonresidential sanction where jail term is not mandatory.
      (1)   Except when a mandatory jail term is required by law, the court
imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a minor misdemeanor, may
impose upon the offender any nonresidential sanction or combination of
nonresidential sanctions authorized under this division. Nonresidential
sanctions include, but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   A term of day reporting;
         (b)   A term of house arrest with electronic monitoring or continuous
alcohol monitoring or both electronic monitoring and continuous alcohol
monitoring, a term of electronic monitoring or continuous alcohol monitoring
without house arrest, or a term of house arrest without electronic monitoring
or continuous alcohol monitoring;
         (c)   A term of community service of up to 500 hours for misdemeanor
of the first degree or 200 hours for a misdemeanor of the second, third, or
fourth degree;
         (d)   A term in a drug treatment program with a level of security for
the offender as determined necessary by the court;
         (e)   A term of intensive probation supervision;
         (f)   A term of basic probation supervision;
         (g)   A term of drug and alcohol use monitoring, including random drug
testing;
         (h)   A curfew term;
         (i)   A requirement that the offender obtain employment;
         (j)   A requirement that the offender obtain education or training;
         (k)   Provided the court obtains the prior approval of the victim, a
requirement that the offender participate in victim-offender mediation;
         (l)   If authorized by law, suspension of the offender’s privilege to
operate a motor vehicle, immobilization or forfeiture of the offender’s motor
vehicle, a requirement that the offender obtain a valid motor vehicle
operator’s license, or any other related sanction;
         (m)   A requirement that the offender obtain counseling if the offense
is a violation of R.C. § 2919.25 or a substantially similar municipal ordinance
or a violation of R.C. § 2903.13 or a substantially similar municipal ordinance
involving a person who was a family or household member at the time of the
violation, if the offender committed the offense in the vicinity of one or more
children who are not victims of the offense, and if the offender or the victim
of the offense is a parent, guardian, custodian, or person in loco parentis of
one or more of those children. This division does not limit the court in
requiring that the offender obtain counseling for any offense or in any
circumstance not specified in this division.
      (2)   If the court imposes a term of community service pursuant to
division (F)(1)(c) of this section, the offender may request that the court
modify the sentence to authorize the offender to make a reasonable
contribution, as determined by the court, to the general fund of the county,
municipality, or other local entity that provides funding to the court. The
court may grant the request if the offender demonstrates a change in
circumstances from the date the court imposes the sentence or that the
modification would otherwise be in the interests of justice. If the court
grants the request, the offender shall make a reasonable contribution to the
court, and the clerk of the court shall deposit that contribution into the
general fund of the county, municipality, or other local entity that provides
funding to the court. If more than one entity provides funding to the court,
the clerk shall deposit a percentage of the reasonable contribution equal to
the percentage of funding the entity provides to the court in that entity’s
general fund.
      (3)   In addition to the sanctions authorized under division (F)(1) of
this section, the court imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a
minor misdemeanor, upon an offender who is not required to serve a mandatory
jail term may impose any other sanction that is intended to discourage the
offender or other persons from committing a similar offense if the sanction is
reasonably related to the overriding purposes and principles of misdemeanor
sentencing.
      (4)   The court imposing a sentence for a minor misdemeanor may impose a
term of community service in lieu of all or part of a fine. The term of
community service imposed for a minor misdemeanor shall not exceed 30 hours.
After imposing a term of community service, the court may modify the sentence
to authorize a reasonable contribution, as determined by the court, to the
appropriate general fund as provided in division (F)(2) of this section.
(R.C. § 2929.27)
   (G)   Financial sanctions.
      (1)   In addition to imposing court costs pursuant to R.C. § 2947.23, the
court imposing a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor, including a minor
misdemeanor, may sentence the offender to any financial sanction or combination
of financial sanctions authorized under this division (G) and, if the offender
is being sentenced for a criminal offense as defined in R.C. § 2930.01, shall
sentence the offender to make restitution pursuant to this division (G) and
R.C. § 2929.281. If the court, in its discretion or as required by this
division (G), imposes one or more financial sanctions, the financial sanctions
that may be imposed pursuant to this division (G) include, but are not limited
to, the following:
         (a)   Restitution.
            1.   Unless the misdemeanor offense could be disposed of by the
traffic violations bureau serving the court under Traffic Rule 13, restitution
by the offender to the victim of the offender's crime or the victim's estate,
in an amount based on the victim's economic loss. The court may not impose
restitution as a sanction pursuant to this division if the offense could be
disposed of by the traffic violations bureau serving the court under Traffic
Rule 13. If the court requires restitution, the court shall order that the
restitution be made to the victim in open court or to the adult probation
department that serves the jurisdiction or the clerk of the court on behalf of
the victim.
            2.   The court shall determine the amount of restitution to be paid
by the offender. The victim, victim's representative, victim's attorney, if
applicable, the prosecutor or the prosecutor's designee, and the offender may
provide information relevant to the determination of the amount of restitution.
The amount the court orders as restitution shall not exceed the amount of the
economic loss suffered by the victim as a direct and proximate result of the
commission of the offense. If the court imposes restitution for the cost of
accounting or auditing done to determine the extent of economic loss, the court
may order restitution for any amount of the victim's costs of accounting or
auditing provided that the amount of restitution is reasonable and does not
exceed the value of property or services stolen or damaged as a result of the
offense. If the court decides to or is required to impose restitution, the
court shall hold an evidentiary hearing on restitution if the offender, victim,
victim's representative, victim's attorney, if applicable, or victim's estate
disputes the amount of restitution. The court shall determine the amount of
full restitution by a preponderance of the evidence.
            3.   All restitution payments shall be credited against any
recovery of economic loss in a civil action brought by the victim or the
victim's estate against the offender. No person may introduce evidence of an
award of restitution under this division (G) in a civil action for purposes of
imposing liability against an insurer under R.C. § 3937.18.
            4.   The court may order that the offender pay a surcharge, of not
more than 5% of the amount of the restitution otherwise ordered, to the entity
responsible for collecting and processing restitution payments.
            5.   The victim, victim's attorney, if applicable, or the attorney
for the victim's estate may request that the prosecutor in the case file a
motion, or the offender may file a motion, for modification of the payment
terms of any restitution ordered. If the court grants the motion, it may modify
the payment terms as it determines appropriate but shall not reduce the amount
of restitution ordered, except as provided in R.C. § 2929.281(A).
         (b)   Fines. A fine of the type described in divisions (G)(1)(b)1. and
2. of this section payable to the appropriate entity as required by law:
            1.   A fine in the following amount:
               A.   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than
$1,000;
               B.   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than $750;
               C.   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than $500;
               D.   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than $250;
               E.   For a minor misdemeanor, not more than $150.
            2.   A state fine or cost as defined in R.C. § 2949.111.
         (c)   Reimbursement.
            1.    Reimbursement by the offender of any or all of the costs of
sanctions incurred by the government, including, but not limited to, the
following:
               A.   All or part of the costs of implementing any community
control sanction, including a supervision fee under R.C. § 2951.021 and the
costs of global positioning system device monitoring;
               B.   All or part of the costs of confinement in a jail or other
residential facility, including, but not limited to, a per diem fee for room
and board, the costs of medical and dental treatment, and the costs of
repairing property damaged by the offender while confined;
               C.   All or part of the cost of purchasing and using an
immobilizing or disabling device, including a certified ignition interlock
device, or a remote alcohol monitoring device that a court orders an offender
to use under R.C. § 4510.13.
            2.   The amount of reimbursement under division (G)(1)(c)1. of this
section shall not exceed the total amount of reimbursement the offender is able
to pay and shall not exceed the actual cost of the sanctions. The court may
collect any amount of reimbursement the offender is required to pay under that
division. If the court does not order reimbursement under that division,
confinement costs may be assessed pursuant to a repayment policy adopted under
R.C. § 2929.37. In addition, the offender may be required to pay the fees
specified in R.C. § 2929.38 in accordance with that section.   
      (2)   (a)   If the court determines a hearing is necessary, the court may
hold a hearing to determine whether the offender is able to pay the financial
sanction imposed pursuant to this division (G) or court costs or is likely in
the future to be able to pay the sanction or costs.
         (b)   If the court determines that the offender is indigent and unable
to pay the financial sanction or court costs, the court shall consider imposing
and may impose a term of community service under division (F)(1) of this
section in lieu of imposing a financial sanction or court costs. If the court
does not determine that the offender is indigent, the court may impose a term
of community service under division (F)(1) of this section in lieu of or in
addition to imposing a financial sanction under this division (G) and in
addition to imposing court costs. The court may order community service for a
minor misdemeanor pursuant to division (F)(4) of this section in lieu of or in
addition to imposing a financial sanction under this section and in addition to
imposing court costs. If a person fails to pay a financial sanction or court
costs, the court may order community service in lieu of the financial sanction
or court costs.
      (3)   (a)   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed upon the
offender pursuant to division (G)(1)(c) of this section to pay the costs
incurred by a county pursuant to any sanction imposed under division (E), (F),
or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to confine offenders
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this section to the county
treasurer. The county treasurer shall deposit the reimbursements in the
county’s general fund. The county shall use the amounts deposited in the fund
to pay the costs incurred by the county pursuant to any sanction imposed under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to
confine offenders pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this
section.
         (b)   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed upon the offender
pursuant to division (G)(1)(c) of this section to pay the costs incurred by a
municipal corporation pursuant to any sanction imposed under division (E), (F),
or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to confine offenders
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this section to the
treasurer of the municipal corporation. The treasurer shall deposit the
reimbursements in the municipal corporation’s general fund. The municipal
corporation shall use the amounts deposited in the fund to pay the costs
incurred by the municipal corporation pursuant to any sanction imposed under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to
confine offenders pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this
section.
         (c)   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed pursuant to
division (G)(1)(c) of this section for the costs incurred by a private provider
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E), (F), or (G) of this section
to the provider.
      (4)   (a)   In addition to any other fine that is or may be imposed under
this section, the court imposing sentence upon an offender for misdemeanor
domestic violence or menacing by stalking may impose a fine of not less than
$70 nor more than $500, which shall, except as provided in divisions (G)(4)(b)
and (G)(4)(c) of this section, be transmitted to the Treasurer of Ohio to be
credited to the address confidentiality program fund created by R.C. § 111.48.
         (b)   A court that imposes a fine under division (G)(4)(a) of this
section may retain up to 25% of amounts collected in satisfaction of the fine
to cover administrative costs.
         (c)   A court that imposes a fine under division (G)(4)(a) of this
section may assign up to 25% of amounts collected in satisfaction of the fine
to reimburse the prosecuting attorney for costs associated with prosecution of
the offense.
      (5)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (G)(5), a
financial sanction imposed under division (G)(1) of this section is a judgment
in favor of the state or the political subdivision that operates the court that
imposed the financial sanction, and the offender subject to the financial
sanction is the judgment debtor. A financial sanction of reimbursement imposed
pursuant to division (G)(1)(c)1.A. of this section upon an offender is a
judgment in favor of the entity administering the community control sanction,
and the offender subject to the financial sanction is the judgment debtor. A
financial sanction of reimbursement imposed pursuant to division (G)(1)(c)1.B.
of this section upon an offender confined in a jail or other residential
facility is a judgment in favor of the entity operating the jail or other
residential facility, and the offender subject to the financial sanction is the
judgment debtor. A financial sanction of restitution imposed pursuant to
division (G)(1)(a) of this section is an order in favor of the victim of the
offender’s criminal act that can be collected through a certificate of judgment
as described in division (G)(5)(b)1. of this section, through execution as
described in division (G)(5)(b)2. of this section or through an order as
described in division (G)(5)(b)3. of this section and the offender shall be
considered for purposes of the collection as a judgment debtor.
         (b)   Once a financial sanction is imposed as a judgment or order
under this division, the victim, private provider, state, or political
subdivision may do any of the following:
            1.   Obtain from the clerk of the court in which the judgment was
entered, at no charge, a certificate of judgment that shall be in the same
manner and form as a certificate of judgment issued in a civil action;
            2.   Obtain execution of the judgment or order through any
available procedure, including any of the procedures identified in R.C. §
2929.18(D)(1) and (D)(2) or a substantially similar municipal ordinance.
            3.   Obtain an order for the assignment of wages of the judgment
debtor under R.C. § 1321.33 or a substantially similar municipal ordinance.
      (6)   The civil remedies authorized under division (G)(5) of this section
for the collection of the financial sanction supplement, but do not preclude,
enforcement of the criminal sentence.
      (7)   Each court imposing a financial sanction upon an offender under
this division (G) may designate the clerk of the court or another person to
collect the financial sanction. The clerk, or another person authorized by law
or the court to collect the financial sanction may do the following:
         (a)   Enter into contracts with one or more public agencies or private
vendors for the collection of amounts due under the sanction. Before entering
into a contract for the collection of amounts due from an offender pursuant to
any financial sanction imposed pursuant to this division (G), a court shall
comply with R.C. §§ 307.86 to 307.92.
         (b)   Permit payment of all or any portion of the sanction in
installments, by financial transaction device if the court is a county court or
a municipal court operated by a county, or by any other reasonable method, in
any time, and on any terms that the court considers just. If the court is a
county court or a municipal court operated by a county, the acceptance of
payments by any financial transaction device shall be governed by the policy
adopted by the board of county commissioners of the county pursuant to R.C. §
301.28. If the court is a municipal court not operated by a county, the clerk
may pay any fee associated with processing an electronic transfer out of public
money or may charge the fee to the offender.
         (c)   To defray administrative costs, charge a reasonable fee to an
offender who elects a payment plan rather than a lump sum payment of any
financial sanction.
      (8)   No financial sanction imposed under this division (G) shall
preclude a victim from bringing a civil action against the offender.
      (9)   If the court imposes restitution, fines, fees, or incarceration
costs on a business or corporation, it is the duty of the person authorized to
make disbursements from assets of the business or corporation to pay the
restitution, fines, fees, or incarceration costs from those assets.
(R.C. § 2929.28)
   (H)   Organizational penalties.
      (1)   Regardless of the other penalties provided in this section, an
organization convicted of an offense pursuant to R.C. § 2901.23 shall be fined
by the court as follows:
         (a)   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than $5,000;
         (b)   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than $4,000;
         (c)   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than $3,000;
         (d)   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than $2,000;
         (e)   For a minor misdemeanor, not more than $1,000;
         (f)   For a misdemeanor not specifically classified, not more than
$2,000;
         (g)   For a minor misdemeanor not specifically classified, not more
than $1,000.
      (2)   When an organization is convicted of an offense not specifically
classified, and the section defining the offense or penalty plainly indicates a
purpose to impose the penalty provided for violation upon organizations, then
such penalty shall be imposed in lieu of the penalty provided in this section.
      (3)   When an organization is convicted of an offense not specifically
classified, and the penalty provided includes a higher fine than that provided
in this section, then the penalty imposed shall be pursuant to the penalty
provided for violation of the section defining the offense.
      (4)   This section does not prevent the imposition of available civil
sanctions against an organization convicted of an offense pursuant to R.C. §
2901.23, either in addition to or in lieu of a fine imposed pursuant to this
section.
(R.C. § 2929.31)
Statutory reference:
   Citation issuance and limitations on arrest for minor misdemeanors, see R.C.
§ 2935.26
   Crime victim's reparations fund, see R.C. § 2929.32
   Habitual sex offender and sexual predator registration, see R.C. Chapter
2950
   Reimbursement for costs of confinement, see R.C. §§ 2929.36 et seq.
   Reports to health care licensing boards of criminal offenses, see R.C. §
2929.42
§ 599.03 IMPOSING SENTENCE FOR MISDEMEANOR.
   (A)   (1)   Unless a mandatory jail term is required to be imposed by R.C.
§§ 1547.99(G), 4510.14(B), or 4511.19(G), or any other provision of the Revised
Code, or any municipal ordinance, a court that imposes a sentence under this
chapter upon an offender for a misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor has discretion
to determine the most effective way to achieve the purposes and principles of
sentencing set forth in §
599.02(B).
      (2)   Unless a specific sanction is required to be imposed or is
precluded from being imposed by the section setting forth an offense or the
penalty for an offense or by any provision of R.C. §§ 2929.23 to 2929.28, a
court that imposes a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor may impose on
the offender any sanction or combination of sanctions under §
599.02(C) to (G). The court shall not impose a sentence that imposes an
unnecessary burden on local government resources.
   (B)   (1)   In determining the appropriate sentence for a misdemeanor, the
court shall consider all of the following factors:
         (a)   The nature and circumstances of the offense or offenses;
         (b)   Whether the circumstances regarding the offender and the offense
or offenses indicate that the offender has a history of persistent criminal
activity and that the offender’s character and condition reveal a substantial
risk that the offender will commit another offense;
         (c)   Whether the circumstances regarding the offender and the offense
or offenses indicate that the offender’s history, character, and condition
reveal a substantial risk that the offender will be a danger to others and that
the offender’s conduct has been characterized by a pattern of repetitive,
compulsive, or aggressive behavior with heedless indifference to the
consequences;
         (d)   Whether the victim’s youth, age, disability, or other factor
made the victim particularly vulnerable to the offense or made the impact of
the offense more serious;
         (e)   Whether the offender is likely to commit future crimes in
general, in addition to the circumstances described in divisions (B)(1)(b) and
(c) of this section;
         (f)   Whether the offender has an emotional, mental, or physical
condition that is traceable to the offender’s service in the armed forces of
the United States and that was a contributing factor in the offender’s
commission of the offense or offenses;
         (g)   The offender’s military service record.
      (2)   In determining the appropriate sentence for a misdemeanor, in
addition to complying with division (B)(1) of this section, the court may
consider any other factors that are relevant to achieving the purposes and
principles of sentencing set forth in §
599.02(B).
   (C)   Before imposing a jail term as a sentence for a misdemeanor, a court
shall consider the appropriateness of imposing a community control sanction or
a combination of community control sanctions under §
599.02(D), (E), (F), and (G). A court may impose the longest jail term
authorized under §
599.02(C) only upon offenders who commit the worst forms of the offense or upon
offenders whose conduct and response to prior sanctions for prior offenses
demonstrate that the imposition of the longest jail term is necessary to deter
the offender from committing a future criminal offense.
   (D)   (1)   A sentencing court shall consider any relevant oral and written
statement made by the victim, the victim's representative, the victim's
attorney, if applicable, the defendant, the defense attorney, and the
prosecuting authority regarding sentencing for a misdemeanor. This division
does not create any rights to notice other than those rights authorized by R.C.
Chapter 2930.
      (2)   At the time of sentencing for a misdemeanor or as soon as possible
after sentencing, the court shall notify the victim of the offense of the
victim’s right to file an application for an award of reparations pursuant to
R.C. §§ 2743.51 to 2743.72.
(R.C. § 2929.22) (Am. Ord. 3043, passed 9-28-76)
§ 599.04 [REPEALED]
Editor's note:
   The provisions of this section, pertaining to modification of sentence, was
repealed subsequent to the 2003 revision of this code of ordinances.
§ 599.05 PAYMENT OF COSTS OF CONFINEMENT.
   (A)   Any person convicted of an offense other than a minor misdemeanor and
who, as a consequence thereof, is confined in the Lebanon City Jail or at the
expense of the city in any facility, shall reimburse the city for its expenses
incurred by reason of such confinement, including, but not limited to, expenses
relating to the provision of food, clothing, medical care and shelter. The
amount of reimbursement shall be determined by a court at a hearing held
pursuant to the provisions of R.C. § 2929.223.
   (B)   The City Attorney is hereby authorized and directed to institute
appropriate civil actions in the name of the city to recover from the convict
reimbursement for the expenses of his or her confinement to the city as
determined by a court pursuant to the provisions of R.C. § 2929.223.
(Ord. 5740, passed 11-26-85)
PART SEVEN - BUSINESS REGULATION CODE
   
Chapter 701 - Carnivals and Circuses
   
Chapter 705 - Going-Out-of-Business Sales
   
Chapter 709 - Solicitors
   
Chapter 713 - Taxicabs [Repealed]
   
Chapter 717 - Emergency Alarms
   
Chapter 721 - Garage Sales
   
Chapter 723 - Horsedrawn Vehicles [Repealed]
   
Chapter 725 - Cable Broadband Communications System
   
Chapter 727 - Sale of Drug-Related Paraphernalia
   
Chapter 729 - Video Service Provider Fee
CHAPTER 701: CARNIVALS AND CIRCUSES
Section
   
701.01     License required; fee
   
701.02     Bond
   
701.03     Police protection
 
   
701.99     Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Power to regulate, see R.C. §§ 715.48, 715.63, 3765.02
Cross-reference:
   Littering, see §
517.02
   Parades and assemblages, see §
311.02
§ 701.01 LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE.
   No person shall operate, manage or conduct within the city, for gain or
profit, any amusement, entertainment or show, whether under tent or otherwise,
which is of the class and character known as a carnival or circus, without
first obtaining a license to do so from the City Manager. The license fee shall
be $50 per day and shall be accounted for by the City Auditor. This fee may be
waived by the City Manager when the carnival or circus is sponsored by a local
nonprofit organization.
Penalty, see § 701.99
§ 701.02 BOND.
   The manager, owner, agent or representative of the amusement, entertainment,
show, circus or carnival shall also post an indemnity bond in the amount of
$1,000 to insure that the grounds on which the carnival, amusement,
entertainment, show or circus is presented are cleared and cleaned to the
satisfaction of the City Manager, and to insure that any damage to the city or
private property is paid for or repaired.
Penalty, see § 701.99
§ 701.03 POLICE PROTECTION.
   The manager, owner, agent or representative shall also engage adequate
police protection to the satisfaction of the City Manager.
Penalty, see § 701.99
§ 701.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates the provisions of this chapter shall be fined not more than
$500 or imprisoned not more than six months, or both. Each day’s continued
violation shall constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 705: GOING-OUT-OF-BUSINESS SALES
Section
   
705.01     License required
   
705.02     License application
   
705.03     License renewal
   
705.04     Appointment of examiners
   
705.05     Fee
   
705.06     Bond required: misrepresentation
   
705.07     Limitations on license
   
705.08     Inventory limitation
   
705.09     Records of sale
   
705.10     Sunday and holiday sales prohibited [Repealed]
   
705.11     License revocation or suspension
   
705.12     Regulations of manager
 
   
705.99     Penalty
§ 705.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person in the business of the retail sale of goods, wares or
merchandise shall, without first obtaining a license as hereinafter provided,
sell, offer for sale, announce or advertise for sale such goods, wares or
merchandise when such sale is described or referred to either directly or
indirectly in form or in substance as a going-out-of-business sale, removal,
loss termination, loss or expiration of lease, closing out, liquidation,
creditor’s, damaged goods, forced sale, distressed stock or by any other term
which shall reasonably lead the public to believe that the owner or offerer of
such goods, wares or merchandise, either by choice or necessity, will no longer
continue to engage in business at the same location.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to apply to any person who
sells, offers for sale, announces or advertises for sale goods, wares or
merchandise at a reduction in price when such reduction in price is made in the
normal course of competent jurisdiction, or to a creditor’s sale conducted by a
licensed auctioneer which does not exceed one day’s duration.
Penalty, see § 705.99
§ 705.02 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   Each applicant for a license required by §
705.01 shall make an application therefor to the City Manager not later than 30
days prior to the advertising or offering for sale of any goods, wares or
merchandise. Such application shall be on forms provided by the City Manager
which shall include, in addition to the name and address of the applicant, the
name and address of the person in whose behalf such sale will be conducted, if
such be other than the applicant, the date when such sale shall commence and
the complete inventory, including the quality, kind, character and wholesale
market value of the goods, wares or merchandise.
   (B)   The application shall contain the following:
      (1)   A listing of all goods, wares or merchandise which have been in
stock 15 days or longer prior to the date of such application.
      (2)   A listing of all goods, wares or merchandise received in stock
within the 15 days immediately prior to the date of such application.
      (3)   A listing of all goods, wares or merchandise which have been or
will be ordered and placed in stock during the pendency of such sale.
      (4)   Such other information relative to the business as may be deemed
necessary by the City Manager.
Penalty, see § 705.99
§ 705.03 LICENSE RENEWAL.
   If the inventory itemized in the original application is not disposed of
within the required time, the City Manager may, as hereinafter provided, renew
such license.
§ 705.04 APPOINTMENT OF EXAMINERS.
   The City Manager may, at his or her discretion, appoint qualified persons
for the examination and verification of the inventories, records and
applications provided for under this chapter. All information obtained by such
persons or any city employee or official shall be confidential. The examiners
appointed under this section may enter on the premises of the applicant and
make the necessary examinations and verifications of the inventories, records
and application required herein. The examiners shall be bonded in the amount of
$5,000 each by the city for the truthful performance of their duties.
§ 705.05 FEE.
   Each application for a license or license renewal for any 30-day period or
part thereof shall be accompanied by a fee of $1. The fee for any renewal may
be reduced or waived by the City Manager as long as the total fees charged
including that for the original license are sufficient to cover the actual
costs of the city in administering the provisions of this chapter.
(Am. Ord. 5600, passed 8-28-84)
§ 705.06 BOND REQUIRED: MISREPRESENTATION.
   (A)   Each application hereunder shall execute and file with the City
Manager a good and sufficient bond of $2,500, except that such bond shall not
be required when the wholesale market value of the goods, wares or merchandise
to be offered for sale is not in excess of $5,000, with two or more sure ties
thereon who shall be freeholders within the city, or with surety thereon a
surety company authorized to do business in the state. The bond shall be to the
approval of the City Attorney and shall be conditioned upon faithful observance
of all the conditions of this chapter, and shall also indemnify any purchaser
who suffers any loss by reason of misrepresentation in a sale licensed
hereunder.
   (B)   The bond shall continue in effect for a period of one year. The
licensee shall notify the City Manager of any suit filed as a result of the
operations licensed. Any purchaser claiming to have been damaged by
misrepresentation in the sale may maintain an action at law against the
licensee making such misrepresentations and may join as party defendant the
surety on such bond as herein provided.
§ 705.07 LIMITATIONS ON LICENSE.
   (A)   No such sale as is referred to in §
705.01 shall be licensed or permitted for a period of more than 30 days. The 30
days shall be consecutive. If the licensee does not sell the quantity of
merchandise listed in the application for a license, he or she may make
application for extension of such license to the City Manager and if, upon
investigation, the City Manager is satisfied as to the truth of the statements
contained in the application for renewal, he or she shall issue a renewal
license for a period not exceeding 30 days. A maximum of two such renewals may
be granted.
   (B)   No license shall be issued to any person to conduct a sale the same
location where the applicant has terminated a prior sale licensed hereunder
within a period of 18 months subsequent to the termination of the prior sale,
nor shall a license be issued to a purchaser of stock at a sale licensed
hereunder for a period of 18 months subsequent to such purchase if the
purchaser continues to conduct business under the same firm name as that used
by the seller of such stock, without having adopted a reasonable means of
advertising the change in ownership to the public or where no bona fide change
in ownership has taken place and the purchase was a sham transaction intended
to deceive the public.
   (C)   No license shall be issued to any person who shall not have been, for
a period of 60 days next preceding such sale, continuously engaged in the city
in the business of selling goods, wares or merchandise at retail at the same
location.
   (D)   No person who has been convicted of violating any of the provisions
pertaining to a sale licensed hereunder shall be issued a license to conduct
such a sale or be employed in any manner in the conduct of such a sale for a
period of two years subsequent to such conviction.
(Am. Ord. 5081, passed 5-22-79)
Penalty, see § 705.99
§ 705.08 INVENTORY LIMITATION.
   No addition shall be made to the stock of goods, wares or merchandise set
forth in the inventory attached to the application for the license required
hereunder, and nothing shall be offered for sale or sold at any such sale which
is in addition to the stock of goods, wares or merchandise described in such
inventory. Under no circumstances shall the inventory offered for sale exceed
the average inventory carried by the applicant over the preceding five years
or, if the applicant has been in business for a lesser period of time, the
inventory offered for sale shall not exceed the average inventory carried for
the period of time the applicant has been in business. Any abnormal purchases
during the year prior to the application for a license shall be cause for
refusal to issue the license.
Penalty, see § 705.99
§ 705.09 RECORDS OF SALE.
   The licensee shall keep accurate records during the sale at the location in
which the sale is conducted, which records shall be open to examination by the
City Manager or his or her examiners. These records shall reveal the amount of
retail sales, the cost of goods on back order received and other information
relative to the sale which may be reasonably required by the City Manager.
Penalty, see § 705.99
§ 705.10 SUNDAY AND HOLIDAY SALES PROHIBITED. [REPEALED]
§ 705.11 LICENSE REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   The City Manager, upon recommendation of the Chief of Police, or upon his or
her own initiative, may at any time revoke or suspend a license granted
hereunder for any violation of this chapter, or of any law or ordinance
relating to the conduct of such business.
§ 705.12 REGULATIONS OF MANAGER.
   The City Manager shall have the power to make such further regulations not
inconsistent with the purpose and intent of this chapter as he or she may from
time to time deem necessary or desirable.
§ 705.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined not
more than $500 or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both. Each separate day
of operation in violation of this chapter shall constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 709: SOLICITORS
Section
   
709.01   Definitions
   
709.02   Registration requirements
   
709.03   Exemptions from registration
   
709.04    Soliciting through placement of boxes
   
709.05   Use of the telephone
   
709.06   Deceptive soliciting practices prohibited
   
709.07   No registration of recent felons
   
709.08   Revocation of certificate
   
709.09   Appeal from decisions of the Chief of Police
   
709.10   Residential "No Soliciting" notice
   
709.11   Time of day restrictions on soliciting
 
   
709.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Charitable solicitations, see R.C. Chapter 1716
   Frozen desserts, see R.C. §§ 3717.51 et seq.
   Power to inspect food products, see R.C. § 715.46
   Power to regulate, see R.C. §§ 715.61 et seq.
Cross-reference:
   Disturbing the peace, see
Ch. 508
§ 709.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHIEF OF POLICE . Refers to the Chief of Police, or his or her designee, as
the case may be, who is charged with protecting and serving the public's safety
in the jurisdiction of the city, including the activities hereby covered.
   CLERK or OFFICE OF THE CLERK . Refers to that local government position
whose official capacity oversees regulation and licensure of the activities
hereby covered.
   REGISTRANT or REGISTERED SOLICITOR . Any person who is subject to this
chapter who has obtained a valid certificate of registration from the office of
the Clerk.
   RESIDENCE . Any living unit contained within any building or structure that
is occupied by any person as a dwelling.
   SOLICITING . Any of the following activities:
      (1)   Seeking to obtain orders for sale or exchange of goods, wares,
merchandise or perishables of any kind, for any kind of remuneration or
consideration, regardless of whether advance payment is sought;
      (2)   Seeking to obtain subscriptions to publications, or publications;
      (3)   Seeking to obtain donations of anything of value for the benefit of
any association, organization, corporation or program;
      (4)   Seeking to obtain orders or prospective customers for goods or
services.
   SOLICITOR . A person engaged in the activities defined by this chapter as
soliciting.
(Ord. 8469, passed 6-11-02)
§ 709.02 REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Registration. All natural persons desiring to engage in soliciting at
the residences in the city or within the police jurisdiction thereof shall
apply to the Clerk or the Clerk's designee, at a cost of $25, for an annual
certificate of registration. The certificate, executed by the Clerk or his or
her designee, shall be maintained by the Clerk, and a legible copy shall be
provided to and carried by the registrant at all times while soliciting. Upon
request for inspection by an occupant of a residence or a police officer while
the registered solicitor is transacting his or her business or seeking to
transact his or her business at any residence, the registrant shall show his or
her registration certificate.
   (B)   Application for certificate. The city shall provide a standard form
for use for registration of solicitors. The applicant for the certificate shall
state upon his or her oath or affirmation that the information is truthfully
provided to the best of his or her knowledge and belief. The applicant shall
supply upon the form the following information:
      (1)   Applicant's true, correct, and legal name, including the name and
address of any entity by which applicant may be employed in sales or for whose
benefit applicant will be soliciting donations;
      (2)   Address of applicant's permanent home and address of any temporary
local residence;
      (3)   The purpose for which soliciting will be done;
      (4)   A brief description of the method of presentation that will be made
(such as presentation of samples and taking of written orders);
      (5)   The dates for when soliciting is planned;
      (6)   Whether a permit, license, or certificate of registration in
connection with soliciting has ever been revoked, explaining the circumstances.
   (C)   Non-endorsement. In addition, the applicant shall certify on the
application form that if his or her registration is granted, he or she will not
state, imply, or represent to any person that the issuance of the certificate
is an endorsement by the city nor any of its agencies or departments of the
product, service or solicitor.
   (D)   Proof of identification required.
      (1)   The application shall be accompanied by a copy of one of the
following:
         (a)   A valid driver's license of any state; or
         (b)   A valid United States Uniform Service Identification; or
         (c)   A valid passport; or
         (d)   A valid identification issued by any agency of a state for the
purpose of identification of the holder.
      (2)   Likewise, the applicant shall either submit a completed FBI
standard fingerprint card of his or her complete fingerprints or submit to
fingerprinting by the Police Department for a fee of $5.
   (E)   Registration complete with issuance. Registration shall be complete
when the Clerk issues the certificate of registration, which shall not be
unreasonably withheld or delayed more than three days.
   (F)   Form of certificate. Each certificate shall be numbered, shall list
the name of the individual solicitor and of any organization on whose behalf he
or she is authorized to solicit, the date on which the certificate expires, and
shall be dated and signed by the Clerk or the Clerk's designee.
   (G)   Maintenance of registry. The Clerk shall maintain in his or her
office, available for public inspection, a record of every application received
and acted upon, together with any information pertaining thereto, all
certificates of registration issued, and all denials of applications. Each
application shall be numbered in consecutive order as filed, and each
certificate issued shall be assigned a number exclusive to the registrant.
Every certificate renewed shall be identified with the duplicate number of the
application upon which it was initially issued. The Clerk shall furnish to the
Chief of Police a listing of all certificates issued and renewed and the Chief
of Police shall maintain such listing in his or her office for public
inspection and for identification.
   (H)   Renewal. Certificates shall be valid for the calendar year in which
they were issued and shall expire at midnight on December 31st of such year.
Any certificate in good standing may be renewed upon request of the registrant
and upon payment of $10. The applicant shall be required to fill out a renewal
application providing the information required in the initial registration.
Copies of the renewed certificate shall be provided at a cost of $.50 each.
   (I)   Non-transferability. Certificates of registration shall be issued only
in the name of the applicant and the firm, corporation or association on whose
behalf he or she is authorized to solicit. Certificates shall be non-
transferable from individual to individual, from individual to firm, from firm
to firm, and from firm to individual. It shall be a violation for a solicitor
whose certificate authorizes soliciting on behalf of a firm named in the
certificate to solicit on behalf of any other firm, organization, or
association or for any purpose other than that specified on the application.
(Ord. 8469, passed 6-11-02)
Penalty, see § 709.99
§ 709.03 EXEMPTIONS FROM REGISTRATION.
   The registration provisions of this chapter do not apply to:
   (A)   Persons making solicitations solely for a church, religious
organization or charitableorganization, including any unincorporated
association or corporation under the supervision and control of any church,
charitable organization or religious organization, if the church or
organization is tax exempt under the provisions of the United States Internal
Revenue Code; provided, however, that any person who seeks to solicit a
charitable contribution shall first file with the Chief of Police a notice
describing the charitable purpose, signed by at least two officers of the
charitable organization.
   (B)   Students soliciting contributions to finance extracurricular social,
athletic, artistic, scientific or cultural programs, provided that the
solicitation and its purpose have been approved by the principal, president or
chief administrator of the school and the approval has been filed in writing
with the Chief of Police.
   (C)   Persons canvassing for the purpose of distributing political
literature or materials on behalf of a political party, candidate or public
issue or introducing themselves as supportive of a candidate, political party,
cause or issue.
(Ord. 8469, passed 6-11-02)
§ 709.04 SOLICITING THROUGH PLACEMENT OF BOXES.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to solicit charitable
contributions by placing a receptacle for donations in any public place without
first filing a notice of intent with the Chief of Police. Each person
soliciting must in all other respects comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 8469, passed 6-11-02)
Penalty, see § 709.99
§ 709.05 USE OF THE TELEPHONE.
   The use of any telephone in the city or in the police jurisdiction thereof
by any registrant, not having been requested or invited to do so by the person
called over the telephone for the purpose of soliciting such person, shall be
permitted only between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. local time;
however, a solicitor may solicit or place a call to the occupant of a residence
during otherwise prohibited times if he or she has received express permission
from the occupant to do so. No solicitation by telephone shall occur unless a
certificate of registration has been granted.
(Ord. 8469, passed 6-11-02)
Penalty, see § 709.99
§ 709.06 DECEPTIVE SOLICITING PRACTICES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No solicitor or canvasser shall intentionally make any materially
false or fraudulent statement in the course of soliciting.
   (B)   No solicitor shall represent, directly or by implication, that the
city or any other governmental entity endorses the solicitation or that the
granting of a certificate of registration implies any endorsement of the
solicitor's product or service or of the individual solicitor.
(Ord. 8469, passed 6-11-02)
Penalty, see § 709.99
§ 709.07 NO REGISTRATION OF RECENT FELONS.
   No certificate of registration shall be issued to any person who has been
convicted of a felony within the ten years next preceding the date of
application.
(Ord. 8469, passed 6-11-02)
§ 709.08 REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE.
   Any certificate of registration issued hereunder may be revoked by the Chief
of Police if the registrant is convicted of a violation of this chapter or
otherwise becomes disqualified for the issuance of a certificate of
registration. Notice of revocation shall be immediately given to the registrant
by personal service or by certified mail to the address listed on the
application. Immediately upon the giving of such notice, the certificate of
registration shall become null and voidand shall remain so unless the
revocation is ordered rescinded.
(Ord. 8469, passed 6-11-02)
§ 709.09 APPEAL FROM DECISIONS OF THE CHIEF OF POLICE.
   An applicant whose registration was not timely issued by the Clerk or
registrant whose certificate was revoked by the Chief of Police shall have the
right to appeal to the City Council. Any appeal must be demanded in writing
sent by certified mail to the City Manager, with a copy filed in the office of
the Clerk within seven calendar days of the decision to be appealed from. It
shall describe in detail sufficient to provide the City Council with notice of
the action complained of and the grounds of the appeal. The right of appeal to
the City Council is not in derogation of any other rights in law or equity the
applicant might have.
(Ord. 8469, passed 6-11-02)
§ 709.10 RESIDENTIAL "NO SOLICITING" NOTICE.
   (A)   Any occupant of a residence desiring to secure the protection of this
chapter shall give notice of his or her desire to refuse solicitors by
displaying a clearly visible weatherproof placard no smaller than 32 square
inches stating in bold black letters against a white background, "No
Soliciting" which shall be posted on or near the main entrance door.
   (B)   The display of the placard shall be deemed to constitute notice to any
solicitor that the inhabitant of the residence does not desire to invite
solicitors.
(Ord. 8469, passed 6-11-02)
§ 709.11 TIME OF DAY RESTRICTIONS ON SOLICITING.
   It is a violation of this chapter for any person, whether registered or not,
to solicit any person at his or her residence before 8:00 a.m. or after 9:00
p.m. local time, unless the solicitor has an appointment to do so.
(Ord. 8469, passed 6-11-02)
§ 709.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who engages in soliciting, without complying with the
registration requirements of this chapter, or who otherwise fails to comply
with the provisions of this chapter, is chargeable with a violation and shall,
on conviction, be fined not more than $100.
(Ord. 8469, passed 6-11-02)
CHAPTER 713: TAXICABS [REPEALED]
   Editor's note:
      Chapter 713 was repealed by Ordinance No. 2013-029, passed March 12,
2013.
CHAPTER 717: EMERGENCY ALARMS
Section
   
717.01   Emergency alarms
   
717.02   Automatic dialing devices
   
717.03   Emergency contact for commercial alarms
   
717.04   Local alarms
   
717.05   False alarms
   
717.06   Rules and regulations
 
   
717.99   Penalty
§ 717.01 EMERGENCY ALARMS.
   (A)   Any residence or lawful business or enterprise located within the city
may install an emergency alarm for the purpose of detecting and signaling the
presence of fire, a medical emergency or criminal activity (robbery or
unauthorized intrusion), upon compliance with this chapter. Existing
installations shall be subject to the requirements of this chapter, including
those pertaining to permits.
   (B)   The City of Lebanon Communications Center will only allow and monitor
alarms for the City of Lebanon or other governmental agencies as approved by
the City Manager.
(Ord. passed 7-25-72; Am. Ord. 6186, passed 3-22-88; Am. Ord. 2010-048, passed
4-27-10)
§ 717.02 AUTOMATIC DIALING DEVICES.
   No person shall use or cause to be used, any telephone device or telephone
attachment that automatically selects any telephone line allocated by the
telephone company to the city or any of its departments or divisions.
(Ord. passed 7-25-72; Am. Ord. 6186, passed 3-22-88; Am. Ord. 2010-048, passed
4-27-10) Penalty, see §
717.99
§ 717.03 EMERGENCY CONTACTS FOR COMMERCIAL ALARMS.
   The City of Lebanon Communications Center will maintain a database where the
owners of any nonresidential building, within the city limits, may leave
emergency contact information in the event of an alarm or some other type of
emergency after normal business hours.
(Ord. 2010-048, passed 4-27-10)
§ 717.04 LOCAL ALARMS.
   A local alarm which, when activated, that sounds a horn, bell, buzzer, or
other type of audible alarm, shall have the intensity of sound controlled so
that it does not exceed 90 decibels at any location outside the premises being
served. The alarm shall reset, or at least silence the outside audible alarm
after 15 minutes.
(Ord. passed 7-25-72; Am. Ord. 5269, passed 12-9-80; Am. Ord. 6186, passed 3-
22-88; Am. Ord. 2010-048, passed 4-27-10)
Penalty, see § 717.99
§ 717.05 FALSE ALARMS.
   (A)   A charge of $75 shall be assessed for any false alarm received through
equipment described above, or for any false alarm received from any other alarm
service for law enforcement service. Such fee shall be assessed against the
property owner for whom the false alarm was made.
   (B)   A charge of $150 shall be assessed for any false alarm received
through equipment described above, or for any false alarm received from any
other alarm service for fire protection service. Such fee shall be assessed
against the property owner for whom the false alarm was received. The monies
received under this section shall be credited to the Fire/Emergency Medical
Service Fund.
   (C)   A charge of $75 shall be assessed for any false alarm received through
equipment described above, or for any false alarm received from any other alarm
service for emergency medical services. Such fee shall be assessed against the
property owner for whom the false alarm was received. The monies received under
this section shall be credited to the Fire/Emergency Medical Service Fund.
   (D)   Each alarm equipment supplier that installs an automatic protection
device within the city must obtain a permit for such installation, if required
by the Building Code or Fire Code. Each fire alarm installing contractor must
have a valid certificate from the State Fire Marshal's office to install the
automatic protection device. In the event a permit is not required either by
the Building Code or Fire Code, the installer is responsible for notifying the
city concerning the installation so that the alarm database can be undated.
   (E)   Notwithstanding the fee to be assessed, as set forth above, no charge
shall be made for the first two false alarms per alarm installation in any one
quarter of a calendar year; nor shall there be any charge for a false alarm to
which there is no response by the Department of Safety; nor when the cause has
been proven to be an act of God; nor when the alarm has been properly reported
out of service, provided that it be repaired within a reasonable period of
time.
   (F)   For violation of the chapter, for failure to properly maintain an
installation or when the number of false alarms for any installation equals 12
in any 12-month period, the Director of Public Safety may serve written notice
upon a property/alarm owner of intent to terminate responses for any alarm.
Such notice shall be given not less than seven days prior to revocation.
(Ord. passed 7-25-72; Am. Ord. 5269, passed 12-9-80; Am. Ord. 5308, passed 5-
12-81; Am. Ord. 6186, passed 3-22-88; Am. Ord. 2010-048, passed 4-27-10)
Penalty, see § 717.99
§ 717.06 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The City Manager shall make and enforce such rules and regulations as he or
she may deem necessary for the enforcement of the provisions hereof, and for
the proper determination and collection of the fees and charges herein
provided.
(Ord. passed 7-25-72; Am. Ord. 6186, passed 3-22-88; Am. Ord. 2010-048, passed
4-27-10)
§ 717.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates the provisions of this chapter shall be fined not more than
$500.
(Ord. passed 7-25-72; Am. Ord. 6186, passed 3-22-88)
CHAPTER 721: GARAGE SALES
Section
   
721.01   Definition
   
721.02   Prohibitions
 
   
721.99   Penalty
§ 721.01 DEFINITION.
   GARAGE SALE. A home business conducted within or on premises used as a
residence for the purpose of the transfer of ownership of tangible personal
property to a purchaser.
(Ord. 2095, passed 3-23-76)
§ 721.02 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No garage sale shall be conducted on the same property more than three
times in any 12-month period; and no garage sale shall be conducted on the same
property more frequently than once every two months.
   (B)   No garage sale shall be conducted during hours other than 9:00 a.m.
through 8:00 p.m.
   (C)   No garage sale shall offer any merchandise for sale that has been
purchased for purposes of resale.
   (D)   All signs erected to advertise a garage sale shall conform to the sign
regulation governing the zoning district wherein the sign is located, but in no
event shall any such sign exceed 12 square feet in area.
(Ord. 2095, passed 3-23-76)
Penalty, see § 721.99
§ 721.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $50.
(Ord. 2095, passed 3-23-76)
CHAPTER 723: HORSEDRAWN VEHICLES [REPEALED]
Editor's note:
   Chapter 723 was repealed by Ordinance No. 2015-068, passed June 23, 2015.
CHAPTER 725: CABLE BROADBAND COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM
Section
   
725.01     Purpose
   
725.02     Short title
   
725.03     Definitions
   
725.04     Provisions governing the length and renewal of the franchise
   
725.05     Limitations and conditions of franchise
   
725.06     Franchise territory; extension of service
   
725.07     Conditions of occupancy of the public ways
   
725.08     Services and facilities
   
725.09     Rates and franchise fee
   
725.10     Technical performance and service maintenance standards
   
725.11     Complaint procedure and resolution of disputes
   
725.12     Revocation for cause and removal and abandonment of property of
grantee
   
725.13     Construction timetable
   
725.14     Books, records, and reports
   
725.15     Faithful performance bond
   
725.16     Indemnification of city
   
725.17     Rights reserved to the city
   
725.18     Arbitration
   
725.19     Miscellaneous provisions
   
725.20     Violations
 
   
725.99     Penalty
Editor’s note:
   The city’s rules and regulations implementing regulatory authority over the
rates and for the basic tier of cable television service, adopted by Ord. 6935,
passed 3-22-94, have not been included in this Code of Ordinances. Copies of
these rules and regulations shall be available for public inspection in the
office of the City Clerk.
Cross-reference:
   Video service provider fee, see
Chapter 729
§ 725.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the granting of a nonexclusive
franchise for the maintenance and operation in the City of Lebanon of a Cable
Broadband Communication System to be used for the sale and distribution of
cable services to the residents of this city, and to provide for the regulation
and control of such Cable Broadband Communications System in the city in the
public interest.
(Ord. 5258, passed 10-28-80)
§ 725.02 SHORT TITLE.
   Cable Broadband Communications Rules and Regulations Ordinance of the City
of Lebanon.
(Ord. 5258, passed 10-28-80)
§ 725.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words,
abbreviations and their derivations shall have the meaning given herein. When
not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future tense, words in the plural number include the singular number and words
in the singular number include the plural number. The word “shall” shall be
construed as mandatory and not simply directive.
   BASIC SUBSCRIBER SERVICE. Those services described in §
725.08(B).
   CABLE BROADBAND COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM or SYSTEM. Any system which receives
and amplifies signals broadcast by one or more televisions and/or radio
stations and which transmits programming originated by the system itself or by
another party, and distributes such signals and programming by wire, cable,
microwave, satellite, or other means to persons who subscribe to such service.
   CHANNEL. A signal path of six megahertz provided by a system to relay Class
I-IV Signals, as defined by the FCC.
   CITY. The City of Lebanon, a municipal corporation of the State of Ohio in
its present incorporated form or in any later reorganized, consolidated,
enlarged or reincorporated form.
   CITY MANAGER. The existing or any succeeding City Manager of the City of
Lebanon or his or her duly authorized representative.
   COMMUNITY CHANNEL. A channel made available for programming of local
interest by the community and the grantee.
   COUNCIL. The present governing body of the city or any future board
constituting the legislative body of the city.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission or its successor.
   FRANCHISE. Includes any authorization granted hereunder in terms of a
franchise, privilege, permit, license or otherwise to construct, operate and
maintain a system in the city.
   GOOD CAUSE. Shall represent that set of faces and circumstances which, in an
individual case, a reasonable person would adjudge to be beyond the grantee’s
reasonable control and which would therefore represent a justifiable excuse of
performance. Depending on the facts and circumstances, GOOD CAUSE may include,
but shall not be limited to, delays or interruptions arising from necessary
utility changes, rearrangements, power outages, the fulfillment of governmental
or regulatory restrictions or requirements, national emergency, uncontrollable
material shortages, fire, earthquake, or the elements and acts of God.
   GRANTEE. The person, firm or corporation to whom or which a franchise, as
hereinabove defined, is granted by Council under this chapter, and the lawful
successor, transferee or assignee of such person, firm or corporation.
   GROSS ANNUAL RECEIPTS. Any and all compensation and other consideration in
any form whatever and any contributing grant or subsidy received directly or
indirectly by a grantee from subscribers or users in payment for television or
FM radio signals or service received within the city. GROSS ANNUAL RECEIPTS
shall include any revenues derived from auxiliary or ancillary services,
including, but not limited to, payable, advertising, leasing of channels, and
the like. Only those premium services (such as home security, data
transmission, and the like) which compete with other similar services offered
by other commercial companies would be excluded from GROSS ANNUAL RECEIPTS.
GROSS ANNUAL RECEIPTS shall not include any taxes on services furnished by the
grantee imposed directly on any subscriber or user by any city, state or other
governmental unit and collected by the grantee for such governmental unit.
   NORMAL SERVICE INTERVAL. The period between the time that the grantee is
notified by a subscriber of a service deficiency and the close of business on
the second day following the receipt of such notice, provided that the
subscriber or his or her representative is available, during this period, at
the premises to be serviced.
   PERSON. Person, firm, corporation, association, or any other legally
recognized entity.
   PUBLIC WAYS. The surface of and the space above and below any public street,
road, highway, freeway, lane, path, alley, court, sidewalk, parkway or drive,
or other easement now or hereafter held by the city for the purpose of public
travel and shall include such other easements or rights-of-way as shall be now
held or hereafter held by the city which shall, within their proper use and
meaning, entitle the city and its grantee to the use thereof for the purpose of
installing or transmitting signals over poles, wires, cables, conductors,
ducts, conduits, vaults, manholes, amplifiers, appliances, attachments, and
other property as may be ordinarily necessary and pertinent to a system.
   PROPERTY OF GRANTEE. All property owned, installed or used by a grantee in
the conduct of a grantee’s “system” business in the city under the authority of
a franchise granted pursuant to this chapter.
   SUBSCRIBER. Any person or entity receiving for any purpose the system
service of a grantee.
(Ord. 5258, passed 10-28-80)
§ 725.04 PROVISIONS GOVERNING THE LENGTH AND RENEWAL OF THE FRANCHISE.
   (A)   Force and effect. The franchise granted under this chapter shall take
effect and be in force from and after final passage of a franchise ordinance as
provided by law, and shall extend for a period of 15 years.
   (B)   Renewal of franchise.
      (1)   Notice of grantee’s desire to renew. The city may decide that the
franchise granted pursuant to this chapter should be renewed or extended, if
the grantee applies to the city 12 months prior to the expiration of the
franchise ordinance or any renewals thereof. Failure to make such a timely
application shall be cause for the forfeiture of renewal and extension rights
hereunder, unless otherwise waived by the city.
      (2)   Renewal applications. The grantee’s renewal application, when
filed, shall demonstrate the following:
         (a)   That it has been and continues to be in substantial compliance
with the terms, conditions, and limitations of this chapter;
         (b)   That its system has been installed, constructed, maintained, and
operated in accordance with the accepted standards of the industry and this
chapter;
         (c)   That it has the character, legal, technical, financial, and
other qualifications then required by federal, state, or local law to continue
to maintain and operate its system, and to extend the same as the state of the
art progresses so as to assure its subscribers of high quality service; and
         (d)   That it has made a good faith effort to provide services and
facilities which accommodate the demonstrated needs of subscribers as
reasonably ascertained by the city, provided, however, that the grantee shall
have no obligation to have provided services, beyond those contemplated in §
725.08 or which have been freely offered in the grantee’s official proposal,
which adversely impact the economic viability of the system.
      (3)   Procedure for considering renewal application. Upon filing
consistent with §§
725.04(B)(1) and
725.04(B)(2) above, the city shall prior to the consideration of any other
applications, consider and act upon the grantee’s requested renewal in
conformance with the following procedure:
         (a)   Within 90 days of the receipt of such application, the city
shall, following appropriate public notice, hold a public hearing affording due
process on the grantee’s application at which interested parties, including the
grantee, shall be afforded an opportunity to present oral or written comments.
         (b)   Council shall report its findings by written resolution within
90 days of such public hearing and indicate that it:
            1.   Has found that the public interest is no longer served by the
continuation of the system’s communications services within the city, and
therefore has decided that any such services should not be enfranchised within
the city limits during the year succeeding the date of the grantee’s
termination of service; or
            2.   Has found that the grantee has substantially failed to meet
the criteria for renewal established in §
725.04(B)(2), and therefore has decided that the grantee’s renewal application
should be denied; or
            3.   Has found that the grantee has substantially met the criteria
established in §
725.04(B)(2), except where prevented by conditions beyond its reasonable
control, and therefore has decided that the franchise should be renewed.
      (4)   Continuity of service. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this
chapter, including its possible expiration, the grantee shall be obliged and
entitled to continue to operate its system until 60 days after the city’s final
action pursuant to this section.
      (5)   Removal of facilities in the event of nonrenewal. In the event that
the city’s decision is not to renew this franchise, the city may require the
grantee to continue operations for a period not to exceed 12 months from the
date of the city’s decision. In the event of such nonrenewal, the grantee shall
have two years from the date it ceases operation to remove, at its own expense,
all portions of its system from all public ways within the city and to restore
such public ways to a condition reasonably satisfactory to the city.
(Ord. 5258, passed 10-28-80)
Penalty, see § 725.99
§ 725.05 LIMITATIONS AND CONDITIONS OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   Any franchise granted under this chapter shall not be exclusive and
the city reserves the right to grant a similar use of such public ways to any
person at any time during the period of this franchise.
   (B)   A franchise governed under this chapter shall be granted by a separate
ordinance following a competitive bidding procedure; except in the case of a
renewal as outlined in §
725.04. Any proposal submitted to the city which is accepted by ordinance of
Council is subject to enforcement under this chapter and §
725.99 Penalty shall apply. This includes any item(s) which are freely offered
by the grantee and which may have formed the basis for selection over other
interested bidders, even though the item(s) was (were) not specifically
requested by the city in this chapter.
   (C)   No privilege or exemption shall be granted or conferred by any
franchise granted under this chapter except those specifically prescribed
herein.
   (D)   Any privilege claimed under any such franchise by the grantee in or
upon any public way shall be subordinate to any prior lawful occupancy of the
public way.
   (E)   (1)   Any such franchise shall be a privilege to be held in personal
trust by the original grantee. It cannot in any event be sold, transferred,
leased, assigned or disposed of, in whole or in part, either by forced or
involuntary sale, or by voluntary sale, merger, consolidation or otherwise,
without the prior consent of Council expressed by ordinance, and then only
under such conditions as may therein be prescribed. Any such transfer or
assignment shall be made only by an instrument in writing, a duly executed copy
of which shall be filed in the office of the City Manager within 30 days after
any such transfer or assignment.
      (2)   The consent of Council may not be arbitrarily refused; provided,
however, the proposed assignee must show financial responsibility and must
agree to comply with all provisions of this chapter; and provided, further,
that no such consent shall be required for a transfer in trust, mortgage or
other hypothecation as a whole, to secure an indebtedness.
   (F)   Time shall be of the essence in any such franchise granted hereunder.
The grantee shall not be relieved of his or her obligation to comply promptly
with any of the provisions of this chapter or by any failure of the city to
enforce prompt compliance.
   (G)   Any right or power, or duty impressed upon, any officer, employee,
department or board of the city shall be subject to transfer of the city to any
other officer, employee, department or board of the city.
   (H)   (1)   The City Manager may, from time to time, issue such reasonable
rules and regulations concerning the construction, operation, and maintenance
of the system as are consistent with the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   The grantee shall construct, operate and maintain the system
subject to the supervision of all of the authorities of the city who have
jurisdiction in such matters and in strict compliance with all laws,
ordinances, and departmental rules and regulations affecting the system. The
system and all parts thereof, shall be subject to the right of periodic
inspection of the city.
   (I)   Except as expressly provided in this chapter, the grantee herein shall
have no recourse whatsoever against the city for any loss, cost or expense or
damage arising out of any of the provisions or requirements of this chapter, or
out of any franchise granted under the authority of this chapter, or because of
the enforcement thereof by the city, nor for the failure of the city to have
the authority to grant all or any part of any such franchise.
   (J)   Any such franchise granted shall not relieve the grantee of any
obligation involved in obtaining pole space from any department of the city,
utility company or from others maintaining poles in public ways.
   (K)   The grantee shall strictly comply with all applicable FCC rules and
regulations concerning cross-ownership of radio or television broadcast
stations whose signals are carried on the system on a regular basis.
   (L)   Any franchise granted hereunder shall be in lieu of any and all other
rights, privileges, powers, immunities and authorities owned, possessed,
controlled or exercisable by the grantee, or any successor to any interest of
grantee, of or pertaining to the construction, operation or maintenance of any
system in the city; and the acceptance of any franchise hereunder shall
operate, as between grantee and the city, as an abandonment of any and all of
such rights, privileges, powers, immunities and authorities within the city, to
the effect that, as between grantee and the city, any and all construction,
operation and maintenance by any grantee of any system in the city shall be
deemed and construed in all instances and respects to be, under and pursuant to
such franchise, and not under or pursuant to any other right, privilege, power,
immunity or authority whatsoever.
(Ord. 5258, passed 10-28-80)
Penalty, see § 725.99
§ 725.06 FRANCHISE TERRITORY; EXTENSION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Any franchise granted under this chapter is for the present
territorial limits of the City of Lebanon and for any area henceforth added
thereto during the term of this franchise.
   (B)   The grantee shall be responsible for making basic subscriber service
and other freely offered services, available to each dwelling unit within the
present territorial limits, and to new housing complexes, new subdivisions and
to newly added areas as they reach a density of 50 dwelling units per cable
mile. In such new housing complexes, new subdivisions and newly added areas
where the density is less than 50 homes per cable mile, installation may be
made, however, on an additional fee basis at the discretion of the grantee.
(Ord. 5258, passed 10-28-80)
§ 725.07 CONDITIONS OF OCCUPANCY OF THE PUBLIC WAYS.
   (A)   Methods of construction, installation, and maintenance of the
grantee’s system shall comply with the National Electrical Safety Code 1975
(ANSI CI-1975) to the extent that such code is consistent with local law
affecting the construction, installation, and maintenance of electric supply
and communication lines. To the extent that such code is inconsistent with
other provisions of this franchise or with local law, the latter shall govern.
   (B)   Any tower constructed for use in the grantee’s system shall comply
with the standards contained in Structural Standards for Steel Antenna Towers
and Antenna Supporting Structures, EPA Standards RS-222-A, as published by the
Engineering Department of the Electronic Industries Association, 2201 I Street,
N. W., Washington, D. C. 20006. Any such tower shall also comply with all
appropriate Federal Aviation Agency regulations, including, but not limited to,
Objectives Affecting Navigable Airspace, 14 CFR 77.1 et seq., February 1965.
Any antenna structure in the system shall comply with Construction, Marking and
Lighting of Antenna Structure, 48 CFR 17.1 et seq., September 1967.
   (C)   (1)   All methods of construction, installation, and maintenance of
the grantee’s system shall also comply with all applicable laws and rules of
the State of Ohio and the city. The grantee shall install and maintain its
wire, cable, fixtures, and other equipment so as not to interfere with the
equipment of any utility of the city, or any other entity lawfully and
rightfully using the conduit, pole, subway, or any other part of the public
way. All working facilities and conditions used during construction,
installation and maintenance of the city’s system shall comply with the
standards of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration. The city
reserves the right to adopt by ordinance, an agreement regulating the joint-use
of city-owned utility poles and easements in conjunction with the grantee and
from time to time, to issue, by duly adopted ordinance, such reasonable rules
and regulations concerning the construction, operation, and maintenance of the
system as are consistent with the provisions of this chapter, and necessary to
protect its residents rights to the peaceful enjoyment of the public ways.
      (2)   The city shall use its best efforts with pole owners to promote the
joint use of poles so as to assure the broadest possible wiring of premises
within the city. In the case of the city-owned poles, such joint use may be
subject to a separate fee at the option of the city. The grantee shall not
erect any new poles without first obtaining the city’s written approval of the
location, type, and specifications thereof.
   (D)   Should the grantee be required, in the conduct of its business to
locate property within the streets of the city other than property which may be
attached to utility poles, then in that event before the grantee shall install
or shall permit any other person to install for grantee any of such property in
any public way, the nature of such property shall be disclosed to the City
Manager of the city for his or her approval as to the need therefor and as to
the location within the street and then only under such conditions as he or she
shall prescribe concerning such location or installation.
   (E)   In the construction, installation, maintenance, removal, or repair of
the facilities herein contemplated, the grantee shall exercise reasonable care
and diligence to avoid damage, injury, or nuisance to persons or property and
shall install and maintain its facilities in a workmanlike manner so as to
minimize the public inconvenience and so as not to interfere with any
facilities of the city. The grantee shall comply with all existing city
regulations pertaining to the use of the public ways entered and opened by it
so as to prevent injury to persons or damage to property while work therein is
being performed. All such public ways shall be restored to their former
condition by the grantee as soon as is practicable after completion of work.
   (F)   Whenever in any place within the city, all the electric and telephone
utilities shall be located underground, it shall be the obligation of the
grantee to locate or to cause its property to be located underground within
such places. If the electric and telephone utilities shall be located
underground in any place within the city after the grantee shall have
previously installed its property, nevertheless, the grantee shall, at the same
time or immediately thereafter, remove and relocate its property also
underground in such places. If the grantee shall in any case be unable for
operational reasons only to locate or relocate any part of his or her property
underground, then in that event the City Manager upon being satisfied as to the
facts thereof may permit such property to remain above the ground even though
other facilities may be placed underground in the area. However, any such
permission shall be upon such conditions as the City Manager may require for
the public welfare. Any facilities of the grantee placed underground at the
property owner’s request, in an area where electric or telephone facilities are
aerial, shall be installed with the additional expense paid by the property
owner.
   (G)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this franchise, if, in any
part of the city, satisfactory aerial or underground easement rights over
private property cannot be obtained on reasonable terms, the company shall have
no obligation to build its system or provide service in such area.
   (H)   The grantee shall have the right hereunder to trim trees in, and
overhanging the public ways, in a workmanlike manner, so as to protect its
facilities from abrasive contact. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the city, at
its option, may, following written notice to the grantee, undertake such
trimming at the grantee’s expense.
   (I)   The grantee shall, upon reasonable notice and without expense to the
city, county, or State of Ohio, immediately relocate, remove and relocate or
reinstall its facilities to accommodate such public works or improvements as
the city, the county, or the State of Ohio, shall, in the judgement of the
appropriate governmental department, designate. The grantee shall, at the
expense of any person holding a building moving permit issued by the city,
temporarily raise, lower, or remove its wires to permit the moving of such
building. In such event, the grantee shall be given not less than seven days;
advance written notice to arrange for such temporary wire changes. The
grantee’s estimated charges for such work shall be payable not less than 48
hours in advance.
   (J)   The city shall have the right to supervise or inspect all work
performed by the grantee or its agents upon public ways to insure compliance
with this section. In the event such inspection reveals that the grantee has
failed, in the city’s judgment, to fulfill its obligations under this section,
the city shall notify the grantee, in writing, of its specific deficiencies. If
commencement of corrective action by the grantee has not been undertaken within
48 hours of receipt of such notification, the city, may undertake the necessary
repairs or restorations at the grantee’s expense.
(Ord. 5258, passed 10-28-80)
Penalty, see § 725.99
§ 725.08 SERVICES AND FACILITIES.
   (A)   System configuration.
      (1)   The grantee shall establish a modular Cable Broadband
Communications System with at least one distribution head located in the City
of Lebanon; or must establish a system which provides comparable service, as
determined by the city.
      (2)   The grantee shall institute a basic subscriber service and shall
provide subscribers with a converter by which means such subscribers will be
able to receive a minimum of 30 channels. Such converter or other device will
be designed to permit closed circuit and selective viewing through the deletion
or addition of filters or tuning elements. The basic subscriber service must,
at a minimum, have the technical capacity for two-way communications. The
grantee can freely offer in its official proposal other service variations such
as budget packages with less services for a discounted rate and/or expanded
packages with higher rates for such options as additional channels, activated
two-way service, and movie and sports channels.
      (3)   The grantee shall construct a two-way activated institutional
network for video or non-video uses on either an open or closed circuit basis.
Attachment “A” lists the institutions to which the institutional network will
initially be available. The grantee shall provide the appropriate connectors
and extend cable to an access point within each institution, but the users of
the institutional network will provide their own terminal equipment. Technical
assistance to institutional users shall be provided by the grantee without
additional charge.
   (B)   Subscriber services. The grantee will, at a minimum, for the rates
outlined in the grantee’s proposal, furnish to its subscribers the services
listed in subsections (1) through (4) below:
      (1)   All operating broadcast television signals for which the grantee
shall have received certification, and as are specifically outlined in the
official proposal as filed. The specific signals proposed is one basis upon
which the proposals are evaluated as to compatibility with the needs and
desires of the area to be serviced.
      (2)   Twenty separately processed FM stations.
      (3)   Automated channels carrying the following information: time,
weather, news, stock market quotations, and community messages.
      (4)   The grantee shall incorporate into its facilities the capability
for an emergency interrupt whereby the city in times of crisis may be able to
introduce emergency messages and/or alerts on all channels simultaneously. In
the event of an emergency or disaster, the grantee shall upon request of the
City Manager make available its facilities to the city for emergency use during
the period of such emergency or disaster and shall provide such personnel as
necessary to properly operate under the circumstances.
   (C)   Cablecasting and access facilities.
      (1)   The City Manager and the grantee shall establish a mutually
agreeable implementation schedule which sets out the dates certain equipment
must be made available by the grantee. The schedule will take into
consideration such factors as community interest, completion of equipment
training programs by a representative number of local citizens and availability
of specific equipment.
      (2)   Initially, one community channel shall be activated in the cable
system for programming produced by the community and the grantee. If, this
channel has 60 hours of programming per week, or more, for six consecutive
weeks, the grantee shall make a second channel available for community
programming.
      (3)   The access equipment will be made available to the community on a
schedule agreed upon by the City Manager and the grantee. The grantee shall
support the community in using the access facility with training and technical
assistance, and will service and maintain equipment on a cost basis when bench
time is available.
   (D)   Interconnection.
      (1)   The grantee shall interconnect all of its adjoining systems and
shall use its best efforts to interconnect its systems with any or all other
systems located in the Greater Cincinnati Area upon the directive of the city.
Interconnection of systems may be done by direct cable connection, microwave
line, or other appropriate methods. Interconnection may be required for one or
several channels of the system.
      (2)   Upon receiving the directive of the city to interconnect, the
grantee shall immediately initiate negotiations with the other affected systems
in order that costs may be shared equally by the systems for both the
construction and operation of the interconnection link.
      (3)   The grantee shall cooperate with any interconnection corporation,
regional interconnection authority, or state or federal regulatory agency which
may be hereafter established for the purpose of regulating, facilitating,
financing, or otherwise providing for the interconnection of systems beyond the
boundaries of the city.
   (E)   Standby power. The grantee shall maintain equipment capable of
providing standby power for headend, transportation and trunk amplifiers for a
minimum of two hours. The equipment shall be constructed so as to automatically
notify the cable office when it is in operation and to automatically revert to
the standby mode when the AC power returns. All utility safety regulations must
be followed to prevent a standby generator from powering the “dead” utility
line, with possible injury to any unwitting lineworker.
   (F)   Local business office. The grantee shall maintain a business office
and a production studio within a 20-mile radius of the geographic center of
Lebanon, Ohio. The business office shall be open during normal business hours
and shall have a publicly listed telephone which can be reached toll-free from
the service area described in this chapter. The business office shall be so
operated that complaints and requests for repairs or adjustments may be
received and processed with a minimum delay. Provision shall also be made for
telephonically receiving service interruption calls on a 24-hour basis,
utilizing a toll-free number. The production studio must be made available to
individuals, groups or organizations under terms, conditions, and schedules as
are mutually established by the grantee and the City Manager.
(Ord. 5258, passed 10-28-80; Am. Ord. 5273, passed 1-27-81)
Penalty, see § 725.99
§ 725.09 RATES AND FRANCHISE FEE. 
   (A)   Initial rates for basic subscriber service and/or other freely offered
services. The grantee’s initial rates for basic subscriber service and/or other
freely offered services shall conform to the format outlined in Attachment B
and will be those as proposed in the official proposal and accepted by the
city. Such rates shall remain in force for two years from the date that the
grantee activates the system within the city. Such activation shall mean
substantial completion of such installation, with service available to at least
90% of the houses to which access is provided to the grantee within the city.
   (B)   Changes in rates for basic subscriber service and/or other freely
offered services. Such rates shall be subject to modification only by the
Council and only in accordance with the following procedures:
      (1)   The grantee may petition the Council for a change in rates by
filing a revised rate schedule in the form of Attachment B, including its
justification(s) for such proposed new schedule.
      (2)   Within ten days of notification by the Council of the place and
time established for a hearing on such petition, the grantee shall notify its
subscribers of the same by announcement on at least two channels of its system,
between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m., for five consecutive days.
Following all proper notice, but in no event later than 90 days from the date
of such petition, the Council shall hold an appropriate public hearing to
consider the proposed new rates, at which hearing all parties desiring to be
heard, including the grantee shall be heard on any matters relating to the
performance of this chapter, the grantee’s services, and the proposed new
rates.
      (3)   Within 90 days after such hearing, the Council shall render a
written decision on the grantee’s petition either accepting, rejecting, or
modifying the same and reciting the basis of its decision.
      (4)   If the Council fails to act within six months of the date of the
grantee’s petition pursuant to § 725.09(B)(1) above, the grantee shall
thereafter be entitled to put its proposed new rates into effect on a
provisional basis, provided that it shall keep a full and accurate accounting
of all income resulting from such provisional rates and shall be obliged for a
period of up to six months thereafter to refund the amount by which such
provisional rates exceed the rates ultimately established by the Council. Upon
request by the Council, the grantee shall provide a bond or other reasonable
surety in an amount not to exceed the previously existing rates to ensure that
possible refunds due under this subsection shall be promptly made.
      (5)   The criteria for the Council’s decision in such matters shall be
the establishment of rates which are “fair and reasonable” to both the grantee
and its subscribers and shall be generally defined as the minimum rates
necessary to meet all applicable costs of service, including a fair return on
all invested capital, all assuming efficient and economical management. The
Council and the grantee both recognize that appropriate models and methods for
rate regulation of cable are in an evolutionary period and intend that the
Council should be guided by the body of law and precedents which will be
developing over time. Until more precise standards are thereby developed and
absent special showings to the contrary, the Council and the grantee agree that
rate changes not exceeding changes from the date hereof in any, some, or all of
the indicators appearing below, shall be considered “fair and reasonable”
provided that the grantee shall have made a reasonably adequate showing of the
applicability of such indicator(s) to the rate issue at hand:
         (a)   The Handy-Whitman Cost Index of “Total Distribution Plant” (now
listed on Line No. 38) for the North Central Region which includes Ohio;
         (b)   The arithmetic average of monthly, single-family subscriber
rates for the Ohio Cable Television Systems; or
         (c)   Any other reputable index or indicator generally recognized as
being apposite to cable television rates.
   (C)   All rates to be nondiscriminatory. The grantee shall administer any
and all rates and charges so as not to give preference to or discriminate among
subscribers of like category or class. Nothing in the foregoing shall be deemed
to prevent the grantee from establishing:
      (1)   Special temporary reduced rates for periodic promotional offers to
attract new subscribers, or for subscribers who pay promptly;
      (2)   Reasonable policies for deposits, penalties, or denial of service
where a particular subscriber has proven a bona fide credit problem;
      (3)   Special schedules of rates and charges for service to premises in
annexed areas not meeting the density standards established in § 725.06,
provided that the same are not inconsistent with applicable FCC Rules and
Regulations; or
      (4)   Separate rates for commercial and noncommercial users of access
channels.
   (D)   Free connection. The grantee shall furnish, without charge, one
connection for each existing public building, as listed on Attachment A;
provided that such public buildings are located within areas served by the
system and shall furnish, without charge, regular service for such connections
so long as such system remains in operation in the area. This provision also
applies to any future public building constructed or purchased in the franchise
area. Any school, so listed, or added, may install at its expense, but not to
exceed the grantee’s actual cost for such installation, such additional
connections for classroom purposes as it desires, provided that such
connections shall not interfere with the operation of the system, and such
additional connections also shall be without charge for regular service.
   (E)   Disconnection and removal of facilities upon request. Except as
otherwise provided by the Council, there shall be no charge for the
disconnection of any installation or outlet. If any subscriber fails to pay a
properly due monthly subscriber fee, or any other properly due fee or charge,
the grantee may disconnect the subscriber’s service outlet, provided, however,
that such disconnection shall not be effected until 45 days after the due date
of such delinquent fee or charge and shall include five days’ written notice of
the intent to disconnect properly mailed to the subscriber in question. After
disconnection, upon payment in full of the delinquent fee or charge, any
reasonable collection expense or penalty, and the payment of a reconnection
charge, the grantee shall promptly reinstate the subscriber’s cable service.
Upon termination of service to any subscriber, the grantee shall promptly
remove all of its facilities and equipment from the premises of such subscriber
upon his or her written request.
   (F)   Franchise fee.
      (1)   The grantee herein shall pay to the city for the use of the public
ways and other facilities of the city in the operation of the system and for
the municipal supervision thereof during the life of the franchise, a sum equal
to 3% of the gross annual receipts of the grantee. An additional 2% of the
gross annual receipts will be paid by the grantee for the funding of local
access programming at such time as the city prepares and the Federal
Communications Commission approves, a plan for the conduct, administration and
funding of public access programming in the community.
      (2)   In the event that the law, in the future, permits some larger basis
for computing this fee, this Council shall, at its election, be entitled to
collect such additional monies up to a maximum of 8% of the gross annual
receipts of the grantee. The grantee shall be provided with written notice of
Council’s intent 60 days in advance of any such change and the grantee shall be
permitted to simultaneously increase its rate by the same percent divided by
two to all subscribers. The grantee shall be permitted to petition Council for
a rate increase based on the remaining 50% of the increased franchise fee as
outlined in §
725.09(B).
      (3)   The Council shall utilize franchise fees as necessary, to defray
the costs of local regulation of the grantee, to support the development of the
access channels, and to generally encourage development of the system.
      (4)   Payments due under this provision shall be payable twice each
calendar year on a schedule as agreed on by the grantee and the City Manager.
Each such payment shall be accompanied by a report, certified by an officer of
the grantee, showing the basis for the computation thereof.
      (5)   In the event this franchise should be terminated or forfeited prior
to the end of the basic 15-year term, the grantee shall immediately submit to
the city a financial statement prepared as before required, showing the gross
receipts of the grantee for the time elapsed since the last period for which
the grantee has paid to the city the required percentage of gross annual
receipts, and the grantee shall pay to the city not later than 30 days
following the termination of the franchise, a like percentage of such gross
receipts.
      (6)   In the event that any payment is not made on or before the
applicable date fixed in §
725.09(F)(4) hereof, interest on such payments shall apply from such date at
the yearly rate of 10%.
      (7)   The city shall have the right to inspect the grantee’s records
showing the gross receipts from which its franchise payments are computed and
the right of audit and recomputation of any and all amounts paid under this
franchise shall be always accorded to the city. No acceptance of any payment by
the city shall be construed as a release of or an accord or satisfaction of any
claim the city might have for further or additional sum payable under the terms
of this chapter or for any other performance or obligation of grantee
hereunder.
      (8)   Payments of compensation made by the grantee to the city pursuant
to the provisions of this chapter shall not be considered in the nature of a
tax but shall be in addition to any and all taxes which are now or hereafter
required to be paid by any law of the United States, the State of Ohio, or the
city.
(Ord. 5258, passed 10-28-80)
Penalty, see § 725.99
§ 725.10 TECHNICAL PERFORMANCE AND SERVICE MAINTENANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   As a minimum the technical performance standards as currently
contained in Subpart K of the FCC Cable Television Service Rules and
Regulations must be met by the grantee’s system. After due notice the city
reserves the right to adopt more precise and/or rigid standards.
   (B)   The grantee shall render prompt and efficient service and repairs, and
shall voluntarily interrupt service only for good cause and for the shortest
time possible. Such interruptions, insofar as possible, shall be preceded by
notice and shall occur during periods of minimum use.
   (C)   Without additional charges to subscribers, the grantee shall maintain
its facilities in good working order and repair. Any verbal, telephonic, or
written complaint relating to the quality or continuity of service shall be
attended to within a normal service interval. In the event that such complaints
are not responded to, or service is not restored to the levels required by the
FCC during such normal service interval, the subscriber shall be entitled to a
rebate of one-thirtieth of his or her monthly service fee for each day or part
thereof between the end of the normal service interval and the time service is
restored to such standards.
(Ord. 5258, passed 10-28-80)
Penalty, see § 725.99
§ 725.11 COMPLAINT PROCEDURE AND RESOLUTION OF DISPUTES.
   (A)   The grantee shall establish a subscriber complaint procedure and
designate a local company official for administering the complaint procedure at
its local office. Notice of the complaint procedure shall be given to each
subscriber.
   (B)   The grantee shall respond to all service calls within 24 hours and
correct malfunctions as promptly as possible, but in all cases not longer than
48 hours after notification thereof. For this purpose, the grantee shall
maintain a local office adequately staffed and trained to provide prompt and
efficient service to the subscribers.
   (C)   Any subscriber, or member of the general public who has a complaint
regarding the quality of service, equipment malfunctions, billings, or any
other matters, which remains unresolved for 30 days after it has been brought
to the grantee’s attention, may file such complaint, in writing with the City
Manager who shall have primary responsibility for the continuing administration
of complaint procedures hereunder and who shall adopt such specific rules and
regulations as are necessary to fairly represent the best interest of the
public.
   (D)   The City Manager is hereby authorized and empowered to adjust, settle
or compromise any controversy or charge arising from the operations of any
grantee under this chapter, either on behalf of the city, the grantee or any
subscriber, in the best interest of the public. Either the grantee or any
member of the public who may be dissatisfied with the decision of the City
Manager may appeal the matter to Council for hearing and determination. Council
may adjust, settle or compromise any controversy or cancel any charge arising
from the operations of any grantee or from any provision of this chapter.
(Ord. 5258, passed 10-28-80)
Editor’s note:
   Attachments A and B, referenced in this section, contain technical
regulations concerning the granting of a non-exclusive franchise. Because of
their technical nature, these attachments have not been included in this Code
of Ordinances. Copies of these attachments shall be available for public
inspection in the office of the City Manager.
§ 725.12 REVOCATION FOR CAUSE AND REMOVAL AND ABANDONMENT OF PROPERTY OF
GRANTEE.
   (A)   (1)   The city reserves the right to decide that any franchise,
granted under this chapter and all rights and privileges of the grantee
hereunder should be revoked in the event that the grantee:
         (a)   Fails to complete construction as specified herein;
         (b)   Breaches or violates any material provision of this chapter or
other valid and enforceable ordinances or regulations of the city;
         (c)   Practices fraud or deception upon the city, which actions may
include any attempt to purposefully evade or avoid any of the provisions of
this chapter;
         (d)   Is adjudged bankrupt, has a receiver appointed for it, makes an
assignment for the benefit of creditors, or has a significant amount of its
property sold under execution or other legal process or seized by creditors; or
         (e)   Is in default in the making of payments under this chapter.
      (2)   Any such decision that this franchise should be revoked shall be,
by formal legislation of the Council, duly adopted, and only after the grantee
has been given written notice of the alleged violation, a full hearing
affording due process, an opportunity, on reasonable grounds, to appeal an
adverse finding, and a reasonable amount of time for corrective action.
      (3)   The city may require the grantee to continue operating for a period
not to exceed 12 months from the date of the Council’s decision. In the event
of such revocation, the grantee shall have two years from the date on which it
ceases operations to remove, at its own expense, all portions of its system
from all public ways within the city and to restore such public ways to a
condition reasonably satisfactory to the city.
   (B)   (1)   In the event that the use of any part of the system is
discontinued for any reason for a continuous period of 12 months, or in the
event such system or property has been installed in any public way without
complying with the requirements of the grantee’s franchise or this chapter, or
the franchise has been terminated, cancelled or has expired, the grantee shall
promptly, upon being given ten days’ notice, remove from the public way all
such property and poles of such system other than any which the City Manager
may permit to be abandoned in place. In the event of such removal, the grantee
shall promptly restore the public way or other area from which such property
has been removed to a condition satisfactory to the City Manager.
      (2)   Any property of the grantee remaining in place 30 days after the
termination or expiration of the franchise shall be considered permanently
abandoned. The City Manager may extend such time not to exceed an additional 30
days.
      (3)   Any property of the grantee to be abandoned in place shall be
abandoned in such manner as the City Manager shall prescribe. Upon permanent
abandonment of the property of the grantee in place, the property shall become
that of the city, and the grantee shall submit to the City Manager an
instrument in writing, to be approved by the City Attorney, transferring to the
city the ownership of such property.
(Ord. 5258, passed 10-28-80)
Penalty, see § 725.99
§ 725.13 CONSTRUCTION TIMETABLE.
   (A)   Within 60 days after acceptance of any franchise the grantee shall
proceed with due diligence to obtain all necessary permits and authorizations
which are required in the conduct of its business, including, but not limited
to, any utility joint use attachment agreements, microwave carrier licenses,
certificate of compliance and any other permits, licenses and authorizations to
be granted by duly constituted regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over the
operation of such systems, their associated microwave transmission facilities,
and satellite relay facilities.
   (B)   Within 18 months after all necessary permits, licenses and
authorizations, the grantee shall commence construction and installation of the
system, and proceed to render service to subscribers. Completion of
construction and installation shall be pursued with reasonable diligence so
that service to all areas designated in the official proposal as filed with the
city shall be provided within 18 months from the date that service was first
provided insofar as the grantee has power to accomplish this.
   (C)   Failure on the part of the grantee to commence and diligently pursue
each of the foregoing requirements and to complete each of the matters set
forth herein shall be grounds for revocation of such franchise, under and
pursuant to the terms of §
725.12(A); provided, however, that Council in its discretion may extend the
time for the commencement and completion of construction and installation for
additional periods in the event the grantee acting in good faith, experiences
delays by reason of circumstances beyond his or her control.
   (D)   As evidence of good faith in the performance of the franchise
agreement and in consideration of the granting of such franchise the grantee
shall upon acceptance of such franchise, deposit with the city, a construction
performance bond in the amount of $75,000 to guarantee its construction time
table under the terms of the franchise agreement. This bond shall terminate
upon completion of the project. Thereafter, only the bond requirement as set
forth in §
725.15 shall be maintained.
(Ord. 5258, passed 10-28-80)
Penalty, see § 725.99
§ 725.14 BOOKS, RECORDS, AND REPORTS.
   (A)   The grantee’s books and records shall be kept in such a way as to show
the activities of this unit separate from any other activities of the grantee.
   (B)   At all reasonable times, the grantee shall permit any duly authorized
representative of the city to examine all property of the grantee, together
with any appurtenant property of the grantee situated within or without the
city, and to examine and transcribe any and all maps and other records kept or
maintained by the grantee or under its control which deal with the operations,
affairs, transactions or property of the grantee with respect to its franchise.
If any such maps or records are not kept in the city, or upon reasonable
request made available in the city, and if Council shall determine that an
examination thereof is necessary or appropriate then all travel and maintenance
expense necessarily incurred in making such examination shall be paid by the
grantee.
   (C)   The grantee shall prepare and furnish to the City Manager at the times
and in the forms prescribed by the City Manager, such reports with respect to
its operations, affairs, transactions or property, as may be reasonably
necessary or appropriate to the performance of any of the rights, functions or
duties of the city or any of its officers in connection with the franchise,
including, but not limited to, copies of all petitions, applications and
communications submitted by the grantee to the Federal Communications
Commission, Securities and Exchange Commission or any other federal or state
regulatory commission or agency having jurisdiction with respect to any matter
affecting system operations.
   (D)   The grantee shall at all times make and keep in the city full and
complete plans and records showing the exact location of all system equipment
installed or in use in public ways and other public places in the city.
   (E)   The grantee shall file with the City Manager, on or before the last
day in March of each year, a current map or set of maps drawn to scale, showing
revisions made to the system during the previous 12-month period or a certified
statement indicating no change has occurred.
(Ord. 5258, passed 10-28-80)
Penalty, see § 725.99
§ 725.15 FAITHFUL PERFORMANCE BOND.
   (A)   The grantee shall, concurrently with the acceptance of award of any
franchise granted under this chapter, file with the City Manager, and at all
times thereafter maintain in full force and effect for the term of such
franchise or any renewal thereof, at the grantee’s sole expense, a corporate
surety bond in a company and in a form approved by the City Attorney, in the
amount of $25,000 renewable annually, and conditioned upon the faithful
performance of the grantee, and upon the further condition that in the event
the grantee shall fail to comply with any one or more of the provisions of this
chapter, or of any franchise issued to the grantee hereunder, there shall be
recoverable jointly and severally from the principal and surety of such bond
any damages or loss suffered by the city as a result thereof, including the
full amount of any compensation, indemnification or cost of removal or
abandonment of any property of the grantee as prescribed hereby which may be in
default, plus a reasonable allowance for the attorney’s fees and costs, up to
the full amount of the bond; such condition to be a continuing obligation for
the duration of such franchise and any renewal thereof and thereafter until the
grantee has liquidated all of its obligations with the city that may have
arisen from the acceptance of such franchise or renewal by the grantee or from
its exercise of any privileges therein granted. The bond shall provide that 30
days’ prior written notice of intention not to renew, cancellation or material
change, be given to the city.
   (B)   Neither the provisions of this section, nor any bond accepted by the
city pursuant hereto, nor any damages recovered by the city thereunder, shall
be construed to excuse faithful performance by the grantee or limit the
liability of the grantee under any franchise issued hereunder or for damages,
either to the full amount of the bond or otherwise.
(Ord. 5258, passed 10-28-80)
Penalty, see § 725.99
§ 725.16 INDEMNIFICATION OF CITY.
   (A)   The grantee shall, concurrently with the award of any franchise
granted under this chapter, furnish to the city and file with the City Manager,
and at all times during the existence of any franchise granted hereunder,
maintain in full force and effect, at its own cost and expense, a liability
insurance policy in the amount of $500,000, in a company approved by the City
Attorney and in a form satisfactory to the City Attorney, indemnifying and
saving harmless the city, its officers and employees from and against any and
all claims demands, actions, suits and proceedings by others, against all
liability to others including by not limited to any liability for damages by
reason of or arising out of any failure by the grantee to secure consents from
the owners, authorized distributors or licensees of programs to be delivered by
the grantee’s system, and against any loss, cost, expense and damages resulting
therefrom, including reasonable attorney’s fees, arising out of the exercise or
enjoyment of its franchise, irrespective of the amount of the comprehensive
liability insurance policy required hereunder.
   (B)   The grantee shall, concurrently with the filing of an acceptance of
award of any franchise granted under this chapter, furnish to the City Manager,
and at all times during the existence of any franchise granted hereunder,
maintain in full force and effect, at its own cost and expense, a general
comprehensive liability insurance policy, in protection of the city, its
officers, boards, commissions, agents and employees in a company and on a form
acceptable in the State of Ohio, protecting the city and all persons against
liability for loss or damage for personal injury, death and property damage,
occasioned by the operations of grantee under such franchise, with minimum
liability limits of $500,000 for personal injury or death of any one person and
$1,000,000 and $500,000 for damage to property resulting from any one
occurrence.
   (C)   The policies mentioned in the foregoing division shall name the city,
its officers, boards, commissions, agents and employees, as additional insured
and shall contain a provision that a written notice of cancellation or
reduction in coverage of such policy shall be delivered to the city 30 days in
advance of the effective date thereof; if such insurance is provided by a
policy which also covers the grantee or any other entity or person other than
those above named, then such policy shall contain the standard cross-liability
endorsement.
(Ord. 5258, passed 10-28-80)
§ 725.17 RIGHTS RESERVED TO THE CITY.
   Without limitation upon the rights which the city might otherwise have, the
city does hereby expressly reserve the following rights, power and authorities:
   (A)   To exercise its governmental powers now or hereafter to the full
extent that such powers may be vested in or granted to the city.
   (B)   To determine through its City Council and/or its City Manager any
question of fact relating to the meaning, terms, obligations or other factors
of this chapter or any franchise grant and under the authority of this chapter,
subject to §
725.18 hereof.
   (C)   To grant additional franchises within the city to other persons for
the conduct of a system under any conditions whatsoever acceptable to the city,
notwithstanding the same might be alleged to be more favorable than the rights
granted herein.
   (D)   To exercise any other rights, powers, or duties required or
authorized; the city under the Constitution of the State of Ohio, the laws of
Ohio, or the City Charter.
(Ord. 5258, passed 10-28-80)
§ 725.18 ARBITRATION.
   Any matters arising under this chapter or any franchise granted under the
authority of the chapter which cannot be resolved to the satisfaction of both
parties shall be determined by a panel of three arbitrators. One arbitrator
shall be appointed by the Mayor of the city, one by the grantee, and one by the
presiding Judge of the Warren County Court of Common Pleas. The fees of
arbitrators shall be determined by the presiding Judge. The expenses of the
arbitration, including the fees of the arbitrators, shall be borne by the
parties in such manner as the arbitrators provide in their award, but in no
event will the city be obligated for more than half of the expense. The
determination of the majority of the arbitrators shall be binding on the
parties.
(Ord. 5258, passed 10-28-80)
§ 725.19 MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
   (A)   When not otherwise prescribed herein, all matters herein required to
be filed with the city shall be filed with the City Manager.
   (B)   The grantee shall not engage in the sale or servicing of television or
radio sets or parts and accessories, except such obsolete or used sets or parts
and accessories as may have been used or purchased for use by it. Further, the
grantee shall not require or attempt to direct its subscribers to deal with any
particular person, form or corporation in regard to sale or servicing of
television or radio sets or parts and accessories. This provision shall not
apply to converters, decoders, home interactive terminals, and other such
devices as may be used in furnishing any programming or service by the
grantee’s system.
   (C)   The grantee shall not deny service or access, or otherwise
discriminate against its subscribers, users, or employees on the basis of race,
color, religion, national origin, or sex. The grantee shall strictly adhere to
the equal employment opportunity requirements of the FCC, as expressed in 47
CFR 76.13(a)(8) and 76.311.
   (D)   Neither the grantee nor the city shall tap and/or monitor or arrange
for the tapping and/or monitoring or permit, either expressly or impliedly, any
other person to tap and/or monitor any cable, line, signal input device, or
subscriber outlet or receiver for any purpose whatsoever, without the express
permission of the subscriber. Notwithstanding the proceeding sentences, the
grantee shall be entitled to conduct system-wide or individually addressed
“sweeps” for the purpose of verifying system integrity, controlling return-path
transmissions, or billing for pay services.
   (E)   The grantee shall not, without the specific authorization of the
subscriber(s) involved, sell, or otherwise make available to any person or
group of persons lists of the names and addresses of its subscribers, or any
list which identifies the viewing construction, marketing, and maintenance of
the grantee’s facilities and services hereunder and the concomitant billing of
subscribers for such services, or as the same may be necessary to give leased
access channel users sufficient and pertinent information to make full use of
such leased access channel.
   (F)   The grantee shall exercise no control over program content on any of
the access channels.
   (G)   Liability for obscenity, defamation, or invasion of privacy on any
access channels shall rest with the person or group of persons utilizing such
access channels.
   (H)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent any party hereto
from pursuing its full legal rights and enforcing compliance with the terms of
this chapter or of any franchise granted under the authority of this chapter.
   (I)   The grantee shall not be relieved of its obligation to comply with the
provisions of this chapter by reason of any failure of the city to enforce
prompt compliance, nor shall any inaction by the city be deemed to waive or
void any provision of this chapter.
   (J)   During the term of a franchise granted under the authority of this
chapter, the grantee shall comply with all present and future applicable laws,
rules, and regulations, and any amendments thereto, promulgated by any federal,
state, or local authority of competent jurisdiction, including but not limited
to the laws, rules, and regulations of the FCC and the city.
   (K)   Should the State of Ohio, the FCC, or any other agency of competent
jurisdiction require the grantee to perform or cease to perform any act,
compliance with which requirement would be inconsistent with any provision of
this chapter, the grantee shall comply with such requirement and shall notify
the city. Any mandatory modification of FCC franchise standards resulting from
amendments by the Commission shall be incorporated into this chapter within one
year of adoption of the modification, or at the time of franchise renewal,
whichever occurs first.
   (L)   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this chapter
is for any reason held illegal, invalid or unconstitutional by the decision of
any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portions hereof. Council hereby declares that it
would have passed this chapter and each section, subsection, sentence, clause
and phrase hereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared illegal, invalid or
unconstitutional. The invalidity of any portion of this chapter shall not
abate, reduce or otherwise affect any consideration or other obligation
required of the grantee of any franchise granted hereunder.
   (M)   The grantee and city shall comply with all rules and regulations of
the Federal Communications Commission whether specifically mentioned in this
chapter or not. The grantee and city shall comply with any and all
modifications of the rules and regulations of the Federal Communications
Commission resulting from amendment by the Federal Communications Commission
within one year of the date of adoption of the modification, or the time of
franchise renewal, whichever occurs first.
   (N)   In the event that any of the specific construction standards, codes,
or other citations, which are referenced in this chapter, are changed or
revised during the term of the franchise, the grantee and the City Manager
shall establish a mutually agreeable alternate reference or standard.
(Ord. 5258, passed 10-28-80; Am. Ord. 5259, passed 11-11-80)
Penalty, see § 725.99
§ 725.20 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   From and after the effective date of this chapter, no person shall
establish, operate or carry on the business of distributing to any persons in
this city any television signals or radio signals by means of a system unless a
franchise therefor has first been obtained pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter, and unless such franchise is in full force and effect.
   (B)   From and after the effective date of this chapter, no person shall
construct, install or maintain within any public way in the city, or within any
other public property of the city, or within any privately-owned area within
the city which has not yet become a public way but is designated or delineated
as a proposed public way on any tentative subdivision which may be approved by
the city, any equipment or facilities for distributing any television signals
or radio signals through a system, unless a franchise authorizing such use of
such public way or property or area has first been obtained pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter, and unless such franchise is in full force and
effect.
   (C)   No person, firm or corporation shall make any unauthorized connection,
whether physically, electrically, acoustically, inductively or otherwise, with
any part of a franchised system within this city for the purpose of taking or
receiving television signals, radio signals, pictures, programs or sound.
   (D)   No person, firm or corporation shall make any unauthorized connection,
whether physically, electrically, acoustically, inductively or otherwise, with
any part of a franchised system within this city for the purpose of enabling
himself, herself or others to receive any television signal, radio signal,
picture, program or sound, without payment to the owner of such system.
   (E)   No person, without the consent of the grantee, shall willfully tamper
with, remove or injure any cables, wires or equipment used for the distribution
of television signals, radio signals, pictures, programs or sound.
(Ord. 5258, passed 10-28-80)
Penalty, see § 725.99
§ 725.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of §
725.20 shall be fined not less than $25 for the first offense; for a second
offense, such person shall be fined not less than $100. Each day’s violation
constitutes a separate offense.
   (B)   Whoever violates any other provision of this chapter shall be fined
$100. Each day’s violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 5258, passed 10-28-80)
CHAPTER 727: SALE OF DRUG-RELATED PARAPHERNALIA
Section
   
727.01   Definition
   
727.02   Factors to be considered
   
727.03   Offenses
   
727.04   Illegal use or possession of marihuana drug paraphernalia
 
   
727.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Controlled substances, see R.C. Chapter 3719
   General definitions under the Uniform Controlled Substances Act, see R.C. §
3719.01
   Knowingly defined, see R.C. § 2901.22(B)
   Possess defined, see R.C. § 2925.01(K)
   Use, possession or sale of drug paraphernalia, see R.C. § 2925.14
§ 727.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA . Any equipment, product, or material of any kind that is
used by the offender, intended by the offender for use, or designed for use, in
propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding,
converting, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging,
repackaging, storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling,
or otherwise introducing into the human body, a controlled substance in
violation of this chapter. DRUG PARAPHERNALIA includes, but is not limited to,
any of the following equipment, products, or materials that are used by the
offender, intended by the offender for use, or designed by the offender for
use, in any of the following manners:
      (1)   A kit for propagating, cultivating, growing, or harvesting any
species of a plant that is acontrolled substance or from which a controlled
substance can be derived.
      (2)   A kit for manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing,
processing, or preparing a controlled substance.
      (3)   Any object, instrument, or device for manufacturing, compounding,
converting, producing, processing, or preparing methamphetamine.
      (4)   An isomerization device for increasing the potency of any species
of a plant that is a controlled substance.
      (5)   Testing equipment for identifying, or analyzing the strength,
effectiveness, or purity of, a controlled substance, except for those exempted
in division (D)(4) of this section;
      (6)   A scale or balance for weighing or measuring a controlled
substance.
      (7)   A diluent or adulterant, such as quinine hydrochloride, mannitol,
mannite, dextrose, or lactose, for cutting a controlled substance.
      (8)   A separation gin or sifter for removing twigs and seeds from, or
otherwise cleaning or refining, marihuana.
      (9)   A blender, bowl, container, spoon, or mixing device for compounding
a controlled substance.
      (10)   A capsule, balloon, envelope, or container for packaging small
quantities of a controlled substance.
      (11)   A container or device for storing or concealing a controlled
substance.
      (12)   A hypodermic syringe, needle, or instrument for parenterally
injecting a controlled substance into the human body.
      (13)   An object, instrument, or device for ingesting, inhaling, or
otherwise introducing into the human body, marihuana, cocaine, hashish, or
hashish oil, such as a metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or
ceramic pipe, with or without a screen, permanent screen, hashish head, or
punctured metal bowl; water pipe; carburetion tube or device; smoking or
carburetion mask; roach clip or similar object used to hold burning material,
such as a marihuana cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be
held in the hand; miniature cocaine spoon, or cocaine vial; chamber pipe;
carburetor pipe; electric pipe; air driver pipe; chillum; bong; or ice pipe or
chiller.
(R.C. § 2925.14(A)) (Ord. 7055, passed 4-11-95)
§ 727.02 FACTORS TO BE CONSIDERED.
   (A)   The factors listed in division (B) should be considered in the
determination that an item is drug paraphernalia.
   (B)   In determining if any equipment, product, or material is drug
paraphernalia, a court or law enforcement officer shall consider, in addition
to other relevant factors, the following:
      (1)   Any statement by the owner or by anyone in control of the
equipment, product, or material, concerning its use.
      (2)   The proximity in time or space of the equipment, product, or
material, or of the act relating to the equipment, product, or material, to a
violation of any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2925.
      (3)   The proximity of the equipment, product, or material to any
controlled substance.
      (4)   The existence of any residue of a controlled substance on the
equipment, product, or material.
      (5)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of the owner, or of
anyone in control, of the equipment, product, or material, to deliver it to any
person whom he or she knows intends to use the equipment, product, or material
to facilitate a violation of any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter
2925. A finding that the owner or anyone in control of the equipment, product,
or material is not guilty of a violation of any other provision of this chapter
or R.C. Chapter 2925 does not prevent a finding that the equipment, product, or
material was intended or designed by the offender for use as drug
paraphernalia.
      (6)   Any oral or written instruction provided with the equipment,
product, or material concerning its use.
      (7)   Any descriptive material accompanying the equipment, product, or
material and explaining or depicting its use.
      (8)   National or local advertising concerning the use of the equipment,
product, or material.
      (9)   The manner and circumstances in which the equipment, product, or
material is displayed for sale.
      (10)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of the sales of the
equipment, product, or material to the total sales of the business enterprise.
      (11)   The existence and scope of legitimate uses of the equipment,
product, or material in the community.
      (12)   Expert testimony concerning the use of the equipment, product, or
material.
(R.C. § 2925.14(B)) (Ord. 7055, passed 4-11-95)
§ 727.03 OFFENSES.
   (A)   Subject to divisions (D)(2), (D)(3), and (D)(4) of this section, no
person shall knowingly use, or possess with purpose to use, drug paraphernalia.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly sell, or possess or manufacture with purpose
to sell, drug paraphernalia, if the person knows or reasonably should know that
the equipment, product, or material will be used as drug paraphernalia.
   (C)   No person shall place an advertisement in any newspaper, magazine,
handbill, or other publication that is published and printed and circulates
primarily within the city, if the person knows that the purpose of the
advertisement is to promote the illegal sale in the city of the equipment,
product, or material that the offender designed or intended for use as drug
paraphernalia.
(R.C. § 2925.14(C))
   (D)   (1)   This section does not apply to manufacturers, practitioners,
pharmacists, owners of pharmacies, and other persons whose conduct is in
accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, and 4741.
This section shall not be construed to prohibit the possession or use of a
hypodermic as authorized by R.C. § 3719.172.
      (2)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to a person’s use, or
possession with purpose to use, any drug paraphernalia that is equipment, a
product, or material of any kind that is used by the person, intended by the
person for use, or designed for use in storing, containing, concealing,
injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing into the human body
marihuana.
      (3)   Division (B)(2) of R.C. § 2925.11 applies with respect to a
violation of division (C)(1) of this section when a person seeks or obtains
medical assistance for another person who is experiencing a drug overdose, a
person experiences a drug overdose and seeks medical assistance for that
overdose, or a person is the subject of another person seeking or obtaining
medical assistance for that overdose.
      (4)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to a person's use,
or possession with purpose to use, any drug testing strips to determine the
presence of fentanyl or a fentanyl-related compound.
(R.C. § 2925.14(D)) (Ord. 7055, passed 4-11-95) Penalty, see §
727.99
Statutory reference:
   Exception for lawful possession or use of
    hypodermic, see R.C. § 2925.14(D)
§ 727.04 ILLEGAL USE OR POSSESSION OF MARIHUANA DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   (A)   As used in this section, DRUG PARAPHERNALIA has the same meaning as in
§
727.01.
   (B)   In determining if any equipment, product, or material is drug
paraphernalia, a court or law enforcement officer shall consider, in addition
to other relevant factors, all factors identified in §
727.02.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly use, or possess with purpose to use, any
drug paraphernalia that is equipment, a product, or material of any kind that
is used by the person, intended by the person for use, or designed for use in
storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise
introducing into the human body marihuana.
   (D)   This section does not apply to any person identified in §
727.03(D)(1), and it shall not be construed to prohibit the possession or use
of a hypodermic as authorized by R.C. § 3719.172.
   (E)   (1)   R.C. § 2925.14(E) applies with respect to any drug paraphernalia
that was used or possessed in violation of this section.
      (2)   Division (B)(2) of R.C. § 2925.11 applies with respect to a
violation of this section when a person seeks or obtains medical assistance for
another person who is experiencing a drug overdose, a person experiences a drug
overdose and seeks medical assistance for that overdose, or a person is the
subject of another person seeking or obtaining medical assistance for that
overdose.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of
illegal use or possession of marihuana drug paraphernalia, a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Arrest or conviction for a violation of division (C) of this
section does not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the
person so arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries about the person's
criminal record, including any inquiries contained in any application for
employment, license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection with
the person's appearance as a witness.
   (G)   (1)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this section, the court shall do the following, if applicable:
         (a)   If the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a
violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially similar municipal ordinance or
the law of another state or the United States arising out of the same set of
circumstances as the violation, the court shall suspend the offender's driver's
or commercial driver's license or permit for not more than five years.
         (b)   If the offender is a professionally licensed person, the court
immediately shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
      (2)   (a)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
         (b)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (G)(2) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.141)
§ 727.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Whoever violates §
727.03(A) is guilty of illegal use or possession of drug paraphernalia, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (A)(3) of this section, whoever
violates §
727.03(B) is guilty of dealing in drug paraphernalia, a misdemeanor of the
second degree.
      (3)   Whoever violates §
727.03(B) by selling drug paraphernalia to a juvenile is guilty of selling drug
paraphernalia to juveniles, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (4)   Whoever violates §
727.03(C) is guilty of illegal advertising of drug paraphernalia, a misdemeanor
of the second degree.
   (B)   Notwithstanding R.C. Chapter 2981, any drug paraphernalia that was
used, possessed, sold, or manufactured in a violation of this chapter shall be
seized, after a conviction for that violation shall be forfeited, and upon
forfeiture shall be disposed of pursuant to R.C. § 2981.12(B).
   (C)   (1)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this chapter, the court may suspend for not more than five years
the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit. However, if
the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially similar municipal ordinance or the law of another
state or the United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the
violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If the offender is a
professionally licensed person, in addition to any other sanction imposed for a
violation of this section, the court immediately shall comply with R.C. §
2925.38.
      (2)   (a)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
similar municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States that
arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
         (b)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (C)(2) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.14(E) - (G)) (Ord. 7055, passed 4-11-95)
CHAPTER 729: VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE
Section
   
729.01   Establishment of fee; calculation
   
729.02   Fee to be paid on quarterly basis
   
729.03   Notice
§ 729.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF FEE; CALCULATION.
   The Council of the City of Lebanon hereby establishes a VSP fee that is
calculated by applying a VSP fee percentage of 5% to the video service
provider’s gross revenues as defined in Section 1332.32(B) of the Video Law
(R.C. § 1332.32(B)). For purposes of calculating the VSP fee, the provider’s
gross revenues shall include advertising revenues in accordance with Section
1332.23(B)(2)(g) of the Video Law (R.C. § 1332.23(B)(2)(g)). The VSP fee
percentage and video law gross revenues definition, as modified in this
chapter, shall apply equally to all video service providers and cable
television operators providing video service in the city.
(Ord. 2009-036, passed 4-14-09; Am. Ord. 2022-121, passed 11-9-22)
§ 729.02 FEE TO BE PAID ON QUARTERLY BASIS.
   The VSP fee shall be paid by each video service provider providing service
in the city on a quarterly basis but not sooner than 45 days nor later than 60
days after the end of the each calendar quarter.
(Ord. 2009-036, passed 4-14-09)
§ 729.03 NOTICE.
   The City Manager is authorized and directed to provide any video service
provider with notice of the VSP fee percentage and gross revenues definition as
determined by this Council above, which notice shall be given by certified
mail, upon receipt of notice from such video service provider that it will
begin providing video service in the city pursuant to a state-issued video
service authorization.
(Ord. 2009-036, passed 4-14-09)
PART NINE - STREETS AND PUBLIC SERVICES CODE
TITLE ONE - Street and Sidewalk Areas
   
Chapter 901 - Street Excavations
   
Chapter 903 - Sidewalks, Curbs, Gutters and Driveways
   
Chapter 905 - House Numbering
   
Chapter 907 - Trees
   
Chapter 908 - Right-of-Way Occupancy Permit
   
Chapter 909 - Right-of-Way Work Permit
TITLE THREE - Utilities
   
Chapter 910 - Public Utilities; General
   
Chapter 911 - Water Charges
   
Chapter 912 - Water Conservation
   
Chapter 913 - Sanitary Sewers; Use Charges
   
Chapter 914 - Sewer Use
   
Chapter 915 - Electrical Rates
   
Chapter 916 - Telecommunications Use
   
Chapter 917 - Garbage and Rubbish
   
Chapter 918 - Storm Water Management Utility
   
Chapter 919 - Flood Hazard Areas
   
Chapter 920 - Storm Water Discharge and Maintenance Regulations
TITLE FIVE - Other Public Services
   
Chapter 921 - Lebanon Cemetery
   
Chapter 925 - Park Rules and Regulations
   
Chapter 927 - Emergency Medical Services
TITLE ONE - Street and Sidewalk Areas
   
Chapter 901   Street Excavations
   
Chapter 903   Sidewalks, Curbs, Gutters and Driveways
   
Chapter 905   House Numbering
   
Chapter 907   Trees
   
Chapter 908   Right-of-Way Occupancy Permit
   
Chapter 909   Right-of-Way Work Permit
CHAPTER 901: STREET EXCAVATIONS
Section
   
901.01     Definitions
   
901.02     Permit requirements
   
901.03     Insurance policy
   
901.04     Deposit
   
901.05     Inspection fees
   
901.06     Barricades and warning lights
   
901.07     Compliance with specifications
   
901.08     Rules and regulations
 
   
901.99     Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Digging, excavating and piling earth on streets, see R.C. § 5589.10
   Excavation liability, see R.C. §§ 723.49 et seq.
   Openings by the city, see R.C. § 723.02
   Power to establish and care for streets, see R.C. §§ 715.19, 717.01, 723.01
Cross-reference:
   Placing injurious material or obstruction in street, see §
311.01
   Streets and sidewalks, see
Ch. 541 
   Use of sidewalks and streets during construction, see
Ch. 1309
§ 901.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EXCAVATION. Digging, trenching, excavating, grading, tunnelling or any other
work of a similar nature in, on or under any street, but shall not include
repair or replacement of sidewalk, curb or gutter.
   PERSON. Any person, individual, firm, corporation, partnership, association,
company or organization of any kind.
   STREET. A way for vehicular traffic, whether designated a street highway,
thoroughfare, parkway, road, avenue, boulevard, lane, place or however
otherwise designated.
§ 901.02 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall make an excavation in any street within the city
except in accordance with this chapter.
   (B)   Any person desiring to make an excavation in any street shall make
application on a form to be provided by the city and shall furnish such
information as is necessary to complete the application form, and such other
information as the Director of Service may require.
   (C)   No excavation shall be made in any street unless and until a permit
therefor has been issued by the Director of Service, except as otherwise
provided in this chapter.
   (D)   The Director of Service may issue an annual blanket permit for the
purpose of excavating within the streets in the city to the following:
      (1)   A public utility regulated by the Public Utilities Commission of
the state.
      (2)   A person holding a franchise from the city.
   (E)   The Division of Water and Wastewater and the Division of Electricity
shall not be required to obtain a permit. However, these divisions shall be
required to comply with the regulations applicable to the excavations which
they may make. When backfill or replacement of pavement or other work is
performed by the Divisions of Street Maintenance in connection with a street
excavation occasioned by the Divisions of Water and Sanitary Sewerage or
Electricity, the cost of such work shall be paid from the appropriate fund to
the Street Fund.
   (F)   The requirements of this chapter shall not be applicable in the case
of a contract between a person and the city.
§ 901.03 INSURANCE POLICY.
   In connection with an application for a permit, each person shall deposit or
show evidence of a public liability insurance policy, insuring the city against
any loss or damage to persons or property resulting from the work being done,
the policy to have minimum limits of $100,000 for injury or death to any one
person, and $300,000 for any one accident, and $25,000 for property damage. The
Director of Service, with the approval of the City Manager, may waive this
requirement for an insurance policy where the applicant is a public utility
operating under the supervision of the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio or
is a public utility holding a franchise from the city.
§ 901.04 DEPOSIT.
   Before being granted a permit, each person shall deposit with the City
Auditor an amount of money sufficient to cover the cost of any work which the
city may be required to do in connection with backfilling, restoration of
pavement or other work. Upon completion of the work for which a permit was
issued and acceptance thereof by the Director of Service, the Auditor shall
refund to the applicant any amount of this deposit not required to cover the
cost of work done by the city. In the event that the deposit shall not have
been sufficient to cover the cost of the work, the applicant shall pay such
additional amount as is required to cover the city’s cost.
Penalty, see § 901.99
§ 901.05 INSPECTION FEES.
   Prior to the issuing of any permit, the applicant shall pay an inspection
fee of $25, except that where an annual permit is issued as provided in §
901.02(D), the fee shall be based upon the number of inspections and shall be
paid by the public utility upon being invoiced by the city.
(Am. Ord. 6853, passed 6-22-93)
Penalty, see § 901.99
Cross-reference:
   Building and zoning fees generally, see
Ch. 1304
§ 901.06 BARRICADES AND WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person who is granted a permit shall maintain sufficient barricades,
warning signs, lights and other devices as shall be required to protect the
public and the work being performed.
Penalty, see § 901.99
§ 901.07 COMPLIANCE WITH SPECIFICATIONS.
   All work performed in connection with the excavation for which a permit is
granted shall be done in accordance with the specifications of the city
governing such work.
Penalty, see § 901.99
§ 901.08 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Director of Service, with the approval of the City Manager, shall make
and enforce such rules and regulations as he or she may deem necessary for the
enforcement of the provisions hereof, for the proper determination and
collection of the rates and charges herein provided, and for the safe,
efficient and economical management of the Department.
§ 901.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more than
$500 or imprisoned not more than six months, or both. Each day’s continued
violation shall constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 903: SIDEWALKS, CURBS, GUTTERS AND DRIVEWAYS
Section
   
903.01     Responsibility for construction maintenance and repair
   
903.02     Specifications and standards for driveways
   
903.03     Permits for sidewalk, curb, gutter and driveway
   
903.04     Required construction and repair
   
903.05     Required cleaning of sidewalks, curbs and gutters [Repealed]
   
903.06   Rules and regulations
   
903.07   Sidewalk sales of merchandise
 
   
903.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Notice to construct or repair sidewalks, see R.C. §§ 729.03 et seq.
   Sidewalks and gutters, see R.C. §§ 729.01 et seq.
Cross-reference:
   City Engineer, see §
127.03
   Curbs, gutters, sidewalks in subdivisions, see §
1115.03
   Streets and sidewalks, see
Ch. 541
   Use of sidewalks and streets during construction, see
Ch. 1309
§ 903.01 RESPONSIBILITY FOR CONSTRUCTION, MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR.
   (A)   The construction, maintenance and repair of all sidewalks and
driveways within the city shall be the responsibility of and shall be done at
the expense of the person owning the lot fronting upon any street or alley
where such improvements may be required to be made.
   (B)   Where, in the interests of the city, work is required to be done which
may involve the reconstruction of otherwise good sidewalk, or for other good
and sufficient reason, the city may perform the work and shall bear the cost
thereof. In addition, the city may perform work in connection with sidewalk and
or curb and gutter for a public utility regulated by the Public Utilities
Commission of the state or a person holding a franchise from the city,
providing the public utility or person shall pay the cost thereof, including
overhead.
   (C)   The construction of all new sidewalks and driveways shall be required
in accordance with the Subdivision Code. City Council may, at their discretion,
initiate a project requiring the construction of new sidewalks in certain areas
where they currently do not exist. Such projects shall be the responsibility of
and shall be done at the expense of the city. Upon the completion of the
project and after a period of one year after the final acceptance by the city,
the maintenance and repair of the sidewalk and driveways shall fall to the
person(s) owning the lot fronting upon the improvements.
   (D)   The construction and repair of all curb and gutter along public
roadways within the city shall be the responsibility of and shall be done at
the expense of the city. Curb and gutter shall be repaired/replaced based on a
field inspection by the City Engineer. As part of the city's annual street
resurfacing program, the City Engineer shall designate improvement areas. In
these improvement areas, new curb and gutter may be installed and/or defective
curb and gutter shall be repaired or replaced at the expense of the city. Only
the defective curb and gutter within the defined improvement areas will be
replaced at the expense of the city. The property owner may elect to repair
and/or replace defective curb and gutter that is not within the annual
improvement areas at the property owner's sole expense.
(Am. Ord. 6594, passed 3-26-91; Am. Ord. 8901, passed 2-24-04)
Penalty, see § 903.99
§ 903.02 SPECIFICATIONS AND STANDARDS FOR DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   Definition.  DRIVEWAY means any paved area constructed within the
public right of way, connecting the paved public roadway with private property,
for the purpose of providing access for motor vehicles to private property.
   (B)   Construction; modification.
      (1)   The construction, repair and material of all driveways shall
conform to the standards and specifications established and on file in the
Department of Engineering.
      (2)   If, at any time, it is found that the driveway provisions set forth
in this chapter are impracticable for a particular case, the City Engineer
shall be authorized to modify the strict application of the same, so as to
provide for the safety and convenience of the public and, at the same time, to
avoid undue hardships on the property owner, in harmony with the purpose of
this chapter.
   (C)   Location, number, size. All requirements and standards regulating the
location, number, size, and control of driveways shall be as listed in Chapter
1139 of the zoning code.
(Am. Ord. 6194, passed 3-22-88)
Penalty, see § 903.99
§ 903.03 PERMITS FOR SIDEWALK, CURB, GUTTER AND DRIVEWAY.
   (A)   No person shall remove, cut, construct or repair any sidewalk, curb,
gutter or driveway without first obtaining a permit therefore from the City
Engineer.
   (B)   In connection with the issuance of a permit, each applicant shall pay
to the city for the issuance of the permit and the inspection of the work to be
performed thereunder, fees in accordance with the following schedule:
      (1)   In connection with the issuance of a permit, each applicant shall
pay to the city, for the issuance of such permit and the inspection of the work
to be performed thereunder, fees in accordance with §
1304.13, Engineering Fees.
      (2)   Where engineering services are furnished by the city in connection
with any of the above work, other than issuance of the permit and inspection,
the cost of the services, based on actual cost to the city, shall be paid to
the city.
(Am. Ord. 6194, passed 3-22-88; Am. Ord. 6853, passed 6-22-93)
Penalty, see § 903.99
§ 903.04 REQUIRED CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR.
   (A)   The City Engineer shall, from time to time, cause an inspection to be
made of sidewalks and driveways throughout the city. Should it be determined
that sidewalks and/or driveways are so defective that they create a public
nuisance and/or safety hazard, then they shall be repaired in a manner provided
by R.C. Chapter 729 at the sole expense of the property owner.
   (B)   If any person shall neglect or refuse to make any such improvements in
accordance with the specifications, and within the time limited in such notice,
Council may immediately proceed to have the same done, by contract, under the
direction of the City Engineer, and shall assess the same upon such lot
fronting on the street or alley where such improvement is made, and shall order
the Clerk to certify, under his or her official seal, to the County Auditor,
such unpaid assessment.
(Am. Ord. 8901, passed 2-24-04)
Penalty, see § 903.99
§ 903.05 REQUIRED CLEANING OF SIDEWALKS, CURBS AND GUTTERS.  [REPEALED]
Editor's note:
   Section
903.05 was repealed by Ordinance No. 2010-036, passed March 23, 2010.
§ 903.06 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Director of Service with the approval of the City Manager, shall make
and enforce such rules and regulations as he or she may deem necessary for the
enforcement of the provisions hereof, and for the proper determination and
collection of the fees and charges herein provided.
§ 903.07 SIDEWALK SALE OF MERCHANDISE.
   Subject to provisions of this chapter, merchandise may be sold on sidewalks
in the Central Business District subject to the following conditions:
   (A)   The merchandise and any fixtures displaying the merchandise must be
located on a public sidewalk on the side of the sidewalk immediately adjacent
to premises wherein such merchandise is regularly offered for sale. Merchandise
shall not project more than 36 inches on Broadway and 30 inches on all other
Central Business District Streets, into the public right-of-way.
   (B)   The display of the merchandise may in no way impede the orderly flow
of pedestrian traffic along the sidewalk.
   (C)   The merchandise offered for sale must be merchandise regularly offered
for sale in premises immediately adjacent to the location of the sidewalk sale
merchandise. All sidewalk sale merchandise must be removed from the sidewalk at
the close of business each day.
   (D)   The preparation of food or drink within the merchandise display area
or the public sidewalk is prohibited.
   (E)   An application shall be filed for sale of merchandise on sidewalks,
with an annual permit fee of $25. Such permit shall run from January l to
December 31.
   (F)   The application shall be accompanied by a certificate of liability
insurance, naming the city as an additional insured, of not less than
$1,000,000, covering the proposed merchandise sale, wherein the city is named
as an insured for any injury, loss or damage caused by the use or maintenance
of the merchandise. Further, the applicant shall execute an agreement with the
city whereby the applicant agrees to indemnify the city and hold the city
harmless from any claims for injury, loss or damage arising from the use or
maintenance of the merchandise.
   (G)   The City Manager or his or her designee shall enforce the provisions
of this section.
(Ord. 6531, passed 9-11-90; Am. Ord. 9470, passed 2-27-07)
Penalty, see § 903.99
§ 903.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
fined not more than $50 for each offense.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of §
903.07 shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor and be fined not to exceed $100
for each offense.
(Ord. 6531, passed 9-11-90)
CHAPTER 905: HOUSE NUMBERING
Section
   
905.01     Providing for numbering
   
905.02     Preparation of plat
   
905.03     Scheme and rules for numbering houses
   
905.04     House numbering map
   
905.05     Duty of owners
 
   
905.99     Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Power to regulate building numbering, see R.C. § 715.26
Cross-reference:
   Duty of City Engineer to assign lot and house numbers, see §
127.03
§ 905.01 PROVIDING FOR NUMBERING.
   Houses and buildings in the city shall be numbered and designated as
hereinafter provided.
(Ord. passed 3-1-1892)
Penalty, see § 905.99
§ 905.02 PREPARATION OF PLAT.
   It shall be the duty of the City Engineer to prepare a plat of the city
designating thereon the streets and location of each building lot and
designating the number of each house, building or building lot as herein
provided.
(Ord. passed 3-1-1892)
§ 905.03 SCHEME AND RULES FOR NUMBERING HOUSES.
   The plat shall be so arranged with the numbers designating buildings
fronting on the streets running north and south which begin at Mulberry Street
at No. 1 north and No. 1 south of each street and run thence consecutively,
except as hereinafter provided, in each direction, the odd numbers on the west
side and the even numbers on the east side of such streets, and likewise the
numbers designating buildings fronting on streets running east and west shall
begin at Broadway with No. 1 east and No.1 west of Broadway and run thence
consecutively, except as hereinafter provided, in each direction, the odd
numbers on the south side and the even numbers on the north side of such
streets.
(Ord. passed 3-1-1892)
§ 905.04 HOUSE NUMBERING MAP.
   Except as provided in §
905.03, the numbering of houses and buildings on all streets of the city shall
be as set forth on the City House and Building Numbering Map on file in the
office of the City Engineer.
§ 905.05 DUTY OF OWNERS.
   It shall be the duty of each resident owner of a building in the city and of
the occupant of each building therein owned by nonresidents to procure the
proper numbers for such building and affix the same in a conspicuous place to
the front of such building. It shall be the duty of any person hereafter
erecting any building in the city, within ten days after the issuance of a
certificate of occupancy, to procure the proper numbers and affix the same to
such new building.
Penalty, see § 905.99
§ 905.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined
not more than $10 for each offense.
CHAPTER 907: TREES
Section
   
907.01   Definitions
   
907.02   Control of trees vested in Director
   
907.03   Permit required
   
907.04   Prohibitions
   
907.05   Protection of public trees
   
907.06   Trimming of trees on public property
   
907.07   Duty of private property owner
   
907.08   Recommended trees for Lebanon
   
907.09     Preservation and removal of trees on public property
   
907.10   Emergency provisions
   
907.11   Tree spacing and clearance
   
907.12   Tree planting
   
907.13   Notice
   
907.14   Prosecution of violation
 
   
907.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Criminal mischief, see R.C. § 2909.07
   Injury or destruction, see R.C. § 901.51
   Power to regulate shade trees or shrubbery, see R.C. § 715.20
Cross-reference:
   Landscape Requirements, see Ch. 1138
   Shade Tree Commission, see §
129.06
§ 907.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ARBORICULTURE or TREE PRESERVA-TION. The treating, spraying, pruning,
maintaining and any other care or work intended for the strengthening of trees
and the removal and prevention of tree pests, blights and diseases of any and
all kinds.
   DIRECTOR OF SERVICE or DIRECTOR. The Director of Service of the city.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company, or
organization of any kind.
   PROPERTY LINE. The outer edge of a street or highway.
   PROPERTY OWNER. The person owning such property as shown by the County
Auditor's office, including the executor, administrator, or beneficiary of the
estate of a deceased owner.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any public street, public highway, public right-of-way, public
park or any property owned or held by the city within the boundaries of the
city.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any portion of the public way, street, alley, or sidewalk.
   SHRUB. A low growing woody plant with one or several perennial main stems
producing branches, shoots, or multiple stems from or near the base of the
plant and incapable of being pruned to provide at least six feet of clear
branchless trunk within five years of planting.
   STREET OR HIGHWAY. The entire width of every public way, easement of right-
of-way when any part thereof is open to the public, as a matter of right, for
the purpose of vehicular and pedestrian traffic, and shall include alleys.
   TREE. A tall growing woody plant with one or more perennial main stems or
trunk which develops branches from the aerial section of the stem rather  than
from the base; capable of being pruned to at least six feet of clear branchless
trunk below the crown within five years of planting.
   TREELAWN. That part of a street or highway, lying between the property line
and that portion of the street or highway usually used for vehicular traffic.
   TREE TOPPING. The severe cutting back of limbs to stubs of three inches or
more in diameter within the tree's crown to such a degree as to remove the
normal canopy and disfigure the tree.
(Ord. 1076, passed 2-25-64; Am. Ord. 6493, passed 4-24-90; Am. Ord. 2012-002,
passed 1-24-12)
§ 907.02 CONTROL OF TREES VESTED IN DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Director is given full jurisdiction, authority, control,
supervision and direction of all trees which now or which may hereinafter exist
upon any public place in the city, and over all trees which exist upon any
private property in the city when, in his or her opinion such trees constitute
a menace to public property, public safety or public welfare of the city. The
Director is also given full jurisdiction, authority and control in connection
with the issuing of permits hereinafter provided for. In the exercise of any or
all of the powers herein granted, the Director shall have the authority to
delegate all or such part of his or her powers and duties with respect to
supervision and control of trees to his or her subordinates and assistants in
the employ of the city as he or she may from time to time designate.
   (B)   The Director may remove, or cause or order to be removed, any trees or
part thereof which by reason of its nature is injurious to existing sewers,
electric power lines, gas lines, water lines, or other public improvements.
(Ord. 1076, passed 2-25-64; Am. Ord. 6493, passed 4-24-90; Am. Ord. 2012-002,
passed 1-24-12)
§ 907.03 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   With the exception of trees located on private property within established
utility easements, no person, or contractor, shall commence or proceed with any
operation involving a public tree without first obtaining a right-of-way permit
from the Director. Any such planting, removal, trimming, or tree preservation
shall be at the expense of the applicant except as provided in §
907.06. Such applicant shall hold the city free of any liability incurred in
connection therewith.
(Ord. 1076, passed 2-25-64; Am. Ord. 6493, passed 4-24-90; Am. Ord. 2012-002,
passed 1-24- 12) Penalty, see §
907.99
§ 907.04 PROHIBITIONS.
   Except as authorized by the Director, no person shall damage, cut, carve,
prune or remove any public tree; nor attach any rope, wire, nails, advertising
poster, or other artifact to any public tree; nor allow any toxic substance to
harm or damage any public tree; nor set fire to or otherwise injure by fire any
public tree; nor plant or transplant any public tree; nor spray, inject or
otherwise apply any fertilizer or pesticide, including but not limited to
dormant oil, insecticide, fungicide, herbicide, or biological control to any
public tree.
(Am. Ord. 6493, passed 4-24-90; Am. Ord. 2012-002, passed 1-24-12) Penalty, see
§
907.99
§ 907.05 PROTECTION OF PUBLIC TREES.
   No person shall make any excavation, place any fill, compact the soil, or
construct any building, structure, street, sidewalk, driveway, pavement or
public utility upon any public place within the vicinity of any public tree
without first obtaining a permit for such work from the Director and conducting
such work in accordance with the permit. As a condition of issuing the permit,
the Director shall require that the work be done in accordance with generally
accepted arboricultural methods as may be necessary to protect the vitality of
such trees.
(Am. Ord. 6493, passed 4-24-90) Penalty, see §
907.99
§ 907.06 TRIMMING OF TREES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   The Director shall keep all trees standing upon any public place in the city
trimmed so that the branches of such trees projecting over any public sidewalk
or driveway or into any public street beyond the curb line shall not conflict
with the public safety and welfare. Tree topping shall be prohibited on any
public trees unless approved in advance by the Director.
(Ord. 1076, passed 2-25-64; Am. Ord. 6493, passed 4-24-90; Am. Ord. 2012-002,
passed 1-24- 12) Penalty, see §
907.99
§ 907.07 DUTY OF PRIVATE PROPERTY OWNER.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of any property owner who owns property bordering
on right-of- way upon which property there may be trees or shrubs, to prune or
cause to be pruned such trees or shrubs in a manner that they will not obstruct
street lights, street signs, or obstruct pedestrian and vehicular traffic on
sidewalks, streets, or alleys.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of any person owning property bordering on right-
of-way upon which property there are any trees or shrubs which are designated
by the city as dead, dying, diseased, or hazardous and therefore deemed a
menace to the health, safety, and welfare of the public, to remove or cause to
be removed said tree(s) and/or shrub(s).
   (C)   In either of the above situations, the city shall send a written
notice to the property owner indicating the required action to be taken. A
period of 30 days from receipt of this letter shall be permitted for the
property owner to affect the indicated action. Should the property owner or
occupant fail to comply, the city or it's contractor shall enter upon the
property and cause such action. The property owner shall be responsible for all
costs associated with the work, including administrative charges as outlined in
§
1323.99(C) of the Lebanon Codified Ordinances.
(Ord. 1076, passed 2-25-64; Am. Ord. 6493, passed 4-24-90; Am. Ord. 2012-002,
passed 1-24-12) Penalty, see §
907.99
§ 907.08 RECOMMENDED TREES FOR LEBANON.
   (A)   The Director of Service shall maintain a list of recommended trees for
planting. This list must be consulted prior to planting.
   (B)   In new subdivisions, or when the development of commercial property
occurs, the city shall review all landscaping plans, including street trees to
be planted, to ensure conformance with the adopted tree list and landscaping
related zoning requirements.
(Am Ord. 6493, passed 4-24-90; Am. Ord. 2012- 002, passed 1-24-12)
§ 907.09 PRESERVATION AND REMOVAL OF TREES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   The Director shall have the right and duty to prune and/or trim any trees
existing on any public place in the city so as to insure the public safety or
preserve the function or beauty of such public place. He or she shall further
have the right to remove any such tree or any part thereof, which is in an
unsafe condition or which, by reason of its location or nature, is injurious or
detrimental to other public improvements in the city or is infested with any
injury, fungus, insect or other pest or disease which cannot otherwise be
controlled. All pruning of public trees shall conform to the latest revision of
the ANSI A300, Tree, Shrub and Other Woody Plant Maintenance requirements.
(Ord. 1076, passed 2-25-64; Am. Ord. 6493, passed 4-24-90; Am. Ord. 2012-002,
passed 1-24-12) Penalty, see §
907.99
§ 907.10 EMERGENCY PROVISIONS.
   In the event of an emergency, the City Manager or Director may suspend the
provisions of this section as needed to ensure public health and safety.
(Am. Ord. 6493, passed 4-24-90; Am. Ord. 2012-002, passed 1-24-12)
§ 907.11 TREE SPACING AND CLEARANCE.
   (A)   Tree spacing. The spacing of public trees will be in accordance with
the three species size classes referred to in the Lebanon Shade Tree Commission
list of street trees and no trees will be planted closer together than the
following except in special plantings approved by the city:
      Small trees:      30 feet
      Medium trees   40 feet
      Large trees:   50 feet
   (B)   Distance from street corners and fire hydrants. No public tree shall
be planted closer than 35 feet from any street corner, measured from the point
nearest the intersection curbs or curb lines. No public tree shall be planted
closer than ten feet to any fire hydrant.
   (C)   Utilities. No public trees other than those species referred to as
small trees in the Lebanon Shade Tree Commission list of Street Trees shall be
planted under any overhead electric wire.
(Ord. 2012-002, passed 1-24-12)
§ 907.12 TREE PLANTING.
   All trees planted in public spaces shall be from USDA Hardiness Zones five
or six, conform with the most current ANSI-Z60.1 standards, and conform with
the Tree Planting Specifications on file with the Director of Service.
(Ord. 2012-002, passed 1-24-12)
§ 907.13 NOTICE.
   The Director or his or her representative shall serve written notice of any
violation of the provisions of this Chapter upon any person responsible for the
violation or for its remedy and the notice shall order the discontinuance of
any illegal action or condition or the abatement or correction of any
violation.
(Ord. 6773, passed 10-13-92)
§ 907.14 PROSECUTION OF VIOLATION.
   If any violation of this Chapter is not corrected or any order is not
complied with within the time specified in the notice following service of the
notice, the Director or his or her representative may request the City Attorney
to institute civil proceedings to restrain, correct, or abate such violation.
(Ord. 6773, passed 10-13-92)
§ 907.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more than
$100. Each day that any violation of this Chapter continues in addition to any
required restitution for damages or work incurred by the city, or any special
assessments levies as provided herein. Each occurrence shall be deemed a
separate offense.
(Ord. 1076, passed 2-25-64; Am. Ord. 6493, passed 4-24-90; Am. Ord. 6773,
passed 10-13-92; Am. Ord. 2012-002, passed 1-24-12)
CHAPTER 908: RIGHT-OF-WAY OCCUPANCY PERMIT
Section:
   
908.01   Definitions
   
908.02   Purpose and scope of chapter
   
908.03   Prohibition; types of permits
   
908.04   Application procedure; appeal
   
908.05   Criteria for granting permits
   
908.06   Obligations of permittees; conditions of permits
   
908.07   Permit fees and auditing
   
908.08   Micro wireless facility
   
908.09   Joint planning and construction
   
908.10   City use of facilities
   
908.11   Adoption of regulations
   
908.12   Indemnity; insurance
   
908.13   Removal of facilities
   
908.14   Revocation
   
908.15   Reservation of rights
   
908.16   Temporary movement of facilities
   
908.17   Foreclosure and receivership
   
908.18   Non-enforcement and waivers by city
   
908.19   Captions
 
   
908.99   Penalty
§ 908.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and their
derivations have the meanings set forth herein. When not inconsistent with the
context, words in the present tense include the future tense, words in the
plural number include the singular number, and words in the singular number
include the plural number. The words “shall” and “will” are mandatory and “may”
is permissive. Words not defined shall be given their common and ordinary
meaning.
   ACCESSORY EQUIPMENT. Any equipment used in conjunction with a wireless
facility or wireless support structure. Accessory equipment includes utility or
transmission equipment, power storage, generation or control equipment, cables,
wiring and equipment cabinets.
   ANTENNA. Communications equipment transmits or receives radio frequency
signals in the provision of wireless service, including associated accessory
equipment.
   APPLICANT. Any person applying for a right-of-way occupancy permit
hereunder.
   BEST EFFORTS. The best reasonable efforts under the circumstances, taking
into consideration, among other appropriate matters, all applicable laws,
regulations, safety, engineering and operational codes, expedition, available
technology and human resources and cost.
   CABLE OPERATOR, CABLE SERVICE and FRANCHISE have the same meaning as set
forth in the “Cable Communications and Policy Act of1984", 98 stat. 2779. 47
U.S.C.A. 522.
   CHAPTER. Chapter 908 of the Codified Ordinances of the city, as amended from
time to time, and any regulations adopted hereunder.
   CITY. The City of Lebanon, Ohio.
   CITY MANAGER. The City Manager of Lebanon, Ohio.
   CO-LOCATION. The mounting or installation of transmission equipment on an
eligible support structure for the purpose of transmitting and/or receiving
radio frequency signals for communication purposes.
   COUNCIL. The legislative body of the city.
   DEPUTY CITY MANAGER. The Deputy City Manager of Lebanon, Ohio, or designee.
   DISTRIBUTED ANTENNA SYSTEM. A network or facility to which all of the
following apply:
      (1)   It distributes radio frequency signals to provide wireless service;
      (2)   It meets the height and size characteristics of a small cell
facility, as defined herein;
      (3)   It consists of the following:
         (a)   Remote antenna nodes deployed throughout a desired coverage
area.
         (b)   A high-capacity signal transport medium connected top a central
hub site.
         (c)   Equipment located at the hub site to process or control the
radio frequency signals through the antennas.
      (4)   It conforms to the size limitations specified in R.C. § 4939.
   ELIGIBLE FACILITIES REQUEST. As defined in federal law, any request for
modification of an existing wireless tower or base station that involves; (1)
co-location of new transmission equipment (2) removal of transmission
equipment, or (3) replacement transmission equipment.
   FORCE MAJEURE. A strike, act of God, act of public enemy, riot, epidemic,
landslides, lightning, earthquake, fire, tornado, storm, flood, civil
disturbance, explosion, partial or entire failure of a utility or any other
cause or event not reasonably within the control of the party disabled by such
FORCE MAJEURE, but only to the extent such disabled party notifies the other
party as soon as practicable regarding such FORCE MAJEURE and then for only so
long as and to the extent that, the FORCE MAJEURE prevents compliance or causes
noncompliance with the provisions hereof.
   GENERAL RIGHT-OF-WAY OCCUPANCY PERMIT. Shall have the meaning set forth in §
908.03(B)(1).
   GOVERNMENTAL PURPOSES. Those purposes classified as governmental under Ohio
law, as well as water utility service, sanitary sewer service, electric
service, storm sewers, automatic meter reading service, and any other city
utility service to the extent such other city utility service is provided to
city facilities.
   MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY. Includes both a distributed antenna system and a
small cell facility, and all related wireless facilities.
   MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY OPERATOR. A public utility or cable operator that
operates a micro wireless facility.
   MUNICIPAL ELECTRIC UTILITY. Has the same meaning as set forth in R.C. §
4928.01.
   MUNICIPAL ELECTRIC UTILITY POLE. A utility pole, as defined herein, that is
owned by the municipal electric utility.
   PERMITTEE. Any person issued a right-of- way occupancy permit pursuant to
this chapter to use or occupy all or a portion of the right-of-way in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter and said right-of-way permit.
   PERSON. Any natural person or any association, firm, partnership, joint
venture, corporation, or other legally recognized entity, whether for-profit or
not-for-profit.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any real property owned by the city or easements held or
used by the city, other than a right-of-way.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. Any company described in R.C. § 4905.03, except in divisions
(B) and (I) of that section, which company also is a PUBLIC UTILITY as defined
in R.C. § 4905.02; and includes any electric supplier as defined in R.C. §
4933.81.
   REGULATION. Any rule adopted by the City Manager pursuant to the authority
of this chapter, and the procedure set forth in §
908.11, to carry out its purpose and intent.
   RESIDENTIAL PURPOSES. Residential use of right-of-way for such uses as
mailboxes, trees, decorative purposes or any curb cuts and driveways, and as
may be further defined in the regulations.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The surface of and the space above and below the paved or
unpaved portions of any public street, public road, public highway, public
freeway, public lane, public path, public way, public alley, public court,
public sidewalk, public boulevard, public parkway, public drive and any other
land dedicated or otherwise designated for the same now or hereafter held by
the city which shall, within its proper use and meaning in the sole opinion of
the City Manager, entitle a permittee, in accordance with the terms hereof and
of any right-of-way occupancy permit, to the use thereof for the purpose of
installing or operating any poles, wires, cables, transformers, conductors,
ducts, lines, mains, conduits, vaults,manholes, amplifiers, appliances,
attachments or other property or facilities as may be ordinarily necessary and
pertinent to the provision of natural gas, electric, cable television,
communications or other utility services as set forth in any right-of-way
occupancy permit. RIGHT-OF-WAY shall not include private easements or public
property, except to the extent the use or occupation of public property is
specifically granted in a right-of-way occupancy permit or by regulation.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY OCCUPANCY PERMIT. The non-exclusive grant of authority to use
or occupy all or a portion of the city's rights-of-way granted pursuant to this
chapter.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY RELATED COSTS. All documented direct, incidental, and indirect
costs actually borne by the city for the control, management and administration
of the rights-of-way.
   SMALL CELL FACILITY. A wireless facility that meets the requirements of R.C.
Ch. 4939;
      (1)   Each antenna associated with the facility is located inside an
enclosure of not more than six cubic feet in volume, or. in the case of an
antenna that has exposed elements, the antenna and all of its exposed elements
could fit within an enclosure of not more than six cubic feet in volume.
      (2)   All other wireless equipment associated with the facility is
cumulatively not more than 28 cubic feet in volume. The calculation of
equipment volume shall not include electric meters, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation boxes, grounding equipment, power transfer
switches, cut-off switches, and vertical cable runs for power and other
services.
      (3)   If the facility were placed on a wireless support structure, the
increased height would not be more than ten feet or the overall resulting
height would be not more than 50 feet
   UTILITY POLE. A structure that is designed for, or used for the purpose of,
carrying lines, cables, or wires for electric or telecommunications service,
but not including structures owned by a municipal electric utility ("municipal
electric utility poles").
   WIRELESS FACILITY. An antenna, accessory equipment or other wireless device
or equipment used to provide wireless service.
   WIRELESS SERVICE. Any services using licensed or unlicensed wireless
spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile, provided using wireless
facilities.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A pole, such as a monopole, either guyed or
self-supporting, light pole, traffic signal, sign pole, or utility pole capable
of supporting wireless facilities. For purposes of requesting consent for micro
wireless facility activity WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE excludes a municipal
electric utility pole, or other facility owned or operated by a municipal
electric utility.
(Ord. 9351, passed 7-11-06; Am. Ord. 2017-034, passed 4-25-17)
§ 908.02 PURPOSE AND SCOPE OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the regulation of the
use or occupation of all rights-of-way in the city, the issuance of right-of-
way permits to persons for such use or occupancy, and to set forth the policies
of the city related thereto.
   (B)   A right-of-way occupancy permit issued pursuant to this chapter does
not take the place of any franchise, license, or permit which may be
additionally required by law, including any required by city ordinance. Each
permittee shall obtain any and all such additional state, federal or city
franchises, licenses or permits necessary to the operation and conduct of its
business or the occupation or use of any right-of-way; provided, however, that
no permittee holding a valid right-of-way permit shall be required to obtain a
franchise for any type of services rendered by said permittee for which the
city did not require a franchise at the time said permittee's permit was last
issued or renewed. Should there be a direct conflict between the provisions of
this chapter and a valid franchise, the provisions of the franchise shall
prevail; provided, however, that additional obligations shall not be construed
as a conflict.
   (C)   The Deputy City Manager, or designee, is hereby directed and empowered
to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   The City's policy regarding rights-of- way is:
      (1)   To promote the utilization of rights-of-way for the public health,
safety and welfare and to promote economic development in the city;
      (2)   To promote the availability of a wide range of utility,
telecommunication and other services, including the rapid deployment of new
technologies and innovative services to the city's residents and taxpayers at
reasonable costs;
      (3)   To promote cooperation among the permittees and the city in the
occupation of rights-of-way, and work therein, in order to minimize public
inconvenience during right-of-way work, and eliminate wasteful, unnecessary or
unsightly duplication of facilities;
      (4)   To promote public safety and protect public property;
      (5)   To ensure adequate public reimbursement of costs the city has
incurred for private use of the rights-of-way, including the regulation
thereof;
      (6)   To promote and require reasonable accommodation of all uses of
rights-of- way, and when all requests for right-of-way use cannot be
accomplished, to give priority for use of rights-of-way, in the order
indicated, from highest to lowest, to the following users:
         (a)   The City for governmental purposes;
         (b)   Another governmental entity for governmental purposes with the
city's concurrence, or other governmental use required by law;
         (c)   General right-of-way occupancy permittees and proprietary uses
by the city; and
      (7)   To assure that applicants have the financial, technical and
managerial resources to comply with this chapter and the provisions of any
right-of-way occupancy permit issued hereunder; for purposes of this chapter,
an applicant possessing valid certification from the Public Utilities
Commission of Ohio, including certification pursuant to R.C. 4933.81 et seq.,
and/or recognized on the rolls of the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio or of
a cable operator possessing a valid franchise awarded pursuant to the Cable
Communications Policy Act of 1984, for the services to be provided by the
facilities subject to this chapter shall be presumed to possess the requisite
financial, technical and managerial resources.
      (8)   To ensure that access to and occupancy or use of the public right-
of-way advances the State of Ohio policies specified in R.C. §§ 4927.02,
4928.02, and 4929.02.
      (9)   To expedite the installation and operation of micro and smaller
wireless facilities in order to facilitate the deployment of advanced wireless
service throughout the State of Ohio.
   (E)   All right-of-way occupancy permits granted hereunder shall be non-
exclusive and no property right of any nature shall be created by the granting
of a permit under this chapter.
   (F)   This chapter does not apply, and nothing herein should be construed to
apply the provisions of this chapter, to structures or facilities owned or
operated by the city or any city operations that occupy or use the rights-of-
way. It is specifically contemplated, however, that all city departments or
divisions that utilize the rights-of-way shall carry out their operations in a
manner consistent with the policy set forth in this chapter, including
participation and cooperation in all joint planning hereunder and
identification of structures and facilities located in the rights-of-way.
(Ord. 9351, passed 7-11-06; Am. Ord. 2017-034, passed 4-25-17)
§ 908.03 PROHIBITION; TYPES OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Unless otherwise permitted pursuant to the City of Lebanon Codified
Ordinances, no person shall use, occupy, construct, own or operate structures
or facilities in, under or over any rights-of- way or any public property
within the city unless such person first obtains a right-of-way occupancy
permit and conforms to the requirements set forth therein and in this chapter,
provided, however, that right-of-way occupancy permits shall not be required
for the following uses:
      (1)   Carts;
      (2)   Landscaping (may require a right-of-way work permit per
Chapter 909);
      (3)   Right angle signs and sidewalk signs in accordance with §
1141.10;
      (4)   Awnings; and
      (5)   Residential purposes, so long as, in the opinion of the City
Manager, the residential use:
         (a)   Has received or will receive all other necessary permits,
including any required by these Codified Ordinances;
         (b)   Is not inconsistent with policy of the city;
         (c)   Does not adversely affect the public health, safety or welfare;
and
         (d)   Does not materially interfere with the other lawful use of the
right-of-way. The Deputy City Manager shall adopt regulations controlling and
further defining residential purposes and to otherwise implement the
determinations to be made under this section. Such regulations shall, among
other matters, specify that the owner of facilities that hold title to such
facilities solely as a result of a LEASEBACK, defined as the sale or transfer
of property by a permittee to another person contemporaneously followed by the
leasing of the property to the permittee on a long-term basis, that are not
operated or controlled by said lessor, and are operated or controlled by the
permittee, are not considered to be using, occupying, owning or operating such
facilities, for purposes of this chapter, solely as a result of such leaseback.
   (B)   The following types of right-of-way occupancy permits are available:
      (1)   General right-of-way occupancy permit: A right-of-way occupancy
permit granted to persons who desire and are granted authority to utilize
rights-of-way generally for business purposes, including the provision of
utility, cable television, telecommunications or other services to the city,
its residents and taxpayers;
      (2)   Nothing in this chapter should be construed to preclude the city
from requiring any person offering any natural gas, electric, cable television,
telecommunications or other utility services for which the city may lawfully
require a franchise, to acquire a franchise upon the expiration of any right-
of-way occupancy permit issued hereunder.
   (C)   Any such right-of-way occupancy permit may also allow the use of
specified public property for the uses set forth in the right-of-way occupancy
permit and in this chapter.
   (D)   Each right-of-way occupancy permit shall specify the use or uses for
which it is granted and contain such other non-discriminatory terms and
conditions as are appropriate and as are set forth in the regulations.
   (E)   Unless otherwise set forth herein, right-of-way occupancy permits or
the rights of a permittee thereunder are not transferable without the prior
express written approval of the Deputy City Manager, upon written request. Such
request shall contain evidence that the proposed transferee has the financial,
technical and managerial resources to comply with the obligations of this
chapter and its right-of-way occupancy permit and shall be granted if such
transferee has such resources. In making said determination, a proposed
transferee shall be presumed to possess the requisite financial, technical and
managerial resources if said transferee possesses a valid certification from
the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio, including certification pursuant to
R.C. 4933.81, et seq., and/or recognized on the rolls of the Public Utilities
Commission of Ohio or of a cable operator possessing a valid franchise awarded
pursuant to the Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984, for the services to be
provided by the facilities subject to this chapter. The Deputy City Manager
shall adopt regulations providing procedures for transfer of right-of-way
occupancy permits that shall include provisions providing that (i) all requests
for transfer shall be deemed approved if the Deputy City Manager does not
disapprove the same within 30 days of receipt of the completed written transfer
request; and (ii) transfer to affiliates under common ownership and control
with the permittee shall not require approval, so long as the Deputy City
Manager is provided 30 days written notice of such transfer.
   (F)   The Deputy City Manager shall adopt regulations controlling and
further defining residential purposes and to otherwise implement the
determinations to be made under this section. Such regulations shall, among
other matters, specify: (i) that the owner of facilities that hold title to
such facilities solely as a result of a leaseback, defined as the sale or
transfer of property by a permittee to another person contemporaneously
followed by the leasing of the property to the permittee on a long-term basis;
and (ii) are operated or controlled by the permittee, are not considered to be
using, occupying, owing or operating such facilities, for purposes of this
chapter, solely as a result of such leaseback.
(Ord. 9351, passed 7-11-06) Penalty, see §
908.99
§ 908.04 APPLICATION PROCEDURE; APPEAL.
   (A)   Applications for general right-of-way occupancy permits or amendments
or renewals thereof shall be filed in such form and in such manner as the
regulations require, along with an application fee of $250. The Deputy City
Manager, or designee, shall determine if the application is in order and shall,
within 30 days of the receipt of a completed application, issue a written
report regarding such application. The report shall recommend that the City
Council deny or grant the right-of-way occupancy permit, subject to any
appropriate terms and conditions, in accordance with the criteria set forth in
this chapter. The Deputy City Manager's report shall be served upon the
applicant by mail along with a notice of when the City Council will consider
the same. The City Council shall then consider such recommendation and make a
final determination at its next regularly scheduled Council meeting, as to
whether or not such right-of-way occupancy permit should be granted and, if so,
upon what terms and conditions. City Council shall make a final determination
within 60 days of receipt of the completed application by the Deputy City
Manager. The term of each such general right-of-way permit shall be for five
years from issuance, or such lesser term as the applicant requests.
   (B)   Any applicant may appeal the failure of the Deputy City Manager to
recommend it to be granted upon terms and conditions acceptable to the
applicant, to the City Manager. In order to perfect such appeal, the applicant
shall file, within ten days of the Deputy City Manager's determination or
recommendation, or within 30 days of the filing of the application if the
Deputy City Manager has taken no action, an appeal to the City Manager. The
City Manager shall then review the matter and after affording the applicant an
opportunity to be heard either in person or in writing, render a final
recommendation that shall be submitted to City Council within 15 days of the
City Manager's receipt of the request for an appeal unless such period is
waived by the applicant. City Council shall consider the appeal request at its
next regularly scheduled meeting after receiving the City Manager's
recommendation. Except to the extent otherwise appealable by law, the City
Council's decision shall be final. If a request for consent is denied for an
activity described in R.C. § 4939.031, the reasons for denial, required under
this division, shall be provided to the applicant in writing, and shall set
forth the reasons for denying the request for consent in a manner supported by
substantial, competent evidence, and the denial of the request shall not
unreasonably discriminate against the applicant.
(Ord. 9351, passed 7-11-06; Am. Ord. 2017-034, passed 4-25-17)
§ 908.05 CRITERIA FOR GRANTING PERMITS.
   (A)   A general right-of-way occupancy permit shall be granted to an
applicant upon a determination that:
      (1)   The granting of the right-of- way occupancy permit will contribute
to the public health, safety or welfare in the city;
      (2)   The granting of the right-of- way occupancy permit will be
consistent with the policy of the city as set forth in §
908.02(D); and
      (3)   The applicant is not delinquent on any right-of-way permit fees, or
costs owed the city for right-of-way related activity and, except in the case
of entities subject to the jurisdiction and recognized on the rolls of the
Public Utilities Commission of Ohio or of a cable operator possessing a valid
franchise awarded pursuant to the Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984, 98
Stat. 2779, 47 U.S.C.A. 541, has the requisite financial, managerial and
technical ability to fulfill all its obligations hereunder.
   (B)   The Deputy City Manager may impose such lawful conditions on the
granting of a permit as reasonably required to be consistent with the criteria
set forth in this section and to promote the policy of the city set forth in §
908.02(D).
(Ord. 9351, passed 7-11-06)
§ 908.06 OBLIGATIONS OF PERMITTEES; CONDITIONS OF PERMITS.
   (A)   In addition to the other requirements set forth herein and in the
regulations each permittee, except for residential purposes, shall:
      (1)   Use its best efforts to cooperate with other permittees and the
city for the best, most efficient, and least obtrusive use of rights- of-way,
consistent with safety, and to minimize traffic and other disruptions,
including street cuts;
      (2)   Have a copy of the permit and associated plans on the job site at
all times;
      (3)   Participate in such joint planning, construction and advance
notification of right-of-way work, excepting such work performed in an
emergency, provided the permittee uses its best efforts to contact the city at
the earliest possible time after beginning any such emergency work requiring
excavation or other interference with the flow of traffic, as may be required
by Chapter 909 and this chapter and as may be more specifically set forth in
regulations promulgated pursuant to this chapter, and provided further, that
mandatory joint planning shall not: (i) commence prior to January 1, 2005; or
(ii) require the exchange or provision of trade secrets or competitively
sensitive materials or information;
      (4)   Reasonably cooperate with other permittees in the utilization of,
construction in and occupancy of private rights-of-way within the city, but
only to the extent the same is consistent with the grant thereof, is not
additionally burdensome to any property owner or unreasonably burdensome to the
permittee;
      (5)   Upon reasonable written notice of not less than 60 days, except in
an emergency threatening the public health, safety or welfare, and at the
direction of the Deputy City Manager, and at the permittee's sole cost, to the
extent permitted by Ohio law, promptly remove or rearrange facilities as
necessary, as further specified in the regulations: (i) during any
construction, repair or modification of any street, sidewalk, city utility or
other public improvement; (ii) as part of the Deputy City Manager's
determination, to the extent permitted by Ohio law, that designated portions of
its rights-of-way should accommodate only underground facilities or that
facilities should occupy only one side of a street or other public way,
provided that such determination is reasonable and a part of an overall
improvement plan or project; (iii) if an additional or subsequent city or other
public use of rights-of-way is inconsistent with the then-current uses of such
permittee; or (iv) for any other reasonable cause as determined by the Deputy
City Manager pursuant to §
908.15(B) to the extent permitted by Ohio law; however, nothing in this
division shall be interpreted as foreclosing any rights that any Permittee has
pursuant to R.C. Title 49 to file an application with the Public Utilities
Commission of Ohio under any applicable provision of R.C. Title 49, in order to
recover the costs associated with the relocation of any facilities pursuant to
this division;
      (6)   Provide information relating to a permittee's facilities and
operations within the rights-of-way in such form as to allow for the accurate
assessment of the quantity of a utility's infrastructure in the public rights-
of-way; For a right-of-way work permit, permittee shall provide a detailed
plan, as delineated in Chapter 909, of the proposed work. Upon a proper request
by a permittee demonstrating that any portion of the information required
constitutes a “trade secret” pursuant to Ohio law, or that the material should
remain confidential pursuant to any other provision of local, state, or federal
law, the material shall be treated as confidential and not subject to public
disclosure. In no event will the city allow any person involved with the city's
telecommunications service access to information a permittee has designated
“confidential” or “proprietary”;
      (7)   Perform all work, construction, maintenance or removal of
structures and facilities within the rights-of-way, including tree trimming, in
accordance with good engineering and construction practice including any
appropriate safety codes and in accordance with the regulations and use its
best efforts to repair and replace any street, curb or other portion of the
rights-of-way within the disturbed area of the work area, or facilities or
structure located therein, to a condition to be determined by the Deputy City
Manager to be adequate under current standards, on file with the City Engineer,
and not less than materially equivalent to its condition prior to such work and
to do so in a manner which minimizes any inconvenience to the public, the city
and other permittees, all in accordance with the regulations adopted hereunder
or under Chapter 909. Each occupant of the right-of-way that may make a street
cut shall file with the city standards for repair of street cuts that shall be
approved or denied by the City Engineer within 60 days after filing. If the
street cut standards are denied the right-of-way, the occupant must amend its
proposed standards to meet the city's requirements prior to making any street
cuts. Each right-of-way applicant shall amend its street cut standards from
time to time as required by good engineering practice. If a street cut repair
fails, the right-of-way occupant responsible for the street cut shall repair
the street cut until such time as the city repaves the streets. No right-of-way
occupant shall be responsible to repair a street cut damaged by a cause other
than the repair made by the right-of-way occupant;
      (8)   Register, or cause to be registered, its facilities with
underground reporting services as set forth in the regulations;
      (9)   Use its best efforts to cooperate with the city in any emergencies
involving the rights-of-way in such manner as the regulations shall require,
including the maintenance of a 24-hour emergency contact;
      (10)   Field identify, using distinct identification, all structures and
facilities in areas of the rights-of-way designated for construction or related
activities in accordance with the regulations, provided that the regulations
shall require that the field identifications utilize, to the greatest extent
possible, customary industry standards for such identification; and
      (11)   Designate a single point of contact for all purposes hereunder, as
well as comply with such other contact and notice protocols as the regulations
require.
   (B)   Each permittee shall assure that any subcontractor or other person
performing any work or service in the rights-of-way on behalf of said permittee
will comply with all applicable provisions of this chapter and its right-of-way
permit and will identify the permittee for whom such contractor is working.
Said permittee shall be responsible and liable hereunder for all actions of any
such subcontractor or others, as if said permittee had performed or failed to
perform any such obligation.
(Ord. 9351, passed 7-11-06) Penalty, see §
908.99
§ 908.07 PERMIT FEES AND AUDITING.
   (A)   Any cable television provider that has a valid franchise to operate a
cable television system within the city shall not be liable for any additional
right-of-way occupancy permit fees over and above any cable television
franchise fees specified in its cable television franchise for uses of rights-
of-way directly related to the uses for which such cable television provider
holds a cable franchise, so long as the amount of such fees due in each quarter
is equal to or greater than the amounts otherwise due the city pursuant to
division (B) of this section. If the amount due under division (B) of this
section is more than said cable franchise fees, then the cable television
provider shall receive a credit in each quarter against such amount for all
such fees paid in such quarter, and shall pay the balance to the city as set
forth in division (B) of this section.
      (1)   In addition to any fees charged pursuant to
Chapter 909, all general right-of-way occupancy permittees shall pay an annual
fee, for each calendar year, as compensation for the city's cost to manage,
administer and control the right-of-way and maintain each general right-of-way
occupancy permit. Every permittee shall pay to the city general occupancy
right-of-way fees beginning January 1, 2007. Fees shall be determined and
assessed to permittees and other persons using and occupying the rights-of-way
in accordance with the following process and formula:
         (a)   The city by January 31 of each year shall calculate all actual
and incurred costs associated with rights-of-way management, administration and
control for the previous calendar year that the city incurred and was not able
to reasonably recover through permit fees or other recovery mechanisms for each
permittee.
         (b)   The city shall invoice each permittee based on the actual costs
incurred by the city for right-of-way management for that permittee per
division (A)(1)(a) of this section. This shall be the permittee's then-current
general right-of- way occupancy permit fee.
         (c)   Registration fees shall be invoiced to permittees on or about
February 1 of each calendar year and shall be due 30 days following receipt.
         (d)   To the extent taxes or other assessments are imposed by taxing
authorities on the use of city property as a result of a permittee's use or
occupation of the rights-of-way, the permittee shall be responsible for payment
of such taxes. Such payments shall be in addition to any other fees payable
pursuant to this chapter and Chapter 909 and shall not be considered an offset
to, or in lieu of the right-of- way permit fees.
      (2)   All right-of-way related fees collected through this chapter and
Chapter 909 shall be deposited in a separate fund to be utilized for the offset
of municipal costs associated with the management and control of the public
right-of-way.
   (B)   All fees pursuant to this chapter shall be paid by check, money order
or wire transfer to the City of Lebanon.
   (C)   Each general right-of-way occupancy permittee shall maintain books,
records, maps, documents and other evidence directly pertinent to its
calculation of payments to the city. The Deputy City Manager, the City Auditor
or either's designated agents shall have reasonable access to any books,
records, maps, documents and other evidence for inspection, copying and audit
relative to the quantity of infrastructure in the public right-of-way to the
extent necessary to assure that the payments hereunder are accurate and that
all right-of-way occupancy permittees fully comply with the provisions of this
chapter and their respective right-of-way permits. Upon a proper request by a
permittee demonstrating that any portion of the information required
constitutes a trade secret pursuant to R.C. §§ 133.61 through 133.69, or shall
remain confidential pursuant to any local, state, or federal law or regulation,
the material shall be treated as confidential and not subject to public
disclosure.
(Ord. 9351, passed 7-11-06) Penalty, see §
908.99
§ 908.08 MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY.
   (A)   This section establishes terms and conditions for the use of the
public right-of-way for wireless service providers’ micro wireless facilities
through the attachment to wireless support structures as established in R.C. §
4939.03, which is incorporated herein by reference as if fully set forth.
   (B)   Under the provisions of this section, a micro wireless facility
operator may establish, under certain specified conditions as set forth in R.C.
Ch. 4939. Wireless service through a distributed antenna system, a small cell
facility and related wireless facilities, as defined in R.C. § 4939.01. The
city will review those requests following the criteria and schedule set forth
in R.C. Ch. 4939.
   (C)   Additionally, the city will also review any request to attach any
micro wireless facilities to a municipal electric utility pole, and shall grant
such requests only if attachment to a municipal electric utility pole serves
the public health, welfare and safety. The city shall deny all requests to
attach micro wireless facilities to municipal electric utility poles if such
attachment would not serve to further the public health and welfare, would
create a safety problem, or would interfere with the conduct of any municipal
operation.
   (D)   Where not in direct conflict with R.C. Ch. 4939, the application
procedure, permit fees, and auditing procedures outlined in this
Chapter 908 shall be applicable to applications to establish micro wireless
facilities. Each individual micro wireless facility will require a separate
right-of-way occupancy permit.
(Ord. 2017-034, passed 4-25-17)
§ 908.09 JOINT PLANNING AND CONSTRUCTION.
   In order to promote the purposes of this chapter and the policy set forth
herein, the City Manager shall adopt regulations requiring and governing joint
planning and construction for all right- of-way occupancy permittees. Such
regulations shall not, however, require a permittee to divulge trade secrets or
other competitively sensitive confidential information, release of which would
cause material injury to the permittee. Such regulations shall also require any
confidential information of a permittee in the possession of the city be
treated as such, to the extent such information does not legally constitute a
public record.
(Ord. 9351, passed 7-11-06; Am. Ord. 2017-034, passed 4-25-17)
§ 908.10 CITY USE OF FACILITIES.
   Except for traffic control facilities and facilities in place as of the
effective date of this chapter, facilities that are the subject of other
agreements between the city and a permittee, or as otherwise provided by law,
the city shall not install or maintain upon any poles and within any
underground pipes or conduits or other facilities of any general right-of-way
occupancy permittee, any facilities desired by the city for the city's use
without the consent of such permittee unless: (i) such installation and
maintenance is lawful and consistent with good engineering and construction
practice and all appropriate safety codes; (ii) such installation and
maintenance does not unreasonably and materially interfere with existing and
future operations of the permittee; (iii) such installation and maintenance is
not unduly burdensome to such permittee; (iv) the city enters into an agreement
with the permittee which specifies other appropriate and reasonable terms and
conditions, including compensation based upon the city's proportionate cost of
the right-of-way, and including compensation governing the use of permittee's
facilities; and (v) the city's use is non-discriminatory. Each permittee shall
cooperate with the city in the development of a facility use agreement for such
city facilities. Each permittee shall cooperate with the city in planning and
designing its facilities so as to accommodate the city's reasonably disclosed
requirements in this regard. Copies of all agreements hereunder shall be filed
with the City Manager.
(Ord. 9351, passed 7-11-06; Am. Ord. 2017-034, passed 4-25-17)
§ 908.11 ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   In accordance with the provisions of division (C) of this section, the
Deputy City Manager may promulgate regulations, as the Deputy City Manager
deems appropriate from time to time, to carry out the express purposes and
intent of this chapter.
   (B)   Such regulations shall not materially increase the obligations of any
permittee hereunder. In promulgating such regulations, including those related
to §
908.06, the Deputy City Manager shall, among other appropriate factors,
consider the costs of permittee compliance as an important factor in
determining the appropriateness of the regulations.
   (C)   The Deputy City Manager shall promulgate proposed regulations by
forwarding legislation for City Council's consideration. Each general right-of-
way occupancy permittee shall be served with a copy of the proposed regulations
by certified U.S. mail; provided, however, that any failure of any permittee to
actually receive such notice shall not in any way affect the validity or
enforceability of such regulation. Any person, including any permittee, may
file specific written comments or objections on the proposed regulations within
a 30-day period after publication of notice of intent in a publication of
general circulation (hereinafter “comment period”). The proposed regulations
shall become effective 30 days after adoption by City Council, unless such
regulation is modified or rejected by City Council.
   (D)   The City Council may adopt emergency regulations to be immediately
effective, when the City Council determines the same to be appropriate or
required by the public health, safety or welfare; provided, however, that any
such regulation shall nonetheless be subject to the comment and review process
as set forth in division (D) of this section.
(Ord. 9351, passed 7-11-06; Am. Ord. 2017-034, passed 4-25-17)
§ 908.12 INDEMNITY; INSURANCE.
   (A)   Except for right-of-way permittees for residential purposes, each
permittee shall, as a condition of its right-of-way permit, indemnify, protect
and hold harmless the city from any claim, loss or damage arising in any way
from the permittee's occupation or use of the right-of-way, including but not
limited to the construction, operation or maintenance of permittee's
facilities, and from any such permittee's negligent or wrongful act or
omission. A permittee has no obligation to indemnify the city for any damage or
loss caused by the city.
   (B)   Except for right-of-way occupancy permittees for residential purposes,
each permittee, as a condition of its permit, shall keep in force a policy or
policies of liability insurance, having such terms and in such amounts as are
set forth in the regulations, covering its facilities and operations pursuant
to its right-of-way occupancy permit.
   (C)   Such regulations shall provide that upon the written application of a
permittee and approval of the Deputy City Manager, City Attorney and City
Auditor, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, permittees who
maintain a net book value in excess of $10,000,000 may self-insure in lieu of
providing policies of insurance.
(Ord. 9351, passed 7-11-06; Am. Ord. 2017-034, passed 4-25-17)
§ 908.13 REMOVAL OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   Except for right-of-way occupancy permittees for residential purposes,
when the permit so allows, any right-of-way occupancy permittee that intends to
discontinue use of and abandon any facilities within the rights-of-way shall
submit a written notice to the Deputy City Manager, describing the portion of
the facilities to be discontinued and abandoned, any plan for securing the same
and the proposed date of abandonment, which date shall not be less than 60 days
from the date such notice is submitted to the Deputy City Manager. A permittee
shall not abandon such facilities without such notice. The permittee shall
remove, secure, and/or abandonin place such facilities if and as required by
the written order of the Deputy City Manager so long as such order is issued no
more than 60 days from the date said notice is submitted to the Deputy City
Manager.
   (B)   Should any permittee fail, after notice, to remove or rearrange
facilities at the Deputy City Manager's request as specified in §
908.06(A)(5) or comply with the Deputy City Manager's order pursuant to
division (A) of this section, the city may, at its option and in addition to
the imposition of any penalties or other remedies hereunder, undertake or cause
to be undertaken, any reasonable action necessary to remove, secure, or
rearrange the facilities. The city shall have no liability for any damage
caused by such action and the permittee shall be liable to the city for all
reasonable costs incurred by the city in such action.
(Ord. 9351, passed 7-11-06; Am. Ord. 2017-034, passed 4-25-17)
§ 908.14 REVOCATION.
   (A)   In addition to any other rights set out in this chapter, the city
reserves the right to revoke, in accordance with the procedures set forth in
division (B) of this section, any right-of-way occupancy permit in the event
such permittee violates any material provision of this chapter, its right-of-
way occupancy permit, or
Chapter 909.
   (B)   The Deputy City Manager shall give a permittee 30 days prior written
notice of an intent to revoke said permittee's right-of-way occupancy permit.
Such notice shall state the reasons for such action. If the permittee cures the
violation or other cause within the 30-day notice period, or if the permittee
initiates efforts satisfactory to the Deputy City Manager to remedy the stated
violation, the Deputy City Manager may rescind said notice of revocation. If
the permittee does not cure the stated violation or other cause or undertake
efforts satisfactory to the Deputy City Manager to remedy the stated violation,
the Deputy City Manager may recommend said permit be revoked. After granting
the permittee an opportunity to be heard in person or in writing, the City
Council may revoke the right-of-way occupancy permit. Unless otherwise required
by law, the decision of the City Council shall be final.
   (C)   Unless otherwise permitted by the Deputy City Manager or required by
law, if a right- of-way occupancy permit is revoked, all facilities located in
the rights-of-way or located upon public property pursuant to such permit shall
be removed and/or abandoned at the sole expense of the permittee subject to
applicable law, including but not limited to R.C. §§ 4905.20 and 4905.21.
(Ord. 9351, passed 7-11-06; Am. Ord. 2017-034, passed 4-25-17)
§ 908.15 RESERVATION OF RIGHTS.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter should be construed so as to grant any right
or interest in any right-of-way or public property other than that explicitly
set forth herein or in a permit.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the city from
constructing, maintaining, repairing or relocating any non- proprietary city
utility, including street lighting, telecommunications or like facilities;
grading, paving, maintaining, repairing, relocating or altering any street,
public property or right-of-way; or constructing, maintaining, relocating, or
repairing any sidewalk or other public work or improvement. To the extent that
such work requires temporary or permanent relocation or rearrangement of any
facilities or structures of any permittee, such relocating or rearrangement
shall be accomplished at the sole cost of the permittee in such time and in
such manner as set forth in the regulations.
(Ord. 9351, passed 7-11-06; Am. Ord. 2017-034, passed 4-25-17)
§ 908.16 TEMPORARY MOVEMENT OF FACILITIES.
   In the event it is necessary to move or remove temporarily any of the
permittee's wires, cables, poles, or other facilities placed pursuant to this
chapter, in order to lawfully move a large object, vehicle, building or other
structure over the streets of the city, upon two weeks written notice by the
Deputy City Manager to the permittee, the permittee shall, at the expense of
the person requesting the temporary removal of such facilities, comply with the
Deputy City Manager's request; provided that the permittee's expense has been
reasonably secured by the person so requesting.
(Ord. 9351, passed 7-11-06; Am. Ord. 2017-034, passed 4-25-17) Penalty, see §
908.99
§ 908.17 FORECLOSURE AND RECEIVERSHIP.
   Upon the filing of any voluntary or involuntary petition under the
Bankruptcy Act by or against the permittee, or any action for foreclosure or
other judicial sale of the permittee's facilities located within the right-of-
way, the permittee shall promptly notify the Deputy City Manager of such fact.
(Ord. 9351, passed 7-11-06; Am. Ord. 2017-034, passed 4-25-17) Penalty, see §
908.99
§ 908.18 NON-ENFORCEMENT AND WAIVERS BY CITY.
   The permittee shall not be relieved of its obligation to comply with any of
the provisions of its right-of-way occupancy permit or this chapter by reason
of any failure of the city to enforce prompt compliance.
(Ord. 9351, passed 7-11-06; Am. Ord. 2017-034, passed 4-25-17)
§ 908.19 CAPTIONS.
   The captions and headings in this chapter are for convenience and reference
purposes only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of
this chapter.
(Ord. 9351, passed 7-11-06; Am. Ord. 2017-034, passed 4-25-17)
§ 908.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   In addition to any other penalties set forth in this chapter and/or
Chapter 909, and the remedy of specific performance which may be enforced in a
court of competent jurisdiction, the following penalties shall apply.
      (1)   For failure to comply with any other provision of this chapter, the
penalty shall be a civil forfeiture, payable to the city, in an amount up to
$500 per day for each day of violation. In addition, for failure to timely
comply with a notice by the Deputy City Manager to remove or rearrange
facilities pursuant to §
908.06, an additional civil forfeiture equal to any costs incurred by the city
as a result of such failure, including but not limited to any penalties or
liquidated damages charged the city by its contractors occasioned thereby,
shall be imposed.
      (2)   A 5% late fee, accrued monthly, shall be assessed to all delinquent
right-of-way occupancy permit fees. Delinquent permit fees may result in the
denial of future right-of-way work permits.
   (B)   Any permittee may be excused for violations of this chapter and its
right-of-way permit due to force majeure.
(Ord. 9351, passed 7-11-06)
CHAPTER 909: RIGHT-OF-WAY WORK PERMIT
Section:
   
909.01   Purpose
   
909.02   Scope
   
909.03   Definitions
   
909.04   Administration
   
909.05   Right-of-way occupancy permit
   
909.06   Right-of-way work permit
   
909.07   Permit application
   
909.08   Application permit and acceptance
   
909.09   Minor maintenance permit applications
   
909.10   Permit fee
   
909.11   Permit conditions
   
909.12   Performance and maintenance security
   
909.13   Preconstruction meeting, inspections and acceptance
   
909.14   Public safety
   
909.15   Time of completion
   
909.16   Traffic control
   
909.17   General rights-of-way use and construction
   
909.18   Joint planning and construction
   
909.19   Minimizing the impacts of work in the rights-of-way
   
909.20   Standards for repairs and restoration
   
909.21   Construction and restoration standards for newly constructed or
overlayed streets
   
909.22   Relocation of facilities
   
909.23   Abandonment and removal of facilities; notice
   
909.24   Revocation of permits and stop work orders
   
909.25   Appeals procedure
   
909.26   Fee schedule
 
   
909.99   Penalty
§ 909.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The City of Lebanon, Ohio (“city”) is concerned with the use of all
rights-of-way in the city as such rights-of-way are valuable, and potentially
limited resources which must be utilized to promote the public health, safety,
and welfare of the city.
   (B)   Changes in the public utilities and telecommunication industries have
increased the demand and need for access to rights-of way and placement of
facilities and structures therein.
   (C)   It is necessary to comprehensively plan and manage access to, and
structures and facilities in, the rights-of-way to promote efficiency,
discourage duplication of facilities in, lessen the public inconvenience of
uncoordinated work in the rights-of- way, and promote the public health,
safety, and welfare. Where it is in the best interest of the public health,
safety, and welfare and aesthetics of the city, the city shall take steps to
encourage locating facilities underground.
(Ord. 9351, passed 7-11-06)
§ 909.02 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all users of the rights-of-
way.
(Ord. 9351, passed 7-11-06)
§ 909.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and
their derivations shall have the meanings as set forth herein. When not
inconsistent with the context, works in the present tense include the future
tense, words in the plural number include the singular number, and words in the
singular number include the plural number. The words “shall” and “will” are
mandatory and “may” is permissive. Words not defined shall be given their
common and ordinary meaning. References hereafter to “sections” are, unless
otherwise specified, references to sections in this chapter. Defined terms
remain defined terms whether or not capitalized.
   CITY. The City of Lebanon, Ohio.
   CITY ENGINEER. The City Engineer of Lebanon, Ohio.
   CITY MANAGER. The City Manager of Lebanon, Ohio.
   CONTRACTOR. A person, partnership, corporation, or other legal entity who
undertakes to construct, install, alter, move, remove, trim, demolish, repair,
replace, excavate, or add to any improvements covered by this chapter, that
requires work, workers, and/or equipment to be in the public right-of-way in
the process of performing the above- named operations.
   DEPUTY CITY MANAGER. The Deputy City Manager of Lebanon, Ohio, or designee.
   DEVELOPER. The person, partnership, corporation, or other legal entity who
is improving a parcel of land within the city and who is legally responsible to
the city for the cost and quality of construction of improvements within a
subdivision or as a condition of a building permit.
   DUCT or CONDUIT. A single enclosed raceway for cables, fiber optics, or
other wires, or a pipe or canal used to convey fluids or gases.
   EMERGENCY. Any event which may threaten public health or safety, or that
results in an interruption in the provision of services, including, but not
limited to, damaged or leaking water or gas conduit system, damaged, plugged,
or leaking sewer or storm drain conduit systems, damaged electrical and
telecommunications facilities, in which advanced notice of needed repairs is
impracticable under the circumstances.
   EXCAVATE. To dig into or in any way remove or penetrate any part of a right-
of-way.
   FACILITIES. Includes, without limitation, any pipes, conduits, wires,
cables, amplifiers, transformers, fiber optic lines, antennae, poles, street
lights, ducts, fixtures and appurtenances and other like equipment used in
connection with transmitting, receiving, distributing, offering, and providing
utility and other services.
   FENCE. Any artificially constructed barrier of wood, masonry, stone, wire,
metal, plastic, or any other manufactured material or combination of materials
erected to enclose, partition, beautify, mark, or screen areas of land.
   INFRASTRUCTURE. Any public facility, system, or improvement, including,
without limitation, water and sewer mains and appurtenances, storm drains and
structures, streets, alleys, traffic signal poles and appurtenances, conduits,
signs, landscape improvements, sidewalks, and public safety equipment.
   LANDSCAPING. Materials, including, without limitation, grass, ground cover,
shrubs, vines, hedges, or trees and non-living natural materials commonly used
in landscape development, as well as attendant irrigation systems.
   PERMIT. Any written authorization for use of the public rights-of-way
granted in accordance with the terms of this chapter and the laws and policies
of the city.
   PERMITTEE. The holder of a valid permit issued pursuant to this chapter.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY or RIGHT-OF-WAY or PUBLIC WAY. The surface of and the
space above and below any public street, way, place, alley, sidewalk, easement,
park, square, plaza, and city right-of-way dedicated to public use, except as
otherwise required by local, state or federal law.
   SPECIFICATIONS. Engineering regulations, construction specifications, and
design standards adopted by the city.
    STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected with a fixed location below, on,
or above grade, including, without limitation, foundations, fences, retaining
walls, awnings, balconies and canopies.
   SURPLUS DUCTS or SURPLUS CONDUITS. Conduits or ducts other than those
occupied by the permittee or any prior permittee, or unoccupied ducts held by
permittee as emergency use spares, or other unoccupied ducts that the permittee
reasonably expects to use within three years from the date of a request for
use.
   WORK. Any labor performed on, or any use or storage of equipment or
materials, including but not limited to construction of streets and all related
appurtenances, fixtures, improvements, sidewalks, driveway openings, bus
shelters, street lights, and traffic signal devices within a right-of-way. It
shall also mean excavation construction, maintenance, or repair of all
underground structures such as pipes, conduits, ducts, tunnels, manholes,
vaults, buried cable, wire, or any other structure located below surface, and
installation of overhead poles, towers, or facilities attached to any above-
ground structure used for any purpose within a right-of-way.
(Ord. 9351, passed 7-11-06)
§ 909.04 ADMINISTRATION.
   The City Manager shall be the principal city official responsible for the
administration of this chapter except as otherwise provided herein. The City
Manager may delegate any or all of the duties hereunder to the Deputy City
Manager or other designee.
(Ord. 9351, passed 7-11-06)
§ 909.05 RIGHT-OF-WAY OCCUPANCY PERMIT.
   Prior to commencing any work in the public right-of-way, a permittee shall
determine whether or not a right-of-way occupancy permit is required pursuant
to
Chapter 908. Any permits issued under this chapter do not take precedence over,
or alleviate the requirement for obtaining a right-of-way occupancy permit as
set forth in
Chapter 908.
(Ord. 9351, passed 7-11-06) Penalty, see §
909.99
§ 909.06 RIGHT-OF-WAY WORK PERMIT.
   (A)   No person, except an employee or official of the city, or a person
exempted by contract with the city, shall undertake or permit to be undertaken
any work in the public rights-of-way without first obtaining a permit from the
city as set forth in this chapter. Each permit obtained, along with associated
documents, shall be maintained on the job site and available for inspection
upon request by any officer or employee of the city. Refer to §
909.21(C) for emergency situations.
   (B)   Permit transferability or assignability. The applicant may subcontract
the work to be performed under a permit, provided that the permittee shall be
and remain responsible for the performance of the work under the permit and all
insurance and financial security as required. Permits are transferable and
assignable if the transferee or assignee posts all required security pursuant
to this chapter and agrees to be bound by all requirements of the permit and
this chapter.
   (C)   Developer ownership of public infrastructure. The physical
construction of public infrastructure in new developments (subdivisions) is the
responsibility of the developer of the land. Ownership of that infrastructure
remains with the developer of the land until acceptance by the city. Any
developer of land where work is undertaken on infrastructure that is within a
dedicated right-of-way, but prior to acceptance by the city, shall obtain a
permit from the city. The city will not accept public infrastructure
improvements where the work performed is not in accordance with applicable city
specifications and applicable provisions of this chapter. Infrastructure
constructed by a public utility, as that term is defined by R.C. § 4905.02,
shall remain the property of such public utility. Public utility infrastructure
shall also be known as public utility facilities and abandonment and
attachment, including but not limited to relocation, permanent closure, and
temporary closure, shall be governed by applicable local, state, and federal
law, including R.C. Chapter 4909 and the Federal Telecommunications Act.
   (D)   Any person or utility found to be conducting any excavation activity
within the public right-of-way without having first obtained the required
permit(s) shall immediately cease all activity, exclusive of actions required
to stabilize the area, and be required to obtain a permit before work may be
restarted.
(Ord. 9351, passed 7-11-06) Penalty, see §
909.99
§ 909.07 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   An applicant for a permit to allow construction, excavation,
obstruction, or work in the public right-of-way under this section shall:
      (1)   File a written application which shall include the following:
         (a)   The date of the application;
         (b)   The name and address of the applicant;
         (c)   The name and address of the developer, contractor or
subcontractor who shall perform work in the public right-of-way;
         (d)   The exact location of the proposed construction, excavation or
work activity;
         (e)   The type of existing pubic infrastructure (street pavement, curb
and gutter, sidewalks, utilities) impacted by the work;
         (f)   The purpose of the proposed work;
         (g)   The dates for beginning and ending the proposed work;
         (h)   Proposed hours of work;
         (i)   Type of work proposed.
      (2)   Attach copies of all permits or licenses, including required
insurance, deposits, bonding, and warranties, required to do the proposed work,
and to work in the public rights-of-way, if licenses or permits are required
under the laws of the United States, State of Ohio, or the ordinances or
regulations of the city. If relevant permits or licenses have been applied for
but not yet received, provide a written statement so indicating.
      (3)   Provide a reasonable plan of work showing protection of the subject
property and adjacent properties. Plan should accommodate trenchless technology
and joint use wherever applicable to reduce the negative impact on existing
public infrastructure and rights-of-way.
      (4)   Provide a reasonable plan for the protection of any existing
landscaping.
      (5)   Include with the application engineering construction drawings or
site plans for the proposed work.
      (6)   Include with the application a satisfactory traffic control and
erosion protection plan for the proposed work.
      (7)   Include a statement indicating any proposed joint use or ownership
of the facility; any known existing facility or permit of the applicant at this
location; any known existing facility of others with which the proposed
installation might conflict; and the name, address and telephone number of a
representative of the applicant available to review proposed locations at the
site.
      (8)   Applicant shall update any new information on permit applications
within ten days after any material change occurs.
      (9)   Applicants may apply jointly for permits to work in public rights-
of-way at the same time and place. Applicants who apply jointly for permits may
share in the payment of the permit fee. Applicants must agree among themselves
as to the portion each shall pay.
   (B)   Failure to provide the information provided above or any
misrepresentation therein shall be cause for denial of the permit if not
corrected or supplemented within a reasonable period from notice to the
applicant of such deficiency.
(Ord. 9351, passed 7-11-06)
§ 909.08 APPLICATION PERMIT AND ACCEPTANCE.
   (A)   Application preparation and submittal. The applicant shall initially
submit a right-of-way work permit application that shall set forth each item
and calculation required by this chapter. The applicant must review the
provisions of this chapter and prepare an application package that is
responsive to each item and requirement herein. An application checklist is
available at the office of the Deputy City Manager, which is intended as a
guide, and may not be complete for unique circumstances. Questions regarding
the sufficiency of the information proposed to be included on the application
should be directed to the Deputy City Manager prior to submitting the
application. Similarly, inquiries to the Deputy City Manager regarding the most
recent plans for road improvements by the city or work in the right-of-way
proposed by other persons are encouraged. No application shall be formally
reviewed by the city without submittal of the initial application fee.
   (B)   Application review. 
      (1)   The Deputy City Manager shall commence review of a formal
application for a right- of-way work permit only after it is determined that
all required items are included in the application package. The applicant shall
be notified in writing within ten working/business days whether the application
package is complete and a formal review has commenced, or whether the
application package is deficient in some manner. If deficient, the applicant
shall arrange a meeting with the Deputy City Manager in order to remedy the
deficiency.
      (2)   The Deputy City Manager shall complete a formal review of the
application package within ten working/business days of the mailing of the
notice to the applicant that a formal review shall commence.
      (3)   The Deputy City Manager shall consult with such persons as he or
she deems appropriate during the course of the formal review. If additional or
different information is determined to be necessary, the ten days of the formal
review shall be extended by the period of time from the Deputy City Manager's
request for the additional information until it is received by the Deputy City
Manager from the applicant.
   (C)   Permit. Upon completion, and in conjunction with, the formal review,
the Deputy City Manager may issue a tentative right-of-way work permit, a
tentative right-of-way work permit with conditions, or a denial of the right-
of-way work permit.
      (1)   Tentative permit is issued if the application is approved subject
to receipt of a written acceptance and acknowledgment and payment of fees.
      (2)   Tentative permit with conditions is the same as a tentative permit
but the Deputy City Manager has imposed additional conditions or requirements
not set forth in the original application and will be issued upon the same
terms and conditions as a tentative permit.
      (3)   Subject to applicable local, state, or federal law, denial of
permit shall be issued if the right-of-way has reached capacity within the area
in which the applicant proposes to perform work or if the application is not
sufficient and has not been amended. This includes a denial because the
applicant has not demonstrated sufficient willingness to cooperate with and
share the right-of-way improvements therein with other users, present and
future. The city may require the applicant to utilize existing or planned
facilities within the right-of-way to minimize the impact on the public right-
of-way.
   (D)   Acceptance. No applicant may proceed with any work in a right-of-way
until a final permit is issued. A final permit shall be issued upon receipt of:
      (1)   Applicant's acceptance of the terms of the tentative permit, with
or without conditions, if applicable, and an acknowledgment that it accepts and
shall abide by all the applicable terms and conditions set forth in this
chapter, and the specifications, locations, and details set forth in the
application and any conditions imposed by the Deputy City Manager; and
      (2)   Payment of fees due as determined by the fee schedule in this
chapter upon approval of the right-of-way permit.
   (E)   Exemptions. The following work shall be exempt from submittal of a
right-of-way permit application:
      (1)   Replacement of existing curb, sidewalk, and drive approaches in the
right-of-way. Inspection permit must be filed with the City Engineer.
      (2)   City-owned and managed utilities where work is being performed by
the city or city contractor, including but not limited to water, sewer,
electric and telecommunications.
(Ord. 9351, passed 7-11-06)
§ 909.09 MINOR MAINTENANCE PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Application for a minor maintenance permit may be made to the Deputy
City Manager in lieu of a right-of-way permit. Minor maintenance permits are
applicable for activity in the public right- of-way that does not include
commercial utility/service expansion and excavation. The Deputy City Manager
shall determine whether or not the proposed work is categorized as minor
maintenance. In addition to any information required by the Deputy City
Manager, all minor maintenance permit applications shall contain, and will only
be considered complete upon compliance with the following provisions:
      (1)   If applicable, credible evidence that the applicant has obtained a
right-of-way occupancy permit, or proof that the applicant has written
authority to apply for a minor maintenance permit on behalf of a party that has
been issued a right-of-way occupancy permit;
      (2)   Submission of a completed minor maintenance permit application in
the form required by the Deputy City Manager;
      (3)   A statement that the applicant will employ protective measures and
devices that, consistent with the Ohio Manual of Uniform Traffic Control
Devices, will prevent injury or damage to persons or property and to minimize
disruptions to the efficient movement of pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
      (4)   If the Deputy City Manager determines that the applicant has
satisfied the requirements of this chapter and the minor maintenance permit
process, the Deputy City Manager shall issue a minor maintenance permit subject
to the provisions of this chapter.
      (5)   The city may impose reasonable conditions upon the issuance of the
minor maintenance permit and the performance of the minor maintenance permittee
thereunder in order to protect the public health, safety and welfare, to ensure
the structural integrity of the rights-of-way, to protect the property and
safety of other users in the rights-of-way, and to minimize the disruption and
inconvenience to the traveling public.
      (6)   The Deputy City Manager shall charge a $25 fee for the issuance of
the minor maintenance permit. The Deputy City Manager may revoke the minor
maintenance permit as any other permit may be revoked under this chapter.
(Ord. 9351, passed 7-11-06)
§ 909.10 PERMIT FEE.
   Before a final right-of-way work permit is issued pursuant to this chapter,
the applicant shall pay to the city a right-of-way work permit fee, which shall
be determined by the fee schedule as set forth in §
909.26. Fees have been calculated as reasonably as possible based on the actual
costs inherent in reviewing the right-of-way work permit application.
(Ord. 9351, passed 7-11-06)
§ 909.11 PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Unless otherwise specified in a franchise agreement between the
permittee and the city, prior to granting of any permit, the permittee shall
file with the city an insurance policy or certificate in a form satisfactory to
the city with coverage as follows:
      (1)   The permittee shall carry and maintain in full effect at all times
a commercial general liability policy, including broad form property damage,
completed operations contractual liability, explosion hazard, collapse hazard,
underground property damage hazard for limits not less than $1,000,000 each
occurrence for damages or bodily injury or death to one or more persons; and
$500,000 each occurrence for damage to or destruction of property. The
insurance policy shall name the City of Lebanon as an additional insured.
Permittees who maintain a net book value in excess of $10,000,000 may self-
insure in lieu of providing policies of insurance.
      (2)   Workers’ compensation insurance as required by state law.
   (B)   Whenever any person has filed with the city evidence of insurance as
required, any additional or subsequent permit holder in the employ of said
initial person may, at the discretion of the Deputy City Manager, be excused
from depositing or filing any additional evidence of insurance if such employee
is fully covered by the permittee's insurance policy.
   (C)   Each permittee shall construct, maintain, and operate its facilities
in a manner which provides protection against injury or damage to persons or
property.
      (1)   The permittee, for itself and its related entities, agents,
employees, subcontractors, and the agents and employees of said subcontractors,
shall save the city harmless, defend, and indemnify the city, its successors,
assigns, officers, employees, agents, and appointed and elected officials from
and against all liability or damage and all claims or demands whatsoever in
nature unless caused by the negligent or intentional acts of the city, and
reimburse the city for all its reasonable expenses, as incurred, arising out of
the installation, maintenance, operation or any other work or activity in the
public right-of-way by the permittee related to its use thereof.
      (2)   The terms of each contract awarded by the permittee for activities
pursuant to a permit shall contain indemnity provisions whereby the contractor
shall indemnify the city to the same extent as described above. Acceptance of a
permit by a permittee shall constitute an acknowledgment of this duty and a
representation that it shall be done. The city may request satisfactory proof
this has been done.
      (3)   Following the receipt of written notification of any claim, the
permittee shall have the obligation to defend the city with regard to all third
party actions, damages and penalties arising in any way out of the exercise of
any rights in the permit. If at any time however, the permittee refuses to
defend, and the city elects to defend itself with regard to such matters, the
permittee shall pay all reasonable expenses incurred by the city related to its
defense.
(Ord. 9351, passed 7-11-06) Penalty, see §
909.99
§ 909.12 PERFORMANCE AND MAINTENANCE SECURITY.
   (A)   Before any permit required by this chapter shall be issued to an
applicant, the applicant shall file with the Deputy City Manager either a bond
or letter of credit in favor of the city in an amount equal to the total cost
of construction, including labor and materials. The bond or letter of credit
shall be executed by the applicant as principal and by at least one surety upon
whom service of process may be had in the state. The bond or letter of credit
shall be conditioned upon the applicant fully complying with all provisions of
city ordinances, rules and regulations, and upon payment of all judgments and
costs rendered against the applicant for any material violation of city
ordinances or state statutes that may be recovered against the applicant by any
person for damages arising out of any negligent or wrongful acts of the
applicant in the performance of work done pursuant to the permit. The city may
bring an action on the bond or letter of credit or other security or assets of
permittee on its own behalf or on behalf of any persons so aggrieved as
beneficiary. The bond or letter of credit must be approved by the city's legal
counsel as to form and as to the responsibility of the surety thereon prior to
the issuance of the permit. However, the city may waive the requirements of any
such bond or letter of credit or may permit the applicant to post a bond
without surety thereon upon finding that the applicant has financial stability
and assets to satisfy any claims intended to be protected against the security
required by this section.
   (B)   A letter of responsibility will be accepted in lieu of a bond or
letter of credit from any public utility having substantial pre-existing
facilities in the rights- of-way which precedes the effective date of this
chapter.
   (C)   The bond, letter of credit or letter of responsibility shall remain in
force and effect for a minimum of three years after completion and probationary
acceptance of the work. The city may accept alternative forms of security if
the City determines that the alternative is substantially equivalent to or
better than the bond, letter of credit or letter of responsibility.
(Ord. 9351, passed 7-11-06) Penalty, see §
909.99
§ 909.13 PRECONSTRUCTION MEETING, INSPECTIONS AND ACCEPTANCE.
   The Deputy City Manager shall coordinate all pre-construction meetings and
inspections as determined to be necessary. The permittee must make a
representative available to the city as required.
(Ord. 9351, passed 7-11-06) Penalty, see §
909.99
§ 909.14 PUBLIC SAFETY.
   The permittee shall maintain a safe work area, free of safety hazards. The
city may make any repair necessary to eliminate any safety hazards not
performed as directed. Any such work performed by the city shall be completed
and billed to the permittee at standard rates as established by the city. The
permittee shall pay all such charges within the prescribed time period, the
city may, in addition to taking other collection remedies, obtain
reimbursements through the maintenance bond guarantee. Furthermore, the
permittee may be barred from performing any work in the public right-of-way,
and under no circumstances will the city issue any further permits of any kind
to said permittee, until all outstanding charges have been paid in full
(Ord. 9351, passed 7-11-06) Penalty, see §
909.99
§ 909.15 TIME OF COMPLETION.
   All work shall be substantially completed in the time period identified on
the permit application. Any work not substantially completed during the time
period approved on the permit shall be subject to denial. The permittee must
apply in writing to the Deputy City Manager for a time extension on the permit
conditions. Extensions will be granted if delay is caused by an Act of God or
other circumstance outside of the reasonable control of the permittee.
(Ord. 9351, passed 7-11-06) Penalty, see §
909.99
§ 909.16 TRAFFIC CONTROL.
   (A)   When it is necessary to obstruct traffic, a traffic control plan shall
be submitted to the city prior to starting construction. No permit will be
issued until the plan is approved by the Deputy City Manager. If a street
closing is desired, the applicant will request the assistance and obtain the
approval of the City Engineer. It shall be the responsibility of the permittee
to notify and coordinate all work in the public way with police, fire,
ambulance, other government entities, and transit organizations and to provide
documentation of such to the City Engineer prior to issuance of a final permit.
All traffic control measures shall be in accordance with the Ohio Manual of
Uniform Traffic Control.
   (B)   When necessary for public safety, the permittee shall employ flaggers,
whose duties shall be to control traffic around or through the construction
site. The use of flaggers may be required by the City Engineer.
   (C)   Traffic control devices, as defined by the Ohio Manual on Uniform
Traffic Control Devices, must be used whenever it is necessary to close or
alter a traffic lane or sidewalk. Traffic control devices are to be supplied by
the permittee. If used at night, they must be reflectorized and must be
illuminated or have barricade warning lights.
   (D)   Nighttime work area floodlighting shall not be allowed to spill out of
the construction area in such a way as to disturb, annoy, or endanger the
comfort, health or peace of others.
   (E)   The Ohio Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices or any successor
publication thereto shall be used as a guide for all maintenance and
construction signing. The permittee shall illustrate on the work plan the
warning and control devices proposed for use. At the direction of the City
Engineer, such warning and control devices shall be modified.
   (F)   The contractor shall be responsible for maintaining all work area
signing and barricading during construction operations, as well as any signs
and barricades that are needed to protect roadway users and pedestrians during
non-work hours. During non-work hours, all construction work area signs that
are not appropriate shall be removed, covered, or turned around so that they do
not face traffic. Any deficiencies noted by the city shall be corrected
immediately by the contractor. If the contractor is not available or cannot be
found, the city may make such corrections and the contractor shall pay the
actual costs incurred by the city. The permittee shall provide the Deputy City
Manager with a 24-hour emergency contact name and phone number.
(Ord. 9351, passed 7-11-06) Penalty, see §
909.99
§ 909.17 GENERAL RIGHTS-OF-WAY USE AND CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Right-of-way meeting. A permittee will make reasonable efforts to
attend and participate in meetings of the city, of which the permittee is made
aware, regarding right-of-way issues that may impact its facilities, including
planning meetings to anticipate joint trenching and boring. Whenever passable
and reasonably practicable to joint trench, share bores or cuts, and/or utilize
existing facilities, a permittee shall work with other providers, licensees,
permittees, and franchisees so as to reduce as far as possible the number of
right-of-way cuts within the city and the amount of pedestrian and vehicular
traffic that is obstructed or impeded.
   (B)   Minimal interference. Work in the right-of- way, on other public
property, near public property, or on or near private property shall be done in
a manner that causes the least interference with the rights and reasonable
convenience of property owners and residents. Permittee's facilities shall be
constructed and maintained in such a manner as not to interfere with sewers,
water pipes, electric, telecommunications, or any other property of the city,
or with any other pipes, wires, conduits, pedestals, structures, or other
facilities that may have been laid in the rights-of-way by or under the City's
authority. The permittee's facilities shall be located, erected and maintained
so as not to endanger or interfere with the lives of persons, or to interfere
with new improvements the city may deem proper to make or to unnecessarily
hinder or obstruct the free use of the rights-of-way or other public property.
   (C)   Underground construction and use of poles. 
      (1)   When required by general ordinances, resolutions, regulations or
rules of the city, or applicable state or federal law, permittee's facilities
shall be placed or relocated underground at no cost to the city. The placement
of public utilities facilities underground, as a first installation or as a
relocation from above-ground, shall be subject to the cost recovery provisions
set forth in §
908.06(A)(5). Placing facilities underground does not preclude the use of
essential ground-mounted appurtenances.
      (2)   Where all facilities are installed underground at the time of
permittee's construction, or when all such facilities are subsequently placed
underground, all permittee facilities shall also be placed underground at no
expense to the city. The recovery of such costs by a public utility placing
utility facilities underground shall be subject to the cost recovery provisions
set forth in §
908.06(A)(5). Related equipment, such as pedestals, must be placed in
accordance with the city's applicable code requirements and rules.
      (3)   For above-ground facilities, the permittee shall utilize existing
poles and conduit wherever possible. No permit shall be issued for the
construction of new poles or towers in the rights-of- way without the
determination of the Deputy City Manager that existing facilities are not
available or suitable for the applicants needs and that the proposed new above-
ground structures are compatible with existing facilities or uses within the
immediate area.
      (4)   Should the city desire to place its own facilities in trenches or
bores opened by the permittee, the permittee shall cooperate with the city in
any construction by the permittee that involves trenching or boring, provided
that the city has first notified the permittee in some manner that it is
interested in sharing the trenches or bores in the area where the permittee's
construction is occurring. The permittee shall allow the city to place its
facilities in the permittee's trenches and bores, provided the city shares
proportionally in the cost of the trenching or boring. Should the city desire
to install ducts or conduits for the possible use of other entities, then the
permittee shall allow the city to place these facilities in the permittee's
trenches and bores, provided the city shares proportionally in the cost of
trenching and boring. Additionally, should the city install ducts or conduits
for their or others use, the permit application fee shall be waived for the
permittee for that particular project. The city shall be responsible for
maintaining its respective facilities buried in the permittee's trenches and
bores under this division.
   (D)   Use of conduits by the city. Unless otherwise restricted by state and
federal law, and in accordance with §
908.10, the city may install or affix and maintain its own facilities for city
purposes in or upon any and all of permittee's ducts, conduits or equipment in
the rights-of-way and other public places, at a charge to be negotiated between
the parties, to the extent space is therein or thereon is reasonably available,
and pursuant to all applicable ordinances and codes. For the purposes of this
division, CITY PURPOSES includes but is not limited to the use of the
structures and installations for City fire, police, traffic, water, electric,
telecommunications, and/or signal systems.
   (E)   Common users. 
      (1)   Rights-of-way have a finite capacity for containing facilities.
Whenever the city determines it is impracticable to permit construction of an
additional underground conduit system by any other entity and unless otherwise
prohibited by federal or state law or regulations, the city shall require a
permittee to afford to such entity the right to use surplus ducts or conduits
in common with permittee, pursuant to the terms and conditions of an agreement
for use of surplus ducts or conduits entered into by permittee and the other
entity. Nothing herein shall require permittee to enter into an agreement with
such entity if, in permittee's reasonable determination, such an agreement
would compromise the integrity of the permittee's facilities or if such entity
refuses to assume liability for the occupancy at the negotiated price or price
required by applicable local, state, or federal law. In such case, however,
permittee shall provide a written explanation to the Deputy City Manager
describing the nature and extent of the compromise of integrity of the
facilities or refusal to assume liability, which shall be the basis for denying
a permit to such other entity if no other alternative exists. Permittee shall
cooperate and present evidence regarding the compromise of integrity on any
appeal. In no instance shall the city take action against a permittee required
to allow attachment by a new right-of-way occupant pursuant to local, state or
federal law, where the city determines that occupancy should be denied. The
city shall take action, as it deems appropriate, only against the new right-of-
way occupant.
      (2)   If a permittee has permitted use of its conduit to another entity
(common user) and thereafter determines that it, the permittee, needs to occupy
such conduit for its own use, the permittee shall give its common user(s) 120
days notice, or such greater or lesser notice as may be required by local,
state or federal law, of its need to occupy the conduit, and shall require that
the common user choose one of the following alternatives:
         (a)   Pay revised conduit rent designed to recover the cost of
retrofitting the conduit with space-saving technology sufficient to meet
permittee's space needs, including the space needs of other common occupants;
         (b)   Pay revised conduit rent based on the cost of new conduit
constructed to meet permittee's space needs, including the space needs of other
common occupants;
         (c)   Vacate the needed ducts or conduit; or
         (d)   Construct and maintain sufficient new conduit to meet
permittee's space needs and the needs of other common occupants. When two or
more common users occupy a section of conduit facility, the last, most recent
user to occupy the conduit facility shall be the first to vacate or construct
new conduit. When conduit rent is revised because of retrofitting, space-saving
technology or construction of new conduit, the cost causer shall bear the
entire cost of the expansion or retrofit, but all common users shall bear the
ongoing increased rental cost. All facilities shall meet any applicable local,
state, and federal clearance and other safety requirements, be adequately
grounded and anchored, and meet the provisions of contracts executed between
permittee and the other common user. Permittee may, at its option, correct any
attachment deficiencies and charge the common user for its costs. Each common
user shall pay permittee for any fines, fees, damages or other costs the common
user's attachments cause permittee to incur.
(Ord. 9351, passed 7-11-06) Penalty, see §
909.99
§ 909.18 JOINT PLANNING AND CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Excavations in the city right-of-way disrupt and interfere with the
public use of city streets and landscaping. The purpose of this section is to
reduce this disruption, damage, and interference by promoting better
coordination among permittees making excavations in the city right-of-way and
between these permittees and the city. Better coordination will assist in
minimizing the number of excavations being made wherever feasible, and will
ensure the excavations in city rights-of-way are, to the maximum extent
possible, performed before, rather than after the resurfacing of the streets by
the city.
   (B)   Prior to applying for a permit, any person planning to excavate in the
city right-of-way shall review the city's repaving plan on file with the City
Engineer and shall coordinate, to the extent practicable, with the utility and
street work shown on such plans to minimize damage to, and avoid undue
disruption and interference with the public use of such rights-of-way.
   (C)   In performing location of facilities in the public right-of-way in
preparation for construction under a permit, permittee shall compile all
information obtained regarding its or any other facilities in the public
rights-of-way related to a particular permit, and shall make that information
available to the city in a written and verified format acceptable to the Deputy
City Manager.
(Ord. 9351, passed 7-11-06) Penalty, see §
909.99
§ 909.19 MINIMIZING THE IMPACTS OF WORK IN THE RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Each permittee shall conduct work in such a manner as to avoid
unnecessary inconvenience and annoyance to the general public and occupants of
neighboring property. In the performance of the work, the permittee shall take
appropriate measures to reduce noise, dust, and unsightly debris.
   (B)   Trash and construction materials. Each permittee shall maintain the
work site so that:
      (1)   Trash and construction materials are contained so that they are not
blown off of the construction site.
      (2)   Trash is removed from a construction site often enough so that it
does not become a health, fire, or safety hazard.
      (3)   Trash dumpsters and storage or construction trailers are not placed
in the street without specific approval of the Deputy City Manager.
   (C)   Deposit of dirt and material on roadways. Each permittee shall utilize
their best efforts to eliminate the tracking of mud or debris upon any street
or sidewalk. Streets and sidewalks shall be cleaned of mud and debris at the
end of each day. All equipment and trucks tracking mud and debris into the
right-of-way shall be cleaned of mud and debris at the end of the day or as
directed by the City Engineer, or designee. If the permittee fails to do so,
the city shall have the authority to perform the required work and bill the
permittee for its expense.
   (D)   Protection of trees and landscaping. Each permittee shall protect
trees, landscape, and landscape features as required by the city. All
protective measures shall be provided at the expense of the permittee.
   (E)   Protection of paved surfaces from equipment damage. Backhoe equipment
outriggers shall be fitted with rubber pads whenever outriggers are placed on
any paved surface. Tracked vehicles that will damage pavement surfaces are not
permitted on paved surface unless specific precautions are taken to protect the
surface. The permittee will be responsible for any damage caused to the
pavement by the operation of such equipment and shall repair such surfaces.
Failure to do so will result in the use of the applicant's performance/warranty
guarantee by the city to repair any damage, and, possibly, the requirement of
additional warranty(ies).
   (F)   Protection of property. Each permittee shall protect from injury any
adjoining property by providing adequate support and taking other necessary
measures. The permittee shall, at its own expense, shore up and protect all
buildings, walls, fences or other property likely to be damaged during the
work, and shall be responsible for all damage to public or private property
resulting from failure to properly protect and carry out work in the public
way.
   (G)   Clean-up. As the work progresses, all public rights-of-way and private
property shall be thoroughly cleaned of all rubbish, excess dirt, rock, and
other debris. All clean-up operations shall be done at the expense of the
permittee.
   (H)   Preservation of monuments. A permittee shall not disturb any surface
monuments, property marks, or survey hubs and points found on the line of work
unless approval is obtained from the City Engineer. Any monuments, hubs, and
points disturbed will be replaced by an Ohio Registered Land Surveyor at the
permittee's expense.
   (I)   Each permittee shall make provisions for employee and construction
vehicle parking so that neighborhood parking adjacent to a work site is not
impacted.
   (J)   Each permittee shall maintain an adequate and safe unobstructed
walkway around a construction site or blocked sidewalk.
   (K)   Each permittee shall provide necessary sanitary facilities for
workers. The location of such facilities shall be approved by the city in the
permit.
(Ord. 9351, passed 7-11-06) Penalty, see §
909.99
§ 909.20 STANDARDS FOR REPAIRS AND RESTORATION.
   (A)   The permittee shall be fully responsible for the cost and actual
performance of all work in the public way. The permittee shall do all work in
conformance with any and all engineering regulations, construction
specifications, and design standards adopted by the city. These standards shall
apply to all work in the public way unless otherwise indicated in the permit.
   (B)   All restoration shall result in a work site condition equal to or
better than that which existed prior to construction.
   (C)   Flowable fill backfill material shall be utilized as directed by the
City Engineer or as agreed to in the street cut repair standard entered
pursuant to §
908.06(A)(7).
(Ord. 9351, passed 7-11-06) Penalty, see §
909.99
§ 909.21 CONSTRUCTION AND RESTORATION STANDARDS FOR NEWLY CONSTRUCTED OR
OVERLAYED STREETS.
   No person shall cause an open trench excavation or potholing of utilities in
the pavement of any public right-of-way for a period of three years from the
completion of construction or resurfacing of the street except in compliance
with the provisions of this section.
   (A)   Application.  Any application for a permit to excavate in a public
right-of-way subject to the requirements of this section shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   A detailed and dimensional engineering plan that identifies and
accurately represents the city rights-of-way or property that will be impacted
by the proposed excavation, as well as adjacent streets, and the method of
construction.
      (2)   The street width or alley width, including curb and gutter that
will be impacted by the proposed excavation.
      (3)   The location, width, length, and depth of the proposed excavation.
      (4)   The total area of existing street or alley pavement in each
individual city block that will be impacted by the proposed excavation.
      (5)   A written statement addressing the criteria for approval.
   (B)   Criteria for approval. No permit for excavation in the right-of-way of
new streets shall be approved unless the Deputy City Manager finds that all of
the following criteria have been met:
      (1)   Boring or jacking without disturbing the pavement is not practical
due to physical characteristics of the street or alley or other utility
conflicts.
      (2)   Alternative utility alignments that do not involve excavating the
street or alley are found to be impracticable.
      (3)   The proposed excavation cannot reasonably be delayed until after
the three-year deferment period has lapsed.
   (C)   Exemptions for emergency operations. Emergency maintenance operations
shall be limited to circumstances involving the preservation of life, property,
or the restoration of customer service. Persons with prior authorization from
the city to perform emergency maintenance operations within the public rights-
of-way shall be exempted from this section. Any person commencing operations
under the laws of this section shall submit detailed engineering plans,
construction methods and remediation plans no later than three working days
after initiating the emergency maintenance operation or within such other time
as is reasonably practical.
   (D)   Exemptions for non-emergency operations. A permittee may apply to the
Deputy City Manager for an exemption under this section when the construction
is necessary in the public interest or to provide a public service. By way of
example, but not by limitation, an exemption could be requested in order to
provide services to a part of the city where no service would be available
without construction. If a non-emergency exemption is granted to disturb a
public way within the three-year period, the Deputy City Manager may, in his or
her sole discretion, impose additional restoration requirements, including but
not necessarily limited to repaving of a larger area, such as an entire block
in which the construction occurs.
   (E)   Construction and restoration standards for newly constructed or
overlaid streets and alleys. The streets shall be restored and repaired in
accordance with design and construction standards adopted by the city,
including the street cut repair standard set forth by the right-of-way occupant
and the city pursuant to §
908.06(A)(7).
(Ord. 9351, passed 7-11-06) Penalty, see §
909.99
§ 909.22 RELOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   if at any time the city requests the permittee to relocate its
facilities in order to allow the city to make any public use of rights-of-way,
or if at any time it shall become necessary because of a change in the grade or
for any other purpose by reason of the improving, repairing, constructing, or
maintaining of any rights-of-way, or reason of traffic conditions, public
safety or by reason of installation of any type of structure of public
improvement the city or other public agency of special district, and any
general program for the undergrounding of such facilities, to move or change
the permittee's facilities within or adjacent to rights-of-way in any manner,
either temporarily or permanently, the city shall notify the permittee at least
90 days in advance, except in the case of emergencies, of the city's intention
to perform or have such work performed. The permittee shall thereupon, at no
cost to the city, accomplish the necessary relocation, removal or change within
a reasonable time from the date of the notification, but in no event later than
three working days prior to the date the city intends to commence its work or
immediately in the case of emergencies. For complex projects, the permittee may
appeal to the Deputy City Manager for more than a 90-day advance notice from
the city. In each instance the city shall permit cost recovery pursuant to §
908.06(A)(5).
   (B)   Upon the permittee's failure to accomplish such work, the city or
other public agencies or special district may perform such work at the
permittee's expense and the permittee shall reimburse the city or other agency
within 30 days after receipt of a written invoice. The city shall comply with
the requirements of R.C. §§ 4905.20 and 4905.21 and R.C. Chapter 4939.
Following relocation, all affected property shall be restored to the condition
which existed prior to construction at the permittee's expense.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the requirements of this section, a permittee may
request additional time to complete a relocation project. The Deputy City
Manager shall grant a reasonable extension if the extension will not adversely
affect the city's project.
(Ord. 9351, passed 7-11-06) Penalty, see §
909.99
§ 909.23 ABANDONMENT AND REMOVAL OF FACILITIES; NOTICE.
   Any permittee that intends to discontinue use of any facilities within the
public rights-of-way shall notify the Deputy City Manager in writing of the
intent to discontinue use. Such notice shall describe the facilities for which
the use is to be discontinued, a date of discontinuance of use, which date
shall not be less than 60 days from the date such notice is submitted to the
Deputy City Manager and the method of removal and restoration. The permittee
may not remove, destroy or permanently disable any such facilities during said
60-day period without written approval of the Deputy City Manager. After 60
days from the date of such notice, the permittee shall remove and dispose of
such facilities, or abandon in place, as set forth in the notice, as the same
may be modified by the Deputy City Manager, and shall complete such removal and
disposal within six months, unless additional time is requested from and
approved by the Deputy City Manager.
(Ord. 9351, passed 7-11-06) Penalty, see §
909.99
§ 909.24 REVOCATION OF PERMITS AND STOP WORK ORDERS.
   (A)   Any permit may be revoked or suspended by the Deputy City Manager,
after written notice to the permittee for:
      (1)   Violation of any material condition of the permit or of any
material provision of this chapter.
      (2)   Violation of any material provision of any other ordinance of the
city or state law relating to the work performed under this chapter.
      (3)   Existence of any condition or performance of any act relating to
the work performed under this chapter which the city determines constitutes or
causes a condition endangering life or damage to property.
   (B)   Stop work orders. A stop work order may be issued by the Deputy City
Manager to any person or persons doing or causing any work to be done in the
public way for:
      (1)   Working without a permit, except for routine maintenance or
emergency repairs to existing facilities as provided for in this chapter.
      (2)   Failure to acquire a valid right-of-way occupancy permit.
      (3)   Doing work in violation of any provisions of this chapter, or any
other ordinance of the city, or state law relating to the work.
      (4)   Performing any act which the city determines constitutes or causes
a condition that either endangers life or property.
      (5)   A suspension or revocation by the Deputy City Manager, and a stop
work order, shall take effect immediately upon notice to the person performing
the work in the public way, or to the permittee's last known address.
      (6)   Any suspension or revocation or stop work order may be appealed by
the permittee to the City Manager by filing a written notice of appeal within
30 days of the action.
(Ord. 9351, passed 7-11-06)
§ 909.25 APPEALS PROCEDURE.
   Any decision rendered by the Deputy City Manager pursuant to this chapter
may be appealed in writing within 30 days by the applicant or permittee to the
City Manager. Within 15 days of written notification of appeal, the City
Manager shall consider all evidence in context of this chapter and, after
deliberation, may approve, reverse or modify the decision of the Deputy City
Manager. Within 15 days of the decision of the City Manager, an applicant may
appeal the decision of the City Manager to the City Council.
(Ord. 9351, passed 7-11-06)
§ 909.26 FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Review costs.  REVIEW COSTS mean those administrative and consultation
costs associated with the review of the application, as well as permitting,
inspections, and general inquiries related to public right-of-way intrusion.
   (B)   Right-of-way work permit fees; review costs. A fee for the review of
all applications, excluding minor maintenance permits shall be $100. The fee to
review minor maintenance permits shall be $25.
   (C)   Exemptions. The following work in the public right-of-way will be
exempt from the review fee:
      (1)   Replacement of existing individual property utility service such as
water, sewer, electric, gas, and telecommunications.
      (2)   Placement or removal of trees, mailboxes, and other minor
landscaping in the public right-of-way.
      (3)   Replacement of existing curb and gutter, and/or sidewalks in the
public right-of-way.
(Ord. 9351, passed 7-11-06)
§ 909.99 PENALTY.
   Each day any violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense. For
failure to comply with any other provision of this chapter, the penalty shall
be a civil forfeiture, payable to the City of Lebanon, in the amount up to $500
per day for each day of violation. In addition, for failure to timely comply
with a notice by the Deputy City Manager to remove or rearrange facilities
pursuant to this chapter and
Chapter 908, an additional civil forfeiture equal to any costs incurred by the
city as a result of such failure, including but not limited to penalties or
liquidated damages charged the city by its contractors occasioned thereby,
shall be imposed.
(Ord. 9351, passed 7-11-06)
TITLE THREE - UTILITIES
   
Chapter 910   Public Utilities; General
   
Chapter 911   Water Charges
   
Chapter 912   Water Conservation
   
Chapter 913   Sanitary Sewers; Use Charges
   
Chapter 914   Sewer Use
   
Chapter 915   Electrical Rates
   
Chapter 916   Telecommunications Use
   
Chapter 917   Garbage and Rubbish
   
Chapter 918   Storm Water Management Utility
   
Chapter 919   Flood Hazard Areas
   
Chapter 920   Storm Water Discharge and Maintenance Regulations
CHAPTER 910: PUBLIC UTILITIES; GENERAL
Section
   
910.01   Application for service
   
910.02   Deposits
   
910.03   Meter reading or estimates
   
910.04   Computing the reading
   
910.05   Billing
   
910.06   Late charges; delinquent utility bill
   
910.07   Disconnection of service
   
910.08   Reconnection of utility service
   
910.09   City labor and equipment rates
   
910.10   Rules and regulations
§ 910.01 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   Application for service must be made in writing to the Department of
Service and shall be accompanied by all applicable fees and/or deposits
required by each utility. An application by an applicant/consumer who is a
tenant must reflect the full name, previous name or names and aliases and
Social Security number of and the relationship between each adult who is to
reside at the premises. The tenant applicant/consumer must present at the
time of application written evidence, such as the lease, that permission has
been granted by the owner to occupy the premises. The tenant applicant/
consumer must reside on the premises.
   (B)   The application of service is denied when any of the conditions below
applies:
      (1)   The applicant has a past due bill for a utility service provided by
the city.
      (2)   The applicant is a prospective tenant but presents no written
evidence that grants authority to occupy the property.
      (3)   The applicant intends to reside at the property with a party or
parties who is/are liable to the city for a past due utility bill.
      (4)   Based on the applicant's proposed use of the property the city
cannot issue a zoning permit for the property.
   (C)   When the application for service is accepted, the application becomes
a contract between the applicant/consumer and the city. The city reserves the
right to disconnect utility services if it is determined that a lease and/or
rental agreement has been altered. The city will not serve and may refuse to
continue to serve any consumer who does not conform to the general service
rules and regulations of each utility and the applicable rate schedules of each
utility.
(Ord. 8588, passed 11-12-02; Am. Ord. 2012-001, passed 1-24-12; Am. Ord. 2012-
107, passed 12-11-12)
§ 910.02 DEPOSITS.
   (A)   The city shall require the tenant applicant/ consumer to deposit with
it initially, and from time to time, as a guarantee of payment for utility
services used when setting up a new account. The required deposit amount is set
forth below and elsewhere in the city Codified Ordinances as applicable. A
separate deposit must be made for each utility account. Each customer who is
not an actual owner in fee simple of real estate for which an application for
service is filed, shall make a cash deposit at the time of filing such
application. Unused deposits will be applied to the utility account when
closed. Deposits required shall be in the following amounts:
      (1)   Residential.
         (a)   Deposit shall be a flat rate of $200 for electric heating and
$100 for all other heating sources.
         (b)   Deposit shall be a flat rate of $25 for water service.
      (2)   Non-residential. A deposit shall be required at the discretion of
the Director of Service and shall be based on the facilities estimated usage
over a two-month period, not to exceed $3,000. Customer may make an application
for release of deposit to the Director of Service after a period of two-years
from initial application. Application for release of deposit will be reviewed
based on the same
criteria as the application for service. Unused deposits will be applied to the
utility account when closed.
   (B)   The city may require a consumer on whose premise the city's meter,
wires or other apparatus have in any manner been tampered with, or damaged in
such a way as to prevent a meter from recording the amount of utility service
supplied, to deposit such reasonable amounts as ensures payment for repairs in
the event of future tampering, prohibited by R.C. § 2909.07, or damage.
   (C)   The city is under no obligation to return any deposit to any consumer
whose service has to be terminated until the city has had a reasonable time to
ascertain that the obligations of the consumer have been fully performed.
(Ord. 8588, passed 11-12-02; Am. Ord. 2012-107, passed 12-11-12)
§ 910.03 METER READING OR ESTIMATES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Director of Service to cause the meter on
every service connected to any of the city's utilities to be read or estimated
at intervals of approximately one month by an appropriate city employee,
representative, contractor, or the consumer, with at least one such reading in
every twelve month's period being made by an appropriate city employee
utilizing the current technology, representative or contractor.
   (B)   Should the owner request that an electric or water meter be physically
tested for accuracy and efficiency, a fee of $45 shall be applied to the
account should the meter test accurate. No fee shall be applied to the account
if the meter is deemed to be inaccurate.
(Ord. 8588, passed 11-12-02; Am. Ord. 2015-001, passed 1-27-15)
§ 910.04 COMPUTING THE READING.
   Whenever the meter for any utility product or service of the city's is read,
it shall be the duty of the Service Department to compare the reading so
obtained with the next previous reading and to compute the proper charge to be
billed to the consumer. Whenever a meter reading is not available and whenever
any meter has for any reason ceased to register, or fails to register
accurately within 3%, the Service Department shall estimate the amount of
product used or service rendered, and such estimate shall be the basis for
computing the bill for such period and the basis on which either a bill
adjustment action or a refund action shall be determined. Any such bill
adjustment action or refund for meter reading errors shall be limited to the
preceding 12-month period. If the meter readings are not indicative of the
consumer's actual product or service usage due to unauthorized taking of
service, the Director of Service shall estimate both the amount of product used
or service rendered and the time period during which the unauthorized taking
occurred and compute an appropriate bill adjustment for such entire period.
(Ord. 8588, passed 11-12-02; Am. Ord. 2012-107, passed 12-11-12; Am. Ord. 2015-
001, passed 1-27-15)
§ 910.05 BILLING.
   (A)   Each bill shall include the charges due for all products and services
of the city's utilities that are delivered or provided to the consumer. Upon
receipt, payments shall be proportionally divided among the city's utilities.
The city reserves the right to apply any payment or payments made by a consumer
in whole or in part to any account due the city by the consumer.
   (B)   Each bill shall contain a notice of the last date on which it is
payable without a late payment charge, and a statement setting forth the
charges which will be due for late payment.
   (C)   A fee of $35 shall be applied to an account should any type of payment
be returned to the city from a financial institution due to insufficient funds.
   (D)   Bill adjustments shall be determined as follows:
      (1)   Overcharges will be refunded to the customer for the entire period
of inaccurate billing if that period is discernible by the city. If the period
of inaccurate billing is not discernible, the shortest period encompassing
either the elapsed time since the customer “on” date, the installation of the
inaccurate meter, or 365 days, will form the basis for determining the period
of time that the overcharges will be calculated.
      (2)   Undercharges may be billed and the customer shall pay the charges
for the entire period of inaccurate billing when that period is discernible,
except undercharged billed to residential customers shall be limited to a
maximum of 365 days. There will be no maximum limit of time for cases involving
tampering or theft of utility service, or where a physical act of a customer or
its agent causes inaccurate or no recording of the meter reading, or inaccurate
or no measurement of the utility services rendered. Customers shall have the
option to pay the overcharges over the same number of months as the under
charge was accumulated.
(Ord. 8588, passed 11-12-02; Am. Ord. 2015-001, passed 1-27-15)
§ 910.06 LATE CHARGES; DELINQUENT UTILITY BILL.
   (A)   If any bill, for any product of service of the city's utilities, is
not paid within the specified time frame, a late charge, in the amount of five
percent shall be imposed on the current month unpaid arrearage.
   (B)   If a bill for any utility account is not paid within 20 days after a
late charge has accrued thereon, it shall be deemed a delinquent bill. The
Director of Service or his designee shall have the authority to disconnect any
or all public utility services to the Consumer from whom a delinquent bill is
due. An administrative charge of $25 shall be applied to all utility accounts
that have a disconnect work order issued for the account at any given time.
   (C)   The Director of Service may issue one utility disconnect 30 day time
extension when temporary circumstances such as unemployment, extended illness,
death in the family, an abnormally high medical expense, or other extraneous
issues warrant such extension as approved by the Director of Service. Only one
such time extension will be granted per account in any calendar year.
   (D)   Payment made shall be applied first to late charges, then to
arrearages.
   (E)   Returned check charge. In addition to adding late payment charges as
appropriate, the city shall charge and collect a fee of $35 to cover the cost
of handling a check which a consumer tenders in payment of an account and which
is returned by the bank because it cannot be paid as ordered.
(Ord. 8588, passed 11-12-02; Am. Ord. 9180, passed 7-12-05; Am. Ord. 2012-107,
passed 12-11-12)
§ 910.07 DISCONNECTION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   If any utility service is disconnected, it shall not be resumed or
reconnected at the same location, not installed or connected at any other
location for the same consumer, until all outstanding bills for utility service
have been paid in full or satisfactory arrangements have been made for the
payment of the same.
   (B)   The city reserves the right to discontinue a utility service to a
consumer at any time without notice upon the occurrence of any one or more of
the following events:
      (1)   Whenever the city, in its opinion, has reasonable cause to believe
that the consumer is receiving a utility service without paying therefore.
      (2)   Whenever the city, in its opinion, has determined that it's meters,
wires, or other apparatus have in any manner been tampered with, damaged, or
suspected of damage, in such a way as to prevent the meter from recording the
amount of utility service provided.
      (3)   Whenever, in the opinion of the city, the condition of the
consumer's wiring, equipment, appliance or appurtenance is either unsafe or
unsuitable for receiving a utility service, or when the consumer's use of a
utility service or equipment interferes with or may be detrimental to the
supply of a utility service by the city to any other customer.
      (4)   Where electricity is being furnished over a line which is not owned
or leased by the city and such line, in the opinion of the city, is either not
in a safe and suitable condition or is inadequate to receive electricity.
      (5)   Whenever the consumer has denied the city representative access to
the city's meter, wires, or other apparatus installed on the consumer's
premises.
      (6)   Whenever, in the opinion of the city, it is necessary to prevent
fraud upon the city.
      (7)   Whenever, in the opinion of the city, it is necessary to prevent
any unsafe or hazardous installations that jeopardize the safety of either the
public, employees of the city, or property of the city.
   (C)   The city reserves the right to discontinue furnishing a utility
service to a consumer, after notification by mail giving the specific utility
disconnect date, upon the occurrence of the following event: for nonpayment of
a delinquent bill, including late charges and regardless of any amount of money
on deposit with the city.
   (D)   Notice of disconnect is considered given to a consumer when a copy of
such notice is posted in the U.S. mail addressed to the consumer's last post
office address shown on the records of the city.
   (E)   The city may discontinue a utility service to a consumer whenever
requested by any public authority having jurisdiction.
   (F)   Whenever the supply of a utility service is discontinued in accordance
with these terms and conditions, the city is not liable for any damages, direct
or indirect, that may result from such disconnects.
   (G)   Any such discontinuance of service shall not terminate or reduce the
term of any contract between the city and consumer, nor shall it abrogate any
applicable service or minimum charge.
   (H)   Utility disconnects are performed on scheduled workdays.
(Ord. 8588, passed 11-12-02)
§ 910.08 RECONNECTION OF UTILITY SERVICE.
   Any utility service, previously disconnected by the city, shall be
reinstated by the city provided that all circumstances necessitating the
discontinuance of service have been remedied to the satisfaction of the city,
and all applicable reconnect fees have been paid in advance. The reconnect fee
shall be $25 for standard reconnects, which is defined as occurring between the
hours of 8:00 a.m. and 3:30 p.m. For any reconnections performed outside of
these standard work hours, the fee shall be $50. If the utility service
requires a non-standard reconnection (i.e. disconnection and reconnection at a
service pole) due to extenuating circumstances, then the city will bill the
consumer a fee of $100 for reconnection of service.
(Ord. 8588, passed 11-12-02; Am. Ord. 2012-107, passed 12-11-12; Am. Ord. 2015-
001, passed 1-27-15)
§ 910.09 CITY LABOR AND EQUIPMENT RATES.
   The following rates shall apply for charging the consumer for any work
performed by the Division of Water and Wastewater, Division of Storm Water,
Division of Streets, Division of Parks, and the Division of Electricity, on
behalf of any customer, where provision for charging for such work is not
otherwise made:
   (A)   Labor charges:
      (1)   Water/Wastewater, Streets, and Parks Division:   $35 per hour
      (2)   Electric Division:               $50 per hour
   (B)   Equipment charges:
      (1)   Backhoe                  $75 per hour
      (2)   Pickup truck                  $15 per hour
      (3)   Car                     $10 per hour
      (4)   Tandem dump truck               $50 per hour
      (5)   Service truck                  $50 per hour
      (6)   Sewer jet/vac truck               $125 per hour
      (7)   Front-end loader               $75 per hour
      (8)   Trailers                  $30 per hour
      (9)   Pipeline inspection unit            $100 per hour
      (10)   Skid steer/mini-excavator            $50 per hour
      (11)   1-ton dump truck               $50 per hour
      (12)   Easement machine               $50 per hour
      (13)   Electric bucket truck               $75 per hour
      (14)   Electric trencher               $75 per hour
      (15)   Electric line truck               $75 per hour
      (16)   Electric service truck               $75 per hour
   (C)   When charges are established prior to the work being performed, 10%
shall be added to the estimate for contingencies.
   (D)   Materials furnished for any permanent installation shall be charged
for “at cost” plus an administration fee of 15% of the total charges.
(Ord. 2015-001, passed 1-27-15)
§ 910.10 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Director of Service, Director of Electric, and Director of Water/
Wastewater, with the consent of the City Manager, shall make, and from time to
time may amend, revoke or add to, such rules and regulations consistent with
the codified ordinances as may be appropriate and in the best interest of the
city and the utility operations in respect of the management, operations and
provision of the services and products thereof.
(Ord. 8588, passed 11-12-02; Am. Ord. 2012-107, passed 12-11-12)
CHAPTER 911: WATER CHARGES
Section
   
911.01     Water fund
   
911.02     Water use charges
   
911.03     Backflow protection
   
911.04   Private fire hydrants
   
911.05   Rules and regulations of Service Director
§ 911.01 WATER FUND.
   The funds received from collection of charges as provided for hereunder,
along with such other amounts as are collected for tap-in charges or from any
operation of the water system, shall be paid into the Water Fund. Subject to
the provisions of any ordinance or indenture of mortgage authorizing the
issuance of and securing mortgage revenue bonds for the system, monies in the
fund shall be used for the payment of the cost and expense of operation,
maintenance, repair, and management of the system. Any surplus in the fund over
and above the requirements herein mentioned may be used for payment of debt
charges on bonds issued for construction of the system and for enlargements of
and replacements to the system and parts thereof.
§ 911.02 WATER USE CHARGES.
   The owner, person, firm or individual in charge of any building or property
within or without the corporate limits of the city, which building or property
is connected to the water system of the city, or to which property water
service is available, shall pay to the city amounts for the use of such service
as provided below. The following water rates shall be effective for bills
rendered after January 1, 2024.
   (A)   Within the corporation.
      (1)   Effective January 1, 2024 there shall be a minimum charge for the
first 2,500 gallons of water, based on the size of the meter installed, as
follows:
Meter Size (Inches) Rate
Meter Size (Inches) Rate
3/4 and smaller     $21.08
1                   $35.29
1-1/2               $70.32
2                   $112.43
3                   $210.93
4                   $351.97
6                   $703.49
8                   $1,536.69
10                  $2,955.21
 
      (2)   Additional water shall be charged for as follows: All water in
excess of 2,500 gallons shall be billed at the rate of $6.73 per 1,000 gallons.
   (B)   Outside the corporation.  
      (1)   The charge to users of water outside the city shall be based on a
rate equal to 150% of the rate charged to customers inside the city.
      (2)   The City Manager shall review all applications for water service
outside the city and shall only approve such applications as are in the best
interests of the city in consideration of all pertinent factors including, but
not limited to, such factors as:
         (a)   Ability of the city to serve with no adverse effect on present
customers.
         (b)   Level of consistency with the city’s water master plan.
         (c)   Level of consistency with the city’s comprehensive plan and
other long- range development plans and strategies of the city.
         (d)   Compliance with other appropriate ordinances or administrative
rules and regulations.
   (C)   Special contracts. Where specific contracts for furnishing of water
are entered into pursuant to the authorization of Council, such contracts and
the rates specified therein shall take precedence over the rates shown above.
   (D)   Water tap-in charge.
      (1)   Before a property owner connects to a water line, where such line
was constructed wholly or partially with city funds and where such property has
not been assessed for the cost of construction or where a free tap has not been
given as a consideration for an easement, such property owner shall pay a tap-
in charge based on the ratio of the frontage of property served to the total
cost of an eight-inch water line.
      (2)   (a)   In addition to the assessment charge provided for in (1)
above where applicable, before any new connection is made to the city water
system, there shall be paid into the Water Fund for each unit to be served by
each connection, a tap-in fee based on size of water meter as shown below:
Meter Size (Inches) Tap-in Fee
Meter Size (Inches) Tap-in Fee
5/8                 $ 3,300
1                   3,300
1½                 4,690
2                   7,370
3                   16,700
4                   29,670
6                   71,210
8                   99,980
 
   Outside the corporation: The system capacity charge (tap-in fee) to be
charged for water service furnished to buildings or properties outside the
city, but connected to the water distribution system of the city, shall be
equal to the charge as calculated above in division (2) hereof, plus 50%. All
other provisions of division (2) shall also apply to this section.
         (b)   The size of meter required shall be determined by the user.
         (c)   Where the use of a property is changed in such a way as to
increase the demand for water, a tap-in charge for the new meter size shall be
required. No credit shall be given for the old meter.
      (3)   For multi-family residential housing of at least ten units per
building, that does not install individual service lines to each unit, tap-in
fees will be based on 75% of the fees above calculated based upon the number of
units at minimum meter size or actual meter size, whichever fee is greater.
      (4)   Where an existing structure is currently served by city water and
is increasing the size of the water meter, the property shall be charged the
difference between the current tap-in fee value for the existing meter size and
the tap-in fee for the proposed water meter size.
   (E)   Penalty. A penalty of 5% shall be added to all bills for which payment
has not been received in the City Building by 4:30 p.m. on the due date printed
on the bill.
   (F)   Reconnection charge. When water service is disconnected for
nonpayment, there shall be the following schedule of charges for reconnection:
during the normal business hours (9:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.) a fee of $25; after
normal business hours, weekends, and holidays, a fee of $50.
   (G)   Charges to be a lien. Each water charge levied pursuant to this
chapter is hereby made a lien upon premises charged therewith. If the same is
not paid within 30 days after it shall be due and payable, it shall be
certified to the Auditor of Warren County, who shall place the same on the tax
duplicate, with the interest and penalties allowed by law, and be collected as
other municipal taxes are collected.
   (H)   Monthly billing. All customers shall be billed on a monthly basis.
   (I)   Sewer deduct meters.
      (1)   The Director of Service shall, at the request of any water and
sewer customer and upon payment by the customer of the current associated fees,
permit the installation of a deduct meter for recording such water usage that
does not enter the sanitary sewer system. The metering of such water shall be
accomplished after the incoming water has passed through the master meter.
Backflow prevention devices shall be required per §
911.05 of the Codified Ordinances.
      (2)   A minimum monthly meter fee of $4.00 per month for the deduct meter
shall be charged to account for costs associated with meter reading, and
account management.
      (3)   Customers who use the public water supply for filling of swimming
pools may request an adjustment to their sewer bill by notifying the Service
Department prior to filling the pool. In such cases, customers will be required
to provide reasonable documentation of the quantity of water used. An
adjustment will be made only in cases where at least 5,000 gallons of water is
used. If a site visit is required to verify usage, a $25 fee will be applied to
the account.
      (4)   Customers can request the use of up to two temporary sewer deduct
meters for a period of time no longer than three weeks for situations where
short-term irrigation is required. A rental fee of $50 will be charged for the
delivery and reading of the meter. A late fee of $5 per day will be charged if
the meter is not returned to the Service Department by the stipulated date.
   (J)   Readiness to serve charge. In instances where water service has been
disconnected to unoccupied properties, for which an active water, sewer, or
electric utility account exists, a monthly readiness to serve charge equal to
the monthly minimum water use rate based on the meter size will be charged. The
purpose of this charge is to support the cost of maintaining the water mains,
water meters, fire hydrants and other infrastructure of the water distribution
system that remains available to serve the property.
   (K)   Hydrant meters. Contractors performing work within the city limits can
submit an application to the Service Department requesting the use of a hydrant
meter to obtain temporary water service directly from a hydrant. A deposit of
$250 is required in addition to a $30 nonrefundable administrative fee. The
rental of a hydrant meter is limited to a three month period. Each subsequent
three month period extension requires an additional $100 fee.
(Am. Ord. 2047, passed 8-26-75; Am. Ord. 5224, passed 6-24-80; Am. Ord. 5357,
passed 11-10-81; Am. Ord. 5369, passed 12-22-81; Am. Ord. 5378, passed 2-9-82;
Am. Ord. 5429, passed 11-23-82; Am. Ord. 5430, passed 11-23-82; Am. Ord. 5647,
passed 1-22-85; Am. Ord. 6097, passed 7-14-87; Am. Ord. 6155, passed 12-22-87;
Am. Ord. 6559, passed12-11-90; Am. Ord. 7020, passed 12-13-94; Am. Ord. 7143,
passed 11-28-95; Am. Ord. 7162, passed 12-26-95; Am. Ord. 7321, passed 12-10-
96; Am. Ord. 8478, passed 6-25-02; Am. Ord. 8594, passed 11-26-02; Am. Ord.
8818, passed 8-26-03; Am. Ord. 9179, passed 7-26-05; Am. Ord. 9788, passed 12-
9-08; Am. Ord. 2010-124, passed 12-14-10; Am. Ord. 2011-094, passed 11-21-11;
Am. Ord. 2012-096, passed 12-4-12; Am. Ord. 2013-092, passed 8-27-13; Am. Ord.
2013-108, passed 11-26-13; Am. Ord. 2014-088, passed 11-11-14; Am. Ord. 2015-
002, passed 1-27-15; Am. Ord. 2015-066, passed 6-23-15; Am. Ord. 2015-088,
passed 9-8-15; Am. Ord. 2016-114, passed 1-10- 17; Am. Ord. 2017-111, passed
11-14-17; Am. Ord. 2018-098, passed 11-27-18; Am. Ord. 2020- 111, passed 11-24-
20; Am. Ord. 2022-118, passed 11-9-22; Am. Ord. 2023-080, passed 9-12-23; Am.
Ord. 2023-103, passed 11-28-23)
§ 911.03 BACKFLOW PROTECTION.
   (A)   Backflow prevention device required. For all new water service
provided by the city, an approved backflow prevention device (the “device”)
shall be installed at a location and in such a manner as directed by the city.
Each device installed in any commercial and/or industrial property shall be
tested upon installation and annually thereafter by inspectors holding a
license for Backflow Test Certification issued by the State of Ohio.
   (B)   Connection to city system. No person, firm or corporation shall
establish or maintain any connection whereby a private, auxiliary or emergency
water supply may enter the water supply or distribution system of the city.
   (C)   Backflow prevention standards. For all new water service provided by
the city, devices shall be installed by the property owner at a location as
directed by the city subject to the following:
      (1)   For residential dwelling units (3 family or less): A double check
valve assembly in compliance with A.S.S.E. No. 1024 shall be provided such as
Watts Regulator Company Model No. 7 or equal as approved by the city.
      (2)   For all other uses: A reduced pressure principle device in
compliance with A.S.S.E. No. 1013 shall be provided such as a Watts Regulator
Company Model 909 or equal as approved by the city.
      (3)   Devices meeting A.S.S.E. standards 1013 shall be tested upon
installation and annually thereafter by an inspector holding a license for
Backflow Test Certification issued by the State of Ohio. All test results and
rebuilding information data shall be provided to the city.
   (D)   Surveys/investigations. The city may cause surveys and investigations
to be made of properties served by the Lebanon potable water system to
determine the existence of actual or potential hazards to the water system.
   (E)   Inspections. The city shall have the right to enter at any reasonable
time any property served by a connection to the Lebanon potable water system
for the purpose of inspecting the water piping system. Upon demand, the owner,
lessees or occupants of any property so served shall furnish to the city
information regarding the piping system or systems of water use on such
property. The refusal of such information may be deemed evidence of improper
connections as prohibited by this section.
   (F)   Discontinuation of service. The city may discontinue the water service
to any property wherein any connection in violation of the provisions of this
section exists and the city may take such other precautionary measures as may
be necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination to the Lebanon potable
water system. The discontinued water service to each property shall not be
restored until such conditions have been eliminated or corrected.
   (G)   Yard sprinkling systems. For all new yard sprinkling systems, a
separate water service line, water meter and device shall be installed. A RPZ
valve assembly in compliance with A.S.S.E. No. 1013 shall be provided such as
Watts Regulator Company Model No. 909 or equal, as approved by the city. A fee
of $220 for the new irrigation meter will be charged, along with an initial
inspection fee of $35.
   (H)   Installation requirements. The distance between the main water shut-
off valve within any premises and the device shall be no greater than four
inches unless authorized in writing by the city. This applies to all new and
existing uses as well as to devices installed on all water lines where
prevention is required. Devices include, but are not limited to, the following:
single check preventers, double check preventers, reduced pressure principle
preventers and vacuum breakers.
   (I)   Inspections/testing.
      (1)   Prior to the installation or testing of any device, the owner or
any person doing work shall verify that a permit has been issued by the city
for the work. (Work started or testing performed before a permit has been
issued will be subject to double permit fees.)
      (2)   Each permit holder shall notify the city when ready for testing of
any newly- installed devices. Such notice shall be given two working days in
advance of the requested inspection or test. (Notice given on a Friday or a day
prior to a legal holiday shall not constitute notice for inspection on a
Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday.) A fee of $35 will be required for the
inspection of the newly installed device.Test inspection requests shall be made
before 9:00 a.m. to the Department of Service at least two days prior to
inspection. Tests will be performed between 9:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. Each
request shall state the type of inspections, address, company name and permit
number.
      (3)   Annual backflow prevention device inspections must be completed in
accordance with all applicable state and local laws. An annual administrative
fee of $15 shall be charged for each meter. A $35 late fee will be charged to
customers who fail to comply with the annual inspection notice within the time
limit established in the inspection notice.
      (4)   The testing of a device and/or a vacuum breaker by a person not
certified by the State of Ohio to perform such test will result in the
rejection of the test results.
   (J)   Miscellaneous.
      (1)   Any existing water service turned off for repairs shall have an
A.S.S.E. approved backflow preventer installed before the service may be
reinstated.
      (2)   All outside faucet spigots shall have A.S.S.E. approved vacuum
breakers.
      (3)   Any premises which has a meter replaced shall have A.S.S.E.
approved devices installed when any meter is replaced.
      (4)   Any property owners not complying with the requirements of these
rules and regulations shall be given a 30 day written notice to bring their
service into compliance. Property owners not complying with the notice shall be
disconnected from the city’s water supply system until an approved device is
installed.
   (K)   Rules and regulations. The City Manager may establish rules and
regulations to govern the Backflow Prevention Program.
(Ord. 7471, passed 1-27-98; Am. Ord. 7619, passed 3-23-99; Am. Ord. 2015-002,
passed 1-27-15)
§ 911.04 PRIVATE FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   Definition.
      (1)   A PRIVATE FIRE HYDRANT is defined as any hydrant not located in the
public right-of-way or a public easement.
      (2)   A map of all private fire hydrants shall be maintained by the
Director of Public Works. The map shall be updated when a private fire hydrant
(s) is added or removed from the water system, but not less than annually.
   (B)   Installation. All private fire hydrants shall be installed in
compliance with the Lebanon Land Development Design & Construction Standards
Manual (LDDCSM).
      (1)   Unobstructed access to fire hydrants shall be maintained at all
times. The Fire Department shall not be deterred or hindered from gaining
immediate access to fire protection equipment or fire hydrants.
      (2)   Clear space around hydrants. A three-foot clear space shall be
maintained around the circumference of fire hydrants except as otherwise
required or approved in writing by the City of Lebanon.
      (3)   Physical protection. Where fire hydrants are subject to impact by a
motor vehicle, guard posts or other approved means shall be installed and
approved by the City Fire Marshall.
   (C)   Inspection, testing and maintenance. Fire hydrant systems shall be
subject to periodic tests as required by the City Fire Marshall. Fire hydrant
systems shall be maintained in an operative condition at all times and shall be
repaired where defective. Additions, repairs, alterations and servicing shall
comply with approved standards.
      (1)   The city shall have the right to enter at any reasonable time any
property served by a connection to the Lebanon water system for the purpose of
inspecting the private fire protection system. Upon demand, the owner, lessees
or occupants of any property so served shall furnish to the city information
regarding the piping system or systems of water use on such property.
      (2)   Prior to the installation or testing of any device, the owner or
any person doing work shall verify that a permit has been issued by the city
for the work. (Work started or testing performed before a permit has been
issued will be subject to double permit fees.)
      (3)   Each permit holder shall notify the city when ready for testing of
any newly-installed hydrant(s). Such notice shall be given two working days in
advance of the requested inspection or test. (Notice given on a Friday or a day
prior to a legal holiday shall not constitute notice for inspection on a
Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday.) Test inspection requests shall be made
before 9:00 a.m. to the Department of Service at least two days prior to
inspection. Tests will be performed between 9:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. Each
request shall state the type of inspections, address, company name and permit
number.
      (4)   Each private hydrant shall be inspected annually, and after each
operation, by the City of Lebanon Water Department.
      (5)   If a defect in the private fire hydrant is found during an
inspection the property owner shall immediately notify the City of Lebanon and
affect repairs to the hydrant.
   (D)   Fees. A charge of $2/month/private fire hydrant shall be added to the
customer's monthly utility bill to cover the cost of the annual inspections and
administration.
   (E)   Enforcement. It shall be the duty of the City Fire Marshall or
designee to enforce the provisions of this section. Whenever the Fire Marshall
or designee determines that there has been a violation of any provision of this
code, he or she shall give notice of such violation to the person responsible
therefor as hereinafter provided. Such notice and order shall:
      (1)   Be put in writing;
      (2)   Include a description of the hydrant sufficient for identification;
      (3)   Include a list of defects and order remedial action which, if
taken, will effect compliance with these provisions;
      (4)   Specify a reasonable time for performance;
      (5)   Be served upon the owner, operator or occupant in person. However,
such notice and order shall be deemed to be properly served upon such person if
a copy thereof is sent by registered mail and delivered to his or her last
known address. If the notice is returned showing that the letter was not
delivered, a copy thereof shall be sent to the last known address by ordinary
U.S. Mail and posted in a conspicuous place in or about the structure affected
by such notice;
      (6)   Include a statement of the city's right to file a lien in
accordance with §
1323.05.
   (F)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates any provision of this section shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree and fined not more than $100.
Every day such violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   Whoever fails, neglects or refuses to obey an order of the City
Fire Marshall, or designee, as provided in §
911.04 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree and fined
not more than $100.
      (3)   Due to a failure to obey an order of the City Fire Marshall, or
designee, which results in the city taking action to bring the property into
compliance by either hiring a contractor or performing the work internally, an
administrative charge of $30 shall be included in the compliance invoice
submitted to the property owner.
(Ord. 2017-014, passed 2-28-17)
§ 911.05 RULES AND REGULATIONS OF SERVICE DIRECTOR.
   The Director of Service, with the approval of the City Manager, shall make
and enforce such rules and regulations as he or she may deem necessary for the
enforcement of the provisions hereof, for the proper determination and
collection of the rates and charges herein provided, and for the safe,
efficient and economical management of the system. Such rules may provide for
the adjustment of charges to customers in special circumstances where the
amount of water actually used by a customer is determined to be inconsistent
with the quantity metered. Such rules and regulations, when not repugnant to
existing ordinances of the city or laws of the state, shall have the same force
and effect as ordinances of Council.
(Am. Ord. 3078, passed 2-22-77; Am. Ord. 2017-014, passed 2-28-17)
CHAPTER 912: WATER CONSERVATION
Section
   
912.01     Declaration of policy, purpose, intent
   
912.02     Definitions
   
912.03     Public involvement and education
   
912.04     Coordination with regional water planning groups
   
912.05     Authorization
   
912.06     Application
   
912.07     Triggering criteria for initiation and termination of drought
response stages
   
912.08     Drought response stages
   
912.09     Water rationing
   
912.10     Enforcement
   
912.11     Variances
 
   
912.99     Penalty
§ 912.01 DECLARATION OF POLICY, PURPOSE, INTENT.
   (A)   In order to conserve the available water supply and protect the
integrity of water supply facilities, with particular regard for domestic water
use, sanitation, and fire protection, and to protect and preserve public
health, welfare, and safety and minimize the adverse impacts of water supply
shortage or other water supply emergency conditions, the city hereby adopts the
following regulations and restrictions on the delivery and consumption of
water.
   (B)   Water uses regulated or prohibited under this chapter are considered
to be non-essential and continuation of such uses during times of water
shortage or other water supply emergency condition are deemed to constitute a
waste of water which subjects the offender(s) to penalties as defined in §
912.99.
(Ord. 7966, passed 10-24-00)
§ 912.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AESTHETIC WATER USE. Water use for ornamental or decorative purposes such as
fountains, reflecting pools, and water gardens.
   COMMERCIAL AND INSTITUTIONAL WATER USE. Water use that is integral to the
operations of commercial and non-profit establishments and governmental
entities such as retail establishments, hotels and motels, restaurants, and
office buildings.
   CONSERVATION. Those practices, techniques, and technologies that reduce the
consumption of water, reduce the loss or waste of water, improve the efficiency
in use of water or increase the recycling and reuse of water so that a supply
is conserved and made available for future or alternative uses.
   CUSTOMER. Any person, company, or organization using water supplied by the
city.
   DOMESTIC WATER USE. Water used for personal needs or for household or
sanitary purposes such as drinking, bathing, heating, cooking, sanitation, or
for cleaning a residence, business, industry, or institution.
   EVEN NUMBERED ADDRESS. Street addresses, box numbers, or rural postal route
numbers ending in 0, 2, 4, 6, or 8, and locations without addresses.
   INDUSTRIAL WATER USE. The use of water in processes designed to convert
materials of lower value into forms having greater usability and value.
   LANDSCAPE IRRIGATION USE. Water used for the irrigation and maintenance of
landscaped areas, whether publicly or privately owned, including residential
and commercial lawns, gardens, golf courses, parks, and rights-of-way and
medians.
   NON-ESSENTIAL WATER USE. Water uses that are not essential or required for
the protection of public, health, safety, and welfare, including any of the
following:
      (1)   Irrigation of landscape areas, including parks, athletic fields,
and golf courses, except as otherwise provided under this chapter;
      (2)   Use of water to wash any motor vehicle, motorbike, boat, trailer,
airplane or other vehicle;
      (3)   Use of water to wash down any sidewalks, walkways, driveways,
parking lots, tennis courts, or other hard-surfaced areas;
      (4)   Use of water to wash down buildings or structures for purposes
other than immediate fire
protection;
      (5)   Flushing gutters or permitting water to run or accumulate in any
gutter or street; use of water to fill, refill, or add to any indoor or outdoor
swimming pools or Jacuzzi-type pools;
      (6) Use of water in a fountain or pond for aesthetic or scenic purposes
except where necessary to support aquatic life;
      (7)   Failure to repair a controllable leak(s) within a reasonable period
after having been given notice directing the repair of such leak(s); or
      (8)   Use of water from hydrants for construction purposes or any other
purposes other than fire fighting.
   ODD NUMBERED ADDRESS. Street addresses, box numbers, or rural postal route
numbers ending in 1, 3, 5, 7, or 9.
(Ord. 7966, passed 10-24-00)
§ 912.03 PUBLIC INVOLVEMENT AND EDUCATION.
   (A)   Opportunity for the public to provide input into the preparation of
this chapter was provided by the city by means of City Council meetings.
   (B)   The city will periodically provide the public with information about
this chapter, including information about the conditions under which each state
of this chapter is to be initiated or terminated and the drought response
measures to be implemented in each stage. This information will be provided by
means of local cable access, local newspaper and/or other area media.
(Ord. 7966, passed 10-24-00)
§ 912.04 COORDINATION WITH REGIONAL WATER PLANNING GROUPS.
   The service area of the city is located within Warren County (Shaker Creek
Aquifer).
(Ord. 7966, passed 10-24-00)
§ 912.05 AUTHORIZATION.
   The City Manager, or his or her designee, is hereby authorized and directed
to implement the applicable provisions of this chapter upon determination that
such implementation is necessary to protect public health, safety, and welfare.
The City Manager, or his or her designee, shall have the authority to initiate
or terminate drought or other water supply emergency response measures as
described in this chapter.
(Ord. 7966, passed 10-24-00)
§ 912.06 APPLICATION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all persons, customers, and
property utilizing water provided by the city. The terms PERSON and CUSTOMER as
used in this chapter include individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, and all other legal entities.
(Ord. 7966, passed 10-24-00)
§ 912.07 TRIGGERING CRITERIA FOR INITIATION AND TERMINATION OF DROUGHT RESPONSE
STAGES.
   (A)   The City Manager, or his or her designee, shall monitor water supply
and/or demand conditions on a daily basis and shall determine when conditions
warrant initiation or termination of each stage of this chapter. Public
notification of the initiation or termination of drought response stages shall
be by means of local cable access, publication in a newspaper of general
circulation, or signs posted in public places.
   (B)   The triggering criteria described below are based on water production
records during the drought of 1999.
   (C)   Water conservation plan.
      (1)   Stage 1 - Mild water shortage conditions.
         (a)   Requirements for initiation.  Customers shall be requested to
voluntarily conserve water and adhere to the prescribed restrictions on certain
water uses, defined in §
912.02, annually beginning on May 1 through September 30.
         (b)   Requirements for termination. Stage 1 of the plan may be
rescinded during the months October through April.
      (2)   Stage 2 - Moderate water conservation conditions.
         (a)   Requirements for initiation. Customers shall be required to
comply with the requirements and restrictions on certain non-essential water
uses provided in §
912.02 when any of the following occur:
            1.   When total daily water demand equals or exceeds 2,300,000
gallons for three consecutive days or 2,500,000 gallons on a single day.
            2.   Continually falling treated clearwell levels so that the level
of water in the clearwell remains in the range of 17 - 20 feet for three
consecutive days.
            3.   When wells in another water system that draws from the same
aquifer are showing signs of reduced supply or declining water levels.
            4.   When the Ohio Drought Executive Committee issues a Drought
Alert Condition (Phase II) for the entire state of Ohio or that portion of the
state within which the city is located.
         (b)   Requirements for termination. Stage 2 of the plan may be
rescinded when all of the conditions listed as triggering events have ceased to
exist for a period of three consecutive days. Upon termination of Stage 2,
Stage 1 becomes operative.
      (3) Stage 3 - Severe water shortage conditions.
         (a)   Requirements for initiation. Customers shall be required to
comply with the requirements and restrictions on certain non-essential water
uses for Stage 3 of this plan when:
            1.   When total daily water demand equals or exceeds 2,500,000
gallons for three consecutive days or 2,700,000 gallons on a single day.
            2.   Continually falling treated clearwell levels so that the level
of water in the clearwell remains in the range of 13 - 16.9 feet for three
consecutive days.
            3.   When the Ohio Drought Executive Committee issues a Drought
Conservation Condition (Phase III) for the entire state of Ohio or that portion
of the state within which the city is located.
         (b)   Requirements for termination. Stage 3 of the Plan may be
rescinded when all of the conditions listed as triggering events have ceased to
exist for a period of three consecutive days. Upon termination of Stage 3,
Stage 2 becomes operative.
      (4) Stage 4 - Critical water shortage conditions.
         (a)   Requirements for initiation. Customers shall be required to
comply with the requirements and restrictions on certain non-essential water
uses for Stage 4 of this plan when any of the following occur:
            1.   When total daily water demand equals or exceeds 2,800,000
gallons for three consecutive days or 3,000,000 gallons on a single day.
            2.   Continually falling treated clearwell levels so that the level
of water in the clearwell remains in the range of 9 - 12.9 feet for three
consecutive days.
            3.   When the Ohio Drought Executive Committee issues a Drought
Emergency Condition (Phase IV) for the entire state of Ohio or that portion of
the state within which the city is located.
         (b)   Requirements for termination. Stage 4 of the Plan may be
rescinded when all of the conditions listed as triggering events have ceased to
exist for a period of three consecutive days. Upon termination of Stage 4,
Stage 3 becomes operative.
      (5)   Stage 5 - Emergency water shortage conditions.
         (a)   Requirements for initiation. Customers shall be required to
comply with the requirements and restrictions for Stage 5 of this plan when the
City Manager, or his or her designee, determines that a water supply emergency
exists based on:
            1.   Major water line breaks, or pump or system failures occur,
which cause unprecedented loss of capability to provide water service; or
            2.   Natural or man-made contamination of the water supply source
(s).
         (b)   Requirements for termination. Stage 5 of the Plan may be
rescinded when all of the conditions listed as triggering events have ceased to
exist for a period of three consecutive days.
      (6)   Water rationing.
         (a)   Requirements for initiation. Customers shall be required to
comply with the water allocation plan prescribed in §
912.09 and to comply with the requirements and restrictions for Stage 5 of this
plan when:
            1.   Major water line breaks, or pump or system failures occur,
which cause unprecedented loss of capability to provide water service; or
            2.   Natural or man-made contamination of the water supply source
(s).
         (b)   Requirements for termination. Water rationing may be rescinded
when all of the conditions listed as triggering events have ceased to exist for
a period of three consecutive days.
(Ord. 7966, passed 10-24-00)
§ 912.08 DROUGHT RESPONSE STAGES.
   (A)   The City Manager, or his or her designee, shall monitor water supply
and/or demand conditions on a daily basis and, in accordance with the
triggering criteria set forth in §
912.07(C), shall determine that a mild, moderate, severe, critical, or
emergency condition exists. The City Manager, or his or her designee, shall
implement the following actions upon publication by means of local cable
access, publication in a newspaper of general circulation, or signs posed in
public places.
   (B)   Drought conditions.
      (1)   Stage 1 - Mild water shortage conditions.
         (a)   Goal: Achieve a voluntary 15% reduction in daily water use.
         (b)   Voluntary water use restrictions.  
            1.   Water customers are requested voluntarily to limit the
irrigation of landscaped areas to even days for customers with a street address
ending in an even number (0, 2, 4, 6, or 8), and odd days for water customers
with a street address ending in an odd number (1, 3, 5, 7 or 9), and
voluntarily to limit landscape irrigation only between the hours of 8:00 a.m.
and 1:00 p.m. and 6:00 p.m. to midnight on designated watering days.
            2.   All operations of the city shall adhere to water use
restrictions prescribed for Stage 2 of the plan.
            3.   Water customers are requested to practice water conservation
and to minimize or discontinue water use for non-essential purposes.
      (2)   Stage 2 - Moderate water shortage conditions.
         (a)   Goal: Achieve a 20% reduction in daily water demand.
         (b)   Water use restrictions. Under threat of penalty for violation,
the following water use restrictions shall apply to all persons:
            1.   Irrigation of landscaped areas with hose-end sprinklers or
automatic irrigation systems shall be limited to even number days for customers
with a street address ending in an even number (0, 2, 4, 6 or 8), and odd
numbered days for water customers with a street address ending in an odd number
(1, 3, 5, 7 or 9), and irrigation of landscaped areas is further limited to the
hours of 8:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. and between 6:00 p.m. and 12:00 midnight on
designated watering days. However, irrigation of landscaped areas is permitted
at any time if it is by means of a hand-held hose, a faucet filled bucket or
watering can of five gallons or less, or drip irrigation system.
            2.   Use of water to wash any motor vehicle, motorbike, boat,
trailer, airplane or other vehicle is prohibited except on designated watering
days between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 1:00 p.m. and between 9:00 p.m. and 12:
00 midnight. Such washing, when allowed, shall be done with a hand-held bucket
or a hand-held hose equipped with a positive shutoff nozzle for quick rinses.
Vehicle washing may be done at any time on the immediate premises of a
commercial car wash or commercial service station. Further, such washing may be
exempted from these regulations if the health, safety, and welfare of the
public is contingent upon frequent vehicle cleansing, such as garbage trucks
and vehicles used to transport food and perishables.
            3.   Use of water to fill, refill, or add to any indoor or outdoor
swimming pools, wading pools, or Jacuzzi-type pools is prohibited except on
designated watering days between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 1:00 p.m. and
between 6:00 p.m. and 12:00 midnight.
            4.   Operation of any ornamental fountain or pond for aesthetic or
scenic purposes is prohibited except where necessary to support aquatic life or
where such fountains or ponds are equipped with a re-circulation system.
            5.   Use of water from hydrants shall be limited to fire fighting,
related activities, or other activities necessary to maintain public health,
safety, and welfare, except that use of water from designated fire hydrants for
construction purposes may be allowed under special permit from the city.
            6.   Use of water for the irrigation of golf course greens, tees,
and fairways is prohibited except on designated watering days between the hours
of 12:00 midnight and 10:00 a.m. and between 8:00 p.m. and 12:00 midnight.
However, if the golf course utilizes a waters source other than that provided
by the City of Lebanon, the facility shall not be subject to these regulations.
            7.   All restaurants are prohibited from serving water to its
patrons except when requested.
         (c)   Water use prohibitions. The following uses of water are defined
as non-essential and are prohibited:
            1.   Wash down of any sidewalks, walkways, driveways, parking lots,
tennis courts, or other hard-surfaced areas;
            2.   Use of water to wash down buildings or structures for purposes
other than immediate fire protection;
            3.   Use of water for dust control;
            4.   Flushing gutters or permitting water to run or accumulate in
any gutter or street; and
            5.   Failure to repair a controllable leak(s) within a reasonable
period after having been given notice directing the repair of such leak(s).
      (3)   Stage 3 - Severe water shortage conditions.
         (a)   Goal: Achieve a 25% reduction in daily water demand.
         (b)   Supply management measures. Measures to be implemented directly
by the city to manage limited water supplies and/or reduce water demand
include: reduced or discontinued flushing of water mains, reduced or
discontinued irrigation of public landscaped areas and use of an alternative
supply source(s).
         (c)   Water use restrictions. All requirements of Stage 2 shall remain
in effect during Stage 3 except:
            1.   Irrigation of landscaped areas shall be limited to designated
watering days between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 12:00 noon and between 8:00
p.m. and 12:00 midnight and shall be by means of hand-held hoses, hand-held
buckets, drip irrigation, or permanently installed automatic sprinkler system
only. The use of hose-end sprinklers is prohibited at all times.
            2.   The watering of golf course tees is prohibited unless the golf
course utilizes a water source other than that provided by the city.
            3.   The filling, refilling, or adding of water to swimming pools,
wading pools, and Jacuzzi-type pools is prohibited.
            4.   Operation of any ornamental fountain or pond for aesthetic or
scenic purposes is prohibited except where necessary to support aquatic life or
where such fountains or ponds are equipped with a re-circulation system.
            5.   No applications for new, additional, expanded, or increased-
in-size water service connections, pipeline extensions, mains, or water service
facilities of any kind shall be allowed or approved.
      (4)   Stage 4 - Critical water shortage conditions.
         (a)   Goal: Achieve a 30% reduction in daily water demand.
         (b)   Water use restrictions. All requirements of Stages 2 and 3 shall
remain in effect during Stage 4 except:
            1.   Irrigation of landscaped areas shall be limited to designated
watering days between the hours of 11:00 a.m. and 12:00 noon and between 10:00
p.m. and 12:00 midnight and shall be by means of hand-held hoses, hand-held
buckets, or drip irrigation only. The use of hose-end sprinklers or permanently
installed automatic sprinkler systems are prohibited at all times.
            2.   Use of water to wash any motor vehicle, motorbike, boat,
trailer, airplane or other vehicle not occurring on the premises of a
commercial car wash or commercial service station and not in the immediate
interest of public health, safety and welfare is prohibited. Further, such
vehicle washing at commercial car washes and commercial service stations shall
occur only between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. and between 6:00 p.m.
and 10:00 p.m.
            3.   The filling, refilling, or adding of water to swimming pools,
wading pools, and Jacuzzi-type pools is prohibited.
            4.   Operation of any ornamental fountain or pond for aesthetic or
scenic purposes is prohibited except where necessary to support aquatic life or
where such fountains or ponds are equipped with a re-circulation system.
            5.   No applications for new, additional, expanded, or increased-
in-size water service connections, meters, service lines, pipeline extensions,
mains, or water service facilities of any kind shall be allowed or approved.
      (5)   Stage 5 - Emergency water shortage conditions.
         (a)   Goal: Achieve a 40% reduction in daily water demand.
         (b)   Water use restrictions. All requirements of Stages 2, 3, and 4
shall remain in effect during Stage 5 except:
            1.    Irrigation of landscaped areas is absolutely prohibited.
            2.   Use of water to wash any motor vehicle, motorbike, boat,
trailer, airplane or other vehicle is absolutely prohibited.
(Ord. 7966, passed 10-24-00)
Penalty, see § 912.99
§ 912.09 WATER RATIONING.
   In the event that water shortage conditions threaten public health, safety,
and welfare, the City Manager is hereby authorized to ration water according to
the following water allocation plan:
   (A)   Single-family residential customers.  
      (1)   The allocation to residential water customers residing in a single-
family dwelling shall be as follows:
 
Persons per Household Gallons per Month
1 or 2                6,000
3 or 4                7,000
5 or 6                8,000
7 or 8                9,000
9 or 10               10,000
11 or more            12,000
 
      (2)   HOUSEHOLD means the residential premises served by the customer’s
meter. PERSONS PER HOUSEHOLD includes only those persons currently physically
residing at the premises and expected to reside there for the entire billing
period. It shall be assumed that a particular customer’s household is comprised
of two persons unless the customer notifies the city of a greater number of
persons per household on a form prescribed by the City Manager. The City
Manager shall give his or her best effort to see that such forms are mailed,
otherwise provided, or made available to every residential customer. If,
however, a customer does not receive such a form, it shall be the customer’s
responsibility to go to the city offices to complete and sign the form claiming
more than two persons per household. New customers may claim more persons per
household at the time of applying for household increases so as to place the
customer in a different allocation category. The customer may notify the city
on such form and the change will be implemented in the next practicable billing
period. If the number of persons in a household is reduced, the customer shall
notify the city in writing within two days. In prescribing the method for
claiming more than two persons per household, the City Manager shall adopt
methods to insure the accuracy of the claim. Any person who knowingly,
recklessly, or with criminal negligence falsely reports the number of persons
in a household or fails timely to notify the city of a reduction in the number
of persons in a household shall be fined not less than $30.
      (3)   Residential water customers shall pay the following surcharges:
 
$25  First 1,000 gallons over allocation
$50  Second 1,000 gallons over allocation
$75  Third 1,000 gallons over allocation
$100 Each additional 1,000 gallons over allocation
 
   Surcharges shall be cumulative.
   (B)   Master-metered multi-family residential customers.
      (1)   The allocation to a customer billed from a master meter, which
jointly measures water to multiple permanent residential dwelling units, shall
be 6,000 gallons per month for each dwelling unit.
      (2)   It shall be assumed that such a customer’s meter serves two
dwelling units unless the customer notifies the city of a greater number on a
form prescribed by the City Manager. The City Manager shall give his or her
best effort to see that such forms are mailed, otherwise provided, or made
available to every such customer. If, however, a customer does not receive such
form, it shall be the customer’s responsibility to go to the city offices to
complete and sign the form claiming more than two dwellings. A dwelling unit
may be claimed under this provision whether it is occupied or not. New
customers may claim more dwelling units at the time of applying for water
service on the form prescribed by the City Manager. If the number of dwelling
units served by a master meter is reduced, the customer shall notify the city
in writing within two days. In prescribing the method for claiming more than
two dwelling units, the City Manager shall adopt methods to insure the accuracy
of the claim. Any person who knowingly, recklessly, or with criminal negligence
falsely reports the number of dwelling units served by a master meter or fails
timely to notify the city of a reduction in the number of dwelling units served
by a master meter shall be fined not less than $30.
      (3)   Customers billed from a master meter under this provision shall pay
the following monthly surcharges:
 
$25  For 1,000 gallons over allocation up to 1,000 gallons for each dwelling
     unit.
$50  Thereafter, for each additional 1,000 gallons over allocation up through a
     second 1,000 gallons for each dwelling unit.
$75  Thereafter, for each additional 1,000 gallons over allocation up through a
     third 1,000 gallons for each dwelling unit.
$100 Thereafter for each additional 1,000 gallons over allocation.
 
Surcharges shall be cumulative.
   (C)   Commercial customers.
      (1)   A monthly water usage allocation shall be established by the City
Manager, or his or her designee, for each nonresidential commercial customer
other than an industrial customer who uses water for processing purposes. The
non-residential customer’s allocation shall be approximately 75% of the
customer’s usage for corresponding month’s billing period for the previous 12
months. If the customer’s billing history is shorter than 12 months, the
monthly average for the period for which there is a record shall be used for
any monthly period for which no history exists. A customer, 100% of whose
monthly usage is less than 6,000 gallons, shall be allocated 6,000 gallons.
      (2)   The City Manager shall give his or her best effort to see that
notice of each non-residential customer’s allocation is mailed to such
customer. If, however, a customer does not receive such notice, it shall be the
customer’s responsibility to contact the city to determine the allocation, and
the allocation shall be fully effective notwithstanding the lack of receipt of
written notice.
      (3)   Upon request of the customer or at the initiative of the City
Manager, the allocation may be reduced or increased, based upon the following
considerations:
         (a)   The designated period does not accurately reflect the customer’s
normal water usage because the customer had shutdown a major processing unit
for repair or overhaul during the period;
         (b)   The customer has added or is in the process of adding
significant additional processing capacity;
         (c)   The customer has shut down or significantly reduced the
production of a major processing unit;
         (d)   The customer has previously implemented significant permanent
water conservation measures such that the ability to further reduce usage is
limited;
         (e)   The customer agrees to transfer part of its allocation to
another industrial customer; or
         (f)   Other objective evidence demonstrates that the designated
allocation is inaccurate under present conditions.
      (4)   A customer may appeal an allocation established hereunder to the
City Manager, or alternately, a special water allocation review committee.
      (5)   Industrial customers shall pay the following surcharges:
         (a)   Customers whose allocation is 20,000 gallons through 100,000
gallons per month:
 
$25  Per thousand gallons for the first 1,000 gallons over allocation
$50  Per thousand gallons for the second 1,000 gallons over allocation
$75  Per thousand gallons for the third 1,000 gallons over allocation
$100 Per thousand gallons for each additional 1,000 gallons over allocation
 
         (b)   Customers whose allocation is 100,001 gallons per month or more:
 
1.25 Times the block rate for each 1,000 gallons in excess of the allocation up
     through 5% above allocation.
1.50 Times the block rate for each 1,000 gallons from 5% through 10% above
     allocation.
1.75 Times the block rate for each 1,000 gallons from 10%t through 15% above
     allocation.
2.0  Times the block rate for each 1,000 gallons more than 15% above
     allocation.
 
   The surcharges shall be cumulative. As used herein, BLOCK RATE means the
charge to the customer per 1,000 gallons at the regular water rate schedule at
the level of the customer’s allocation.
(Ord. 7966, passed 10-24-00)
§ 912.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly or intentionally allow the use of water from
the city for residential, commercial, industrial, agricultural, governmental,
or any other purpose in a manner contrary to any provision of this chapter, or
in an amount in excess of that permitted by the drought response stage in
effect at the time pursuant to action taken by the City Manager, or his or her
designee, in accordance with provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person, including a person classified as a water customer of the
city, in apparent control of the property where a violation occurs or
originates shall be presumed to be the violator, and proof that the violation
occurred on the person’s property shall constitute a rebuttable presumption
that the person in apparent control of the property committed the violation,
but any such person shall have the right to show that he/she did not commit the
violation. Parents shall be presumed to be responsible for violations of their
minor children and proof that a violation, committed by a child, occurred on
property within the parents’ control shall constitute a rebuttable presumption
that the parent committed the violation, but any such parent may be excused if
the parent proves that the parent had previously directed the child not to use
the water as it was used in violation of this chapter and that the parent could
not have reasonably known of the violation.
   (C)   Any employee of the Water Department, police officer, or other City
employee designated by the City Manager, may issue a citation to a person he or
she reasonably believes to be in violation of this chapter. The citation shall
be prepared in duplicate and shall contain the name and address of the alleged
violator, if known, the offense charged, and shall direct the alleged violator
to appear in the Municipal Court on the date shown on the citation, which date
shall not be less than three days nor more than five days from the date the
citation was issued. The alleged violator shall be served a copy of the
citation. Service of the citation shall be complete upon delivery of the
citation to the alleged violator, to an agent or employee of a violator, or to
a person over 14 years of age who is a member of the violator’s immediate
family or is a resident of the violator’s residence. The alleged violator shall
appear in Municipal Court to enter a plea of guilty or not guilty for the
violation of this chapter. If the alleged violator fails to appear in Municipal
Court, a warrant for the arrest of the alleged violator may be issued. A
summons to appear may be issued in lieu of an arrest warrant. These cases shall
be expedited and given preferential setting in Municipal Court before all other
cases.
(Ord. 7966, passed 10-24-00)
Penalty, see § 912.99
§ 912.11 VARIANCES.
   (A)   The City Manager or his or her designee may, in writing, grant a
temporary variance for existing water uses otherwise prohibited under this
chapter if it is determined that failure to grant such variance would cause an
emergency condition adversely affecting the health, sanitation, or fire
protection for the public or the person requesting such variance and if the
person requesting the variance provides the following information:
      (1)   Name and address of the petitioner(s).
      (2)   Purpose of water use.
      (3)   Specific provision(s) of this chapter from which the petitioner is
requesting relief.
      (4)   Detailed statement as to how the specific provision of the Plan
adversely affects the petitioner or what damage or harm will occur to the
petitioner or others if petitioner complies with this chapter.
      (5)   Description of the relief requested.
      (6)   Period of time for which the variance is sought.
      (7)   Alternative water use restrictions or other measures the petitioner
is taking or proposes to take to meet the intent of this chapter and the
compliance date.
      (8)   Other pertinent information.
   (B)   Variances granted by the city shall be subject to the following
conditions unless waived or modified by the City Manager or his or her
designee:
      (1)   Variances granted shall include a timetable for compliance.
      (2)   Variances granted shall expire when the water use restrictions are
no longer in effect, unless the petitioner has failed to meet specified
requirements.
   (C)   No variance shall be retroactive or otherwise justify any violation of
this chapter occurring prior to the issuance of the variance.
(Ord. 7966, passed 10-24-00)
§ 912.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and
upon conviction shall be punished by a fine of not less than $50 and not more
than $100. Each day that one or more of the provisions in this chapter is
violated shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   If a person is convicted of three or more distinct violations of this
chapter, the City Manager shall, upon due notice to the customer, be authorized
to discontinue water service to the premises where such violations occur.
Services discontinued under such circumstances shall be restored only upon
payment of a reconnection charge, hereby established at $30, and any other
costs incurred by the city in discontinuing service. In addition, suitable
assurance must be given to the City Manager that the same action shall not be
repeated while the chapter is in effect.
   (C)   Compliance with this chapter may also be sought through injunctive
relief in the district court.
(Ord. 7966, passed 10-24-00)
CHAPTER 913: SANITARY SEWERS; USE CHARGES
Section
   
913.01     Definitions
   
913.02     Sewer fund
   
913.03     Sewer use charges
   
913.04     Rules and regulations of Service Director
§ 913.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES.  Any substance resulting from any process or industrial,
commercial, governmental and institutional concerns, manufacturing, business,
trade, or research, including the development, recovery, or processing of
natural resources, or from sources other than those generating waste defined as
normal domestic sewage in
Chapter 914.
   SANITARY SEWER EFFLUENT. The waste from water closets, urinals, lavatories,
bathtubs, showers, household laundries, cellar floor drains, garage floor
drains, sinks, bars, soda fountains, cuspidors, refrigerator drips, drinking
fountains swimming pools, and stable floor drains.
   SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM. Any pipe, conduit, or other device used to collect
and transport sewage from the generating source.
   STORMWATER. Includes rain, surface and other water which is ordinarily
discharged into public storm sewers, in contrast to such other liquids and
solids which are ordinarily discharged into public sanitary sewers.
(Ord. 9621, passed 11-27-07)
§ 913.02 SEWER FUND.
   The funds received from collection of charges as provided for hereunder,
along with such other amounts as are collected for tap-in charges or from any
operation of the sanitary sewer system, shall be paid into the Sewer Fund.
Subject to the provisions of any ordinance or indenture of mortgage authorizing
the issuance of and securing mortgage revenue bonds for the system, monies in
the fund shall be used for the payment of the cost and expense of operation,
maintenance, repair and management of the system. Any surplus in the fund over
and above the requirements herein mentioned may be used for the payment of debt
charges on bonds issued for construction of the system and for enlargements of
and replacements to the system and parts thereof.
§ 913.03 SEWER USE CHARGES.
   The owner, person, firm or individual in charge of any building or property
within or without the corporate limits of the city, which building or property
is connected to the sanitary sewer system of the city or to which property
sanitary sewer service is available, shall pay to the city amounts for the use
of such service as provided below.
   (A)   Within the corporation.
      (1)   Where the building or property is served exclusively by the water
system owned and operated by the city, the amount charged shall be measured and
the quantity determined from the water meter for such building or property.
Where part of the water metered does not enter the sanitary sewer system, then
that part which does not enter the sanitary sewer system may be excluded from
the quantity of water on which the charge is based. The owner or person in
charge of the property shall be required to provide and install, at his or her
expense, additional metering equipment so that the quantity of water which is
to be the basis for the sewer charge may be accurately determined. The
following sewer rates shall be effective for bills rendered after January 1,
2024.
      (2)   Effective January 1, 2024, there shall be a minimum charge for the
first 2,500 gallons of $21.03. All usage over 2,500 gallons shall be charged at
$5.79 per 1,000 gallons.
      (3)   Where a building or property within the city is connected to a
metered water system other than that owned and operated by the city, the charge
for sewer use shall be equal to the amount which would be charged for a like
water usage were it on the water system owned and operated by the city. For the
purpose of determining the amount of water furnished by a metered water system
other than that of the city, the utility furnishing such water shall submit
such information and in such a manner as the Director of Service may require.
      (4)   All buildings or property within the city that utilizes sewer
service shall be connected to a metered system.
   (B)   Outside the corporation.
      (1)   The rate to be charged for sewer service furnished to buildings or
properties outside the city, but connected to the sanitary sewer system of the
city, shall be equal to the charge as calculated above in section (A) hereof,
plus 50%. All other provisions of section (A) shall also apply to this section.
      (2)   The City Manager shall review all applications for sanitary sewer
service outside the city and shall only approve such applications as are in the
best interests of the city in consideration of all pertinent factors including,
but not limited to, such factors as:
         (a)   Ability of the city to serve with no adverse affect on present
customers.
         (b)   Level of consistency with the city’s sanitary sewer master plan.
         (c)   Level of consistency with the city’s comprehensive plan and
other long-range development plans and strategies of the city.
         (d)   Compliance with other appropriate ordinances or administrative
rules and regulations.
   (C)   Special contracts. Where specific contracts for furnishing of sewer
are entered into pursuant to the authorization of Council, such contracts and
the rates specified therein shall take precedence over the rates shown above.
   (D)   Additional charges for industrial wastes. Over and above the rates and
charges established in divisions (A) and (B) hereof, there may be established
in special instances and upon special agreement between the city and the owner
of the premises served by the sanitary sewer system, such additional charges
for industrial wastes of unusual strength or composition which are accepted by
the city for treatment as may be determined to be fair and equitable. The
Director of Service shall establish such additional charges on the basis of the
relationship between the biochemical oxygen demand of the industrial waste
accepted to the average biochemical oxygen demand of other waste water received
in the sewage treatment plant.
   (E)   Tap-in fees.
      (1)   Equity connection fee.
         (a)   At it's discretion and expense, the city may construct
additional sanitary sewer mains and service facilities in public rights-of-way
or easements, which is termed a local main extension.
         (b)   When an improvement or addition to a utility system made by an
entity, including the city, at its expense, that makes sanitary sewer service
possible in a new location where such service did not previously exist, and
where the owner of the lot or parcel to receive such new service has not
previously paid an equitable share of the city's cost of extending the main
into which the connection tap is made, the owner of the abutting lot shall pay
the city an equity connection fee in order to assist in the recovery of the
city's cost of extending the main. The equity connection fee shall be
determined as follows:
            1.   Where a tap or connection is made to what has previously been
constructed as a local main extension, a uniform fee per lineal foot of
frontage of the lot or parcel abutting the sanitary sewer main shall be paid to
the city. This uniform fee shall be based on the equitable distribution of the
costs incurred by the city during the construction of the local main extension.
In the event that such abutting lot or parcel of real estate is not
rectangular, the frontage used shall be the number of lineal feet produced by
averaging the front line and the rear lot line, or one-half of the front lot
line if the lot or parcel forms a triangle.
            2.   Where a tap or connection is made to what has previously been
constructed as a local main extension, at its discretion the city may establish
a benefit fee for each lot or parcel abutting the sanitary sewer main which
shall be paid to the city. Such a fee shall be distributed in an equitable
manner based on the relative benefit of sewer service for each lot and the
costs incurred by the city to provide sanitary sewer service to the area.
         (c)   The equity connection fee shall be paid in full to the city
before a sanitary sewer tap permit is issued and the connection is made.
         (d)   Where a reimbursement agreement still in full force and effect
exists with a developer, the fee shall be as prescribed in the reimbursement
agreement of legislation adopted pursuant thereto.
      (2)   System capacity charge. In addition to the tap-in charge provided
for in division (E)(1) of this section, where applicable, there shall be paid
into the Sewer Fund for each unit to be served by each connection, a tap-in fee
based on the size of the water meter as shown below:
Meter Size (Inches) Tap-in Fees
Meter Size (Inches) Tap-in Fees
5/8                 $ 2,640
1                   2,860
1½                 5,810
2                   10,160
3                   17,420
4                   25,120
6                   70,570
8                   117,610
 
   Outside the corporation: The system capacity charge (tap-in fee) to be
charged for sewer service furnished to buildings or properties outside the
city, but connected to the sanitary sewer system of the city, shall be equal to
the charge as calculated above in division (2) hereof, plus 50%. All other
provisions of division (2) shall also apply to this section.
      (3)   For multi-family residential housing of at least ten units per
building, that does not install individual service lines to each unit, tap-in
fees will be based on 75% of the fees above calculated based upon the number of
units at minimum meter size or actual meter size, whichever fee is greater.
      (4)   Where an existing structure is currently served by city water and
is increasing the size of the water meter, the property shall be charged the
difference between the current tap-in fee value for the existing meter size and
the tap-in fee for the proposed water meter size.
   (F)   Penalty. A penalty of 5% shall be added to all bills for which payment
has not been received in the City Building by 4:30 p.m. on the due date printed
on the bill.
   (G)   Charges to be a lien. Each sewer charge levied pursuant to this
chapter is hereby made a lien upon the premises charged therewith. If the same
is not paid within 30 days after it shall be due and payable, it shall be
certified to the Auditor of Warren County by law, and be collected as other
municipal taxes collected.
   (H)   Monthly billing. The city shall bill customers for sanitary sewer
charges on a monthly basis.
   (I)   Readiness to serve charge. In instances where water service has been
disconnected to unoccupied properties, for which an active water, sewer, or
electric utility account exists, a monthly readiness to serve charge equal to
the monthly minimum sewer use rate will be charged. The purpose of this charge
is to support the cost of maintaining the sewer collection and treatment that
remains available to serve the property.
(Am. Ord. 2047, passed 8-26-75; Am. Ord. 5225, passed 6-24-80; Am. Ord. 5370,
passed 12-22-81; Am. Ord. 5431, passed 11-23-82; Am. Ord. 5648,passed 1-22-85;
Am. Ord. 6156, passed 12-22-87; Am. Ord. 6560, passed 11-27-90; Am. Ord. 6672,
passed 12-1-91; Am. Ord. 6899, passed 1-1-94; Am. Ord. 7021, passed 12-13-94;
Am. Ord. 7040, passed 1-10-95; Am. Ord. 7144, passed 11-28-95; Am. Ord. 7163,
passed 12-26-95; Am. Ord. 8479, passed 6-25-02; Am. Ord. 8797, passed 7-22-03;
Am. Ord. 8818, passed 8-26-03; Am. Ord. 9120, passed 3-22-05; Am. Ord. 9240,
passed 12-13-05; Am. Ord. 9411, passed 11-14-06; Am. Ord. 9621, passed 11-27-
07; Am. Ord. 9789, passed 11-24-08; Am. Ord. 2009-109, passed 11-23-09; Am.
Ord. 2011-095, passed 11-21-11; Am. Ord. 2012-097, passed 12-4-12; Am. Ord.
2013-091, passed 8-27-13; Am. Ord. 2014-089, passed 11-11-14; Am. Ord. 2015-
089, passed 9-8- 15; Am. Ord. 2017-112, passed 11-28-17; Am. Ord. 2020-112,
passed 11-24-20; Am. Ord. 2022-018, passed 2-22-22; Am. Ord. 2022-119, passed
11-9-22; Am. Ord. 2023-080, passed 9-12- 23; Am. Ord. 2023-104, passed 11-28-
23)
§ 913.04 RULES AND REGULATIONS OF SERVICE DIRECTOR.
   The Director of Service, with approval of the City Manager, shall make and
enforce such rules and regulations as he or she may deem necessary for the
enforcement of the provisions hereof, for the proper determination and
collection of the rates and charges herein provided, and for the safe,
efficient and economical management of the system.
(Ord. 9621, passed 11-27-07)
CHAPTER 914: SEWER USE
Section
   
914.01   Definitions
   
914.02   Discharge regulations
   
914.03   Charges and fees
   
914.04   Administration
   
914.05   Enforcement
   
914.06   Severability
   
914.07   Conflict
 
   
914.99   Penalty
§ 914.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended by the Clean Water
Act and the Water Quality Act of 1987 (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.).
   APPLICABLE PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any pretreatment standard or requirement
(federal, state and/or local), with which users are required to comply.
   AUTHORITY. The City of Lebanon.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE. A president, secretary, treasurer, or vice
president of a corporation in charge of a principle business function, or any
other person who performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the
corporation; or a general partner of proprietor if the industrial user is a
partnership or sole proprietorship respectively. If the user is a Federal,
State, or local government facility, a director or highest official appointed
or designated to oversee the operation and performance of the activities of the
government facility.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs). Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices. Also
including treatment requirements, operating procedures, and practices to
control plant site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or waste disposal, or
drainage from raw materials storage, alternative means (i.e., management plans)
of complying with, or in place of certain established categorical pretreatment
standards and effluent limits.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or BOD. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20° C expressed in terms of weight and concentration. The oxygen
demand measured is the sum of carbonaceous and nitrogenous demands. Laboratory
procedures shall be in accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods
for the Examination of Water and Wastewater, as defined in this section.
   BYPASS. The intentional diversion of waste-streams from any portion of the
pretreatment treatment facility.
   CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Same as NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT
STANDARD. Any regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by
EPA in accordance with Sections 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. 1317)
which apply to a specific category of users and which appear in 40 CFR Chapter
I, Subchapter N, Parts 405-471.
   CATEGORICAL USER. Any industrial user specific to the category of users
found in 40 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter N, Parts 405-471.
   CFR. Code of Federal Regulations.
   CFR. Code of Federal Regulations.
   CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Same as NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT
STANDARD. Any regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by
EPA in accordance with Sections 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. 1317)
which apply to a specific category of users and which appear in 40 CFR Chapter
I, Subchapter N, Parts 405-471.
   DIRECTOR. Director of Water and Wastewater operations.
   DISCHARGER. Same as INDUSTRIAL USER.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE or DISCHARGE. The introduction of pollutants into the
publicly owned treatment works from a non-domestic source regulated under 307
(b), (c) or (d) of the Act.
   INDUSTRIAL USER or USER. Any non- residential user who discharges into the
POTW.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Any substance resulting from any process of industrial,
commercial, governmental and institutional concerns, manufacturing, business,
trade, or research, including the development, recovery, or processing of
natural resources, or from sources other than those generating waste defined as
normal domestic sewage herein.
   INSTANTANEOUS MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE DISCHARGE LIMIT. The maximum concentration
of a pollutant allowed to be discharged at any time, determined from the
analysis of any discrete or composited sample collected, independent of the
industrial flow rate and the duration of the sampling event.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge
or, discharges from other sources, inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment
processes or operations, or its sludge processes, use or disposal; and,
therefore is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the POTW's NPDES
Permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation) or
of the prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal.
   LAW DIRECTOR. The Director of Law of the city, or his or her authorized
deputy, agent, or representative.
   MEDICAL WASTES. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes, and dialysis
wastes.
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRE-TREATMENT STANDARD or CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT
STANDARD. Any regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by
the EPA in accordance with Section 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. 1347)
which applies to a specific category of industrial users.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) PERMIT. A permit
issued by the State of Ohio EPA or United  States EPA pursuant to the Act for
the purpose of regulating the discharge of sewage, industrial wastes, and other
wastes under the authority of Section 402 of the Act, into the navigable waters
of the United States.
   NEW SOURCE. Any building, structure, facility or installation from which
there is or may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which
commenced after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under
Section 307(C) of the Act which will be applicable to such source if such
standards are thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section, provided
that: the building, structure, facility or installation is constructed at a
site at which no other source is located; the building, structure, facility or
installation totally replaces the process or production equipment that causes
the discharge of pollutants at an existing source; or, the production or
wastewater generating processes of the building, structure, facility or
installation are substantially independent of an existing source at the same
site.
   NONCONTACT COOLING WATER. Water used for cooling which does not come into
direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product, or
finished product.
   PASS THROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the United
States in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a
discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any
requirement of the POTW's NPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude
or duration of a violation).
   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, private corporation, partnership, co-partnership,
joint stock company, trust, association, institution, enterprise, or other
legal entity, or their representatives, agents, or assigns. The masculine
gender shall include the feminine. The singular shall include the plural where
indicated by the context.
   pH. The logarithm, base ten, of the reciprocal of the hydrogen concentration
expressed in moles per liter.
   PRETREATMENT. The process of reducing the amount of pollutants, eliminating
pollutants, or altering the nature of pollutant properties in wastewater prior
to introducing such pollutants into the city's wastewater disposal system. The
reduction, elimination, or alteration may be obtained by physical, chemical, or
biological processes, process changes or other means, except as prohibited by
this chapter.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment imposed on the user, other than a pretreatment standard.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS or POTW. Treatment works which are owned by
the city, including the sanitary sewers, pumping stations, wastewater treatment
facility, and any related appurtenances.
   SANITARY SEWER. Any pipe, conduit, or other device used to collect and
transport sewage from the generating source including combined sewers. This
shall include public sanitary sewer mains and private sanitary sewer laterals.
   SEPTIC TANK WASTE. Any sewage from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, and septic tanks.
   SEWER. Any pipe, conduit, ditch or other device used to collect and/or
transport sewage
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER or SIU. Includes the following: all industrial
users subject to categorical pretreatment standards; and any other industrial
user that: discharges an average of 25,000 gallons per day or more of process
wastewater to the POTW: contributes a process wastestream which makes up five
percent or more of the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the
POTW treatment plant: or has a reasonable potential, in the  opinion of the
city, to adversely affect the POTW's operation or for violating any
pretreatment standard or requirement.
   SLUDGE. Any solid, semi-solid, or liquid waste generated by a municipal,
commercial, or industrial wastewater treatment plant, water supply treatment
plant, or air pollution control facility or any other waste having similar
characteristics and effects.
   SLUGLOAD. Any pollutant, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD, etc.)
released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration which
will cause interference with or pass through the POTW.
   STORM WATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation including snowmelt.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension or will settle in water, sewage, or industrial waste, and which are
removable by a laboratory filtration device. Quantitative determination of
suspended solids shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in
standard methods.
   UPSET. An exceptional incident in which a discharger unintentionally and
temporarily is in a state of noncompliance with pretreatment standards due to
factors beyond the reasonable control of the discharger, and excluding
noncompliance to the extent caused by operational error, improperly designed
treatment facilities, inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventive
maintenance, or careless or improper operation thereof.
   USER. Same as INDUSTRIAL USER.
   WASTEWATER. Liquid and water-carried industrial wastes and sewage from
residential dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing
facilities, and institutions, whether treated or untreated, which are
contributed to the POTW.
   WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT or INDUSTRIAL DISCHARGE PERMIT. A formal permit
to discharge industrial waste into the POTW, as issued by the city.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT OR TREATMENT PLANT. That portion of the POTW
which is designed to provide treatment of municipal sewage and industrial
waste.
(Ord. 8623, passed 1-14-03; Am. Ord. 9622, passed 11-27-07; Am. Ord. 2023-002,
passed 1-10- 23)
§ 914.02 DISCHARGE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   General discharge prohibitions.
      (1)   Storm water. No storm water shall be directed into or allowed to
drain into the sanitary sewer system. No downspout or footer drain shall be
connected to any sanitary sewer.
         (a)   Test authorized.
            1.   Test of downspouts authorized. The Director of Service or any
employee of the city designated by him or her may enter upon any lot or parcel
of land within the city and test any down-spout on any building thereon to
determine whether or not it discharges water into any sanitary sewer.
            2.   Test of sewer connections authorized. The Director of Service
or any employee of the city designated by him or her may enter on any lot or
parcel of land and open any test tee thereon to determine whether or not any
sewer to sewer connection is blocked on the lot, parcel of land or in the
public street in front of the same, and to determine whether the sewer
connections are connected to the proper sewer.
            3.   Excavation for test; restoration of property. On entering any
lot or parcel of land for any of the above-mentioned purposes, the Director of
Service or any employee designated by him or her may make the excavation and do
such other work as may be necessary to make the test herein authorized. Upon
completion of the tests, the Director of Service shall cause the premises to be
restored as nearly as practicable to their condition before such tests were
made.
         (b)   Order to abate illegal connections. If investigation and tests
reveal that downspouts or footer drains or any surface water flows into any
sanitary sewer, the Director of Service shall order the abatement of such
condition. All costs involved in any necessary corrective action shall be at
the sole expense of the property owner, contractor or builder involved. Failure
to comply with such order shall be considered a misdemeanor and in violation of
this chapter.
      (2)   No person shall intentionally allow sanitary sewage to enter the
sanitary sewer system with a temperature of more than 130º F.
      (3)   Dilution. No user shall increase the use of potable or process
water or dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with any pretreatment standard or requirement.
This shall not prohibit the use of equalization tanks utilized to regulate
flows.
      (4)   Pass through and interference. No user shall discharge or cause to
be, discharged, directly or indirectly, any pollutants which by their nature or
concentration will pass through or cause interference with the operation of
performance of the POTW.
      (5)   Specific prohibitions. In addition, no discharger shall contribute
or cause to be discharged, directly or indirectly, any of the following
described substances into the POTW:
         (a)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosion hazard in the POTW
including, but not limited to, wastestreams with a closed cup flash point of
less than 140° F or 60° C using the test method specified in 40 CFR 261.21.
         (b)   Pollutants which will cause corrosive or structural damage to
the POTW, but in no case discharges with a pH lower than 6.0 or higher than 9.0
standard units.
         (c)   Solid or viscous substances which will or may cause obstruction
to the flow in the POTW or otherwise interfere with proper operation of the
wastewater system. Prohibited substances include, but are not limited to,
grease, uncomminuted garbage, manure, hair, feathers, sand, spent lime, grass
clippings, straw, and similar substances.
         (d)   Any slugload or any oxygen- demanding pollutants (BOD, etc.),
released in a discharge at a flow rate and or pollutant concentration which,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, will cause interference
with the POTW.
         (e)   Wastewater having a temperature greater than 130ºF. (54ºC.), or
which will inhibit biological activity in the treatment plant resulting in
interference, but in no case shall wastewater entering the headworks of the
POTW exceed 104º F. (40º C.).
         (f)   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, or products of
mineral oil origin in amounts that will cause interference or pass through the
POTW.
         (g)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, solids, or gases which either
singly or by interaction result in toxic or malodorous gases, vapors or fumes
which cause a public nuisance, health and safety problems, or danger to POTW
workers.
         (h)   Any wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by
the treatment processes, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently impart color to the treatment plant
effluent, thereby violating the city’s NPDES permit.
         (i)   Any unpolluted waters which will increase the hydraulic loading
on the plant including, but not limited to, any storm water, surface water,
groundwater, artesian well water, roof run-off water, swimming pool drains,
subsurface drainage, uncontaminated cooling water or uncontaminated industrial
process waters. This applies strictly to all new connections. All existing
connections may be approved or rejected after review of hardship and/or other
considerations.
         (j)   Any trucked or hauled pollutants, including septage and
industrial waste, except at locations and times designated by the POTW.
         (k)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient
quantity either singly or by interaction to injure or interfere with any
wastewater treatment process, constitutes a hazard to humans or animals, or to
exceed the limitation set forth in this chapter.
         (l)   Any substance which will cause the POTW to violate its NPDES
permit and/or any other disposal system permits.
         (m)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes or
such, half-life or concentration as exceed limits established by the city in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
         (n)   Noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, solids, or other
wastewater which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are
sufficient to create a public nuisance or a hazard to life, or to prevent entry
into the sewers for maintenance or repair.
         (o)   Sludges, screening, or other residues from pretreatment of
industrial waste.
         (p)   Medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the
Director in a wastewater discharge permit.
         (q)   Wastewater causing the treatment plant’s effluent to fail a
toxicity test.
         (r)   Detergents, surface-active agents, or other substances which may
cause excessive foaming in or passing-through the POTW.
         (s)   Fats, oils, or greases of animal or vegetable origin refer to §
914.03. Pollutants, substances, or wastewater prohibited by this section shall
not be processed or stored in such a manner that they could be discharged to
the POTW.
   (B)   Limitations on wastewater strength.
      (1)   The National Categorical Pretreatment Standards as promulgated by
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency found at 40 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter
N, Parts 405-471 are herein adopted by reference. Users must comply with
categorical pretreatment standards unless a variance is obtained in accordance
with 40 CFR 403.13 and the revised Standards are duly recognized by the city.
      (2)   State requirements. State requirements and limitations on
discharges to the POTW shall be met by all dischargers which are subject to
those standards in any instance in which they are more stringent than federal
requirements and limitations or those in this chapter or any other applicable
ordinance.
      (3)   Local requirements. No discharger shall discharge or cause or allow
to be discharged into the POTW any pollutant in concentrations above those
specifically permitted in a wastewater discharge permit issued by the city.
Discharge permits shall impose maximum discharge concentration limits or mass
based limits where appropriate. No discharger shall discharge wastewater
containing in excess of any pollutant levels approved by the Ohio Environmental
Protection Agency as local limits applicable to the city Municipal Industrial
Pretreatment Program.
   (C)   Right of city to revise regulations; establish removal credits.
      (1)   Right of revision. The city reserves the right to amend this
chapter to provide for more stringent limitations or requirements on discharges
to the POTW where deemed necessary to comply with the objectives set forth in
this chapter.
      (2)   Limit conversion. Local limits and categorical pretreatment
standards expressed in terms of concentration may be converted to mass
discharge limitations at the discretion of the city. Categorical pretreatment
standards which specify mass limitations may alternately be converted to
concentration limits when deemed appropriate by the city.
      (3)   Removal credits. Where applicable, the city may elect upon approval
of Ohio and U.S. EPA to initiate a program of removal credits as part of this
chapter to reflect the city's ability to remove pollutants in accordance with
40 CFR Part 403.7.
      (4)   Net/gross calculations. The city may elect to adjust categorical
pretreatment standards to reflect the presence of pollutants in the
discharger's intake water in accordance with 40 CFR Part 403.15.
   (D)   Accidental discharges.
      (1)   Protection. Each user, at his or her expense, shall provide
protection from accidental discharges of prohibited materials or other
wastewaters subject to this chapter. Signs shall be permanently posted in
conspicuous places on discharger's premises, advising employees whom to call in
the event of a slug or accidental discharge. Employers shall instruct all
employees who may cause or discover such a discharge with respect to emergency
notification procedures.
      (2)   Accidental discharge notification. Users shall notify the POTW
immediately upon the occurrence of a slugload or accidental discharge of any
such materials or wastewaters by violation of this chapter or applicable
wastewater discharge permit conditions. This notification shall be followed
within five days of the date of occurrence, by a detailed written statement as
required under division (D)(3) of this section describing the cause of the
discharge and the remedial measures taken to reduce the possibility of
recurrence. Such notification shall not relieve the user of any liability for
any expense, loss or damage to the POTW.
      (3)   Upset notification. Any user which experiences a failure of a
pretreatment system which results in an unintentional or temporary state of
noncompliance with this chapter due to factors beyond reasonable control, shall
inform the Director as soon as possible, but not later than 24 hours after the
beginning of the upset. Where information is given orally, the user shall file
a written report with the POTW within five days. The report shall include:
         (a)   A description of the incident, its cause and its impact on the
user's compliance status;
         (b)   The duration of noncompliance, including exact dates and times
of noncompliance. If the noncompliance continues, the time by which compliance
is reasonably expected to be attained; and,
         (c)   All steps taken or to be taken to reduce, eliminate or prevent
recurrence of the conditions of noncompliance.
      (4)   Bypasses. Bypasses of pretreatment facilities are prohibited and
the city may pursue enforcement action unless the user receives prior written
approval for bypass from the city.
   (E)   Right to reject wastes. If any waters or wastes are discharged or
proposed to be discharged to the POTW which do not comply with the provisions
of this chapter, or in the judgment of the city will not comply with this
chapter, the city may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the POTW; and/or
      (3)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes under the provisions of §
914.03(C).
   (F)   Notification of changes in discharge. All industrial users shall
notify the city in advance of any substantial change in the volume or character
of pollutants in their discharge, including the listed or characteristic
hazardous wastes for which the industrial user has submitted initial
notification under 40 CFR 403.12(P).
(Ord. 8623, passed 1-14-03; Am. Ord. 9622, passed 11-27-07; Am. Ord. 2023-002,
passed 1-10- 23)  Penalty, see §
914.99
§ 914.03 CHARGES AND FEES.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide for the payment of
fees from the discharger to the city's POTW, to compensate the city's
wastewater treatment system, and to compensate the city for the cost of
administration of the pretreatment program established herein.
   (B)   Charges and fees. The city shall adopt charges and fees which may
include:
      (1)   Charges and fees for monitoring, inspections, and surveillance
procedures, including all costs associated with sampling and analyses for total
toxic organics (TTOs) which may be required pursuant to categorical
pretreatment requirements;
      (2)   Charges and fees for permit applications;
      (3)   Charges and fees for filing appeals;
      (4)   Charges and fees for reviewing accidental discharge incidents and
their associated investigation and analyses;
      (5)   Charges and fees for reviewing plans for the construction of new or
modified facilities relating to this chapter.
   (C)   Surcharges. All persons discharging sewage or industrial wastes
exceeding strengths of normal sewage but acceptable for discharge into the POTW
shall be subject to a monthly surcharge determined on the basis of the
following:
      (1)   Normal sewage means sewage with a daily average of not more than
250 parts per million of suspended solids, 200 parts per million of BOD5, 50
parts per million oil and grease and 50 parts per million of ammonia.
      (2)   If analysis reveals a user's discharge exceeds the above normal
domestic sewage concentrations, then the user shall be surcharged for
the additional costs associated with treating the high strength wastewater.
      (3)   The surcharge shall be computed as follows:
 
BOD $0.30 per lb. of excess over 200 mg/l
SS  $0.30 per lb. of excess over 250 mg/l
NH3 $0.75 per lb. of excess over 50 mg/l
O&G $0.35 per lb. of excess over 50 mg/l
 
      (4)   The flow figure used for calculating the pounds of excess pollutant
will be either a metered wastewater flow, a metered water usage, or an agreed
upon alternative flow.
      (5)   Any surcharge assessed for excess pollutants shall be in addition
to normal charges and shall not relieve the discharger of liability for
inhibition, pass through or damage caused by such discharge.
(Ord. 8623, passed 1-14-03; Am. Ord. 9622, passed 11-27-07; Am. Ord. 2023-002,
passed 1-10- 23)
§ 914.04 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Wastewater permit application.
      (1)   Permit required. It shall be unlawful to discharge industrial
wastes to the POTW without first making application for and complying with
requirements stipulated in a wastewater discharge permit issued by the city.
      (2)   Permit application. All significant industrial users, and other
users as may be required by the city, shall submit an application for a
wastewater discharge permit to the city at least 90 days prior to connecting to
or discharging to the POTW. All existing significant industrial users connected
to or discharging to the POTW, and which have not previously applied for a
wastewater discharge permit, shall apply for a discharge permit within 180 days
of the effective date of this chapter. All new sources shall give estimates of
the information requested in divisions (A)(2)(d) through (g) of this section.
Each application shall include:
         (a)   Name and address of applicant;
         (b)   A list of any environmental control permits held by the
facility;
         (c)   A description of operations, including the nature, rate of
production and standard industrial classification (SIC) of the operation(s).
This description shall include a schematic process diagram which indicates the
point(s) of discharge to the POTW;
         (d)   Measured average daily and 30-minute peak wastewater flow, in
million gallons per day, including daily, monthly and seasonal variations, if
any. All flows shall be measured unless other verifiable techniques are
approved by the city due to cost or feasibility;
         (e)   Results of sampling and analysis of regulated pollutants from
each regulated process. For pH, cyanide, total phenols, oil and grease,
sulfide, and volatile organics a minimum of four grab samples must be analyzed.
For all other pollutants a minimum of one 24-hour flow proportional composite
sample must be obtained. Samples should be taken immediately downstream of
pretreatment facilities if such exist or immediately downstream of regulated
processes if no pretreatment facilities exist. The samples shall be
representative of the daily operations;
         (f)   Raw materials utilized and their amounts;
         (g)   Type and amount of product produced. For industrial users
subject to equivalent mass or concentration limits established by the city,
this report shall include a reasonable measure of the user's long term
production rate. For industrial users subject to production based standards,
this report shall include the user's actual production during the appropriate
sampling period;
         (h)   Where additional pretreatment and/or operation and maintenance
activities will be required to comply with this chapter, the discharger shall
provide a declaration of the shortest schedule by which the discharger will
provide such additional pretreatment. The completion date in this schedule
shall not be later than the compliance date established for the applicable
pretreatment standard. The following conditions shall apply to this schedule:
            1.   The schedule shall contain milestone dates for the
commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction and
operation of additional pretreatment required for the discharger to comply with
the requirements of this chapter including, but not limited to, completing
preliminary plans, completing final plans, executing contracts for major
components, commencing construction, completing construction and all other acts
necessary to achieve compliance with this chapter.
            2.   Under no circumstances shall the city permit a time increment
for any single step directed toward compliance which exceeds 12 months.
            3.   Not later than 14 days following each milestone date in the
schedule and the final date for compliance, the discharger shall submit a
progress report to the city, including no less than a statement as to whether
or not it complied with the increment of progress represented by that milestone
date and, if not, the date on which it expects to comply with this increment of
progress, the reason for delay and the steps being taken by the discharger to
return the construction to the approved schedule. In no event shall more than
nine months elapse between these progress reports to the city.
         (i)   All sanitary laterals shall have an inspection and sampling
manhole accessible at all times to the city for use in sampling the industry's
discharge to assure compliance with this chapter.
         (j)   The permit application shall be signed by an authorized
representative of the discharger.
      (3)   Permit acceptance. The city shall evaluate the data furnished by
the discharger and may require additional information. After evaluation and
acceptance of the data furnished, the city may issue a wastewater discharge
permit subject to terms and conditions provided herein. The city reserves the
right to reevaluate all industrial dischargers at any time and require a permit
to be issued.
   (B)   Wastewater discharge permit conditions.
      (1)   Permit conditions. Wastewater discharge permits shall be expressly
subject to all provisions of this chapter and any other applicable regulations,
user charges and fees established by the city. Permits may contain the
following specific conditions:
         (a)   Statement of duration including issuance and expiration dates.
         (b)   Limits on average and maximum allowable levels of wastewater
discharge constituents and characteristics.
         (c)   A description of operations, including the nature, rate of
production and standard industrial classification (SIC) of the operation(s).
This description shall include a schematic process diagram which indicates the
point(s) of discharge to the POTW;
         (d)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment.
         (e)   Schedules for attaining compliance.
         (f)   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include
sampling locations, frequency of sampling, number, types and standards for
tests, and reporting requirements.
         (g)   Requirements for maintaining and retaining pretreatment
facility, records relating to wastewater discharge as specified by the city,
and affording the city access thereto.
         (h)   Requirements for notification of the city of any new
introduction of wastewater constituents or any substantial change in the volume
or character of the POTW.
         (i)   Requirements for notification of slug discharges.
         (j)   Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge
reports.
         (k)   Requirements for developing and implementing spill and slug
control plans.
         (l)   Applicable charges and fees.
         (m)   Other conditions as deemed necessary by the city to ensure
compliance with this chapter.
      (2)   Permit duration.
         (a)   Permits shall be issued for a specified time period, not to
exceed five years. A permit may be issued for a period less than one year or
may be stated to expire on a specific date.
         (b)   All permit holders shall apply for permit reissuance a minimum
of 180 days prior to the expiration of the existing permit.
         (c)   The terms and conditions of the permit may be subject to
modification by the city during the term of the permit as limitations or
requirements are modified or other just cause exists. The permit holders shall
be informed of any proposed changes in its permit at least 30 days prior to the
effective date of change.
         (d)   Any changes or new conditions in the permit shall include a
reasonable time schedule for compliance.
      (3)   Nontransferability. Wastewater discharge permits are issued to a
specific industrial discharger for a specific operation. A wastewater discharge
permit shall not be reassigned, transferred or sold to a new owner, industrial
discharger or different premises without written consent from the City Manager.
      (4)   Permit revisions.
         (a)   The city reserves the right to amend any wastewater discharge
permit issued hereunder in order to assure compliance by the city with
applicable pretreatment standards and requirements. Industrial users with an
effective discharger permit shall be informed of any proposed changes to the
permit at least 30 days prior to the effective date of any such changes. Any
changes or new conditions in the permit shall include a reasonable time
schedule for compliance.
         (b)   Within 12 months of the promulgation of a National Categorical
Pretreatment Standard, the wastewater discharge permits of dischargers subject
to the Standard shall be revised to require compliance with the Standard within
the time frame prescribed by the Standard.
         (c)   Where a discharger subject to a National Categorical
Pretreatment Standard has not previously submitted an application as required,
the discharger shall apply for a wastewater discharge permit within 180 days
after the promulgation of the applicable National Categorical Pretreatment
Standard.
         (d)   The city may determine that an industrial user subject to
categorical pretreatment standards is a non-significant categorical industrial
user rather than a significant industrial user on a finding that the industrial
user never discharges more than 100 gallons per day (gpd) of total categorical
wastewater, unless specifically included in the pretreatment standard and the
following conditions are met:
            1.   The industrial user, prior to city's finding, has consistently
complied with all applicable categorical pretreatment standards and
requirements;
            2.   The industrial user annually submits the certification
statement [see 40 CFR 403.12(q)], together with any additional information
necessary to support the certification statement; and
            3.   The industrial user never discharges any untreated
concentrated wastewater.
         (e)   Upon finding that a user meeting the criteria in reports of this
part has no reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW's operation
or for violating any pretreatment standard requirement, [the city) may at any
time, on its own initiative or in response to a petition received from an
industrial user, and in accordance with procedures in 40 CFR 403.9(f)(6),
determine that such user should not be considered a significant industrial
user.
   (C)   Reporting requirements.
      (1)   Final compliance reports. Any industrial user subject to
Categorical Pretreatment Standards shall submit a report indicating whether the
user has achieved compliance with these standards. This report is to be
submitted to the Director within 90 days following the date for final
compliance with applicable Categorical Pretreatment Standards, or in the case
of a new source discharger, within 90 days following commencement of the
introduction of wastewater into the POTW. The following information shall be
included:
         (a)   Measured average daily and maximum flows of regulated process
streams and other nonregulated streams;
         (b)   Results of sampling and analysis of regulated pollutants from
each regulated process. For pH, cyanide, total phenols, oil and grease,
sulfide, and volatile organics a minimum of four grab samples must be analyzed.
For all other pollutants a minimum of one 24-hour flow proportional composite
sample must be obtained. Samples should be taken immediately downstream of
pretreatment facilities if such exist or immediately downstream of regulated
processes if no pretreatment facilities exist. The samples shall be
representative of the daily operations;
         (c)   For industrial users subject to equivalent mass or concentration
limits established by the Superintendent, this report shall include a
reasonable measure of the user's long term production rate. For industrial
users subject to production based standards, this report shall include the
user's actual production during the appropriate sampling period;
         (d)   A statement indicating whether pretreatment standards are being
met on a consistent basis, and if not, a statement indicating whether
additional pretreatment or operation and maintenance will be required to meet
the pretreatment standards. Where additional pretreatment and/or operation and
maintenance activities will be required to comply with this chapter, the
discharger shall provide a declaration of the shortest schedule by which the
discharger will provide such additional pretreatment; and,
         (e)   The certification statement signed by an authorized
representative of the discharger.
      (2)   Periodic compliance reports. All permitted industrial users shall
submit periodic compliance reports indicating the nature and concentration of
pollutants in their discharge. The frequency of monitoring and reporting shall
be as prescribed in the industrial user's wastewater discharge permit.
         (a)   If sampling performed by any industrial user indicates a
violation, the user shall notify the city within 24 hours of becoming aware of
the violation. The user shall repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the
results within 30 days after becoming aware of the violation. Results of
sampling above the minimum required shall also be reported if analysis were
conducted according to methodology in division (C)(3) of this section.
         (b)   These reports shall include the certification statement and
shall be signed by an authorized representative of the discharger.
      (3)   Sampling and analytical methodology. All measurements, tests, and
analysis shall be performed in accordance with procedures contained in 40 CFR
136 and amendments thereto. Where 40 CFR 136 does not include sampling or
analytical techniques for the regulated pollutant(s), alternative procedures
shall be approved by the Director. All measurements, tests, and analyses of the
characteristics of wastewater performed by an industrial user shall be at the
user's expense.
      (4)   Signatory requirements. All reports required under this section
shall include the certification statement as set forth in 40 CFR 403.6(a)(2)
(ii) and shall be signed by:
         (a)   A president, secretary, treasurer, or vice president of a
corporation;
         (b)   A general partner or proprietor if the industrial user is a
partnership or sole proprietorship respectively; or,
         (c)   A duly authorized representative of the above if the
authorization is previously made in writing to the Director.
      (5)   Compliance schedules. When, in the opinion of the Director, it
becomes necessary for industrial users to install technology or provide
additional operation and maintenance (O and M) to meet any condition of this
chapter or applicable administrative order, the Director shall require the
development of the shortest schedule by which the industrial user will provide
this additional technology or O and M.
         (a)   The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the form of
dates for the commencement and completion of major events. Under no
circumstances shall any increment exceed nine months.
         (b)   Not later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and
the final date for compliance, the industrial user shall submit a progress
report to the Director including, at a minimum, whether or not it complied with
the increment of progress to be met on such date and, if not, the date on which
it expects to comply with this increment of progress, the reason for delay, and
the steps being taken to return to the schedule established.
      (6)   Reports of changed conditions. Each user must notify the Director
of any significant changes to the user's operations or system which might alter
the nature, quality, or volume of its wastewater, or affect its potential for a
slug discharge, at least 30 days before the change.
         (a)   The Director may require the user to submit such information as
may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition, including the
submission of a wastewater discharge permit application.
         (b)   The Director may issue an individual wastewater discharge permit
or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit in response to changed
conditions or anticipated changed conditions.
      (7)   Notification of the discharge of hazardous waste.
         (a)   Any user who commences the discharge of hazardous waste shall
notify the POTW, the EPA Regional Waste Management Division Director, and state
hazardous waste authorities, in writing, of any discharge into the POTW of a
substance which, if otherwise disposed of, would be a hazardous waste under 40
CFR Part 261. Such notification must include the name of the hazardous waste as
set forth in 40 CFR Part 261, the EPA hazardous waste number, and the type of
discharge (continuous, batch, or other). If the user discharges more than 100
kilograms of such waste per calendar month to the POTW, the notification also
shall contain the following information to the extent such information is known
and readily available to the user: an identification of the hazardous
constituents contained in the wastes, an estimation of the mass and
concentration of such constituents in the wastestream discharged during that
calendar month, and an estimation of the mass of constituents in the waste
stream expected to be discharged during the following 12 months. All
notifications must take place no later than 180 days after the discharge
commences. Any notification under this paragraph need be submitted only once
for each hazardous waste discharged.
         (b)   Dischargers are exempt from the requirements of division (a)
above, during a calendar month in which they discharge no more than 15
kilograms of hazardous wastes, unless the wastes are acute hazardous wastes as
specified in 40 CFR 261.30(d) and 261.33(e). Discharge of more than 15
kilograms of nonacute hazardous wastes in a calendar month, or of any quantity
of acute hazardous wastes as specified in 40 CFR 261.30(d) and 261.33(e),
requires a one-time notification. Subsequent months during which the user
discharges more than such quantities of any hazardous waste do not require
additional notification.
         (c)   In the case of any new regulations under section 3001 of RCRA
identifying additional characteristics of hazardous waste or listing any
additional substance as a hazardous waste, the user must notify [the
Superintendent], the EPA Regional Waste Management Waste Division Director, and
state hazardous waste authorities of the discharge of such substance within 90
days of the effective date of such regulations.
         (d)   In the case of any notification made under this section, the
user shall certify that it has a program in place to reduce the volume and
toxicity of hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has determined to be
economically practical.
         (e)   This provision does not create a right to discharge any
substance not otherwise permitted to be discharged by this chapter, a permit
issued thereunder, or any.
   (D)   Monitoring facilities.  
      (1)   Each industrial user, as directed by the Director shall install and
operate, at the user's own expense, a monitoring facility to allow inspection,
sampling, and flow measurement of each sanitary lateral that discharges to the
city. Each monitoring facility shall be situated on the discharger's premises.
Where such a location would be impractical or cause undue hardship on the
discharger, the city may concur with the facility being constructed in the
public street or sidewalk area providing the facility is located so that it
will be accessible at all times. There shall be ample room in or near such
sampling facility to allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples for
analysis.
      (2)   The monitoring facility shall have an inspection and sampling
manhole or structure with an opening of no less than 24 inches in diameter and
an internal diameter of no less than 48 inches and shall contain such flow
measuring, recording, and sampling equipment as may be required by the city to
ensure compliance with this chapter. The facility, sampling, and measuring
equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating
condition at the expense of the discharges. All monitoring facilities shall be
constructed and maintained in accordance with all applicable local construction
standards and specifications.
   (E)   Inspecting and sampling. The discharger shall allow the Director or
his or her representative to enter upon the premises of the discharger during
any reasonable hour for the purposes of inspection, sampling, and records
examination and copying to determine compliance with the requirements of this
chapter. Where the industry has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry, the discharger shall make necessary
arrangements so that the Director or his or her representative will be
permitted entry without delay. The city shall have the right to set up on the
discharger's property necessary devices to conduct sampling, inspection,
compliance monitoring, metering operations, or all of these.
   (F)   Confidential information. Information and data furnished to the city
with respect to the nature and frequency of discharge shall be available to the
public or other government agency without restriction unless the discharger
specifically requests and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the
city that the release of such information would divulge trade secrets or
proprietary information. Wastewater constituents and characteristics will not
be recognized as confidential information. Information accepted by the city as
confidential shall be made available to governmental agencies upon written
request.
   (G)   Records retention. All records mentioned in the preceding division can
be subject to submission to the city. All industrial users shall retain and
preserve for no less than three years, any records, books, documents,
memoranda, reports, correspondence, and any and all summaries thereof, relating
to monitoring, sampling, best management practices and chemical analyses made
by or on behalf of an industrial user in connection with its discharge. All
records which pertain to materials which are subject to administrative
adjustment or any other enforcement or litigation activities brought by the
city pursuant hereto shall be retained and preserved by the discharger until
all enforcement activities have concluded and all periods of limitation with
respect to any and all appeals have expired.
(Ord. 8623, passed 1-14-03; Am. Ord. 9622, passed 11-27-07; Am. Ord. 2023-002,
passed 1-10- 23)   Penalty, see §
914.99
§ 914.05 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Notification of violation. Whenever the city finds that any discharger
has violated any provision of this chapter, its wastewater discharge permit, or
an order of the city or court of competent jurisdiction the Director or
authorized city representative shall serve written notice stating the nature of
the alleged violation. No later than ten days after the receipt date of this
notice, the discharger shall respond in writing with an explanation of the
violation and a plan for the satisfactory correction and prevention thereof.
Submission of this plan in no way relieves the user of the liability for any
violations occurring before or after receipt of the Notice of Violation.
   (B)   Compliance orders. When the Director finds that an industrial user has
violated or continues to violate this chapter, its wastewater discharge permit,
or an order of the city or court of competent jurisdiction, he or she or an
authorized representative may issue an order to the industrial user responsible
for the discharge directing that, following a specified time period, sewer
service shall be discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities, devices, or
other related appurtenances have been installed and are properly operated.
Orders may also contain such other requirements as might be reasonably
necessary and appropriate to address the noncompliance, including the
installation of pretreatment technology, additional self-monitoring, and
management practices.
   (C)   Show cause hearing. Where any violation of this chapter is not
corrected by timely compliance, the Director may order any discharger, to show
cause why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. A written notice
shall be served on the discharger by personal service, or certified mail,
return receipt requested, specifying the time and place of a hearing to be held
by the city or its designee regarding the violation, the reasons why the
enforcement action is to be taken, the proposed enforcement action, and
directing the discharger to show cause before the city or its designee why the
proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice of the hearing
shall be served no less than ten days before the hearing. Service may be made
on any agent, officer, or authorized representative of a discharger. The
proceedings at the hearing shall be considered by the city which shall then
enter appropriate orders with respect to the alleged improper activities of the
discharger. The orders may be in the form of a compliance order or cease and
desist order.
   (D)   Powers and authorities of inspectors.
      (1)   The Director and other authorized personnel bearing proper
credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all premises without
advance notice to conduct inspection, sampling, compliance monitoring and
metering operations to ensure compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
While performing these activities, personnel shall observe all safety rules
established by the user.
      (2)   Where a user has security measures requiring proper identification
and clearance before entry, the user shall:
         (a)   Make necessary arrangements with its security staff to permit
entry of Public Works Department personnel without delay to obtain samples of
wastes being discharged at various sampling points; or
         (b)   Install suitable gauging and sampling manholes outside security
limits immediately accessible to the authorized city personnel at all times.
   (E)   Suspension of service; cease and desist order.
      (1)   The Director may suspend wastewater treatment service to any person
during such period as the Director reasonably believes that an actual or
threatened wastewater discharge presents a substantial risk of: 1-Damage to the
public health or the environment, 2-Interference with the operation of the
sewerage works, or 3-Violation of any provision of this chapter. Notice of such
suspension of wastewater treatment service, either oral or in writing as
determined by the Director in his or her discretion, shall be given by the
Director or any authorized agent, to such person, or any of such person's
agents, employees or officials, whose service is to be suspended promptly
following the Director's determination to suspend such wastewater treatment
service.
      (2)   Upon a determination by the Director that a wastewater discharge
has occurred or is likely to occur in violation of any of the prohibitions or
limitations of this chapter, the Director may issue a written cease and desist
order identifying such violation or threatened violation and directing the
person responsible therefor to: 1-Immediately comply with all requirements of
the Director contained in such order, including but not limited to, compliance
schedules and remedial or preventive action; and 2-Take such appropriate
remedial or preventive action as may be needed to properly address a continuing
or threatened violation, including halting operations and/or terminating the
discharge. Issuance of a cease and desist order shall not be a bar against, or
a prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
      (3)   Upon any person's failure to comply with a cease and desist order,
the Director may commence proceedings in any court of competent jurisdiction to
enforce compliance with such order.
   (F)   Revocation of permit and treatment services. The city may revoke the
wastewater discharge permit and treatment services of any discharger which
violates any condition of this chapter, its permit, or an order of the city or
court of competent jurisdiction.
   (G)   Right of appeal. Any discharger or any interested party shall have the
right to request in writing an interpretation or ruling by the city on any
matter covered under this chapter and shall be entitled to a prompt written
reply.
   (H)   Annual publications. Annually the Director shall publish a list of all
dischargers or significant industrial users which at any time during the
previous 12 months were in significant noncompliance with applicable
pretreatment requirements. For the purposes of this provision, an industrial
user is in significant noncompliance if its violations meet one or more of the
following criteria:
      (1)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which 66% or more of all of the measurements taken during a six-month
period exceed (by any magnitude) the daily maximum limit or the average limit
for the same pollutant parameter;
      (2)   Technical Review Criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those
in which 33% or more of all of the measurements for each pollutant parameter
taken during a six-month period equal or exceed the product of the daily
maximum limit or the average limit multiplied by the applicable TRC (TRC=1.4
for BOD, TSS, fats, oil and grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants except
pH);
      (3)   Any other violation of a pretreatment effluent limit (daily maximum
or longer term average) that the Director determines has caused, alone or in
combination with other discharges, interference or pass through (including
endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general public);
      (4)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment
of human health, welfare or to the environment or has resulted in the POTW's
exercise of emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
      (5)   Failure to meet, within 90 days after the schedule date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in a wastewater discharge permit or
enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction, or
attaining final compliance;
      (6)   Failure to provide, within 30 days after the due date, required
reports such as baseline
monitoring reports, 90 day compliance reports, periodic self-monitoring
reports, and reports on compliance with compliance schedules;
      (7)   Failure to accurately report non-compliance; or,
      (8)   Any other violation or group of violations which the Director
determines will or has adversely affected the operation or implementation of
the city's pretreatment program.
(Ord. 8623, passed 1-14-03; Am. Ord. 9622, passed 11-27-07; Am. Ord. 2023-002,
passed 1-10- 23)
§ 914.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision, paragraph, word, section, or article of this chapter is
invalidated by any court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions,
paragraphs, words, sections, and articles shall not be affected and shall
continue in full force and effect.
(Ord. 8623, passed 1-14-03)
§ 914.07 CONFLICT.
   All other ordinances and parts of other ordinances inconsistent or
conflicting with any part of this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent of
such inconsistency or conflict.
(Ord. 8623, passed 1-14-03)
§ 914.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Recovery of costs incurred by the city.  Any discharger violating any
provision of this chapter, their wastewater discharge permit, or any order of
the city or court of competent jurisdiction which results in damage or
impairment of the city's POTW or which results in excessive costs of treatment
shall be liable to the city for any expense, loss, or damage caused by such
violating discharge. The city shall bill the discharger for the costs incurred
as a result of the discharge. Refusal to pay the assessed costs shall
constitute a violation of this chapter enforceable under the provisions of
division (C) of this section or other applicable sections of this chapter or of
applicable Ohio law.
   (B)   Administrative fines.
      (1)   The city may assess, on a strict liability basis, except where this
chapter expressly provides for an affirmative defense, administrative fines not
to exceed $500 per violation against any person who violates any provision of
this chapter. Each day or portion thereof when a violation occurs, shall be
considered a separate violation.
      (2)   In determining the amount of an administrative fine, the city shall
consider the magnitude and severity of the violation, history of past
violations or compliance, economic advantage accrued by the violator due to the
violation, and actions taken by the violator to comply with this chapter.
      (3)   Any administrative fines assessed by the city may be added to the
person's sewer service charge, and the city shall have such collection remedies
as provided to collect other service charges.
      (4)   Any person assessed an administrative fine pursuant to this section
may appeal the action of the city as provided for in
§ 914.05(F).
   (C)   Judicial proceedings. The city may commence an action for appropriate
legal and/or equitable relief in the appropriate courts with respect to the
conduct of a discharger contrary to the provisions of this chapter.
      (1)   Injunctive relief. Whenever an industrial user has violated or
continues to violate any provision of this chapter, its wastewater discharge
permit, or any order of the city or court of competent jurisdiction, the city
may petition the court for the issuance of a preliminary or permanent
injunction or both (as may be appropriate) to restrain or compel activities on
the part of the industrial user.
      (2)   Civil penalties. Any discharger who is found to have violated any
provision of this chapter, their wastewater discharge permit, or any order of
the city or court of competent jurisdiction shall be subject to the imposition
of a civil penalty of up to $1,000 per violation. Each day on which a violation
occurs or continues shall be deemed a separate and distinct violation. In
addition to the penalties provided herein, the city may recover reasonable
attorney's fees, court costs, court reporter's fees and other expenses of
litigation by appropriate suit at law against the discharger.
      (3)   Criminal penalties. Any person, or persons which intentionally or
willfully violate any provision of this chapter, their wastewater discharge
permit, or any order of the city or court of competent jurisdiction or any
person or persons that allow a violation to continue after becoming aware of
said violation shall be punishable, upon conviction, by a criminal penalty of
up to $1,000 per day per violation and not more than six months in fail.
   (D)   Falsifying information. Any person or persons who knowingly make any
false statement, representation or certification in any application, record,
report, plan or document filed or required to be maintained pursuant to this
chapter, any wastewater discharge permit, or any order of the city or court of
competent jurisdiction, or who falsifies, tampers with, or knowingly renders
inaccurate any monitoring device or method, shall be punishable, upon
conviction, by a criminal penalty of up to $1,000 per day per violation and not
more than six months in jail.
(Ord. 8623, passed 1-14-03 ; Am. Ord. 9622, passed 11-27-07 )
CHAPTER 915: ELECTRICAL RATES
Section
   
915.01     Electric fund
   
915.02     Power supply cost adjustment clause
   
915.03     Emergency and temporary surcharge clause
   
915.04     Tax adjustment clause
   
915.05   Residential rate (rate E1)
   
915.06   General service rate- single phase (rate E2)
   
915.061   General service rate - three phase (rate E3)
   
915.07   Private outdoor security lighting service rate
   
915.08   Large power - primary metered (rate PP)
   
915.081   Large power - secondary metered (rate LP)
   
915.082   Electric vehicle charging station service rate
   
915.09     Rules and regulations of Service Director
   
915.10     Effective date
   
915.11     Automatic rate increase
   
915.12   Electric utility tap-in charge.
   
915.13   Net metering
   
915.14   Renewable energy purchasing program
Statutory reference:
   Power to erect electric works, see R.C. § 743.34
   Power to establish electric light and power rates, see R.C. §§ 715.03 and
715.06
   Power to furnish light, power and heat, see R.C. §§ 715.06 and 717.01
Cross-reference:
   Division of Electricity, see §
123.02
   Electrical installations fees, see
Ch. 1304
   Electrical signs, see §
1313.04
§ 915.01 ELECTRIC FUND.
   The funds received from collection of charges as provided for hereunder,
along with such other amounts as are collected for any operation of the
electrical system, shall be paid into the Electric Fund. Subject to the
provisions of any ordinance or indenture of mortgage authorizing the issuance
of and securing mortgage revenue bonds for the system, monies in the fund shall
be used for the payment of the cost and expense of operation, maintenance,
repair and management of the system. Any surplus in the fund over and above the
requirements herein mentioned may be used for payment of debt charges on bonds
issued for construction of the system and for enlargements of and replacements
to the system and parts thereof.
(Ord. 5095, passed 6-26-79)
§ 915.02 POWER SUPPLY COST ADJUSTMENT CLAUSE.
   (A)   Applicability. The power supply cost adjustment set forth in this
section shall be applied to the total kwh billed to city’s electric consumers
for the meter reading period that city determines as most nearly corresponding
to the meter reading periods set forth in city’s purchased power billings from
its suppliers.
   (B)   Billed energy and demand charges. The billed energy and demand charges
set forth in city’s electric rate schedules are those charges associated with
recovery of city’s power supply cost as set forth in division (C).
   (C)   Power supply cost. The city’s power supply cost is the cost of the
city’s power supply requirements as furnished by city’s wholesale power
suppliers plus fuel costs associated with energy provided by the city’s
generating facilities.
   (D)   Power supply cost recovery margin. The power supply cost recovery
margin shall be the difference between the monthly billed energy and demand
charges and the monthly power supply cost. The current target power supply cost
recovery margin is 2% and may be adjusted from time to time to achieve and
maintain adequate power supply cost recovery.
   (E)   Monthly determination of power supply cost adjustment (PCA). Each
month the city’s billing PCA shall be determined as follows:
      (1)   The monthly total customer billed kWh, energy and demand charges
and total power supply cost for the current month’s billing shall be entered
into the appropriate columns of the PCA worksheet.
      (2)   The monthly target power supply cost recovery margin of 2% shall be
entered into the appropriate column of the PCA worksheet.
      (3)   The PCA worksheet for the current billing month shall calculate the
billing PCA as follows:
         (a)   Power supply cost recovery margin (in dollars) shall equal the
monthly total billed energy and demand charges (in dollars) less the monthly
total power supply cost (in dollars).
         (b)   Target power supply cost recovery margin (dollars) shall equal
the monthly total power supply cost (dollars) multiplied by the target power
supply cost recovery margin (%).
         (c)   Target power supply cost recovery excess or shortfall (dollars)
shall equal the monthly actual power supply cost recovery margin (dollars) less
the monthly target power supply cost recovery margin (dollars).
         (d)   PCA for the billing month shall equal the negative fo the three-
month rolling average of the target power supply cost recovery excess or
shortfall divided by the three-month rolling average of total KWH billed.
(Ord. 5095, passed 6-26-79; Am. Ord. 6674, passed 12-10-91; Am. Ord. 2009-017,
passed 3-10-09)
§ 915.03 EMERGENCY AND TEMPORARY SURCHARGE CLAUSE.
   (A)   Upon written authorization of the City Manager, a surcharge of not
over 17% shall be applied to the monthly billings, exclusive of fuel
adjustment, for electric service furnished pursuant to all rate sheets so
designated.
   (B)   The amount of surcharge, in the aggregate on an annual 12-month basis,
shall not exceed the 17% referenced above, nor shall the applied surcharge
produce revenue in excess of that necessary to equal the budgeted operating
balance for the full 12-month budgeted period plus any interim increases in
wholesale power costs exclusive of fuel charges.
(Ord. 5095, passed 6-26-79; Am. Ord. 5335, passed 7-28-81)
§ 915.04 TAX ADJUSTMENT CLAUSE.
   The amount of any new or additional taxes levied after April 30, 1979, on
the production, transmission, distribution or sale of electric energy, or gross
receipts from the transmission, distribution or sale of electric energy,
whether based upon kilowatt hour sales, revenue, income, the amount of the bill
rendered or any other basis, or any changes in or enactments of after April 30,
1979, any federal, state or county income tax laws or regulations thereunder,
shall be added to the charges to be paid hereunder. In the event of a reduction
or elimination of any such taxes, the charges relating thereto shall be reduced
accordingly.
(Ord. 5095, passed 6-26-79)
§ 915.05 RESIDENTIAL RATE (RATE E1).
   (A)   Applicable.
      (1)   This rate is available, as shown, to all single family residences,
single flats, single apartments and churches for lighting, the operation of
appliances, cooking, supplemental space heating, water heating and incidental
power.
      (2)   This rate is also available for multiple occupancy or for multiple
units as noted under division (I) of this section.
   (B)   Character of service. 120/240 volts, single phase, alternating
current, 60 hertz (cycles per second).
   (C)   Rate.
      (1)   Customer service charge: $7.00 per meter per month
      (2)   Energy charge:
         All kilowatt-hours per month    $0.06316 per kWH
      (3)   Distribution charge:
         First 800 kilowatt-hours per month   $0.03884 per kWH
         Next 800 kilowatt-hours per month   $0.03403 per kWH
         All kilowatt-hours over 1600 per month   $0.01942 per kWH
   (D)   Power supply cost adjustment clause. The above rates shall be adjusted
in accordance with the power supply cost adjustment clause set forth in §
915.02 of this chapter.
   (E)   Tax adjustment clause. The above rate shall be adjusted in accordance
with the tax adjustment clause set forth in §
915.04 of this chapter.
   (F)   Minimum monthly charge. For regular full service meter, the minimum
monthly charge shall be the customer service charge plus fuel adjustment and
any applicable tax adjustment.
   (G)   Service charge for delayed payment: A penalty of 5% shall be added to
all bills for which payment has not been received in the City Building by 5:00
p.m. on the due date printed on the bill.
   (H)   Terms and conditions.  
      (1)   This rate is available on application, and only to those consumers
whose entire requirements are measured through one meter.
      (2)   When multiple occupancy exists or multiple units are served under
one regular full service meter, the rate shall be applied on a per unit
occupancy or dwelling unit basis. The Utility reserves the right to apply or to
refuse to supply service on this basis.
(Ord. 5095, passed 6-26-79; Am. Ord. 5235, passed 7-22-80; Am. Ord. 5705,
passed 7-23-85; Am. Ord. 6674, passed 12-10-91; Am. Ord. 2009-017, passed 3-10-
09; Am. Ord. 2019-072, passed 10-8-19)
§ 915.06 GENERAL SERVICE RATE - SINGLE PHASE (RATE E2).
   (A)   Applicable. This rate is available to all single phase, commercial and
industrial customers with less than 50kWD of average monthly demand through one
meter.
   (B)   Character of service. 120/240 volt, 3 wire, single phase, alternating
current, 60 hertz, or as covered in division (J) of this section.
   (C)   Rate.  
      (1)   Customer service charges:
         $17.00 per meter per month
      (2)   Energy charges:
         First 165 kilowatt hours per kilowatt-demand    $0.06779 per kWH
         Next 85 kilowatt-hours per    kilowatt-demand    $0.05932 per kWH
         Over 250 kilowatt-hour per kilowatt-demand    $0.03390 per kWH
      (3)   Demand charges:
         First 10 kilowatt-demand or less   No charge
         Next 15 kilowatt-demand   $7.21 per kWD
         All over 25 kilowatt-demand   $9.27 per kWD
      (4)   Distribution charges:
         First 1,000 kilowatt-hours   $0.03390 per kWH
         Next 800 kilowatt-hours   $0.02970 per kWH
         Over 1,800 kilowatt-hours   $0.01695 per kWH
   (D)   Power supply cost adjustment clause. The above rates shall be adjusted
in accordance with the power supply cost adjustment clause set forth in §
915.02 of this chapter.
   (E)   Tax adjustment clause. The above rate shall be adjusted in accordance
with the tax adjustment clause set forth in §
915.04 of this chapter.
   (F)   Primary voltage service: When service is supplied and metered at the
option of the city at 7200 volts, the above computed charges shall be subject
to a discount of 1%.
   (G)   Minimum monthly charge. The minimum monthly bill shall not be less
than the customer service charge.
   (H)   Service charge for delayed payment: A penalty of 5% shall be added to
all bills for which payment has not been received in the City Building by 5:00
p.m. on the due date printed on the bill.
   (I)   Determination of billing demand: The billing demand shall be the
greatest 15-minute integrated demand ascertained in kilowatts by instruments
suitable for the purpose, or at the option of the city the demand for billing
purpose shall be determined by taking 85% of the total connected load in
lighting, motors, heating and all other energy consuming devices.
   (J)   Terms and conditions.  
      (1)   When at the option of the city, a single consumer is served by both
a single phase and a three phase meter at the same or contiguous service
locations, the single phase meter will be charged at the general service rate -
single phase (rate E2) and the three phase meter will be charged at the general
service rate - three phase (rate E3).
      (2)   A minimum monthly contract service charge and a minimum contract
term may be established by the city to consumers having abnormal demand
requirements (less than 150 hr. use of max. demand per month).
      (3)   If a consumer has low power factor (less than 90% lagging) at about
the time of maximum demand, then such power factor shall be corrected by the
consumer at his or her expense upon the written request of the city within 60
days of such request, or the city shall increase the total bill by 1% for each
5% the power factor is below 90%. Such determination shall be used for each
subsequent billing until the consumer has notified the city in writing that the
power factor has been corrected to at least 90% at the time of maximum demand
and the city has verified the improvement by test.
      (4)   A consumer may be served from any one of the following alternating
current, 60-cycle distribution systems, where and as available and at the
option of the city.
         (a)   Secondary metering at 120/240 volt, 1 phase;
         (b)   Primary metering at 7,200 volt.
      (5)   The city reserves the right to utilize at its discretion kilovolt
ampere and/or reactive kilovolt ampere meters in those metering installations
where the customer’s power factor is believed to be on a continuing basis
unsatisfactory according to city standards and in the event of such
installation the kilowatt billing demand may be computed from such instruments
using 90% power factor for conversion.
      (6)   When unusual construction costs, in the opinion of the city, are
involved to supply the required service, the city may require a contract term
of one or more years in order to properly amortize the “extra” costs of
construction.
      (7)   All electric service of the city is rendered under and subject to
the general services rules and regulations of the city as amended from time to
time, including the emergency and temporary surcharge clause set forth in §
915.03 of this chapter.
(Ord. 5095, passed 6-26-79; Am. Ord. 5235, passed 7-22-80; Am. Ord. 5705,
passed 7-23-85; Am. Ord. 6674, passed 12-10-91; Am. Ord. 8609, passed 12-10-02;
Am. Ord. 2009-017, passed 3-10-09; Am. Ord. 2019-072, passed 10-8-19)
§ 915.061 GENERAL SERVICE RATE - THREE PHASE (RATE E3).
   (A)   Applicable. This rate is available to all three phase, commercial and
industrial customers with less than 50kVAD of average monthly demand through
one meter.
   (B)   Character of service. Three phase, alternating current, 60 hertz, or
as covered in division (J) of this section.
   (C)   Rate.  
      (1)   Customer service charges:
   $22.00 per meter per month
      (2)   Energy charges:
First 300 kilowatt hours per
   kilowatt-demand   $0.05179 per kWH
Over 300 kilowatt-hour per
   kilowatt-demand   $0.02589 per kWH
      (3)   Demand charges:
First 1,000 kilowatt-demand
   or less   $10.30 per kWD
Over 1,000 kilowatt-demand   $12.36 per kWD
      (4)   Distribution charges:
First 5,000 kilowatt-hours   $0.02162 per kWH
Next 10,000 kilowatt-hours   $0.01726 per kWH
Over 15,000 kilowatt-hours   $0.01299 per kWH
   (D)   Power supply cost adjustment clause. The above rates shall be adjusted
in accordance with the power supply cost adjustment clause set forth in §
915.02 of this chapter.
   (E)   Tax adjustment clause. The above rate shall be adjusted in accordance
with the tax adjustment clause set forth in §
915.04 of this chapter.
   (F)   Primary voltage service: When service is supplied and metered at the
option of the city at 7200/12,500 volts, the above computed charges shall be
subject to a discount of 1%.
   (G)   Minimum monthly charge. The minimum monthly bill shall not be less
than the customer service charge.
   (H)   Service charge for delayed payment: A penalty of 5% shall be added to
all bills for which payment has not been received in the City Building by 5:00
p.m. on the due date printed on the bill.
   (I)   Determination of billing demand: The billing demand shall be the
greatest 15-minute integrated demand ascertained in kilowatts by instruments
suitable for the purpose, or at the option of the city the demand for billing
purpose shall be determined by taking 85% of the total connected load in
lighting, motors, heating and all other energy consuming devices.
   (J)   Terms and conditions.  
      (1)   When at the option of the city, a single consumer is served by both
a single phase and a three phase meter at the same or contiguous service
locations, the single phase meter will be charged at the general service rate -
single phase (rate E2) and the three phase meter will be charged at the general
service rate - three phase (rate E3).
      (2)   A minimum monthly contract service charge and a minimum contract
term may be established by the city to consumers having abnormal demand
requirements (less than 150 hr. use of max. demand per month).
      (3)   If a consumer has low power factor (less than 90% lagging) at about
the time of maximum demand, then such power factor shall be corrected by the
consumer at his or her expense upon the written request of the city within 60
days of such request, or the city shall increase the total bill by 1% for each
5% the power factor is below 90%. Such determination shall be used for each
subsequent billing until the consumer has notified the city in writing that the
power factor has been corrected to at least 90% at the time of maximum demand
and the city has verified the improvement by test.
      (4)   A consumer may be served from any one of the following alternating
current, 60-cycle distribution systems, where and as available and at the
option of the city.
         (a)   Secondary metering at 240 volt, 3 wire delta, 3 phase; 120/240
volt, 4 wire delta, 3 phase; 208 volt, 3 wire wye, 3 phase; 120/208 volt, 4
wire wye, 3 phase; 480 volt, 3 wire delta, 3 phase; and 277/480 volt wye, 3
phase; or
         (b)   Primary metering at 12,500 volt, 3 wire delta, 3 phase; and
7,200/12,500 volt, 4 wire wye, 3 phase or other higher primary voltages as they
become available.
      (5)   The city reserves the right to utilize at its discretion kilovolt
ampere and/or reactive kilovolt ampere meters in those metering installations
where the customer’s power factor is believed to be on a continuing basis
unsatisfactory according to city standards and in the event of such
installation the kilowatt billing demand may be computed from such instruments
using 90% power factor for conversion.
      (6)   When unusual construction costs, in the opinion of the city, are
involved to supply the required service, the city may require a contract term
of one or more years in order to properly amortize the “extra” costs of
construction.
      (7)   All electric service of the city is rendered under and subject to
the general services rules and regulations of the city as amended from time to
time, including the emergency and temporary surcharge clause set forth in §
915.03 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-017, passed 3-10-09; Am. Ord. 2019- 072, passed 10-8-19)
§ 915.07 PRIVATE OUTDOOR SECURITY LIGHTING SERVICE RATE.
   (A)   Applicable.
      (1)   Available to consumers where the city's standard outdoor lighting
unit can be installed on utility's existing pole, and without requiring any
extension or addition to utility's existing secondary or primary distribution
facilities.
      (2)   Where additional facilities are required, the consumer shall pay in
advance the total installation cost for the additional distribution facilities
(poles, wires, and appurtenances) as required. In all cases, the lighting
fixture, including lamp, will be installed, owned, operated, and maintained by
the city. This service is available only where there is assurance that the
service to be furnished will be permanent. The city reserves the right to
refuse to furnish such service when, in the city's opinion, the installation
will not be permanent in nature. This service is not meant to replace the
requirement of the property owner to provide standard parking lot and building
area lighting as required by the city's zoning code. Lighting of this nature
shall be installed, owned, and maintained by the property owner.
      (3)   The City Manager may refuse or curtail service when in his or her
judgment an installation will be objectionable to neighboring property owners.
   (B)   Character of service. This rate is available for all-night outdoor
security lighting service for lighting of driveways and other outdoor areas on
private property by aerial construction only, where such service can be
supplied by the installation of lighting fixtures on existing city poles and
supplied directly from existing secondary circuits on such poles, except as
provided herein.
   (C)   Rate.
      (1)   For each lamp with luminaries and, where needed, an upsweep arm not
over six feet in length, controlled automatically, where service is supplied
from an existing pole and secondary facilities of the city.
         (a)   Up to a 200 watt fixture: $7.00 per month per fixture.
         (b)   Over a 200 watt fixture: $10.00 per month per fixture.
   (D)   Service charge for delayed payment. A penalty of 5% shall be added to
all bills for which payment has not been received in the City Building by 5:00
p.m. on the due date printed on the bill.
   (E)   Terms of contract. For a fixed term of not less than two years, and
for such time thereafter until terminated by either party giving 30 days
written notice to the other.
   (F)   Terms and conditions.
      (1)   All facilities shall be owned by the city.
      (2)   The city will maintain the equipment and replace burned out lamps.
All service and necessary maintenance will be performed only during the regular
scheduled working hours of the city. The city does not guarantee continuous
lighting and shall not be liable to the customer or anyone else for any damage,
loss or injury resulting from any interruption in such lighting due to any
cause. The city shall be allowed three business days after notification by the
customer to replace all burned out lamps.
      (3)   All electric service of the city is rendered and subject to the
general service rules and regulations of the city as amended from time to time.
(Ord. 5095, passed 6-26-79; Am. Ord. 5235, passed 7-22-80; Am. Ord. 5705,
passed 7-23-85; Am. Ord. 2012-109, passed 12-11-12)
§ 915.08 LARGE POWER - PRIMARY METERED (RATE PP).
   (A)   Applicable. This rate is available, upon application, to power
consumer for power, including lighting, where the monthly maximum demand of the
consumer is at least 500 kilovolt amperes each and every month of the
immediately past preceding 12 billing months and where the consumer furnishes
and maintains all equipment necessary to receive and utilize all the energy at
the primary supply voltage from a point designated by the vendor. This rate is
not available for supplementary service, or auxiliary service.
   (B)   Character of service. Any 60 hertz (cycles per second) primary voltage
designated by the vendor. Voltages currently available are 12,470 volts and in
limited areas 69,000 volts. All services are to be three phase, 60 hertz, with
balanced three phase loading. All energy shall be primary metered unless the
vendor desires secondary metering in which case the kilowatt hours metered and
the kilovolt amperes shall be adjusted to reflect primary consumption as
subsequently stated herein.
   (C)   Rate.
      (1)   Customer service charges: $103.00 per meter per month.
      (2)   Energy charges:
First 300 kilowatt hours per kilovoltamp-demand   $0.04213 per kWH
Over 300 kilowatt-hour per kilovoltamp-demand   $0.00935 per kWH
      (3)   Demand charges:
First 1,000 kilovoltamp-demand or less   $8.24 per kVAD
Over 1,000 kilovoltamp-demand   $10.30 per kVAD
      (4)   Distribution charges:
First 500,000 kilowatt-hours   $0.02343 per kWH
Over 500,000 kilowatt-hours   $0.01407 per kWH
   (D)   Power supply cost adjustment clause. The above rates shall be adjusted
in accordance with the power supply cost adjustment clause set forth in §
915.02 of this chapter.
   (E)   Tax adjustment clause. The above rate shall be adjusted in accordance
with the tax adjustment clause set forth in §
915.04 of this chapter.
   (F)   Minimum monthly charges. The demand charge for 500 KVA ($1,780) plus
the energy and fuel adjustment charge for 50,000 kilowatt-hours, plus the fuel
adjustment charge for energy actually needed.
   (G)   Service charge for delayed payment. A penalty of 5% shall be added to
all bills for which payment has not been received in the City Building by 5:00
p.m. on the due date printed on the bill.
   (H)   Service voltage adjustments. These rates are based on metered service
at 12,470 or 69,000 volts. When at the option of the vendor metering is on the
secondary side of the customer-owned transformer the metered kilowatt-hours and
the kilovolt amperes shall be adjusted to reflect the transformer demand and
energy losses of the actual transformation equipment.
   (I)   Determination of billing demand. The billing demand shall be the
greatest single 15-minute integrated demand ascertained in kilovolt amperes by
instruments suitable for the purpose but the monthly billing demand so
established shall in no event be less than 100% of the billing demand in the
immediately prior December, January and February, nor less than 70% in the
immediately preceding 11 months except for the months of December, January, and
February where included in the 11-month span. These three months shall carry a
100% ratchet as noted above for not less than 500 kilovolt amperes.
   (J)   Contract requirements. At the option of the city, service under this
rate schedule may only be available under a service contract with consideration
for size, character and location of the consumer’s load and the cost of
facilities to be furnished by the city for those consumers not taking service
at the effective date of this rate schedule. Initially a contract shall have a
minimum term of three years.
   (K)   Terms and conditions. All electric service of the city is rendered
under and subject to the general service rules and regulations of the city as
amended from time to time. This rate Schedule P-P is only available upon
written application to the city and with reasonable lead time for
implementation and is subject to the emergency and temporary surcharge clause.
   (L)   Reconnection charge. When electric service has been disconnected for
nonpayment, there shall be the following schedule of charges for reconnection:
service requiring simple hookup by the meter reader during normal business
hours (9:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.) a fee of $50; service requiring simple hookup by
the meter reader after normal business hours, weekends and holidays, a fee of
$75; service requiring complex hookup by a line crew during normal business
hours (9:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.) a fee of $75; service requiring complex hookup
by a line crew after normal business hours, weekends and holidays, a fee of
$100.
(Ord. 5095, passed 6-26-79; Am. Ord. 5235, passed 7-22-80; Am. Ord. 5358,
passed 11-10-81; Am. Ord. 5432, passed 11-23-82; Am. Ord. 6098, passed 7-14-87;
Am. Ord. 6674, passed 12-10-91; Am. Ord. 8595, passed 11-26-02; Am. Ord. 9357,
passed 7-11-06; Am. Ord. 2009-017, passed 3-10-09; Am. Ord. 2019-072, passed
10-8-19)
§ 915.081 LARGE POWER - SECONDARY METERED (RATE LP).
   (A)   Applicable. This rate is available, upon application, to power
consumers for power, including lighting, where the monthly maximum demand of
the consumer is at least 500 kilovolt amperes each and every month of the
preceding 12 month billing cycle and utilize all the energy at the secondary
supply voltage from a point designated by the vendor. This rate is not
available for supplementary service or auxiliary service.
   (B)   Character of service.  Any 60 hertz, three phase secondary voltage
with balanced three phase loading through a maximum of three meters serving one
facility, as determined by the city, and as stated subsequently herein. All
energy shall be secondary metered unless the city opts to install
primarymetering in which case the kilowatt hours metered and the kilovolt
amperes shall be adjusted to reflect primary consumption as subsequently stated
herein.
   (C)   Rate.
      (1)   Customer service charges: $103.00 per meter per month.
      (2)   Energy charges:
First 300 kilowatt-hours per kilovoltamp-demand   $0.03065 per kWH
Over 300 kilowatt-hour per kilovoltamp-demand   $0.02445 per kWH
      (3)   Demand charges:
First 1,000 kilovoltamp-demand or less   $15.45 per kVAD
Over 1,000 kilovoltamp-demand      $13.39 per kVAD
      (4)   Distribution charges:
First 200,000 kilowatt-hours   $0.01316 per kWH
Over 200,000 kilowatt-hours   $0.00874 per kWH
   (D)   Power supply cost adjustment clause. The above rates shall be adjusted
in accordance with the power supply cost adjustment clause set forth in §
915.02 of this chapter.
   (E)   Tax adjustment clause. The above rate shall be adjusted in accordance
with the tax adjustment clause set forth in §
915.04 of this chapter.
   (F)   Primary voltage service. When service is supplied and metered at the
option of the city at 7200/12,500 volts, the above computed charges shall be
subject to a discount of 1%.
   (G)   Minimum monthly charges. The demand charge for 500 KVA plus the energy
and fuel adjustment charge for 50,000 kilowatt-hours, plus the fuel adjustment
charge for energy actually supplied.
   (H)   Service charge for delayed payment. A penalty of 5% shall be added to
all bills for which payment has not been received in the city building by 5:00
p.m. on the due date printed on the bill.
   (I)   Determination of billing demand. The billing demand shall be the
greatest single 15-minute integrated demand ascertained in kilovolt amperes by
instruments suitable for the purpose but the monthly billing demand so
established shall in no event be less than 100% of the billing demand in the
immediately prior December, January and February, nor less than 70% in the
immediately preceding 11 months except for the months of December, January, and
February where included in the 11-month span. These three months shall carry a
100% ratchet as noted above for not less than 500 kilovolt amperes.
   (J)   Contract requirements. At the option of the city, service under this
rate schedule may only be available under a service contract with consideration
for size, character and location of the consumer’s load and the cost of
facilities to be furnished by the city for those consumers not taking service
at the effective date of this rate schedule. Initially a contract shall have a
minimum term of three years.
   (K)   Terms and conditions.  
      (1)   All electric service of the city is rendered under and subject to
the general service rules and regulations of the city as amended from time to
time. This rate schedule L-P is only available upon written application to the
city and with reasonable lead time for implementation and is subject to the
emergency and temporary surcharge clause.
      (2)   A consumer may be served from any one of the following alternating
current, 60-cycle distribution systems, where and as available and at the
option of the city.
         (a)   Secondary metering at 120/240 volt, 4 wire delta, 3 phase; 120/
208 volt, 4 wire wye, 3 phase; and 277/480 volt 4 wire wye, 3 phase; or
         (b)   Primary metering at 12,500 volt, 3 wire delta, 3 phase; and
7,200/12,500 volt, 4 wire wye, 3 phase or other higher primary voltages as they
become available.
   (L)   Reconnection charge. When electric service has been disconnected for
nonpayment, there shall be the following schedule of charges for reconnection:
service requiring simple hookup by the meter reader during normal business
hours (9:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.) a fee of $50; service requiring simple hookup by
the meter reader after normal business hours, weekends and holidays, a fee of
$75; service requiring complex hookup by a line crew during normal business
hours (9:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.) a fee of $75; service requiring complex hookup
by a line crew after normal business hours, weekends and holidays, a fee of
$100.
(Ord. 9599, passed 11-13-07; Am. Ord. 9664, passed 2-26-08; Am. Ord. 2009-017,
passed 3-10-09; Am. Ord. 2019-072, passed 10-8-19)
§ 915.082 ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING STATION SERVICE RATE.
   (A)   Applicable. Applicable to consumers where there is a city-owned
electric vehicle (EV) charging station.
   (B)   Character of service. This rate is available for vehicles accessing
city-owned electric vehicle charging stations as approved by the city. When
located in public parking lots, applicable parking restrictions such as hours
of use and associated fees shall still apply.
   (C)   Rate. A rate of $0.3 per kWH shall be applied for use of all city-
owned EV charging stations. Payment shall be made at the time of use via the
city's collection system.
   (D)   Terms and conditions.
      (1)   All facilities shall be owned by the city.
      (2)   The city will maintain the equipment and fee collection system.
      (3)   All electric service of the city is rendered and subject to the
general service rules and regulations of the city as amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2021-100, passed 10-26-2021)
§ 915.09 RULES AND REGULATIONS OF SERVICE DIRECTOR.
   The Director of Service, with the approval of the City Manager, shall make
and enforce such rules and regulations as the Director of Service may deem
necessary for the enforcement of the provisions hereof, for the proper
determination and collection of the rates and charges herein provided, and for
the safe, efficient and economical management of the system.
(Ord. 5095, passed 6-26-79)
§ 915.10 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The rates charged for the electrical power are those which were set in
November, 2019 and will be effective on January 1, 2020.
(Ord. 5095, passed 6-26-79; Am. Ord. 5235, passed 7-22-80; Am. Ord. 2019-072,
passed 10-8- 19)
§ 915.11 AUTOMATIC RATE INCREASE.
   No automatic rate increase is scheduled.
(Ord. 7853, passed 6-27-00; Am. Ord. 2009-017, passed 3-10-09; Am. Ord. 2019-
072, passed 10-8- 19)
§ 915.12 ELECTRIC UTILITY TAP-IN CHARGE.
   Before any new connection is made to the city electric system there shall be
paid into the electric fund for each unit to be served by each connection, a
tap-in fee as shown below:
   (A)   Single- and two-family residential dwellings:
      (1)   A per-lot fee will be applied to each lot based on the average lot
frontage width to cover costs associated with the installation of electric
infrastructure and street lights for each platted section of the development.
The average lot frontage width will include all frontage associated with both
buildable lots and open space lots that are platted in each section of the
development. The per-lot fee will be tiered as follows:
 
Average Lot Frontage (feet) Per-Lot Fee Decorative Light Adder
50 - 69                     $600        $200
70 - 99                     $900        $300
100 or more                 $1,200      $400
 
      (2)   $12 per lineal foot for single-phase underground primary feeder
from tap-point on existing distribution system to subdivision.
      (3)   $18 per lineal foot for three-phase underground primary feeder from
tap-point on existing distribution system to subdivision.
      (4)   Per lot tap-fee shall be payable in conjunction with the
comprehensive permit for each lot. Applicable lineal foot charges for electric
distribution extension as defined in divisions (A)(2) and (A)(3) shall be
payable by the developer of record prior to electric facilities being
energized.
      (5)   The City Electric Department shall determine path and construction
method for line extensions to subdivisions and within subdivisions, consistent
with applicable industry standards and practices and the need to ensure the
integrity of the electric distribution system.
   (B)   Multifamily residential and nonresidential developments.
      (1)   $12 per lineal foot for single-phase underground primary feeder
from tap-point on existing distribution system to subdivision and within
subdivision.
      (2)   $18 per lineal foot for three-phase underground primary feeder from
tap-point on existing distribution system to subdivision and within
subdivision.
      (3)   All city costs associated with the provision and installation of
public streetlights to support the proposed multifamily or nonresidential
development shall be passed on to the developer through the billing process.
      (4)   Tap-in fee shall be payable by the developer of record prior to
electric facilities being energized.
      (5)   The Electric Department shall determine path and construction
method for line extensions to the subdivision and within the subdivision
consistent with applicable industry standards and practices and the need to
ensure the integrity of the electric distribution system.
(Ord. 9323, passed 5-23-06)
§ 915.13 NET METERING.
   (A)   Applicable.
      (1)   This rate is available to consumers on a first come, first served
basis, who own and operate qualifying consumer-generator facilities designed to
operate in parallel with the city's electric distribution system.
      (2)   Consumers served under this rate must also take service under the
applicable standard service rate (E1, E2, E3, LP, L2, PP, P2).
   (B)   Character of service.
      (1)   A qualifying consumer is one whose generating facility complies
with all the following requirements:
         (a)   Is fueled by solar, wind, biomass, landfill gas, or hydropower,
or uses a microturbine (with a total rated generating capacity of 100 kW or
less) or a fuel cell;
         (b)   Is owned and operated by the consumer and is located on the
consumer-generator's premises;
         (c)   Is designed and installed to operate in parallel with the city's
system without adversely affecting the operation of equipment and service of
the city and its consumers and without presenting safety hazards to city and
consumer personnel; and
         (d)   Is intended primarily to offset part or all of the consumer-
generator's electricity needs.
      (2)   The consumer's generating equipment shall be installed in
accordance with the manufacturer's specifications as well as all applicable
provisions of the National Electrical Code. All equipment and installations
shall comply with all applicable safety and performance standards established
by the National Electrical Code, the Institute of Electrical and Electronic
Engineers, and Underwriters Laboratories.
      (3)   The consumer or the consumer's authorized representative shall make
an application for interconnection and execute an interconnect agreement with
the city's electric department.
      (4)   The consumer must provide the city reasonable opportunity to
inspect the generation facilities prior to initial operation and witness the
initial testing and commissioning of the generation facilities. Following the
initial testing and inspection of the generation facilities, the consumer shall
comply with the terms identified in the interconnect agreement.
   (C)   Rate.
      (1)   Energy charge. The consumer's generated electricity (kWH) shall
only apply to the city's standard service rate energy charge. All other
standard service rate charges will be based upon the energy delivered by the
city to the customer.
         (a)   If the city supplies more kWH of electricity to the consumer
than the consumer-generator's facility feeds back to the city's system during
the billing period, the consumer energy charge shall be based upon the kWH
difference.
         (b)   If the consumer-generator's facility feeds more kWH of
electricity back to the city's system than the city supplies to the consumer
during the billing period, the consumer energy charge will be credited based
upon the kWH difference.
         (c)   If the consumer's net billing under the standard service
schedule is negative during the billing period, the negative net billing shall
be allowed to accumulate as a credit to offset billing in the next billing
period.
         (d)   The intent of this rate code is to allow consumers the ability
to offset part or all of the consumer's electric generation requirements
through the use of onsite renewable energy resources. On an annual basis, the
electricity (in kWH) generated by onsite generation and delivered to the city's
electric system shall not exceed electricity (in kWH) supplied by the city to
the consumer. Due to this requirement, credits shall only be applied to the
next billing period and the city will not refund credits from net metering.
   (D)   Metering. Net energy metering shall be accomplished using a single
meter capable of registering the flow of electricity in each direction. If the
existing electrical meter installed at the consumer's facility is not capable
of measuring the flow of electricity in two directions, the consumer shall be
responsible for all expenses for the purchase and installation of an
appropriate meter with such capability. The city may, at its own expense and
with written consent of the consumer, install one or more additional meters to
monitor the flow of electricity.
(Ord. 2012-108, passed 12-11-12)
§ 915.14 RENEWABLE ENERGY PURCHASING PROGRAM.
   (A)   Definitions.
      (1)   RENEWABLE ENERGY. Electric energy generated from environmentally-
friendly, renewable sources, including but not limited to, wind, hydroelectric,
solar, biomass, and landfill gas.
      (2)   RENEWABLE ENERGY PURCHASING. The city's purchase and retirement of
renewable energy certificates or REC(s) based upon an enrolled customer's
participating percentage of metered electricity usage (measured in kWh) during
a reporting period.
      (3)   RENEWABLE ENERGY PURCHASING PROGRAM. A program where customers may
voluntarily enroll to have the city complete renewable energy purchasing on the
customer's behalf, and to be assessed a charge therefor.
   (B)   Availability. Upon application, and based upon availability, customers
in all rate classes may voluntarily enroll in a renewable energy purchasing
program. A customer may select a participation percentage of 25%, 50%, 75% or
100% of their metered electricity usage to be subjected to the applicable
charge. A customer can request a different percentage and if the city approves
the requested percentage, the approved percentage of their metered electricity
usage will be subject to the applicable charge.
   (C)   Applicable charge. The applicable charge for customers who are
enrolled in the renewable energy purchasing program shall be the established
rate set forth in the latest AMP renewable energy program. The 2022 AMP
renewable energy program is named EcoSmart Choice and the applicable charge is
$0.004 per kWh per month.
(Ord. 2019-073, passed 10-8-19; Am. Ord. 2021-101, passed 10-26-21)
CHAPTER 916: TELECOMMUNICATIONS USE
Section
   
916.01     Telecommunications
   
916.02     Use charges
   
916.03     Rules and regulations of Deputy City Manager
   
916.04     Authorization of City Manager
   
916.05     Telecommunications Fund established
   
916.06   Telecommunications Reserve and Replacement Fund established [Repealed]
   
916.07   Telecommunications Bond Fund established
§ 916.01 TELECOMMUNICATIONS.
   The funds received from collection of charges as provided for hereunder,
along with such other amounts as are collected for any operation of the
telecommunications system, shall be paid into the Telecommunications Fund.
Subject to the provisions of any ordinance or indenture of mortgage authorizing
the issuance of and securing mortgage revenue bonds for the system, monies in
the fund shall be used for the payment of the cost and expense of operation,
maintenance, repair and management of the system.
(Ord. 7601, passed 2-9-99; Am. Ord. 7922, passed 8-22-00; Am. Ord. 7936, passed
9-26-00; Am. Ord. 8013, passed 12-12-00; Am. Ord. 8077, passed 1-17-01; Am.
Ord. 8223, passed 6-26-01; Am. Ord. 8329, passed 11-13-01; Am. Ord. 8415,
passed 3-12-02; Am. Ord. 8451, passed 5-14-02; Am. Ord. 8505, passed 7-23-02;
Am. Ord. 8525, passed 8-27-02; Am. Ord. 8566, passed 10-22-02; Am. Ord. 8597,
passed 11-26-02; Am. Ord. 8745, passed 5-27-03; Am. Ord. 8919, passed 4-13-04;
Am. Ord. 9092, passed 2-8-05; Am. Ord. 9112, passed 2-22-05; Am. Ord. 9125,
passed 4-12-05; Am. Ord. 9168, passed 6-28-05; Am. Ord. 9265, passed 1-24-06;
Am. Ord. 9359, passed 7-11-06; Am. Ord. 2012-110, passed 12-11-12)
§ 916.02 USE CHARGES.
   The following telecommunications rates shall be effective for
telecommunications related services.
   (A)   Local ad insertion rates.
      (1)   Channel 6 (The Lebanon Channel) Show; (per weekly
sponsorship)   $50.00
      (2)   "The Sports Show": (per weekly sponsorship)   $250.00
   (B)   School sports advertising package. The following rates shall apply for
the school sports advertising package:
      (1)   Gold package    $3,000
         6 live-read commercials in football, basketball, baseball and softball
         4 live-read commercials in all other events
         Open and close billboards on all events
         Sponsorship graphics on Channel 6
         FREE play-off sponsorship
      (2)   Silver package   $2,000
         3 live-read commercials in football, basketball, baseball and softball
         2 live-read commercials in all other events
         Open and close billboards
         Play-offs at $75 per game
      (3)   Bronze package   $800
         2 spots in every event
         Play-offs at $50 per game
(Ord. 7601, passed 2-9-99; Am. Ord. 7789, passed 3-28-00; Am. Ord. 7836, passed
6-13-00; Am. Ord. 7920, passed 8-22-00; Am. Ord. 7921, passed 8-22-00; Am. Ord.
7922, passed 8-22-00; Am. Ord. 7936, passed 9-26-00; Am. Ord. 8013, passed 12-
12-00; Am. Ord. 8077, passed 1-17-01; Am. Ord. 8223, passed 6-26-01; Am. Ord.
8329, passed 11-13-01; Am. Ord. 8415, passed 3-12-02; Am. Ord. 8451, passed 5-
14-02; Am. Ord. 8505, passed 7-23-02; Am. Ord. 8525, passed 8-27-02; Am. Ord.
8566, passed 10-22-02; Am. Ord. 8597, passed 11-26-02; Am. Ord. 8745, passed 5-
27-03; Am. Ord. 8919, passed 4-13-04; Am. Ord. 9092, passed 2-8-05; Am. Ord.
9112, passed 2-22-05; Am. Ord. 9125, passed 4-12-05; Am. Ord. 9168, passed 6-
28-05; Am. Ord. 9265, passed 1-24-06; Am. Ord. 9359, passed 7-11-06; Am. Ord.
2012- 110, passed 12-11-12)
§ 916.03 RULES AND REGULATIONS OF DEPUTY CITY MANAGER.
   The Deputy City Manager,with the approval of the City Manager, shall make
and enforce such rules and regulations as the Director of Service may deem
necessary for the enforcement of the provisions hereof, for the proper
determination and collection of the rates and charges herein provided, and for
the safe, efficient and economical management of the system.
(Ord. 7601, passed 2-9-99; Am. Ord. 7922, passed 8-22-00; Am. Ord. 7936, passed
9-26-00; Am. Ord. 8013, passed 12-12-00; Am. Ord. 8077, passed 1-17-01; Am.
Ord. 8223, passed 6-26-01; Am. Ord. 8329, passed 11-13-01; Am. Ord. 8415,
passed 3-12-02; Am. Ord. 8451, passed 5-14-02; Am. Ord. 8505, passed 7-23-02;
Am. Ord. 8525, passed 8-27-02; Am. Ord. 8566, passed 10-22-02; Am. Ord. 8597,
passed 11-26-02; Am. Ord. 8745, passed 5-27-03; Am. Ord. 9092, passed 2-8-05;
Am. Ord. 9112, passed 2-22-05; Am. Ord. 9125, passed 4-12- 05; Am. Ord. 9168,
passed 6-28-05; Am. Ord. 9265, passed 1-24-06; Am. Ord. 9359, passed 7-11-06)
§ 916.04 AUTHORIZATION OF CITY MANAGER.
   The City Manager is authorized to approve the use of limited promotions in
support of marketing programs.
(Ord. 8107, passed 2-27-01; Am. Ord. 9125, passed 4-12-05; Am. Ord. 9168,
passed 6-28-05; Am. Ord. 9265, passed 1-24-06; Am. Ord. 9359, passed 7-11-06;
Am. Ord. 2012-110, passed 12-11-12)
§ 916.05 TELECOMMUNICATIONS FUND ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established an enterprise fund to record all monetary
transactions of the telecommunications operations of the city. This fund shall
be known as the Telecommunications Fund. The Telecommunications Fund shall be
maintained by the City Auditor and shall be used for the benefit of the public
peace, health, welfare and morale of the city.
(Ord. 8041, passed 1-23-01)
§ 916.06 TELECOMMUNICATIONS RESERVE AND REPLACEMENT FUND ESTABLISHED.
[REPEALED]
Editor's note:
   Section 916.06 was repealed by Ordinance No. 2012-110, passed December 11,
2012.
§ 916.07 TELECOMMUNICATIONS BOND FUND ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There is hereby established an enterprise fund to record all monetary
debt transactions of the telecommunication operations of the city. This fund
shall be known as the Telecommunications Bond Fund. The Telecommunications Bond
Fund shall be maintained by the City Auditor and shall be used for the benefit
of the public peace, health, welfare and morals of the city.
   (B)   It is the intention of the City Council that the Telecommunications
Bond Fund is deemed to be a part of the Telecommunications System Account
established in the indenture and is intended to be available as security for
the holder of the bonds.
(Ord. 8572, passed 10-22-02)
CHAPTER 917: GARBAGE AND RUBBISH
Section
   
917.01     Definitions
   
917.02     Private solid waste collection
   
917.03     Containers
   
917.04     Service outside city
   
917.05     Service requirements and conditions
   
917.06     Removal of garden trash and tree trimmings
   
917.07     Administration and billing
   
917.08     Charges for collection
   
917.09     Rules and regulations
 
   
917.99     Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Collection and disposal of garbage, see R.C. §§ 715.43 and 717.01
   Vehicle loads dropping, sifting, leaking, see R.C. § 4513.31
Cross-reference:
   Dwelling unit; storage and disposal of garbage, rubbish, see §§ 1327.05 and
1337.02
   Littering and deposit of garbage, rubbish or junk, see §
517.02
   Storage of junk on premises, see §
517.01
   Vehicle loads dropping, sifting, leaking, see § 339.10
§ 917.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any public or private place, building and/or
enterprise devoted in whole or in part to a business enterprise, institutional
enterprise or industrial enterprise. Included in this category are sanitoriums,
nursing homes, schools and public governmental buildings.
   GARBAGE. Every waste accumulation of animal and vegetable matter which
attends the preparation, use, cooking, processing, handling or storage of
meats, fish, fowl, fruits, vegetables or other matter which is subject to
decomposition, decay, putrefaction and the generation of offensive and noxious
gasses or odors, or which during or after decay may serve as a breeding place
or feeding material for flies, insects or animals.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Waste, in any amount, which is defined, characterized or
designated as hazardous by the United States Environmental Protection Agency or
appropriate state agency by or pursuant to federal or state law, or waste, in
any amount, which is regulated under federal or state law. This includes, but
shall not be limited to, motor oil, gasoline, paint and paint cans.
   HOUSEHOLD AND COMMERCIAL RUBBISH. Every waste accumulation of paper, scraps,
dust, rags, bottles, cans, cartons, cardboard, excelsior or other accumulations
other than garbage which are usually associated with housekeeping or commercial
interests such as office, stores and similar businesses.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Every waste accumulation of metal, metal products, rocks,
concrete, glass, crockery, bottles, cans, lumber, ashes, sawdust, wastes from
animal packing or slaughter houses, or other material usually created by
industrial enterprises, but not garbage, nor household and commercial rubbish.
   MULTIPLE FAMILY RESIDENCE. Places of dwelling having three or more living
units which require centralized collection via a dumpster container as
determined by the city.
   SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCES. Any single- family dwelling and is interchangeable
with the word household. In the case of a duplex, or double, each unit shall be
regarded as a single-family dwelling.
   SOLID WASTE. A collective word used to encompass garbage, household and
commercial rubbish, recyclable materials, industrial waste, trash, waste,
rubbish or refuse or a mixture of any or all of the aforementioned.
(Am. Ord. 2089, passed 3-9-76; Am. Ord. 6768, passed 8-11-92; Am. Ord. 2010-
093, passed 9-14-10)
§ 917.02 PRIVATE SOLID WASTE COLLECTION.
   (A)   The collection, removal and transportation of solid waste for resale
or financial gain from recycling containers on the streets of the city shall be
unlawful except for a person holding a license to do so or by employees of the
city. All residential solid waste shall be handled and collected by the
contractor currently under contract with the city to provide such services.
   (B)   Licenses for the private collection, removal and transportation of
solid waste generated by non-residential properties may be issued by the City
Manager upon application by the private interest. Licenses shall be issued for
the calendar year at a charge of $50 per year or part thereof. The application
shall include, but not be limited to the following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the owner of the business which is to
remove such solid waste.
      (2)   The address of the location(s) where the accumulation of solid
waste is to be picked up.
      (3)   A complete description of the vehicle(s) to be used for
transporting the solid waste.
      (4)   The location and manner in which the ultimate disposition is to be
made of such solid waste.
   (C)   No license shall be issued to any person for the private collection,
removal or disposal of solid waste until such person has filed with the city
his or her good and sufficient bond in the sum of $10,000 conditioned upon
indemnifying the city from any damage that may be suffered by the city in any
manner by reason of the issuance of such permit, the use of the city streets or
the negligence of the license holder or any of his or her agents or employees.
Such bond shall be in the form and manner as shall be approved by the City
Attorney.
   (D)   The license holder will have to maintain in effect at all times public
liability insurance in the minimum amounts of $100,000 for injuries to any one
person, $300,000 for personal injury arising out of one occurrence and $25,000
property damage and to furnish the city a certificate evidencing this
insurance.
   (E)   All persons holding a license for the private collection, removal or
disposal of solid waste generated by non-residential properties shall comply
with all regulations and requirements promulgated by the Director of Service.
Failure to do so may result in the revocation of such license.
(Am. Ord. 2089, passed 3-9-76; Am. Ord. 6768, passed 8-11-92; Am. Ord. 9248,
passed 12-27-05)
Penalty, see § 917.99
§ 917.03 CONTAINERS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of every person occupying premises for any
purpose from which the creation or accumulation of solid waste results, to
provide or cause to be provided portable vessels or containers sufficient to
contain such solid waste. It shall be the duty of each user of solid waste
collection service to keep all containers clean and in a sanitary condition.
      (2)   If any of the containers mentioned in this section fail an
inspection they shall be condemned by the Director of Service. Grounds for
condemnation shall be that such container is unfit, unsafe, unsightly,
uncovered, unsanitary or otherwise does not meet the requirements as set forth
in this chapter. Containers which have been condemned will not be serviced by
the city until corrective action has been taken by the user.
   (B)   Household solid waste containers. All household solid waste containers
shall be enclosed plastic or metal containers free from accumulated water. All
plastic bags placed in solid waste containers shall be securely bound at the
top so as to remain watertight until collection.
   (C)   Commercial solid waste containers. Plastic bags or other types of
disposable containers are acceptable as solid waste containers. If a container
of the type commonly sold as a garbage can is used, it shall be made of metal
or other suitable material, shall have two lifting handles upon the sides of
the can, shall have a tight-fitting cover, shall be watertight and of a
capacity of not less than ten gallons and not to exceed 30 gallons. When
garbage, as defined in this chapter, is included in the solid waste, the
container must be watertight.
   (D)   Other containers. Rubbish containers shall be similar to garbage
containers described above and of such size as may be easily handled by one
person and of a construction substantial enough to not be broken in handling.
   (E)   Weight limit. No containers, except for bulk waste containers, may
exceed 75 pounds. Containers, or objects in excess of this weight shall require
a special pickup.
(Am. Ord. 2089, passed 3-9-76; Am. Ord. 9741, passed 8-12-08; Am. Ord. 2010-
093, passed 9-14-10)
Penalty, see § 917.99
§ 917.04 SERVICE OUTSIDE CITY.
   The Director of Service is authorized at his or her discretion to render the
service provided by this chapter, at the rate herein provided, to persons
living or having their place of business outside the corporation limits of the
city. The city makes no guarantee that the rate for said services shall be
equivalent to that paid for persons living or having their place of businesses
inside the corporation limits of the city.
(Am. Ord. 2089, passed 3-9-76; Am. Ord. 9248, passed 12-27-05)
§ 917.05 SERVICE REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Contents of container.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the owner, occupant or person in charge of
the premises to place or cause to be placed in the containers hereinbefore
described any and all waste created or accumulated on his or her premises or
the premises under his or her control, and no waste materials as hereinbefore
described shall be deposited on any public or private property other than that
from which such waste accumulated. All garbage shall be drained of any excess
fluids and placed in securely bound garbage bags and deposited in acceptable
garbage containers. All trash shall be placed in solid waste containers, except
that materials such as tree or shrubbery trimmings, in lieu of being placed in
solid waste containers, must be bundled and securely tied, provided that the
maximum dimensions of any one bundle shall not exceed four feet in its greatest
dimension and 30 inches in its second greatest dimension, not exceed 75 pounds
in weight.
      (2)   Construction debris, hazardous waste, industrial byproducts, highly
explosive material, substances which could cause ignition of combustible
materials, and poisonous substances must not be put out for collection in any
manner.
   (B)   Location of containers.
      (1)   Approved solid waste containers shall be placed at curbside in
front of property in such manner as not to obstruct pedestrian passage, or if a
serviceable alley is available, not more than ten feet from the alley right-of-
way.
      (2)   Where the premises do not permit placement as per this section, the
Director of Service may designate the place where the solid waste containers
shall be placed for collection.
   (C)   Containers - water. The users or owners of all containers used for the
storage and collection of solid waste shall keep such containers free of water
or other excessive liquids.
   (D)   Containers to be kept tightly covered.
      (1)   Solid waste containers shall be kept tightly covered at all times
except when it is necessary to lift the cover to deposit or remove solid waste
materials. It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit in any such container
an amount of solid waste such as will not permit the lid of such container to
fit tightly in place.
      (2)   Residential and commercial customers shall be responsible for any
spillage or littering due to upset solid waste containers or torn or damaged
disposable containers prior to pickup.
   (E)   Frequency of disposal. All residential customers will receive once a
week pickup, except in times of emergency as designated by the City Manager.
Commercial establishments and bulk waste container customers may designate the
number of pickups they desire per week, subject to routing restrictions.
   (F)   Cardboard boxes, other bulky material. Cardboard boxes, packing crates
and other bulky materials must be broken down and bundled or stored in
acceptable solid waste containers for pickup. If bundled, no package will
exceed in its greatest dimension four feet and in its second greatest dimension
30 inches.
(Am. Ord. 2089, passed 3-9-76; Am. Ord. 9741, passed 8-12-08)
Penalty, see § 917.99
§ 917.06 REMOVAL OF GARDEN TRASH AND TREE TRIMMINGS.
   (A)   Single-family residences, multiple-family residences and commercial
establishments shall place yard waste out for collection in accordance with the
following requirements:
      (1)   All YARD WASTE, defined as grass clippings, weeds and hedge
trimmings, leaves, small brush and branches (which must be bundled with cotton
twine not over four feet in length and 75 pounds in weight), house plants or
garden debris (no large tree stumps or branches), must be placed in adequate
bags.
      (2)   The Contractor may solicit residents directly on the rental of a 90
gallon yard waste cart for a flat monthly fee.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or cause to be placed any
yard waste or tree trimmings at the curbside, right-of-way or street edge
except in accordance with the procedures set forth in divisions (A)(1) and (A)
(2). Yard waste that is unlawfully placed at the curbside shall be removed by
the direction of the Director of Service and the special service charges will
be used and billed to the owner or tenant where such illegal accumulations
existed.
   (C)   This section shall not be interpreted to include leaves left at the
curb for fall leaf pickup and removal.
(Am. Ord. 2089, passed 3-9-76; Am. Ord. 9248, passed 12-27-05)
Penalty, see § 917.99
§ 917.07 ADMINISTRATION AND BILLING.
   (A)   Waste collection services shall be provided for residences and
business establishments in accordance with the administrative code of the city.
The Director of Service shall maintain and keep current a list of all residents
and business establishments for which waste collection service is provided,
together with the amount per month to be charged each resident and business
establishment. He or she shall furnish to the City Auditor such information as
is necessary for proper billing.
   (B)   The City Auditor shall render all bills for waste collection service
to the user thereof monthly. Where practicable, such bills may be included as
part of the statements normally rendered to users of electricity.
(Am. Ord. 2089, passed 3-9-76)
§ 917.08 CHARGES FOR COLLECTION.
   All occupants or owners of premises in the city will be required to pay
charges for garbage and rubbish removal and curbside recycling service in
accordance with the following schedules:
   (A)   Residential garbage and recycling collection service.
      (1)   Effective January 1, 2021 monthly charges for single family
residential garbage and recycling collection shall be $20.44 per month per
dwelling unit. Effective January 1, 2022 monthly charges for single family
residential garbage and recycling collection shall be $20.95 per month per
dwelling unit. Effective January 1, 2023 monthly charges for single family
residential garbage and recycling collection shall be $21.48 per month per
dwelling unit. Effective January 1, 2024 monthly charges for single family
residential garbage and recycling collection shall be $22.02 per month per
dwelling unit. Effective January 1, 2025 monthly charges for single family
residential garbage and recycling collection shall be $22.57 per month per
dwelling unit. A DWELLING UNIT is defined to be one or more rooms arranged for
the use of one or more individuals living together as a single housekeeping
unit, with cooking, living, sanitary and sleeping facilities. This includes
single-family and duplex dwellings.
      (2)   Effective January 1, 2021 monthly charges for multi-family
residential garbage and recycling collection shall be $18.30 per month per
dwelling unit. Effective January 1, 2022 monthly charges for multi-family
residential garbage and recycling collection shall be $18.75 per month per
dwelling unit. Effective January 1, 2023 monthly charges for multi-family
residential garbage and recycling collection shall be $19.22 per month per
dwelling unit. Effective January 1, 2024 monthly charges for multi-family
residential garbage and recycling collection shall be $19.70 per month per
dwelling unit. Effective January 1, 2025 monthly charges for multi-family
residential garbage and recycling collection shall be $20.20 per month per
dwelling unit. A DWELLING UNIT is defined to be one or more rooms arranged for
the use of one or more individuals living together as a single housekeeping
unit, with cooking, living, sanitary and sleeping facilities. This rate applies
to multi-family dwellings as defined in this chapter.
      (3)   One recycling bin or 65 gallon large recycling cart will be issued
to each residential dwelling free of charge at the commencement of the program.
Residents may purchase additional bins, or replace lost or stolen bins,
directly from the city's solid waste collection contractor at a cost to be
determined by the contractor. When moving, bins should remain with the
residential dwelling unit. At the direction of the Director of Public Works,
multi-family residents that use bulk garbage containers (e.g. dumpsters) may be
provided bulk residential containers in lieu of individual recycling bins. If
the dwelling is issued a large recycling cart, when moving the cart shall
remain with the residential dwelling unit for pick-up by the recycling
collection contractor. For curbside recycling collection, all recycling items
must be placed loosely in the 18-gallon bin or 65-gallon cart. All cardboard
needs to be flattened, bundled/tied and placed beside the recycling bin or
cart.
   (B)   Commercial service; non-dumpster: For those commercial customers who
generate on the average one cubic yard, or less, per week, as determined by the
Director of Public Works, or where there is not sufficient space available to
accommodate a bulk dumpster, a special non-dumpster service is available. All
requirements of §
917.03(C) regarding containers shall be observed. Effective January 1, 2021
monthly charges for commercial garbage and recycling collection shall be $20.44
per month. Effective January 1, 2022, monthly charges for commercial garbage
and recycling collection shall be $20.95. Effective January 1, 2023, monthly
charges for commercial garbage and recycling collection shall be $21.48.
Effective January 1, 2024, monthly charges for commercial garbage and recycling
collection shall be $22.02. Effective January 1, 2025, monthly charges for
commercial garbage and recycling collection shall be $22.57.
(Am. Ord. 2089, passed 3-9-76; Am. Ord. 5503, passed 8-9-83; Am. Ord. 5509,
passed 8-23-83; Am. Ord. 5795, passed 3-25-86; Am. Ord. 6050, passed 4-14-87;
Am. Ord. 6330, passed 2-28-89; Am. Ord. 6561, passed 12-11-90; Am. Ord. 6673,
passed 12-10-91; Am. Ord. 6727, passed 4-28-92; Am. Ord. 7469, passed 1-27-98;
Am. Ord. 7605, passed 2-9-99; Am. Ord. 8539, passed 9-24-02; Am. Ord. 8892,
passed 1-27-04; Am. Ord. 9248, passed 12-27-05; Am. Ord. 9416, passed 11-28-06;
Am. Ord. 9741, passed 8-12-08; Am. Ord. 2010-093, passed 9-14-10; Am. Ord.
2017-113, passed 11-28-17; Am. Ord. 2019-092, passed 11- 26-19; Am. Ord. 2020-
114, passed 11-24-20)
§ 917.09 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Director of Service, with the approval of the City Manager, is
empowered to make and enforce such reasonable rules and regulations as he or
she may deem necessary in the operation of waste collection and to carry out
the provisions of this chapter. This shall include, but not be limited to, the
authority to establish the type of container, the frequency of collection, and
the location of containers.
   (B)   The Director of Service shall have the authority to deny all
collection services to persons or places not conforming to conditions as stated
in this chapter. Any person aggrieved by any decision by the Director of
Service shall have the right to appeal this decision to the City Manager.
   (C)   Removal of large household items, building materials, scrap metal,
and/or excessive refuse generated from such activities as household renovation,
moving, etc. must be coordinated in advance by the property owner with the
city’s refuse contractor. The contractor has the right to charge additional
fees for this service to be paid by the property owner. No person shall store,
place or allow said items to remain on any lot, part of a lot, public right-of-
way, or parcel of land in the city and any failure to remove such items will
constitute nuisance as defined in
Chapter 517 of the Lebanon Codified Ordinances. Failure to have said debris
and/or refuse removed will result in the property owner receiving a citation
under
Chapter 517 of the Lebanon Codified Ordinances. If the property owner fails to
have said items removed within 48 hours after issuance of the citation, the
city shall direct the contractor to do so and will bill the property owner for
all costs associated wit the removal of the debris, in addition to fines and
other applicable costs and charges. Failure to pay for the costs associated
with the removal of the debris may result in the city assessing the costs onto
the property.
(Am. Ord. 2089, passed 3-9-76; Am. Ord. 9248, passed 12-27-05)
§ 917.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined
not more than $100.
(Am. Ord. 2089, passed 3-9-76; Am. Ord. 6768, passed 8-11-92)
CHAPTER 918: STORM WATER MANAGEMENT UTILITY
Section
   
918.01   Definitions
   
918.02   Description
   
918.03   Storm water user fee billing
   
918.04   Storm water user fee charges
   
918.05   Penalty
   
918.06   Operation of storm water system
   
918.07   Appeals process
§ 918.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words
used in the singular shall include the plural, and the plural, the singular;
words used in the present tense shall include the future tense. The word
“shall” is mandatory and not discretionary. The word “may” is permissive. Words
not defined herein shall be construed to have the meaning given by common and
ordinary use as defined in the latest edition of Webster's Dictionary.
   BILLING PERIOD. The service period identified on the utility bill. Each
account shall be billed monthly in arrears of the service period.
   BONDS. Revenue bonds, notes, loans or any other debt obligations issued or
incurred to finance the costs of construction.
   CALENDAR YEAR. The 12-month period commencing on the first day of January of
any year.
   COSTS OF CONSTRUCTION. Costs reasonably incurred in connection with
providing capital improvements to the system or any portion  thereof,
including, but not limited to, the costs of (1) acquisition of all property,
real or personal, and all interests in connection therewith including all
rights-of-way and easements therefor; (2) physical construction, installation
and testing, including the costs of labor, services materials, supplies and
construction services used in connection therewith; (3) architectural,
engineering, inspection, legal and other professional services; (4) insurance
premiums taken out and maintained during construction, to the extent not paid
for by a contractor for construction and installation; (5) any taxes or other
charges which become due during construction; (6) expenses incurred by the city
or on its behalf with its approval in seeking to enforce any remedy against any
contractor; (7) principal of and interest of any bonds; and (8) miscellaneous
expenses incidental thereto.
   DEBT SERVICE. With respect to any particular calendar year and any
particular series of bonds, an amount equal to the sum of (1) all interest
payable on such bonds during such calendar year; plus (2) any principal
installments of such bonds during such calendar year.
   DEVELOPED PROPERTY. Real property other than undisturbed property.
   DWELLING UNIT. A singular unit or apartment providing complete, independent
living facilities for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for
living, sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
   EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL UNIT or ERU.  The statistical average horizontal
impervious area of all residential developed property per dwelling unit located
within the city.
   ERU RATE. A storm water user fee charged on each ERU as established by City
Council.
   EXEMPT PROPERTY. Public rights-of-way, public streets, public alleys and
public sidewalks.
   EXTENSION AND REPLACEMENT. Costs of extensions, additions and capital
improvements to, or the removal and replacement of capital assets of, or
purchasing and installing new equipment for, the system, or land acquisitions
for the system and any related costs thereto, or paying extraordinary
maintenance and repair, including the costs of construction, or any other
expenses which are not costs of operation and maintenance or debt service.
   IMPERVIOUS AREA. The number of square feet of hard surfaced areas which
either prevent or retard the entry of water into soil mantle, as it entered
under natural conditions as undisturbed property, and/or causes water to run
off the surface in greater quantities or at an increased rate of flow from that
present under natural conditions as undisturbed property, including, but not
limited to, roofs, roof extensions, patios, porches, driveway, sidewalks,
pavement and athletic courts.
   NONRESIDENTIAL DEVELOPED PROPERTY. Developed property that is not utilized
for dwelling units with the city.
   OPERATING BUDGET. The annual operating budget adopted by the city for the
succeeding calendar year.
   OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE. The current expenses, paid or accrued, of
operation, maintenance and current repair of the system as calculated in
accordance with sound accounting practice, and includes, without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, insurance premiums, administrative expenses,
labor, executive compensation, and cost of materials and supplies used for
current operations, and charges for the accumulation of appropriate reserves
for current expenses not annually incurred, but which are such as may
reasonably be expected to be incurred in accordance with the sound accounting
practice.
   REVENUES. All rates, fees, assessments, rentals or other charges or other
income received by the Storm Water Utility Fee Fund, in connection with the
management and operation of the system, including amounts received from the
investment of deposit of moneys in any fund or account and any amounts
contributed by the city, all as calculated in accordance with sound accounting
practice.
   STORM WATER MANAGEMENT SYSTEM  or SYSTEM. The existing storm water
management of the city and all improvements thereto which by this chapter are
constituted as the property and responsibility of the city, to be operated as
an enterprise fund to, among other things, conserve water, control discharges
necessitated by rainfall events, incorporate methods to collect, convey, store,
absorb, inhibit, treat, use or reuse water to prevent or reduce flooding, over-
drainage, environmental degradation and water pollution, or otherwise affect
the quality and quantity of discharge from such system.
   STORM WATER USER FEE. A fee authorized by ordinance(s) established to pay
operations and maintenance, storm water planning and management, extension and
replacement and debt service.
   STORM WATER UTILITY FUND. The enterprise fund created by this chapter to
operate, maintain, and improve the system and for such other purposes as stated
in this chapter.
   USER FEE DISTRICT. The area or property within the corporate limits of the
city.
   VACANT IMPROVED PROPERTY.  Unoccupied developed property that contains
impervious area.
(Ord. 8872, passed 12-9-03)
§ 918.02 DESCRIPTION.
   Subject to the provisions of this chapter, each and every residential
developed property, nonresidential developed property and vacant improved
property, other than exempt property, within the corporate limits of the city,
and the owners and non-owner users thereof, shall have imposed upon them a
storm water user fee. In the event the owner and non-owner users of a
particular property are not the same, the liability for each the owner and non-
owner user for the user fee attributable to that property shall be joint and
several. The storm water user fee shall be a monthly or a regular interval
service charge and shall be determined by the provisions of this chapter and
the ERU and ERU rate, which shall be established and changed from time to time
by City Council.
(Ord. 8872, passed 12-9-03)
§ 918.03 STORM WATER USER FEE BILLING.
   The storm water user fee for metered property shall be billed and collected
monthly with the monthly city's services utility bill for those properties
within the corporate limits of the city. These fees shall be billed and
collected separately as storm water user fees. All such bills for storm water
user fees shall be rendered monthly by the Service Department. The storm water
user fee for those properties utilizing city utilities is part of a
consolidated statement for utility customers, which is generally paid by a
single payment. In the event that a partial payment is received, the payment
shall be applied in accordance with the city Rules and Regulations developed by
the City Manager.
(Ord. 8872, passed 12-9-03)
§ 918.04 STORM WATER USER FEE CHARGES.
   There is hereby established the following uniform schedule of rates for the
services and use of facilities of the storm water management system by the
owner, tenant or occupant of the premises using the services and facilities of
said system:
   (A)   The City Council shall hereby establish reasonable rates for storm
water management systems for each residential dwelling unit; each residential
dwelling unit shall be billed a flat fee established by the City Council. An
EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL UNIT is hereby defined as the statistical average
horizontal impervious area of residential dwelling units in the city.
   (B)   For all residential and nonresidential properties, i.e., enterprise,
business establishment, building or other occupancy not covered by divisions
(A) and (B) of this section, the rate shall be computed based on the total
impervious area of the property divided by the average impervious area of an
equivalent residential unit times the rate established for an equivalent
residential unit. The billing amount shall be updated by the Engineering
Department based on any additions to the impervious areas as approved through
the building permit process.
   (C)   The rates to be charged for the storm water user fee for equivalent
residential unit shall be $3.90 per month.
   (D)   The rates to be charged for nonresidential properties, i.e., all other
occupants other than provided for in division (A) of this section, shall be the
rate established in division (C) of this section ($3.90), multiplied by the
number of equivalent residential units. The equivalent residential unit equals
the total square footage of impervious area of the property divided by 2,615
square feet (statistically developed average for all the residential dwelling
units in the city). Equivalent residential units will be rounded to the nearest
tenth (0.1) of a unit.
   (E)   The rates to be charged for all residential dwelling units will be
determined by multiplying 1.0 ERU by the fee for an ERU established in division
(C) of this section.
(Ord. 8872, passed 12-9-03; Am. Ord. 2019-091, passed 11-26-19; Am. Ord. 2021-
105, passed 11-23-21)
§ 918.05 PENALTY.
   For each charge or rental levied by or pursuant to this chapter, if the same
is not paid within 30 days after it is due and payable, the municipality is
authorized to terminate city electric or other utility service until the charge
or rental is paid. A penalty of 5% shall be added to all bills for which
payment has not been received in the City Building by 4:30 p.m. on the due date
printed on the utility bill.
(Ord. 8872, passed 12-9-03)
§ 918.06 OPERATION OF STORM SEWER SYSTEM.
   The City Manager may make and enforce such rules and regulations as may be
deemed necessary for the safe, economical and efficient management and
protection of the municipal storm water system, for the construction and use of
the storm water system and facilities, for connections to the storm water
system and for the regulation, collection, rebating and refunding of charges or
rentals, provided such rules and regulations are not in conflict with any
municipal ordinance. No person shall violate or fail to comply with any such
rule or regulation.
(Ord. 8872, passed 12-9-03)
§ 918.07 APPEALS PROCESS.
   Any person disagreeing with the calculation of the storm water user fee, as
provided in this chapter, may appeal such determination to the City Manager, or
his or her designee. Any appeal must be filed in writing and shall include a
survey, showing dwelling units, total property area, impervious area or
nonresidential developed area, drainage structures, drainage patterns and any
features that contain/retain/ detain storm runoff on their own property, and
diminish the quantity of storm water handled by the city, as appropriate. The
Manager may request additional information from the appealing party. Based upon
the information provide by the utility and appealing party, the Manager shall
notify the parties, in writing, of the Manager's decision.
(Ord. 8872, passed 12-9-03)
CHAPTER 919: FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
Section
   
919.01   Application
   
919.02     Duties and responsibilities of the Director of Service
Cross-reference:
   Flood damage reduction standards for designated flood hazard areas, see
Ch. 1308
§ 919.01 APPLICATION.
   This chapter shall apply to those areas of special flood hazards as
established by
Chapter 1308 of the codified ordinances.
(Ord. 5056, passed 2-27-79)
§ 919.02 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE DIRECTOR OF SERVICE.
   The Director of Service shall require that:
   (A)   All new and replacement water supply systems be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (B)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems be designed to minimize or
eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and discharge from the
system into the flood waters.
   (C)   On site waste disposal systems (landfill) be located to avoid
impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
(Ord. 5056, passed 2-27-79)
CHAPTER 920: STORM WATER DISCHARGE AND MAINTENANCE REGULATIONS
Section
   
920.01   Purpose and intent
   
920.02   Applicability
   
920.03   Statutory authority
   
920.04   Administration
   
920.05   Conflicts, severability, nuisances and responsibility
   
920.06   Ultimate responsibility of discharger
   
920.07   Definitions
   
920.08   Disclaimer of liability
   
920.09   Prohibition of illicit discharges
   
920.10   Prohibition of illicit connections
   
920.11   Suspension of MS4 access
   
920.12   Monitoring of illicit discharges and illegal connections
   
920.13   Waste disposal prohibitions
   
920.14   Industrial or construction activity discharges
   
920.15   Requirement to prevent, control, and reduce storm water pollutants
   
920.16   Requirement to eliminate illicit discharges
   
920.17   Requirement to eliminate or secure approval for illegal connections
   
920.18   Maintenance requirement
   
920.19   Requirement to remediate
   
920.20   Notification of spills
   
920.21   Right to enter and inspect
   
920.22   Authority to sample, establish sampling devices, and test
   
920.23   Violations
   
920.24   Notice of violation
   
920.25   Appeal
   
920.26   Abatement by city
   
920.27   Charging cost of abatement
   
920.28   Urgency abatement
   
920.29   Violations deemed a public nuisance
 
   
920.99   Penalty
§ 920.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect and safeguard the general health,
safety, and welfare of the public residing in watersheds within the City of
Lebanon. This chapter seeks to meet that purpose through the following
objectives:
   (A)   Minimizing the negative impacts of increased storm water discharges
from new land development and redevelopment;
   (B)   To protect the condition of state (and U.S.) waters for all reasonable
public uses and ecological functions;
   (C)   To establish legal authority to carry out all the inspection and
monitoring procedures, and enforcement actions necessary to ensure compliance
with this chapter;
   (D)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the Municipal Separate
Storm Sewer System (MS4) by storm water discharges by any user;
   (E)   To enable City of Lebanon to comply with the National Pollution
Discharge Elimination System permit and applicable federal and state
regulations; and
   (F)   To prohibit illicit discharges and illegal connections to the MS4.
(Ord. 2022-031, passed 3-22-22)
§ 920.02 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   These regulations are intended to conform to the requirements found in
the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency (Ohio EPA) Phase II general permit for
Municipal Separate Storm Sewer Systems (MS4) and the associated OEPA
construction general permit. As the OEPA permits are routinely updated, any
inconsistencies in the requirements, definitions or verbiage between these
regulations as compared to the OEPA permits shall assume the current permit
language prevails.
   (B)   This chapter shall apply to all residential, commercial, industrial,
or institutional facilities responsible for discharges to the MS4 and on any
lands in the county, except for those discharges generated by the activities
detailed in § 920.09(A) to (C) of this chapter.
(Ord. 2022-031, passed 3-22-22)
§ 920.03 STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   These regulations are promulgated in accordance with § 4 of Article XVIII of
the Ohio Constitution and chapter 3745-39 of the Ohio Administrative Code to
implement Phase II of the storm water program of the National Pollutant
Discharge Elimination System established in 40 C.F.R. Part 122.
(Ord. 2022-031, passed 3-22-22)
§ 920.04 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The city may designate specific duties and responsibilities to a
designated agent through the execution of a memorandum of understanding or
contractual agreement. The city or its designated agent may furnish additional
policy, criteria and information, including specifications and standards, for
the proper implementation of the requirements of these regulations; and may
provide such information in the form of a storm water design manual or the City
of Lebanon Land Development Design and Construction Standards Manual. The
manual may be updated and expanded from time to time, at the discretion of the
city, based on improvements in engineering, science, monitoring and local
maintenance experience.
   (B)   The city will follow the Warren County Illicit Discharge Detection and
Elimination Manual (IDDE Manual) that outlines the county's approach to
identify and addressing illicit discharges from the MS4.
(Ord. 2022-031, passed 3-22-22)
§ 920.05 CONFLICTS, SEVERABILITY, NUISANCES AND RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Where this chapter is in conflict with other provisions of law or
ordinance, the most restrictive provisions, as determined by the City of
Lebanon, shall prevail.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter are hereby declared to be severable. If
any provision, clause, sentence, or paragraph of this chapter or the
application thereof to any person, establishment, or circumstances shall be
held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect the other provisions or
application of this chapter.
   (C)   This chapter shall not be construed as authorizing any person to
maintain a nuisance on their property, and compliance with the provisions of
this chapter shall not be a defense in any action to abate such a nuisance.
   (D)   Failure of the City of Lebanon or its designated agent to observe or
recognize hazardous or unsightly conditions or to recommend corrective measures
shall not relieve the site owner from the responsibility for the condition or
damage resulting therefrom, and shall not result in the City of Lebanon, its
officers, employees, or agents being responsible for any condition or damage
resulting therefrom.
(Ord. 2022-031, passed 3-22-22)
§ 920.06 ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY OF DISCHARGER.
   The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this chapter are
minimum standards; therefore this chapter does not intend nor imply that
compliance by any person will ensure that there will be no contamination,
pollution, nor unauthorized discharge of pollutants into waters of the State of
Ohio caused by said person. This chapter shall not create liability on the part
of the City of Lebanon, or any agent or employee thereof for any damages that
result from any discharger's reliance on this chapter, or any administrative
decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 2022-031, passed 3-22-22)
§ 920.07 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICE (BMP). Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, general good housekeeping practices, pollution prevention and
educational practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices
to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants directly or indirectly to
storm water, receiving waters, or storm water conveyance systems. BMPs also
include treatment practices, operating procedures, and practices to control
site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or water disposal, or drainage from raw
materials storage. Please refer to the City of Lebanon's Land Development
Design and Construction Standards Manual.
   CHANNEL. Any natural or artificial watercourse with a definite bed and
banks.
   CLEAN WATER ACT. The federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251
et seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
   DRAINAGE. The removal of excess surface water or groundwater from land by
surface or subsurface drains.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY. The United States Environmental Protection
Agency,  including but not limited to the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency
(Ohio EPA) or any duly authorized official of said agency.
   FLOATABLE MATERIALS. Any foreign matter that may float or remain suspended
in the water column, and includes but is not limited to, plastic, aluminum
cans, wood products, bottles, and paper products.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any material, including any substance, waste, or
combination thereof, which because of its quantity, concentration, or physical,
chemical, or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety,
property, or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported,
disposed of, or otherwise managed.
   HOUSEHOLD SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM (HSTS). A system designed to treat
household sewage on-site and discharges treated wastewater effluent off the
property into a storm water or surface water conveyance or system.
   ILLICIT CONNECTION. Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or
subsurface, which allows an illegal discharge to enter the MS4, including but
not limited to, any conveyances which allow any non-storm water discharge
including sewage, process wastewater, and wash water to enter the MS4.
   ILLICIT DISCHARGE. Any discharge to the storm water system not composed
entirely of storm water except the following: water line flushing, landscape
irrigation, diverted stream flows, rising ground waters, uncontaminated ground
water infiltration (as defined at 40 CFR 35.2005(b)(20)), uncontaminated pumped
ground water, discharges from potable water sources, foundation drains, air
conditioning condensation, irrigation water, springs, water from crawl space
pumps, footing drains, lawn watering, individual car washing, charity car wash
events, flows from riparian habitats and wetlands,  dechlorinated swimming pool
discharges, street wash water, home sewer treatment systems that discharge in
accordance with Warren County Combined Health District Codes and permits, and
discharges or flows from firefighting activities.
   INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY. Activities subject to NPDES industrial permits as
defined in 40 CFR 122.26(b)(14).
   MAINTENANCE COVENANT. A formal contract between a local government and a
property owner designed to guarantee that specific maintenance functions are
performed.
   MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4). As defined at 40 CFR 122.26(b)
(8), means a conveyance or system of conveyances (including roads with drainage
systems, municipal streets, catch basins, curbs, gutters, ditches, man-made
channels, or storm drains) that is: owned or operated by a state, county, town,
borough, parish, district, municipality, township, district, association, or
other public body (created by or pursuant to state law) having jurisdiction
over sewage, industrial wastes, including special districts under state law
such as a sewer district, or similar entity, or an Indian tribe or an
authorized Indian tribal organization, or a designated and approved management
agency under § 208 of the Clean Water Act that discharges to waters of the
United States; designed or used for collecting or conveying storm water; which
is not a combined sewer; and which is not part of a Publicly Owned Treatment
Works (POTW) as defined at 40 CFR 122.2.
   NON-STORM WATER DISCHARGE. Any discharge to the storm drain system that is
not composed entirely of storm water.
   NPDES. National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System. A regulatory program
in the federal Clean Water Act that prohibits the discharge of pollutants into
surface waters of the United States without a permit.
   OWNER/OPERATOR. Any individual, association, organization, partnership,
firm, corporation or other entity recognized by law and acting as either the
owner or on the owner's behalf.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, firm, trust, commission, board, public
or private partnership, joint venture, agency, unincorporated association,
municipal corporation, county or state agency, the federal government, other
legal entity, or an agent thereof.
   POLLUTANT. Anything which causes or contributes to pollution. POLLUTANTS may
include, but are not limited to: paints, varnishes, and solvents; oil and other
automotive fluids; nonhazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes;
refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter, or other discarded or abandoned objects,
articles, and accumulations, so that same may cause or contribute to pollution;
floatables; pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers; hazardous substances and
wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and particulate metals;
animal wastes; wastes and residues that result from constructing a building or
structure (including but not limited to sediments, slurries, and concrete
rinsates); and noxious or offensive matter of any kind.
   POLLUTION. The human-made or human-induced alteration of the quality of
waters by waste to a degree which unreasonably affects, or has the potential to
unreasonably affect, either the waters for beneficial uses or the facilities
which serve these beneficial uses.
   PREMISES. Any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land, whether
improved or unimproved, including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
   RUNOFF. The portion of rainfall, melted snow, or irrigation water that flows
across the ground surface and is eventually conveyed to water resources or
wetlands.
   SEDIMENT. The soils or other surface materials that are transported or
deposited by the action of wind, water, ice, gravity, or any combination of
those forces, as a product of erosion.
   SEDIMENTATION. The deposition or settling of sediment.
   STORM DRAIN SYSTEM. Publicly or privately owned facilities by which storm
water is collected and/or conveyed, including but not limited to any roads with
drainage systems, public or private streets, gutters, curbs, inlets, piped
storm drains, pumping facilities, retention and detention basins, natural and
human-made or altered drainage channels, reservoirs, and other drainage
structures which are within the city or are outside of the city but convey
storm water into the city and are not part of a publicly owned treatment works
as defined at 40 CFR 122.2 .
   STORM WATER. Any surface flow, runoff, and drainage consisting entirely of
water from any form of natural precipitation and resulting from such
precipitation.
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN. The technical and policy manuals, plans,
regulations and/or calculations, and any subsequent updates or amendments
thereto, used by the City Engineer to administer the storm water regulations.
   WASTEWATER. Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated storm
water, discharged from a facility.
   WATERS OF THE STATE OF OHIO. All streams, lakes, reservoirs, marshes,
wetlands, or other waterways situated wholly or partly within the boundaries of
the state, except those private waters which do not combine or affect a
junction with surface water. Waters defined as sewerage systems, treatment
works or disposal systems in R.C. § 6111.01 are not included.
   WATERS OF THE UNITED STATES. Surface watercourses and water bodies as
defined at 40 CFR 122.2, including all natural waterways and definite channels
and depressions in the earth that may carry water, even though such waterways
may only carry water during rains and storms and may not carry storm water at
and during all times and seasons.
(Ord. 2022-031, passed 3-22-22)
§ 920.08 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   Compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall not relieve any person
from responsibility for damage to any person otherwise imposed by law. The
provisions of this chapter are promulgated to promote the health, safety, and
welfare of the public and are not designed for the benefit of any individual or
for the benefit of any particular parcel of property.
(Ord. 2022-031, passed 3-22-22)
§ 920.09 PROHIBITION OF ILLICIT DISCHARGES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged an illicit discharge
into the MS4. The commencement, conduct or continuance of any illicit discharge
to the MS4 is prohibited except as described as follows:
   (A)   Water line flushing; landscape irrigation; diverted stream flows;
rising ground waters; uncontaminated ground water infiltration; uncontaminated
pumped ground water; discharges from potable water sources; foundation drains;
air conditioning condensate; irrigation water; springs; water from crawl space
pumps; footing drains; lawn watering; individual residential car washing; flows
from riparian habitats and wetlands; dechlorinated swimming pool discharges;
street wash water; and discharges or flows from firefighting activities. These
discharges are exempt until such time as they are determined by the city to be
significant contributors of pollutants to the MS4.
   (B)   Discharges specified in writing to the city, or its designated agent,
as being necessary to protect public health and safety.
   (C)   Dye testing is an allowable discharge but requires a notification to
the city, or its designated agent, prior to the time of the test.
   (D)   The prohibition shall not apply to any non-storm water discharge
permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver, or waste discharge order issued to the
discharger and administered by the State of Ohio under the authority of the
Federal Environmental Protection Agency, provided that the discharger is in
full compliance with all requirements of the permit, waiver, or order and other
applicable laws and regulations, and provided that written approval has been
granted for any discharge to the MS4.
(Ord. 2022-031, passed 3-22-22)
§ 920.10 PROHIBITION OF ILLICIT CONNECTIONS.
   The construction, use, maintenance or continued existence of illicit
connections to the MS4 is prohibited. A person is considered to be in violation
of this chapter if the person connects a line conveying illicit discharges to
the MS4 or allows such a connection to continue.
(Ord. 2022-031, passed 3-22-22)
§ 920.11 SUSPENSION OF MS4 ACCESS.
   (A)   The city or its designated agent may, without prior notice, suspend
MS4 discharge access to a person when such suspension is necessary to stop an
actual or threatened discharge which presents or may present imminent and
substantial danger to the environment, or to the health or welfare of persons,
or to the MS4. If the violator fails to comply with a suspension order issued
in an emergency, the city or its designated agent may take such steps as deemed
necessary to prevent or minimize damage to the MS4, or to minimize danger to
persons.
   (B)   Any person discharging to the MS4 in violation of this chapter may
have their MS4 access terminated if such termination would abate or reduce an
illicit discharge. The city, or its designated agent, will notify a violator of
the proposed termination of its MS4 access. The violator may petition the city
or its designated agent for a reconsideration and hearing. A person commits an
offense if the person reinstates MS4 access to premises terminated pursuant to
this section, without the prior approval of the city or its designated agent.
(Ord. 2022-031, passed 3-22-22)
§ 920.12 MONITORING OF ILLICIT DISCHARGES AND ILLEGAL CONNECTIONS.
   The City of Lebanon has established a program to detect and eliminate
illicit discharges and illicit connections to the MS4. This program includes
the mapping of the MS4, including MS4 outfalls and receiving waters and
household sewage treatment systems connected to the MS4, the routine inspection
of storm water outfalls to the MS4, and a process to identify and eliminate any
discovered illicit discharges.
   (A)   The City of Lebanon, or its designated agent, shall be permitted to
enter and inspect facilities subject to this chapter as often as may be
necessary to determine compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   The City of Lebanon, or its designated agent, shall have the right to
set up at facilities subject to this chapter such devices as are necessary to
conduct monitoring and/or sampling of the facility's storm water discharge, as
determined by the City of Lebanon.
   (C)   The City of Lebanon, or its designated agent, shall have the right to
require the facility owner/operator to install monitoring equipment as
necessary. This sampling and monitoring equipment shall be maintained at all
times in safe and proper operating condition by the facility owner/operator at
the owner/operator's expense. All devices used to measure storm water flow and
quality shall be calibrated by the City of Lebanon to ensure their accuracy.
   (D)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and reasonable access
to the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
facility's owner/operator at the written or oral request of the city or its
designated agent and shall not be replaced. The costs of clearing such access
shall be borne by the facility owner/operator.
   (E)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the city, or its designated agent,
access to a facility subject to this chapter for the purposes of illicit
discharge inspection is a violation of this chapter.
   (F)   If the city, or its designated agent, is refused access to any part of
the facility from which storm water is discharged, and the city demonstrates
probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this chapter, or
that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of an inspection and
sampling program designed to verify compliance with this chapter or any order
issued hereunder, or to protect the public health, safety, and welfare, the
city may seek issuance of a search warrant and civil remedies, including but
not limited to injunctive relief from any court of appropriate jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2022-031, passed 3-22-22)
§ 920.13 WASTE DISPOSAL PROHIBITIONS.
   No person shall throw, deposit, leave, maintain, keep, or permit to be
thrown, deposited, left, or maintained, in or upon any public or private
property, driveway, parking area, street, alley, sidewalk, component of the
storm drain system, or water of the State of Ohio, any refuse, rubbish, fecal
matter, garbage, litter, or other discarded or abandoned objects, articles, and
accumulations, so that the same may cause or contribute to water pollution.
Wastes deposited in proper waste receptacles for the purposes of collection are
exempted from this prohibition.
(Ord. 2022-031, passed 3-22-22)
§ 920.14 INDUSTRIAL OR CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY DISCHARGES.
   Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity NPDES storm
water discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of such permit. Proof
of compliance with said permit may be required in a form acceptable to the City
of Lebanon prior to the allowing of discharges to the MS4.
(Ord. 2022-031, passed 3-22-22)
§ 920.15 REQUIREMENT TO PREVENT, CONTROL, AND REDUCE STORM WATER POLLUTANTS.
   Best management practices are required for any activity, operation, or
facility which may cause or contribute to pollution or contamination of storm
water, the storm drain system, or waters of the State of Ohio. Permitted BMPs
are set forth in the City of Lebanon Land Development Design and Construction
Standards Manual.
(Ord. 2022-031, passed 3-22-22)
§ 920.16 REQUIREMENT TO ELIMINATE ILLICIT DISCHARGES.
   Notwithstanding the requirements of this chapter, the city shall require
that a person responsible for an illicit discharge immediately, or by a
specified date, discontinue the discharge and, if necessary, take measures to
eliminate the source of the discharge to prevent the occurrence of future
illicit discharges.
(Ord. 2022-031, passed 3-22-22)
§ 920.17 REQUIREMENT TO ELIMINATE OR SECURE APPROVAL FOR ILLEGAL CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   The city shall require that a person responsible for an illegal
connection to the storm drain system comply with the requirements of this
chapter to eliminate or secure approval for the connection by a specified date,
regardless of whether or not the connection or discharges to it had been
established or approved prior to the effective date of this chapter.
   (B)   If, subsequent to eliminating an illegal connection found to be in
violation of this chapter, the responsible person can demonstrate that an
illicit discharge will no longer occur, said person may request city approval
to reconnect. The reconnection or reinstallation of the connection shall be at
the responsible person's expense.
(Ord. 2022-031, passed 3-22-22)
§ 920.18 MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Storm water quantity provisions and storm water quality BMPs that are
constructed on privately-owned land shall be maintained by a homeowners
association or, if no homeowner's association is established, the owner of the
subject property. If a property is under tax increment financing, the owner of
the building located on the property shall be responsible for maintenance.
   (B)   Prior to approval of a final plat for an subdivision/PUD and/or the
issuance of an occupancy permit for any building within a permitted development
served by storm water quantity detention and retention basins and storm water
quality BMPs, the applicant or owner of the storm water quantity provisions and
storm water quality BMPs shall establish a formal maintenance covenant approved
by the City of Lebanon and recorded in the Warren County Recorder's Office, in
which the owner acknowledges the duty of the owner and all subsequent owners of
the property to maintain the storm water quantity provisions and storm water
quality BMPs in accordance with the terms of the covenant.
   (C)   For existing facilities, copies of recorded maintenance covenants
shall be provided by the responsible entity to the city within 90 days from a
written request of the City of Lebanon.
   (D)   Maintenance and records of maintenance for all BMPs shall be performed
by all responsible parties as required in the Land Development Design and
Construction Standards Manual.
(Ord. 2022-031, passed 3-22-22)
§ 920.19 REQUIREMENT TO REMEDIATE.
   Whenever the City of Lebanon finds that a discharge of pollutants is taking
place or has occurred which will result in or has resulted in pollution of
storm water, the storm drain system, or water of the State of Ohio, the City of
Lebanon may require the owner of the property and/or the responsible person to
remediate the pollution and restore the affected property within a specified
time pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2022-031, passed 3-22-22)
§ 920.20 NOTIFICATION OF SPILLS.
   Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person responsible
for a facility or operation, or responsible for emergency response for a
facility or operation, has information of any known or suspected release of
materials which are resulting or may result in illicit discharges or pollutants
discharging into the MS4, said person shall take all necessary steps to ensure
the discovery, containment, and cleanup of such release. In the event of such a
release of a hazardous material, said person shall immediately notify emergency
response officials of the occurrence via emergency dispatch services (911). In
the event of a release of non-hazardous materials, said person shall notify the
City of Lebanon Service Department or its designated agent in person or by
phone no later than the next business day. Notifications in person or by phone
shall be confirmed by written notice addressed and mailed to the city or its
designated agent within three business days of the phone notice. If the
discharge of prohibited materials emanates from a commercial or industrial
establishment, the owner or operator of such establishment shall also retain an
on-site written record of the discharge and the actions taken to prevent its
recurrence. Such records shall be retained for a minimum of three years.
(Ord. 2022-031, passed 3-22-22)
§ 920.21 RIGHT TO ENTER AND INSPECT.
   (A)   The City of Lebanon or its designed agent may enter upon any lot or
parcel of land within the City of Lebanon or any parcel which discharges into
the City of Lebanon MS4 to inspect storm water detention or storm water quality
BMPs or to investigate any reports of illicit discharges or pollution.
      (1)   When any new storm water quantity provision or storm water quality
BMP is installed on private property, the property owner shall grant to the
City of Lebanon or its designed agent the right to enter the property at
reasonable times and in a reasonable manner for the purpose of inspection.
      (2)   This includes the right to enter a property when the City of
Lebanon or its designated agent has a reasonable basis to believe that a
violation of this chapter is occurring or has occurred, and to enter when
necessary for abatement of a public nuisance or correction of a violation of
this chapter.
   (B)   In the event the owner or occupant refuses entry after a request to
enter and inspect has been made, the city is hereby empowered to seek
assistance from any court of competent jurisdiction in obtaining such entry.
(Ord. 2022-031, passed 3-22-22)
§ 920.22 AUTHORITY TO SAMPLE, ESTABLISH SAMPLING DEVICES, AND TEST.
   During any inspection as provided herein, the City of Lebanon or its
designated agent may take any samples and perform any testing deemed necessary
to aid in the pursuit of the inquiry or to record site activities.
(Ord. 2022-031, passed 3-22-22)
§ 920.23 VIOLATIONS.
   Any action or inaction which violates the provisions of this chapter, the
requirements of an approved storm water management plan, and/or the
requirements of a recorded storm water maintenance covenant may be subject to
the penalties outlined in this chapter.
(Ord. 2022-031, passed 3-22-22)
§ 920.24 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Whenever the City of Lebanon, or its designated agent, finds that a
person has violated a prohibition or failed to meet a requirement of this
chapter, the city, or its designated agent, may order compliance by written
notice of violation to the responsible person. Such notice must specify the
violation and shall be delivered and/or sent by registered mail to the owner/
operator of the facility. Such notice may require the following actions:
      (1)   The performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting;
      (2)   The elimination of illicit connections or illicit discharges;
      (3)   That violating discharges, practices, or operations shall cease and
desist;
      (4)   The abatement or remediation of storm water pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property; and
      (5)   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
   (B)   If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected property is
required, the notice of violation shall set forth a deadline, determined at the
discretion of the enforcement agent, within which such remediation or
restoration must be completed. Said notice shall further advise that, should
the facility owner/operator fail to remediate or restore within the established
deadline, a legal action for enforcement may be initiated.
   (C)   Any person receiving a notice of violation must meet compliance
standards within the time established at the discretion of the enforcing agent
in the notice of violation.
   (D)   Injunctive relief. It shall be unlawful for any owner/operator to
violate any provision or fail to comply with any of the requirements of this
chapter. If an owner/operator has violated or continues to violate the
provisions of this chapter, the city or its designated agent may petition for a
preliminary or permanent injunction restraining the owner/operator from
activities that would create further violations or compelling the owner/
operator to perform abatement or remediation of the violation or other
appropriate relief. The court may order the implementation of control measures
and may assess a civil fine of not less than $100 or more than $500. Each day
of violation of a rule of this chapter or administrative order issued under
this chapter shall be considered a separate violation subject to a civil fine.
(Ord. 2022-031, passed 3-22-22)
§ 920.25 APPEAL.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
920.24, any person receiving a notice of violation under §
920.24 may appeal the determination of the City Engineer to the City Manager.
The notice of appeal must be received by the City Manager within five calendar
days from the receipt of the notice of violation. Hearing on the appeal before
the City Manager or his/her designee shall take place within five business days
from the date of the city's receipt of the notice of appeal. The decision of
the City Manager or designee shall be final.
(Ord. 2022-031, passed 3-22-22)
§ 920.26 ABATEMENT BY CITY
   (A)   If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements
set forth in the notice of violation, or, in the event of an appeal under §
920.25, within ten calendar days of the decision of the City Manager upholding
the decision of the City Engineer, then the city or a contractor designated by
the City of Lebanon shall enter upon the subject private property and is
authorized to take any and all measures necessary to abate the violation and/or
restore the property. It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, agent or
person in possession of any premises to refuse to allow the city or designated
contractor to enter upon the premises for the purposes set forth above.
   (B)   If it is determined that the necessary remediation cannot be completed
in the amount of time given, time extensions may be granted by the City
Engineer or City Manager if sufficient documentation is provided.
(Ord. 2022-031, passed 3-22-22)
§ 920.27 CHARGING COST OF ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Within 30 days after abatement of the nuisance by the city, the City
of Lebanon or its designated agent, shall notify the property owner, as shown
according to the Warren County Auditor's records, of the cost of abatement,
which shall include all costs relating to the abatement and administrative
costs incurred by the city.
   (B)   The owner may file a written protest objecting to the amount of the
assessment with the City Manager within 30 days of the date of the notification
of costs. The City Manager shall set the matter for a public hearing by the
City Council. The decision of the Council shall be final. Failure to timely
protest the amount of the abatement as provided herein shall constitute a
failure to exhaust administrative remedies and no further appeal rights shall
be granted.
   (C)   If such costs are not paid within 90 days of the date of notification
of the cost of abatement, or if the determination of the City Council as set
forth above has not been successfully challenged by a timely writ of mandate,
the obligation may constitute a lien or, in the alternative, a special
assessment against the property on which the violation occurred.
(Ord. 2022-031, passed 3-22-22)
§ 920.28 URGENCY ABATEMENT.
   The City of Lebanon or its designated agent is authorized to require
immediate abatement of any violation of this chapter that constitutes an
immediate threat to the health, safety or well-being of the public. If any such
violation is not abated immediately as directed by the City of Lebanon is
authorized to enter onto private property and to take any and all measures
required to remediate the violation. Any expense related to such remediation
undertaken by the City of Lebanon shall be fully reimbursed by the property
owner and/or responsible party. Any relief obtained under this section shall
not prevent the city from seeking other and further relief authorized under
this chapter.
(Ord. 2022-031, passed 3-22-22)
§ 920.29 VIOLATIONS DEEMED A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties hereinbefore
provided, any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter is a threat to public health, safety, and welfare,
is declared and deemed a nuisance, and may be summarily abated or restored by
the city at the violator's expense and/or a civil action to abate, enjoin, or
otherwise compel the cessation of such nuisance may be taken by the city.
   (B)   Acts potentially resulting in a violation of the federal Clean Water
Act. Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or any provision of
any requirement issued pursuant to this chapter may also be in violation of the
Clean Water Act and may be subject to the sanctions of those acts, including
civil and criminal penalties. Any enforcement action authorized under this
chapter shall also include written notice to the violator of such potential
liability.
(Ord. 2022-031, passed 3-22-22)
§ 920.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Administrative fines.
      (1)   The city may assess, on a strict liability basis, except where this
chapter expressly provides for an affirmative defense, administrative fines not
to exceed $500 per violation against any person who violates any provision of
this chapter. Each day or portion thereof when a violation occurs shall be
considered a separate violation.
      (2)   In determining the amount of an administrative fine, the city shall
consider the magnitude and severity of the violation, history of past
violations or compliance, economic advantage accrued by the violator due to the
violation, and actions taken by the violator to comply with this chapter.
      (3)   Any administrative fines assessed by the city may be added to the
person's storm water service charge, and the city shall have such collection
remedies as provided to collect other service charges.
      (4)   Judicial proceedings. The city may commence an action for
appropriate legal and/or equitable relief in the appropriate courts with
respect to the conduct of a discharger contrary to the provisions of this
chapter and may be subject to:
         (a)   Injunctive relief; or
         (b)   Civil penalties; or
         (c)   Criminal penalties as determined by the court.
   (B)   Falsifying information. Any person or persons who knowingly make any
false statement, representation or certification in any application, record,
report, plan or document filed or required to be maintained pursuant to this
chapter, any wastewater discharge permit, or any order of the city or court of
competent jurisdiction, or who falsifies, tampers with, or knowingly renders
inaccurate any monitoring device or method, shall be punishable, upon
conviction, by a criminal penalty of up to $1,000 per day per violation and not
more than six months in jail.
(Ord. 2022-031, passed 3-22-22)
TITLE FIVE - Other Public Services
   
Chapter 921   Lebanon Cemetery
   
Chapter 925   Park Rules and Regulations
   
Chapter 927   Emergency Medical Services
CHAPTER 921: LEBANON CEMETERY
Section
   
921.01     City responsibility
   
921.02     Charges
   
921.03     Columbarium spaces
   
921.04     Cremation spaces
   
921.05     Additional charges
   
921.06     Resale of lot to city
   
921.07     City Manager's authority to change charges
   
921.08   Indigent burials
   
921.09   Rules and regulations
Statutory reference:
   Burial may be prohibited, see R.C. § 759.05
   Management and control, see R.C. § 759.09
Cross-reference:
   Duties of Superintendent of Cemeteries and Parks, see § 127.04
§ 921.01 CITY RESPONSIBILITY.
   The offer of the Lebanon Cemetery Association is accepted and the city
hereby undertakes all necessary measures for operation of the cemetery which
shall be known as “The Lebanon Cemetery.”
(Res. 893, passed 8-30-60; Am. Ord. 8443, passed 4-9-02)
§ 921.02 CHARGES.
   Cost of cemetery lots. The following charges pertaining to the Lebanon
Cemetery are hereby enacted:
   (A)   Regular grave space in Sections SE Addition, SW Addition: $1,100 for a
resident of the city; $1,400 per grave space for nonresidents of the city.
   (B)   Regular grave spaces in Sections A, B, C, D, F, G, and H: $1,100 for
city residents; $1,400 for nonresidents of the city.
   (C)   Upright monument grave spaces in Section J: $1,100 for a resident of
the city; $1,400 per gave space for nonresidents of the city. Flush monument
grave spaces in Section J: $650 for a resident of the city; $900 per grave
space for nonresidents of the city.
   (D)   Upright monument grave spaces in Sections K, K2, D-2, I: $1,100 per
grave space for a resident of the city; $1,400 per grave space for nonresidents
of the city.
(Am. Ord. 4097, passed 7-11-78; Am. Ord. 5495, passed 7-26-83; Am. Ord. 6435,
passed 11-28-89; Am. Ord. 7655, passed 5-25-99; Am. Ord. 8443, passed 4-9-02;
Am. Ord. 8894, passed 1-27-04; Am. Ord. 9306, passed 4-4-06; Am. Ord. 2010-094,
passed 9-14-10; Am. Ord. 2018-027, passed 4-10-18; Am. Ord. 2020-123, passed
12-8- 20)
§ 921.03 COLUMBARIUM SPACES.
   Columbarium niches: columbarium niche fees shall be as follows:
 
Level A $1,500 for a resident of the city; $1,900 for nonresidents of the city.
Level B $1,500 for a resident of the city; $1,900 for nonresidents of the city.
Level C $1,500 for a resident of the city; $1,900 for a nonresident of the
        city.
Level D $1,500 for a resident of the city; $1,900 for a nonresident of the
        city.
(Ord. 8443, passed 4-9-02; Am. Ord. 8894, passed 1-27-04; Am. Ord. 9306, passed
4-4-06; Am. Ord. 2010-094, passed 9-14-10; Am. Ord. 2020-123, passed 12-8-20)
§ 921.04 CREMATION SPACES.
   Cremation spaces: $375 per space.
(Ord. 8443, passed 4-9-02; Am. Ord. 8894, passed 1-27-04; Am. Ord. 2018-027,
passed 4-10-18)
§ 921.05 ADDITIONAL CHARGES
   (A)   Opening and closing of graves on Monday through Friday prior to 3:00
p.m. — $900 for each opening.
   (B)   Opening and closing of graves on Monday through Friday after 3:00 p.m.
and on Saturday — $1,200 for each opening.
   (C)   Opening and closing of baby graves on Monday through Friday prior to
3:00 p.m. — $200 for each opening.
   (D)   Opening and closing of baby graves on Monday through Friday after 3:00
p.m. and on Saturday — $300 for each opening.
   (E)   Opening and closing of cremation spaces and/or columbarium niches
Monday through Friday before 3:00 p.m. — $450.
   (F)   Opening and closing of cremation spaces and/or columbarium niches
Monday through Friday after 3:00 p.m. and on Saturday — $550.
   (G)   Monument foundations — $0.75 per square inch of foundation with the
minimum in any event being $25.
   (H)   Lettering on columbarium niches — $150.
   (I)   One hundred dollars for each opening and closing of graves from the
fees identified above shall be credited to the Cemetery Improvement Fund.
(Am. Ord. 4097, passed 7-11-78; Am. Ord. 5495, passed 7-26-83; Am. Ord. 5508,
passed 8-23-83; Am. Ord. 6847, passed 5-25-93; Am. Ord. 7655, passed 5-25-99;
Am. Ord. 8443, passed 4-9-02; Am. Ord. 8894, passed 1-27-04; Am. Ord. 9306,
passed 4-4-06; Am. Ord. 2010-094, passed 9-14-10; Am. Ord. 2013-047, passed 5-
14-13; Am. Ord. 2018-027, passed 4-10-18; Am. Ord. 2020- 123, passed 12-8-20)
§ 921.06 RESALE OF LOT TO CITY.
   If requested by the owner of a lot, the city may buy back a lot from the
owner at the original purchase price, minus a $100 per plot administration
charge.
(Ord. 1025, passed 4-23-63; Am. Ord. 8443, passed 4-9-02; Am. Ord. 2013-047,
passed 5-14-13)
§ 921.07 CITY MANAGER'S AUTHORITY TO CHANGE CHARGES.
   Whenever the City Manager shall for any reason consider the aforementioned
schedule of charges inequitable, whether it be because of burials on Saturday
afternoons, Sundays or holidays, or whether it be for reason of hardship or any
other reason, the City Manager is authorized at his or her sole discretion to
either increase or decrease the charges for the particular service rendered.
(Ord. 1025, passed 4-23-63; Am. Ord. 8443, passed 4-9-02)
§ 921.08 INDIGENT BURIALS.
   (A)   As provided for in R.C. § 9.15, when an indigent resident of the city
dies, and no other person nor any other authority is chargeable with the duty
of disposal of the remains, or of defraying the cost of such disposal, or if
the person otherwise chargeable therewith is indigent and unable to defray such
disposal costs, the City Manager shall cause the remains to be cremated or
otherwise properly disposed of. The City Manager shall take reasonable actions
to verify the indigence of the deceased resident, as well as any persons
chargeable with disposal of the remains or persons claiming the remains.
Indigence as defined by the Revised Code as having an income not exceeding 150%
of the federally established poverty level, as revised annually by the United
States Department of Health and Human Services. When indigence of the decedent
and/or any person claiming the remains of the decedent has been established
after reasonable inquiry, the city will provide the following services to
affect the proper disposal of the remains:
      (1)   A regular grave space or cremation space selected by the city in
the city-owned cemetery.
      (2)   Grave opening and closing operations in the city-owned cemetery
during regular business hours.
      (3)   Grave liner as specified in current cemetery regulations.
      (4)   A grave marker, to be selected by the city, inscribed with the
decedent’s name, age, if known, and date of death.
      (5)   Cremation services and a cremation container.
      (6)   Administrative, labor, and transportation fees incurred by a
private funeral home.
   (B)   The city will not pay for a private funeral arranged independently by
a person claiming the remains of an indigent decedent; nor will the city
reimburse any person claiming the remains of an indigent decedent for the costs
or expenses incurred for any private interment or cremation.
   (C)   Prior to the city arranging for the disposition of the remains of any
indigent decedent, a person authorized to claim the remains of any indigent
decedent shall complete and submit a “Request for Indigent Burial and Waiver of
Right of Disposition” form, and “Affadavit of Indigency” form and shall submit
such forms to the city.
(Ord. 8672, passed 2-25-03; Am. Ord. 9770, passed 10-14-08; Am. Ord. 2016-102,
passed 11- 22-16; Am. Ord. 2017-005, passed 2-14-17; Am. Ord. 2018-026, passed
4-10-18)
§ 921.09 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The City Manager shall establish such rules and regulations as may be
necessary for the efficient operation of the cemetery.
(Am. Ord. 8443, passed 4-9-02; Am. Ord. 8672, passed 2-25-03)
CHAPTER 925: PARK RULES AND REGULATIONS
Section
   
925.01     Authority
   
925.02     Definitions
   
925.03     Removal or destruction of property and natural features
   
925.04     Deposit of material
   
925.05     Protection of animals; hunting and fishing
   
925.06     Animal control
   
925.07     Aerosol paint cans
   
925.08     Personal conduct
   
925.09     Fires
   
925.10     Camping
   
925.11     Swimming, wading, boating and ice skating
   
925.12     Firearms and weapons [Repealed]
   
925.13     Commercial activities
   
925.14     Erecting and attaching signs
   
925.15     Hours of use
   
925.16     Unauthorized structures
   
925.17     Fireworks and explosives
   
925.18     Vehicles and traffic
   
925.19     Pedestrian access
   
925.20     Employee exemption
   
925.21     Failure to obey
   
925.22     Ejection from park
   
925.23     Scheduling of facilities
   
925.24   Penalty
   
925.25   Supplementary rules
   
925.26   Separability
Editor’s note:
   The four corners at Broadway and Main Street were dedicated as public places
on the original plat of the city.
Statutory reference:
   Land appropriation for parks, see R.C. §§ 715.21 and 719.01
   Playgrounds, see R.C. §§ 755.12 et seq.
   Power to regulate vehicle speed in parks, see R.C. § 4511.07(E)
Cross-reference:
   Division of Cemeteries and Parks, see § 127.04
   Play streets, see §
311.04
§ 925.01 AUTHORITY.
   The following rules and regulations are adopted by the Council of the City
of Lebanon, Ohio for the protection and preservation of parks, reservations of
land, green space and other lands open to the public, owned and/or under the
control of the city, and under its jurisdiction and control, and of property
and natural life therein.
(Ord. 5279, passed 3-10-81)
§ 925.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL or ANIMALS Shall include, but not be limited to quadrupeds, birds,
fish, reptiles, amphibians, crustaceans, mollusks and insects.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of Service of the City of Lebanon, Ohio.
   FISH OR FISHING. Taking or attempting to take fish by any method, and all
other acts such as placing, setting, drawing or using any device commonly used
to fish whether resulting in such taking or not.
   MANAGER. The City Manager of the City of Lebanon, Ohio.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle propelled or drawn by power other than muscular
power.
   OFFICER. A Lebanon Police Division Officer of the City of Lebanon, Ohio, the
Director of Service or any agent or employee of either.
   PARK WATERS. Any lake, pond, reservoir, stream, pool, channel, lagoon, or
other body of water, or any part thereof, whether natural or artificial,
located in or adjoining a park.
   PARK. Any land or water area owned, leased or otherwise controlled by the
City of Lebanon, Ohio for recreational, open space or similar and related
purposes.
   PERSON. Any individual, company, partnership, corporation or association or
any combination of individuals, or any employee, agent or officer thereof.
   VEHICLE. Every conveyance with wheels, treads, or other means of locomotion.
(Ord. 5279, passed 3-10-81)
§ 925.03 REMOVAL OR DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY AND NATURAL FEATURES.
   (A)   No person in a park shall remove any property, natural feature or part
thereof included, but not limited to, any building, equipment, sign, rock,
stone, mineral formation, earth, wood, tree, shrub, flower, plant, nut or other
seed from a park without a permit from the Director.
   (B)   No person in a park shall injure, destroy, break, cut, chop, write
upon, mutilate, set fire to, deface, dig, paint or damage in any manner any
property, natural feature or part thereof, including but not limited to, any
building, equipment, sign, rock, stone, mineral formation, earth, wood, tree,
shrub, flower or plant.
   (C)   No person in a park shall impound or cause to be impounded any park
water or in any other way alter or affect the natural flow of such waters
without a permit from the Director.
   (D)   Exceptions to division (A) above may be made for the removal of non-
native (alien or exotic) species, generally accepted land management practices,
or for specific research purposes if approved guidelines are followed and the
activity is authorized in writing from the Director.
(Ord. 5279, passed 3-10-81; Am. Ord. 2011-024, passed 4-12-11)
Penalty, see § 925.24
§ 925.04 DEPOSIT OF MATERIAL.
   (A)   No person shall deposit, discard, dump or leave behind any material of
any kind in a park without a permit from the Director except materials arising
from the normal use and enjoyment of a park and then only in receptacles which
may have been provided for this purpose.
   (B)   No person shall, adjacent to a park, deposit, discard, dump or leave
behind any noxious or waste material included, but not limited to, paper,
garbage, ashes or refuse which may blow, wash, or be otherwise transported into
a park.
   (C)   No person in or adjacent to a park shall place or permit to be placed
in any park waters any noxious or deleterious substance, either solid or liquid
which may render such waters harmful or inimical to the public health or to
animal and plant life.
(Ord. 5279, passed 3-10-81)
Penalty, see § 925.24
§ 925.05 PROTECTION OF ANIMALS; HUNTING AND FISHING.
   (A)   No person in a park shall hunt, capture, take, trap or in any other
way abuse, molest, injure, pursue or destroy any animal without a permit from
the Director other than by fishing.
   (B)   No person in a park shall move, injure or destroy any bird nest or egg
or any animal habitation.
   (C)   No person in a park shall fish in park waters in violation of any sign
or signs prohibiting fishing or a manner thereof.
(Ord. 5279, passed 3-10-81)
Penalty, see § 925.24
§ 925.06 ANIMAL CONTROL.
   (A)   No person shall bring into, have or keep in a park any dog, cat or
other animal unless such animal is kept in a vehicle suitably caged; or
restrained by a leash, in such a manner as to be under the person’s control at
all times, except within enclosed areas specifically designated with
appropriate signage as pet recreation areas such as a "dog park".
   (B)   No person in a park shall ride or have under his or her control a
horse except in areas designated for such purpose.
   (C)   No person in a park shall ride a horse, where such is permitted, in
such a manner as to endanger the rider, the horse or any other person or any
property.
   (D)   No person in or adjacent to a park shall abandon any animal.
   (E)   No person shall herd, graze, drive or permit any animal to run at
large in a park.
   (F)   The city shall have the right to impound or destroy a feral or
diseased animal.
(Ord. 5279, passed 3-10-81; Am. Ord. 2011-024, passed 4-12-11)
Penalty, see § 925.24
§ 925.07 AEROSOL PAINT CANS.
   No person in a park except an officer or the Director or his or her agents
shall carry on or about his or her person a container capable of propelling
paint by means of a gaseous charge without having first obtained written
permission from the Director.
(Ord. 5279, passed 3-10-81)
Penalty, see § 925.24
§ 925.08 PERSONAL CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person in or adjacent to a park shall conduct himself or herself by
work or by act, in a riotous, disorderly, boisterous or other manner so as to
disturb the peace and good order in a park.
   (B)   No person in or adjacent to a park shall operate or play a radio,
television set, musical instrument, or amplifying or sound equipment so as to
disturb peace and good order in a park.
   (C)   No person in a park shall solicit or procure participants for, engage
in, or promote any game which is played for money or other thing of value,
except where permission has been obtained in advance in writing from the
Director.
   (D)   No person in a park shall use insulting, abusive, threatening,
profane, or indecent language.
   (E)   No person in a park shall loiter in the vicinity of a toilet and no
person over the age of six shall enter the toilet facilities provided for the
exclusive use of the opposite sex.
   (F)   No person in a park shall wilfully resist, obstruct or abuse an
officer or Director while such officer or Director is engaged in the execution
of his or her office.
   (G)   No person in a park shall assault or commit bodily injury upon another
or engage in or abet or aid in any fight, quarrel, or other disturbance.
   (H)   No persons or groups of persons shall assemble in or adjacent to a
park for any unlawful purpose or in riotous assemblage or with intent to annoy,
harass, or inflict property damage or bodily injury upon another person or
persons or inflict damage to a park.
   (I)   No person in a park shall solicit or attempt to solicit another to
engage in an act of sex perversion or solicit or request another to commit,
perform, or engage in any lewd, lascivious, obscene, or indecent act of
behavior.
   (J)   No person in a park shall appear in a state of nudity or commit,
perform or engage in any lewd, lascivious, obscene, illicit, carnal, or
indecent act of behavior.
   (K)   No person in a park shall openly display, sell, offer for sale,
consume, or be under the influence of intoxicating liquors or alcoholic
beverages in a park unless otherwise authorized by law or permit.
   (L)   No person in a park shall sell, offer for sale, possess, receive, use,
administer to his or her self or others, be under the influence of, or possess
any equipment for administering any narcotic drug, opiate, hallucinogen,
amphetamine or barbiturate except as provided by law.
   (M)   No person with the intent to do so shall willfully interfere with,
disrupt, or prevent the conduct of any recreational program, event, or activity
conducted by or having been scheduled through the city at a park or
recreational facility.
   (N)   No person shall smoke in an enclosed area within a park facility where
it is prohibited pursuant to R.C. Chapter 3794.
(Ord. 5279, passed 3-10-81; Am. Ord. 2011-024, passed 4-12-11; Am. Ord. 2019-
094, passed 11-26-19)
Penalty, see § 925.24
§ 925.09 FIRES.
   (A)   No person in a park shall start or maintain a fire except in a place
or at a site designated for this purpose.
   (B)   No person in a park shall build a fire at a time or period when the
Director has prohibited the building of fires.
(Ord. 5279, passed 3-10-81)
Penalty, see § 925.24
§ 925.10 CAMPING.
   No person in a park shall establish or maintain any camp or other temporary
lodging or sleeping place within a park without a permit from the Director.
(Ord. 5279, passed 3-10-81)
Penalty, see § 925.24
§ 925.11 SWIMMING, WADING, BOATING AND ICE SKATING.
   No person in a park shall engage in the activities of swimming, wading,
boating and ice skating in areas or at times which have not been set aside for
these purposes by appropriate signage.
(Ord. 5279, passed 3-10-81)
Penalty, see § 925.24
§ 925.12 FIREARMS AND WEAPONS. [REPEALED]
Editor’s note:
   Section 925.12 was repealed by Ordinance No. 2019-088, passed October 22,
2019.
§ 925.13 COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   No person in a park shall sell or offer for sale any article,
privilege, or service without having first obtained written permission from the
Director.
   (B)   No person in a park shall beg, peddle or solicit for money, a
privilege or a service.
   (C)   No park shall be used for commercial purposes except with a permit
from the Director.
(Ord. 5279, passed 3-10-81; Am. Ord. 2011-024, passed 4-12-11)
Penalty, see § 925.24
§ 925.14 ERECTING AND ATTACHING SIGNS.
   No person in a park shall erect a sign or attach a sign to property owned or
controlled by the city, nor shall any person display any placard, notice,
advertisement, circular, banner, or statement of any other kind other than a
permanent sign on a vehicle without a permit from the Director.
(Ord. 5279, passed 3-10-81)
Penalty, see § 925.24
§ 925.15 HOURS OF USE.
   No person shall enter or remain in a park except during the hours of a
legally permitted activity. Unless otherwise posted or approved, park hours of
use are one-half hour before sunrise to one-half hour after sunset every day.
(Ord. 5279, passed 3-10-81; Am. Ord. 2011-024, passed 4-12-11)
Penalty, see § 925.24
§ 925.16 UNAUTHORIZED STRUCTURES.
   No person in a park shall construct, erect, or in any other way build any
structure without a permit from the Director.
(Ord. 5279, passed 3-10-81)
Penalty, see § 925.24
§ 925.17 FIREWORKS AND EXPLOSIVES.
   No person in a park shall have in his or her possession any fireworks or
explosives or shall cause any fireworks or explosives to ignite or detonate
without having first obtained in writing a permit from the Director.
(Ord. 5279, passed 3-10-81)
Penalty, see § 925.24
§ 925.18 VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC.
   (A)   No person in a park shall operate any motor vehicle in or on any
portion of a park not designated as a park drive nor shall any person park any
motor vehicle in or on any other portion of a park not designated as a parking
area.
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle over park property except on
roadways provided for this purpose and on such roadways only at a reasonable
speed in view of all the surrounding facts and circumstances, and in a careful
manner. Operating a vehicle in excess of 10 miles per hour on park drives, or
in parking areas, shall be prima facie evidence of reckless driving.
   (C)   No person in a park shall operate a snowmobile or an unlicenced motor
vehicle of any kind except in designated areas.
   (D)   No person in a park shall operate a vehicle in such a manner as to
endanger the operator or any other person or any property.
   (E)   No person in a park shall drive around, cause to be moved, or damage
any barricades or barrier so placed to temporarily or permanently close a road
to traffic.
   (F)   No person in a park shall operate a vehicle in excess of the posted
speed limit, which posted speed limit shall be 10 miles per hour.
   (G)   No person shall leave a vehicle in a park during the hours when a park
is closed.
   (H)   Vehicles in parks in violation of these rules and regulations shall be
removed or caused to be removed by officers to a location, in or outside of a
park, where the same may be kept until the owners or their authorized
representatives obtain an order from the Director or his or her representative
releasing such vehicles to the owners thereof or their authorized
representatives. The city shall not be responsible for any fee, charge or
damage arising from such impoundment.
   (I)   No person in a park shall accelerate a motor vehicle causing the
rubber tires to mark or deface park roadway surfaces.
   (J)   No person shall park any vehicle in a park except in places designated
for this purpose.
(Ord. 5279, passed 3-10-81; Am. Ord. 7954, passed 9-26-00; Am. Ord. 2011-024,
passed 4-12-11)
Penalty, see § 925.24
§ 925.19 PEDESTRIAN ACCESS.
   No person shall travel within, through, or gain access to any park where
pedestrian trails have been established and appropriately marked except by the
use of such trails unless special permission has been granted by the Director.
(Ord. 5279, passed 3-10-81)
Penalty, see § 925.24
§ 925.20 EMPLOYEE EXEMPTION.
   Acts of employees of the city to the extent necessary for the performance of
their authorized duties, shall be exempt from the provisions of these rules and
regulations.
(Ord. 5279, passed 3-10-81)
§ 925.21 FAILURE TO OBEY.
   No person in or adjacent to a park shall fail or refuse to comply with any
reasonable order relating to the regulation, direction, or control of traffic,
or to any order lawfully given by any officer, nor shall any such person fail
or refuse to comply with any reasonable restriction established herein, or by
the Manager or Director, for the proper use of the park; provided that the
restriction has been properly established and the appropriate signage erected.
(Ord. 5279, passed 3-10-81)
Penalty, see § 925.24
§ 925.22 EJECTION FROM PARK.
   Officers may order any person violating any of the provisions of these rules
and regulations or the laws of the State of Ohio to leave the park and no
person shall fail to obey such an order. Any person repeatedly violating any
rule or regulation in this chapter may lose the privilege of entering a park
for a period of time as designated by the Director.
(Ord. 5279, passed 3-10-81; Am. Ord. 2011-024, passed 4-12-11)
Penalty, see § 925.24
§ 925.23 SCHEDULING OF FACILITIES.
   Where the use of facilities requires scheduling, the reserving and
scheduling shall be authorized by the Director.
(Ord. 2011-024, passed 4-12-11)
§ 925.24 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of the rules and regulations,
shall upon conviction thereof be guilty of a minor misdemeanor, and fined not
more than $100 for the first offense, for each subsequent offense such person
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree and fined not more than
$500 and/or punished by imprisonment of not more than 60 days.
   (B)   These regulations shall not be construed to preclude the applicability
of any provisions of the Lebanon Codified Ordinances or the Ohio statutes
unless such provision is inconsistent with the terms of these regulations.
(Ord. 5279, passed 3-10-81; Am. Ord. 2011-024, passed 4-12-11)
§ 925.25 SUPPLEMENTARY RULES.
   The City Manager is authorized to adopt rules and regulations necessary to
carry out the intent of this chapter; provided that the rules and regulations
shall not conflict with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 5279, passed 3-10-81; Am. Ord. 2011-024, passed 4-12-11)
§ 925.26 SEPARABILITY.
   Each section of these rules and regulations and every part of each section
is an independent section and part of a section and the holding of any section
or a part thereof to be unconstitutional, void or ineffective for any cause
does not affect the validity or constitutionality of any other section or part
thereof.
(Ord. 5279, passed 3-10-81; Am. Ord. 2011-024, passed 4-12-11)
CHAPTER 927: EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES
Section
   
927.01   Service to be provided
   
927.02   Fees; collection
   
927.03   Supplementary rules
§ 927.01 SERVICE TO BE PROVIDED.
   Emergency medical services shall be furnished by the Division of Fire as
provided for in the administrative code. Such service is not intended to be a
routine medical transport service but shall be used in the event of a life-
threatening emergency; such as accidents involving serious physical injury,
acute interference with breathing and other serious medical conditions.
(Am. Ord. 5427, passed 10-26-82; Am. Ord. 6040, passed 3-24-87; Am. Ord. 2014-
033, passed 5-13-14)
§ 927.02 FEES, COLLECTIONS.
   (A)   The emergency medical service rates will be charged for each incident:
      (1)   Basic Life Support (Basic Emergency Medical Technician providing
care and treatment) $625.
      (2)   Advanced Life Support Level 1 (Paramedic providing care and
treatment) $825.
      (3)   Advanced Life Support Level 2 (Paramedic providing care and
treatment requiring the use of multiple medicines) $925.
      (4)   Loaded mile charge (for transport to a hospital in an ambulance)
$14 per mile.
      (5)   Bariatric transport:
         (a)   Medical facilities, care facilities, and similar: $1,000 flat
rate to be billed to the facility. Failure to provide payment will result in
the balance being assessed on the property tax owed by the facility.
         (b)   Mutual aid partners: $600 per trip plus roundtrip mileage. The
first 15 miles are included in the $600 flat rate transport fee, and all
mileage exceeding 15 miles is $14 per mile.
   (B)   Fees collected for the provision of emergency medical services, shall
be deposited in the city's Fire and Life Squad Fund.
(Am. Ord. 1992, passed 1-28-75; Am. Ord. 5155, passed 11-13-79; Am. Ord. 5427,
passed 10-26-82; Am. Ord. 6040, passed 3-24-87; Am. Ord. 8769, passed 6-10-03;
Am. Ord. 2014-033, passed 5-13-14; Am. Ord. 2020-102, passed 10-27-20; Am. Ord.
2024-042, passed 4-23-24)
§ 927.03 SUPPLEMENTARY RULES.
   The City Manager is authorized to adopt rules and regulations necessary to
carry out the intent of this chapter, provided that the rules and regulations
shall not conflict with the provisions of this chapter.
(Am. Ord. 5427, passed 10-26-82; Am. Ord. 6040, passed 3-24-87)
PART ELEVEN - PLANNING AND ZONING CODE
TITLE ONE - Planning
   
Chapter 1101 -   Planning Commission
   
Chapter 1103 -   Comprehensive Plan and Thoroughfare Plan
   
Chapter 1105 - Downtown Master Plan
   
Chapter 1107 - Sewer System Master Plan
   
Chapter 1109 - Water System Master Plan
TITLE THREE - Subdivision Regulations
   
Chapter 1111 -   Administration; Definitions
   
Chapter 1113 -   Design Standards
   
Chapter 1115 -   Minimum Improvements
   
Chapter 1117 -   Preliminary Plans, Improvement Construction Plans and Final
Plats
   
Chapter 1118 -   Validity; Conflict; Penalty
TITLE FIVE - Zoning Code
   
Chapter 1130 -   Adoption
TITLE ONE - Planning
   
Chapter 1101   Planning Commission
   
Chapter 1103   Comprehensive Plan and Thoroughfare Plan
   
Chapter 1105   Downtown Master Plan
   
Chapter 1107   Sewer System Master Plan
   
Chapter 1109   Water System Master Plan
CHAPTER 1101: PLANNING COMMISSION
Editor’s note:
   There are no sections in Chapter 1101. This chapter has been established to
provide a place for statutory references, cross-references and any future
legislation.
Cross-reference:
   Division of Building and Zoning, 127.04
   Planning Commission, see §
129.01 and Charter §
8.06
   To approve subdivision plats, see §
1111.05
CHAPTER 1103: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND THOROUGHFARE PLAN
Section
   
1103.01   Plans adopted
Cross-reference:
   Thoroughfare Plan streets, see §§
1111.04 
§ 1103.01 PLANS ADOPTED.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted a Thoroughfare Plan for the City of Lebanon,
Ohio, as shown on the Thoroughfare Plan map, and such map, together with each
revision thereof in the future, shall be authenticated by the signature of the
Mayor and Clerk on such map. Such authenticated map is hereby declared to be
the Official Thoroughfare Plan and Map of the City of Lebanon, Ohio.
(Ord. 1096, passed 5-26-64)
   (B)   The 2009 Comprehensive Plan, which included an update to the Official
Thoroughfare Plan, is hereby adopted pursuant to Lebanon Charter Section
8.07. Council hereby repeals the previously adopted plan and all amendments
thereto.
(Ord. 2009-003, passed 2-10-09)
CHAPTER 1105: DOWNTOWN MASTER PLAN
Section
   
1105.01   Plan adopted
§ 1105.01 PLAN ADOPTED.
   There is hereby adopted a Downtown Master Plan for the City of Lebanon,
Ohio, as produced by Bradstetter Carroll, Inc.
(Res. 8380, passed 11-27-01)
CHAPTER 1107: SEWER SYSTEM MASTER PLAN
Section
   
1107.01   Plan adopted
§ 1107.01 PLAN ADOPTED.
   There is hereby adopted a Sewer System Master Plan for the City of Lebanon,
Ohio, as prepared by Finkbeiner, Pettis and Strout, Inc.
(Res. 8420, passed 2-12-02)
CHAPTER 1109: WATER SYSTEM MASTER PLAN
Section
   
1109.01   Plan adopted
§ 1109.01 PLAN ADOPTED.
   There is hereby adopted a Water System Master Plan for the City of Lebanon,
Ohio, as prepared by Finkbeiner, Pettis and Strout, Inc.
(Res. 8421, passed 2-12-02)
TITLE THREE - Subdivision Regulations
   
Chapter 1111   Administration; Definitions
   
Chapter 1113   Design Standards
   
Chapter 1115   Minimum Improvements
   
Chapter 1117   Preliminary Plans, Improvement Construction Plans and Final
Plats
   
Chapter 1118   Validity; Conflict; Penalty
CHAPTER 1111: ADMINISTRATION; DEFINITIONS
Section
   
1111.01   Title
   
1111.02   Purpose
   
1111.03   Definitions
   
1111.04   Thoroughfare Plan streets
   
1111.05   Conformity required
   
1111.06   Variances and modifications
Cross-reference:
   City Engineer, see §
127.03
   Planning Commission, see §
129.01,
Ch. 1101 and Charter §
8.06 
   Thoroughfare Plan, see
Ch. 1103
§ 1111.01 TITLE.
   The following provisions shall constitute and be known as “Subdivision
Regulations” for the City of Lebanon, Ohio.
(Ord. 1092, passed 5-17-64; Am. Ord. 6206, passed 4-26-88)
§ 1111.02 PURPOSE.
   The procedures and standards for the development and subdivision of real
property and for the surveying and platting thereof, as set forth in this
chapter, are deemed necessary to promote the public safety, health and general
welfare of the city.
(Ord. 1092, passed 5-17-64; Am. Ord. 6206, passed 4-26-88)
§ 1111.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of these subdivision regulations, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line indicating the minimum horizontal distance
between the street right-of-way and building, or any projection thereof, other
than steps and unenclosed porches.
   CROSSWALK. A right-of-way, publicly-owned, cutting across a block in order
to provide pedestrian access to an adjacent street or property.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the owner of land for the specified use of the land to
a person or persons, or the public generally.
   ENGINEER. A registered engineer authorized to practice civil engineering as
defined by the Registration Act of the State of Ohio.
   FRONTAGE. The width of a lot at the building setback line.
   LOT. A parcel of land intended for transfer or ownership or building
development.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting upon two or more streets at their intersection.
   STREETS. A way for vehicular traffic, whether designated as a street,
highway, thoroughfare, parkway, road, avenue, boulevard, land, place or however
otherwise designated.
      (1)   PRINCIPAL ARTERIAL STREETS. Streets that service metropolitan
centers, corridors with the highest traffic volume and the longest trips that
carry most trips entering and leaving urban areas that provide continuity for
all rural arterials that intercept urban boundaries.
      (2)   MINOR ARTERIAL STREETS. Streets used to service trips of moderate
length and at a lower level of mobility that connect with principal arterials
and rural collector routes.
      (3)   COLLECTOR STREETS. Those which carry traffic from local streets to
the major system of arterial streets, including the principal entrance streets
of a residential development and streets within such a development.
      (4)   LOCAL STREETS. Those which are used primarily for access to the
abutting properties.
      (5)   ALLEYS. Minor ways which are used primarily for vehicular service
access to the back or side of properties otherwise abutting on a street.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person, individual, firm, partnership, association,
corporation, estate, trust or any other group or combination acting as a unit,
dividing or proposing to divide land so as to constitute a subdivision as
herein defined and including any agent of the subdivider.
   SUBDIVISION.
      (1)   The division of any parcel of land shown as a unit or as contiguous
units on the tax rolls as of January 6, 1959, into two or more parcels, sites
or lots, any one of which is less than five acres for the purpose, whether
immediate or future, of transfer of ownership, provided, however, that the
division or partition of land into parcels of more than five acres, not
involving any new streets or easements of access, and the sale or exchange of
parcels between adjoining lot owners, where such sale or exchange does not
create additional building sites, shall be exempted; or
      (2)   The improvement of one or more parcels of land for residential,
commercial or industrial structures or groups of structures involving the
division or allocation of land for the opening, widening or extending of any
street or streets, except private streets serving industrial structures; the
division or allocation of land as open spaces for common use by owners,
occupants or leaseholders, or as easements for the extension and maintenance of
public sewers, water, storm drainage or other public facilities.
   SURVEYOR. A registered surveyor, as defined by the Registration Act of the
State of Ohio.
(Ord. 1092, passed 5-17-64; Am. Ord. 6206, passed 4-26-88; Am. Ord. 8147,
passed 4-10-01; Am. Ord. 9364, passed 7-25-06)
§ 1111.04 THOROUGHFARE PLAN STREETS.
   The Official Thoroughfare Plan for Lebanon and its environs, establishing
the official right-of-way width and location of arterial streets, is on file in
the office of the City Manager, together with all subsequent amendments.
(Ord. 1092, passed 5-17-64; Am. Ord. 6206, passed 4-26-88)
§ 1111.05 CONFORMITY REQUIRED.
   Before any real property within the city shall be subdivided and offered for
sale, and before any plat thereof or instrument of transfer shall be recorded
in the office of the County Recorder, the requirements of these subdivision
regulations shall be complied with. All subdivision plats shall be approved by
the Planning Commission and such approval entered upon the plats, after having
been submitted to the Planning Commission in accordance with these subdivision
regulations. The City Engineer shall act as advisor to the Planning Commission
on engineering and related matters.
(Ord. 1092, passed 5-17-64; Am. Ord. 6206, passed 4-26-88)
Penalty, see § 1118.99
§ 1111.06 VARIANCES AND MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Hardship.  Where the Planning Commission finds that extraordinary
hardships may result from strict compliance with these subdivision regulations,
it may vary the regulations so that substantial justice may be done and the
public interest secured, provided that such variation will not have the effect
of nullifying the intent and purpose of these regulations.
   (B)   Large scale developments.  The standards and requirements of these
subdivision regulations may be modified by the Planning Commission in the case
of a plan and program for a new town, a complete community or a neighborhood
unit which, in the judgment of the Planning Commission, provides adequate
public spaces and improvements for the circulation, recreation, light, air and
service needs of the tract when fully developed and populated, and which also
provides such covenants or other legal provisions as will assure conformity to,
and achievement of, the plan.
   (C)   Conditions. In granting variances and modifications, the Planning
Commission may require such conditions as will, in its judgment, substantially
secure the objective of the standards or requirements so varied or modified.
   (D)   Minor subdivisions.  The City Engineer, on behalf of the Planning
Commission, subject to the conditions listed below, shall approve a proposed
division of land without plat if such proposed division is not contrary to
applicable platting, zoning or health regulations. On presentation of an
instrument of conveyance, the City Engineer shall stamp the same in the
following manner:
   NO PLAT REQUIRED
   Approved by                                                
          Engineer, City of Lebanon
   Date                
      (1)   Conditions of approval:
         (a)   Minimum lot area and frontage requirements shall be complied
with.
         (b)   Plat and description of property shall be based on a survey.
         (c)   Lot shall front on a dedicated street or an established public
road having a width of at least 50 feet.
         (d)   All streets or parts thereof indicated on the Official
Thoroughfare Plan shall be dedicated or reserved.
         (e)   No more than five parcels shall be formed from any one tract as
shown on the tax rolls as of January 6, 1959.
      (2)   Engineer’s rules.  The City Engineer shall prepare rules and
regulations which shall provide for implementation of this section. A fee of
$10 per lot shall be paid with each application.
(Ord. 1092, passed 5-17-64; Am. Ord. 6206, passed 4-26-88)
CHAPTER 1113: DESIGN STANDARDS
Section
   
1113.01   Blocks
   
1113.02   Lots
   
1113.03   Easements along streams
   
1113.04   Other easements
Cross-reference:
   City Engineer, see §
127.03
   Minimum improvements, see
Ch. 1115
   Street excavations, see
Ch. 901
§ 1113.01 BLOCKS.
   (A)   The lengths, widths and shapes of blocks shall be determined with due
regard to:
      (1)   Provision of adequate building sites suitable to the special needs
of the type of use contemplated.
      (2)   Needs for convenient access, circulation, control and safety of
street traffic.
      (3)   Limitations and opportunities of topography.
   (B)   Block lengths shall not exceed 2,000 feet or be less than 500 feet.
   (C)   A dedicated crosswalk or easement not less than ten feet in width may
be required to provide proper access to schools, playgrounds, shopping centers
and other facilities.
(Ord. 9364, passed 7-25-06)
§ 1113.02 LOTS.
   (A)   The lot size, width, depth, shape and orientation and the minimum
setback lines shall comply with the appropriate zoning regulations.
   (B)   Corner lots for residential use shall have extra width to permit
appropriate building setback from, and orientation to, both streets.
   (C)   The subdividing of the land shall be such as to provide, by means of a
public street, each lot with satisfactory access to an existing public street.
   (D)   Double frontage and reverse frontage lots should be avoided, except
where essential to provide separation of residential development from traffic
arteries or to overcome specific disadvantages of topography and orientation. A
planting screen easement of at least ten feet, and across which there shall be
no right of access, shall be provided along the line of lots abutting such a
major traffic artery or other incompatible use.
   (E)   Side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles or radial to
street lines with a maximum deflection from perpendicular or radial of 60
degrees.
(Ord. 9364, passed 7-25-06)
§ 1113.03 EASEMENTS ALONG STREAMS.
   Whenever any stream or important surface drainage course is located in the
area being subdivided, and open drainage is to be permitted, the subdivider
shall provide an adequate easement along each side of the stream or open
drainage course for the purpose of widening, deepening, relocating, improving
or protecting the stream or open drainage course for drainage or recreational
use.
(Ord. 9364, passed 7-25-06)
§ 1113.04 OTHER EASEMENTS.
   Easements of at least ten feet in width shall be provided on all rear lot
lines (boundary lines of subdivision) and 20-foot utility easements shall be
provided and centered on side lot lines where necessary, for public utilities
such as gas, electric, telephone, storm and sanitary sewer, water or other
mains or for surface drainage swales. Easements of greater width may be
required along or across lots where necessary for the extension of main sewers
or other utilities, or where both water and sewer lines are located in the same
easement. A five-foot easement shall be required on both sides of an alley to
accommodate pole lines.
(Ord. 9364, passed 7-25-06)
CHAPTER 1115: MINIMUM IMPROVEMENTS
Section
   
1115.01   Cost of improvements
   
1115.02   Reservation of open spaces - residential development
   
1115.03   Reservation of open spaces - other development
Cross-reference:
   City Engineer, see §
127.03 
   Improvement/construction plans, see §
1117.03
   Improvements inspection fees, see §
1117.07
§ 1115.01 COST OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   In connection with any subdivision which he or she develops, every
subdivider shall provide and pay the cost of the improvements. All improvements
shall be designed, constructed, installed and otherwise provided in accordance
with the current edition of the Land Development Design and Construction
Standards Manual on file in the office of the City Engineer.
(Am. Ord. 6206, passed 4-26-88; Am. Ord. 9364, passed 7-25-06)
§ 1115.02 RESERVATION OF OPEN SPACES - RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Parks/recreation expansion fee. A developer/subdivider/owner of land
in any of the following zones: R-1A, R-R, R-1B, R-1C, R-1CC, R-1D, R-1U, R-2,
R-3, PUD, RDC and MHP, except where §
1111.06(D) applies, shall provide a cash payment to the city in an amount equal
to $450 for each new single-family detached unit and $450 for each new multi-
family dwelling unit, such fees to be paid by the developer/subdivider/owner of
land prior to the issuance of any building permit for any unit. The city may
accept a donation of land in lieu of a cash payment upon mutual agreement of
the city and the developer/subdivider/owner of land.
   (B)   Existing lots. As to any existing lots in the zones listed hereinabove
where the final plat has been released but the parks/recreation expansion fee
has not been paid, the developer/subdivider/owner shall pay the parks/
recreation expansion fee established in §
1115.02(A) prior to the effective date of Am. Ord. 7497 for each unit upon
application for a building permit. As to any existing lots in the zones listed
hereinabove where the parks/recreation expansion fee has been paid, no
additional payment of a parks/recreation expansion fee shall be required for
these lots.
   (C)   Deposit of funds. Upon receipt of the parks/recreation expansion fee
per §
1115.02(A), the city shall deposit 50% of such funds to the Parks and
Recreation Expansion Fee Fund No. 218 to be used for the acquisition of passive
green space; and deposit 50% of such funds to the Parks and Recreation Trust
Fund No. 816 to be used for the acquisition of park land and new recreation
facilities.
   (D)   Allocation of funds. On or before January 31 of each year the city
shall deposit front its general fund the following:
      (1)   To the Parks and Recreation Expansion Fee Fund No. 218 an amount
equal to the payments to that fund per §
1115.02(A) and (B) during the preceding calendar year;
      (2)   To the Parks and Recreation Trust Fund No. 816 an amount equal to
the payments to that fund per §
1115.02(A) and (B) during the preceding calendar year.
   (E)   Allocation prior to effective date. On or before June 1, 1998, the
city shall pay from its general fund the following:
      (1)   To the Parks and Recreation Expansion Fee Fund No. 218, an amount
equal to the payments to that fund per §
1115.02(A) and (B) prior to the effective date of this section.
      (2)   To the Parks and Recreation Trust Fund No. 816, an amount equal to
the payments to that fund per §
1115.02(A) and (B) prior to the effective date of this section.
(Ord. 1639, passed 12-21-71; Am. Ord. 5848, passed 7-22-86; Am. Ord. 6206,
passed 4-26-88; Am. Ord. 6577, passed 2-12-91; Am. Ord. 7146, passed 11-28-95;
Am. Ord. 7497, passed 4-14-98; Am. Ord. 7623, passed 3-23-99; Am. Ord. 9364,
passed 7-25-06)
§ 1115.03 RESERVATION OF OPEN SPACES - OTHER DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Parks/recreation expansion fee. A developer/subdivider/owner of land
in any zone not listed in §
1115.02 shall contribute 5% of the appraised value of the land to the city,
such fees to be paid by the developer/subdivider/owner prior to the issuance of
any building permit. The city may accept the cash payment in accordance with
the following formula: the City Manager shall appoint an appraiser to determine
the fair market value of the land to be developed. The developer/subdivider/
owner shall pay the appraisal fees. If the developer/subdivider/owner does not
agree with the appraisal, the developer/ subdivider/owner may have another
appraisal made by an appraiser approved by the City Manager, which shall be
reviewed by the city prior to establishing the fair market value of the land to
be developed. The city may accept a donation of land in lieu of a cash payment
upon mutual agreement to the city and the developer/subdivider/owner of land.
   (B)   Existing lots. As to any existing lots in the zones listed hereinabove
where the final plat has been released but the parks/recreation expansion fee
has not been paid, the developer/subdivider/owner shall pay the parks/
recreation expansion fee established in §
1115.03(A) for each unit upon application for a building permit.
   (C)   Deposit of funds. Upon receipt of the parks/recreation expansion fee
per §
1115.03(A), the city shall deposit 50% of such funds to the Parks and
Recreation Expansion Fee Fund No. 218 to be used for the acquisition of passive
green space; and deposit 50% of such funds to the Parks and Recreation Trust
Fund No. 816 to be used for the acquisition of park land and new recreation
facilities.
   (D)   Allocation of funds. On or before January 31 of each year the city
shall deposit from its general fund the following:
      (1)   To the Parks and Recreation Expansion Fee Fund No. 218, an amount
equal to the payments to that fund per §
1115.03(A) and (B) during the preceding calendar year;
      (2)   To the Parks and Recreation Trust Fund No. 816, an amount equal to
the payments to that fund per §
1115.02(A) and (B) during the preceding calendar year.
   (E)   Allocation prior to effective date. On or before June 1, 1998, the
city shall pay from its general fund the following:
      (1)   To the Parks and Recreation Expansion Fee Fund No. 218, an amount
equal to the payments to that fund per §
1115.02(A) and (B) prior to the effective date of this section.
      (2)   To the Parks and Recreation Trust Fund No. 816, an amount equal to
the payments to that fund per §
1115.02(A) and (B) prior to the effective date of this section.
(Ord. 7497, passed 4-14-98; Am. Ord. 9364, passed 7-25-06)
CHAPTER 1117: PRELIMINARY PLANS, IMPROVEMENT CONSTRUCTION PLANS AND FINAL PLATS
Section
   
1117.01     Required documents
   
1117.02     Preliminary plan
   
1117.03     Improvement/construction plans
   
1117.04     Final plat
   
1117.05     Replats
   
1117.06     Survey and monuments
   
1117.07     Improvements inspection fees
   
1117.08     Reservation of open spaces
Cross-reference:
   City Engineer, see §
127.03
§ 1117.01 REQUIRED DOCUMENTS.
   (A)   The principal documents which a subdivider must furnish in connection
with development of any subdivision are:
      (1)   Preliminary plat with application for utility service.
      (2)   Improvement/construction plans.
      (3)   Final Plat.
      (4)   Public improvement bond and/or maintenance guarantee bond in
accordance with the current edition of the Land Development Design and
Construction Standards Manual on file in the office of City Engineer.
      (5)   Deed for land reserved for recreational purposes or equivalent cash
contribution.
   (B)   The above listed documents shall be filed with the City Engineer.
Plans and plats shall be filed not less than twenty working days prior to the
meeting of the Planning Commission at which they are to be considered.
(Am. Ord. 6206, passed 4-26-88; Am. Ord. 7811, passed 5-9-00; Am. Ord. 9364,
passed 7-25-06)
§ 1117.02 PRELIMINARY PLAN.
   (A)   Approval of plan.  Seven copies of the preliminary plan, the landscape
plan as required by Chapter 1153, specifically including a completed tree
inventory, tree preservation plan, and tree removal plan, and supplemental
material specified shall be filed together with a written application for
conditional approval. Following review of the preliminary plan and other
material submitted for conformity thereof to these subdivision regulations, and
negotiations with the subdivider on changes deemed advisable and the kind and
extent of improvement to be made by him or her, the Planning Commission shall,
within 30 days, act thereon as submitted or modified, and if approved, the
Planning Commission shall express its approval as conditional approval and
state the conditions of such approval, if any, or if disapproved, shall express
its disapproval and reasons therefor. The action of the Planning Commission
shall be noted on two copies of the preliminary plat, referenced and attached
to any condition determined. One copy shall be returned to the subdivider and
the other retained by the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Form and contents.  The primary plan shall be clearly and legibly
drawn and it shall show the following general information:
      (1)   North Point, scale and date. The scale shall not be smaller than
100 feet to the inch.
      (2)   Name of the plat and names and address of owners and subdividing
engineer, or surveyor. Plat name shall not duplicate or too closely approximate
the name of any existing plat of record.
      (3)   Location of the plat by section, town and range.
      (4)   A superimposition map. This map shall show the position of the
subdivision with relation to existing community facilities which serve or
influence it. Include surrounding streets, properties and subdivisions. All
section, township and corporation lines which pass through or along the plat,
and their approximate distance from the boundary lines of the property.
      (5)   All section, township and corporation lines which pass through or
along the plat, and their approximate distance from the boundary lines of the
property.
      (6)   Names of adjacent subdivisions and owners of unsubdivided land and
city lot numbers of adjacent lots.
      (7)   Contours with intervals of not more than five feet where slope is
generally greater than 10%, and not more than two feet where slope is generally
less than 10%.
      (8)   Size and location of existing sanitary sewers, water or storm lines
and other utilities within or adjacent to the plat.
      (9)   Location, widths and names of existing or proposed streets,
railroad rights-of-way, public utility easements, public open spaces.
      (10)   Existing physical features including wooded areas, drainage
channels, permanent buildings, and a landscape plan specifically including a
tree inventory, tree preservation plan, and tree removal plan as regulated by
Chapter 1153.
      (11)   Show existing buildings with approximate dimensions and location
and whether the buildings are to remain.
      (12)   Zoning on and adjacent to the tract.
      (13)   Plat boundary by a heavy line with approximate acreage.
      (14)   Proposed names of streets and location of all streets, alleys,
crosswalks, utility and drainage easements with right-of-way widths thereof.
      (15)   Lot layout and approximate dimensions, the building setback line
with dimensions at the building line when the lot is located on a curve or the
side lot lines are not parallel.
      (16)   Land to be reserved for public use.
      (17)   Points of proposed connection to public water and sewer system.
      (18)   Draft of protective covenants whereby the subdivider is to
regulate land use in the subdivisions and otherwise protect the proposed
development. This information may be attached to the preliminary plan.
(Am. Ord. 6206, passed 4-26-88; Am. Ord. 7451, passed 11-11-97; Am. Ord. 7811,
passed 5-9-00; Am. Ord. 8147, passed 4-10-01; Am. Ord. 9364, passed 7-25-06)
§ 1117.03 IMPROVEMENT/CONSTRUCTION PLANS.
   (A)   Following approval of a preliminary plat and prior to filing a final
plat, the subdivider shall file with the City Engineer seven copies of all
plans and specifications for the improvements and one mylar of the recorded
final plat as required by these subdivision regulations and in sufficient
detail to enable the City Engineer to determine that the provisions of these
subdivision regulations will be complied with. The plans and specifications
shall have been prepared and certified by a professional engineer registered in
the State of Ohio. Also, at this time, seven copies of the finalized landscape
plan shall be submitted for final Planning Commission approval in compliance
with Chapter 1153.
   (B)   Within 30 working days after filing of such plans and specifications,
the City Engineer shall cause one copy so submitted to be returned to the
subdivider with all comments, conditions and alterations clearly marked
thereon.
   (C)   Construction plans for improvements to be installed shall be in
compliance with the current edition of the Land Development Design and
Construction Standards Manual standards on file in the office of the City
Engineer.
(Am. Ord. 6206, passed 4-26-88; Am. Ord. 7811, passed 5-9-00; Am. Ord. 8147,
passed 4-10-01; Am. Ord. 9364, passed 7-25-06)
§ 1117.04 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Preparation; submission; commission action; recording.
      (1)   The final plat shall conform substantially to the preliminary plan
as approved, and, if desired by the subdivider, it may constitute only that
portion of the approved preliminary plan which he or she proposes to record and
develop at the time, provided, however, that such portion conforms to all
requirements of these subdivision regulations.
      (2)   Seven copies of the final plat shall be prepared as specified in
division (B) hereof and shall be submitted to the Planning Commission within 12
months after approval of the preliminary plan; otherwise, such approval shall
become null and void unless an extension of time is applied for and granted by
the Planning Commission.
      (3)   The action of the Planning Commission shall be noted on all seven
copies of the final plat. Six copies of the final plat shall be retained by the
Planning Commission for filing and distribution to appropriate city
departments, and the remaining copy shall be returned to the subdivider.
      (4)   The subdivider shall record the final plat in the office of the
Recorder of Warren County, Ohio, within 60 days after date of approval;
otherwise the plat shall be considered void.
   (B)   Form and contents.  The final plat shall be clearly and legibly drawn
in ink on Mylar (4-mil double matte finish white) at a scale not smaller than
100 feet to the inch and shall show the following information:
      (1)   North point, scale and date.
      (2)   All plat boundaries with lengths of course to hundredths of a foot
and bearings to the seconds. The error of closure shall not exceed 1 to 10,000.
(When required, all calculations and field notes shall be submitted). Plat
boundary to be shown by heavy lines.
      (3)   The name of the subdivision with the correct description of the
property being subdivided and its location by section, town, range, or city lot
number, with deed book and page reference and acreage to ten-thousandths shall
be delineated utilizing the following language:
Situated in Sec. ____, Town ____, Range ____, City of Lebanon, Ohio, Containing
____ acres and being (part of) the same tract as conveyed to ________ and
described in the Deed Record in Deed (Official Record) Book ____, Page ____,
Warren County, Ohio.
      (4)   The names, exact location and width along the property lines of all
existing or recorded streets intersecting or paralleling the plat boundaries.
      (5)   The names on record of all abutting tracts and the corresponding
acreage with their deed book and page reference and/or the plat book reference
of all abutting plats or city lot numbers.
      (6)   Bearings and distances to nearest established street boundaries,
section lines or other recognized lines.
      (7)   Any section lines, corporation limits, township and county lines
accurately monumented and located on the plat and their names lettered thereon.
Any development, road right-of-way, or lot split by section, town, or range
lines shall indicate acreage of each section in each parcel.
      (8)   Street names and street and alley lines with bearings or angles of
intersection and widths (including the width along the lines of any obliquely
intersecting street).
      (9)   The length of all arcs and radii, points of curvature and tangent
bearings. In cases where the intersection of property lines is rounded, the
radius shall be noted.
      (10)   All easements or rights-of-way provided for public use.
      (11)   All lot lines with dimensions in feet and hundredths, including
dimensions on the building line when the side lot lines are not parallel.
      (12)   The accurate location and material of all monuments (the type of
lot corner markers shall be clearly indicated on the plat).
      (13)   All public property and parcels of land to be dedicated or
reserved to public use accurately outlined and described.
      (14)   Protective covenants and restrictions.
      (15)   Building setback lines.
      (16)   The certificate of the registered surveyor, attesting to the
accuracy of the survey and the correct location of all monuments shown.
      (17)   Acknowledgment of the owner to the plat and restrictions,
including dedications to public use of all streets, alleys, parks or other open
spaces shown thereon and the granting of the required easements as shown to be
indicated by the following statement on the plat tracing: “Easements shown on
this plat are for the construction, operation, maintenance, repair,
replacement, or removal of water, gas, sewer, electric, telephone or other
utilities or services, and for the express purpose of removing any and all
trees or other obstructions to the free use of such utilities and for providing
of ingress and egress to the property for such purposes, and are to be
maintained as such forever.”
      (18)   Total acreage in the subdivision, acreage in lots, acreage in
streets.
      (19)   A certificate by the City Engineer certifying that the subdivider
has complied with one of the following alternatives:
         (a)   All improvements, including required landscaping, have been
installed in accordance with the requirements of these subdivision regulations
and with the action of the Planning Commission.
         (b)   An acceptable public improvement bond or certified check has
been filed in accordance with these subdivision regulations.
      (20)   Other certificates, easements, and documents for required
approvals and accepting dedications.
      (21)   Overland drainage control. The City of Lebanon assumes no legal
obligation to maintain or repair any existing or newly constructed open
drainage ditches or channels designated as “drainage easements” on this plat.
The easement area of each lot and all of the improvements within it shall be
maintained continuously by the lot owner. Within the easements, no structure,
planting, fencing, culvert, or obstruction of any kind shall be placed or
permitted to remain which may obstruct, retard, or divert the flow through the
watercourse.
(Am. Ord. 6206, passed 4-26-88; Am. Ord. 6656, passed 11-12-91; Am. Ord. 7451,
passed 11-11-97; Am. Ord. 7811, passed 5-9-00; Am. Ord. 8147, passed 4-10-01;
Am. Ord. 9364, passed 7-25-06)
§ 1117.05 REPLATS.
   In the case of a replat, the same rules and regulations shall apply as for
an original plat, except that filing of a preliminary plan may be waived by the
Planning Commission, when its submission would serve no useful purpose. The
replat shall show clearly the area which has been vacated and shall also
include enough of the surrounding plat or plats to show how the proposed replat
fits in with the general scheme. The title of the replat shall indicate that
part of the plat being replatted and also make reference to the original plat.
(Am. Ord. 6206, passed 4-26-88; Am. Ord. 9364, passed 7-25-06)
§ 1117.06 SURVEY AND MONUMENTS.
   (A)   A complete survey shall be made by a registered surveyor.
   (B)   The traverse of the exterior boundaries of the tract and of each
block, when computed from field measurements of the ground, shall close within
a limit of error of one foot to 10,000 feet of the perimeter before balancing
the survey.
   (C)   Permanent reference monuments shall be installed in accordance with
the current edition of the Land Development Design and Construction Standards
Manual on file in the office of the City Engineer.
   (D)   Iron pin monuments, half-inch minimum in diameter and 30 inches long,
shall be placed by the surveyor at all points on boundary lines where there is
a change of direction, and at all lot corners. Iron pin monuments must be shown
on the final plat.
(Am. Ord. 6206, passed 4-26-88; Am. Ord. 8147, passed 4-10-01; Am. Ord. 9364,
passed 7-25-06)
§ 1117.07 IMPROVEMENTS INSPECTION FEES.
   (A)   The City Engineer or inspectors designated by him or her shall inspect
all work performed and materials used in constructing and installing the
improvements to ascertain if they are in accordance with the approved plans and
specifications. The subdivider or his or her contractor shall notify the City
Engineer at least 24 hours in advance of any construction.
   (B)   To defray the cost to the city for reviewing improvement plans and
inspecting construction, the following fees shall be assessed:
      (1)   For plan review and inspection, one and one-half percent (1½%) of
the construction cost estimate shall be paid to the city as follows:
         (a)   One percent (1%) of the construction cost prior to City Engineer
approval of the construction plans.
         (b)   The remaining one-half percent (½%) prior to final inspection of
the site.
      (2)   The inspection fees provided in division (B)(1) of this section
include all inspection services provided during standard operating hours of 8:
00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, with the exception of official
holidays for city employees. The cost for inspection services beyond the non-
standard operating hours shall be billed quarterly at a rate of $50.00 per work
hour.
(Am. Ord. 6206, passed 4-26-88; Am. Ord. 8147, passed 4-10-01; Am. Ord. 9364,
passed 7-25-06)
§ 1117.08 RESERVATION OF OPEN SPACES.
   Prior to approval of a final plat, the subdivider shall comply with the
requirements of §1115.02 or shall provide sufficient guarantees in the form of
a contract or otherwise that §
1115.02 will be complied with.
(Ord. 9364, passed 7-25-06)
CHAPTER 1118: VALIDITY; CONFLICT; PENALTY
Section
   
1118.01     Validity
   
1118.02     Conflict
 
   
1118.99     Penalty
§ 1118.01 VALIDITY.
   Should any section or provision of these subdivision regulations be declared
by the courts to be invalid, the same shall not affect the validity of the
subdivision regulations as a whole or a part thereof, other than the part so
declared to be invalid.
(Am. Ord. 6206, passed 4-26-88)
§ 1118.02 CONFLICT.
   All ordinances or part of an ordinance conflicting with the provisions of
these subdivision regulations, are hereby repealed so far as the same affect
these regulations.
(Am. Ord. 6206, passed 4-26-88)
§ 1118.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of these subdivision regulations shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more
than $50.
(Am. Ord. 6206, passed 4-26-88)
TITLE FIVE - Zoning Code
   
Chapter 1130   Adoption
CHAPTER 1130: ADOPTION
Section
   
1130.01   Zoning code adopted
   
1130.02   Official zoning map adopted
§ 1130.01 ZONING CODE ADOPTED.
   The Zoning Code for the City of Lebanon, Ohio, consisting of Chapters 1130,
1131, 1132, 1133, 1134, 1135, 1136, 1137, 1138, 1139, 1140, 1141, 1142, and
Appendices A and B, as set forth in Exhibit A attached to Ordinance 9509, is
hereby adopted and made a part of this code, the same as if set forth in full
herein.
(Ord. 9509, passed 5-8-07; Am. Ord. 2009-114, passed 1-12-10; Am. Ord. 2010-
006, passed 1-26-10; Am. Ord. 2010-057, passed 5-25-10)
§ 1130.02 OFFICIAL ZONING MAP ADOPTED.
   The City’s Official Zoning Map, as set forth in Exhibit A attached to
Ordinance 9511, is hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this code the
same as if set forth in full herein.
(Ord. 9511, passed 5-8-07)
PART THIRTEEN - BUILDING CODE
TITLE ONE - Building Codes
   
Chapter 1301 -   Administration
   
Chapter 1303 -   Board of Building Appeals
   
Chapter 1304 - Building and Zoning Fees
   
Chapter 1305 -One, Two and Three Family Dwelling Code
   
Chapter 1306 - Miscellaneous Requirements
   
Chapter 1307 - Regulations During Construction
   
Chapter 1308 - Flood Damage Reduction Standards for Designated Flood Hazard
Areas
   
Chapter 1309 - Use of Sidewalks and Streets During Construction
   
Chapter 1311 - Building Sewers
   
Chapter 1313 - Signs and Outdoor Display Structures
TITLE THREE -  Property Maintenance Code
   
Chapter 1321 -   Adoption of Property Maintenance Code
   
Chapter 1323 - Administration
   
Chapter 1324 - Definitions
   
Chapter 1325 - General Requirements
   
Chapter 1326 - Light, Ventilation and Occupancy Limitations
   
Chapter 1327 - Plumbing, Facilities and Fixture Requirements
   
Chapter 1328 - Mechanical and Electrical Requirements
   
Chapter 1329 - Fire Safety Requirements
   
Chapter 1337 - Responsibilities of Owners, Operators, Occupants
   
Chapter 1339 - Urban Renewal/Redevelopment
TITLE ONE - Building Codes
   
Chapter 1301 -   Administration
   
Chapter 1303 -   Board of Building Appeals
   
Chapter 1304 -   Building and Zoning Fees
   
Chapter 1305 -   One, Two and Three Family Dwelling Code
   
Chapter 1306 -   Miscellaneous Requirements
   
Chapter 1307 -   Regulations During Construction
   
Chapter 1308 -   Flood Damage Reduction Standards for Designated Flood Hazard
Areas
   
Chapter 1309 -   Use of Sidewalks and Streets During Construction
   
Chapter 1311 -   Building Sewers
   
Chapter 1313 -   Signs and Outdoor Display Structures
CHAPTER 1301: ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
1301.01     Title
   
1301.02     Purpose
   
1301.03     Scope
   
1301.04     Existing uses continued
   
1301.05     Property maintenance
   
1301.06     Adoption of the 2005 Ohio Building Code, 2002 Ohio Mechanical Code,
2002 Ohio Plumbing Code, and 2002 National Electric Code and subsequent updates
   
1301.07     Building official or his or her representative, duties and powers
   
1301.08     Right of entry
   
1301.09     Building Official or his or her representative, liability
   
1301.10     Application for permit
   
1301.11     Plot plan; location plan
   
1301.12     Specifications
   
1301.13     Imperfect application, drawings, specifications
   
1301.14     Performing work without a permit
   
1301.15     Permits
   
1301.16     Conditions of permit
   
1301.17   Inspection
   
1301.18     Final inspection and occupancy
   
1301.19     Change of occupancy
   
1301.20     Demolition or moving of buildings
   
1301.21     Violations
   
1301.22     Stop-work order
   
1301.23     Unsafe buildings
   
1301.24     Emergency measures
   
1301.25     Validity
   
1301.26     Rules and regulations
   
1301.27     Citizens housing committee
   
1301.28   Vacant building registration program
 
   
1301.99     Penalty
§ 1301.01 TITLE.
   The following provisions shall constitute and be known as the Lebanon City
Building Code. The regulations are adopted under the authority of §§
2.11 and
3.06 of the Charter of the City of Lebanon.
§ 1301.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the code is to provide basic and uniform regulations for
buildings, structures, their service equipment and accessory structures in
terms of performance objective, establishing reasonable safeguards for the
safety, health and welfare of the occupants and users and of the general
public, making adequate performance the test of acceptability.
§ 1301.03 SCOPE.
   (A)   The code shall apply to one-, two-, and three-family dwelling houses;
residential buildings, nontransient; residential buildings, transient;
hospitals and homes; penal and correctional buildings; schools and school
assembly halls; places of assembly; places of outdoor assembly; business
buildings, mercantile and office buildings; industrial buildings; storage
buildings; and special occupancy buildings; to their accessory structures; and
to their service equipment parts which are hereinafter erected. Buildings,
structures and equipment used for agriculture are not regulated.
   (B)   The code shall also apply to existing buildings and structures
described in this section to be occupied or used as set forth above, as if
hereinafter erected under the following conditions:
      (1)   A building moved into, or moved within, the city.
      (2)   A building occupied for uses described above which is altered or
repaired when the cost of such work within any 12-month period exceeds the
County Auditor’s assessed valuation of the building, except that the code shall
also apply to:
         (a)   Roof covering when more than 25% of contiguous roof covering of
a building is replaced in any 12-month period, all contiguous roof covering on
such building shall be made to comply to applicable regulations of the code.
         (b)   Ordinary repair when such construction alters the appearance,
safety, sanitary facilities or structural qualities of the building.
      (3)   A building or structure whose occupancy or use is changed from one
use group to another use group in accordance with the definitions of “change of
use,” as contained in the Ohio Basic Building Code.
      (4)   An addition or alteration, regardless of cost, made to a building
shall be made in conformity with applicable regulations of the code.
      (5)   When the installation, extension or alteration of an elevator,
moving stairway, mechanical equipment, refrigerating, air conditioning or
ventilating apparatus, plumbing, gas piping, electric wiring, heating system or
any other equipment is specifically controlled by the provisions of the code,
it shall be unlawful to use such equipment until an approval has been issued
therefor by the Building Inspector.
(Am. Ord. 5285, passed 3-24-81)
Penalty, see § 1301.99
§ 1301.04 EXISTING USES CONTINUED.
   Except as otherwise herein provided, nothing in this code shall require
removal, alteration or abandonment of, nor prevent continued occupancy or use
of, an existing building unless such building shall be or become in a condition
so as to constitute a violation of §
1301.05, or unless such building is in violation of orders or conditions of
approval existing at the time of the adoption of this section.
(Am. Ord. 5765, passed 1-27-86)
§ 1301.05 PROPERTY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Maintenance required. All buildings and structures, all parts thereof
and all building service equipment shall be maintained in a safe, sanitary and
nonhazardous manner. All means of egress, devices, safeguards and equipment
shall be kept in good working order. The exterior of all premises and the
condition of all buildings, structures and components thereof shall be
maintained so as to prevent and/or repair deterioration, so that the appearance
thereof shall reflect a level of maintenance in conformity with the Lebanon
Codified Ordinances and so as to insure that the property itself may be
preserved safely, and that hazards to public health and safety are avoided.
   (B)   Maintenance standards.
      (1)   Maintenance of structures. Each owner and/or occupant shall keep
all exterior components of every structure in good repair, including but not
limited to, walls, roofs, chimneys, cornices, gutters, downspouts, drains,
porches, steps, landings, fire escapes, exterior stairs, windows, shutters,
doors, storefronts, signs, marquees and awnings.
         (a)   All surfaces shall be covered with a protective coating,
including paint, shingles, plastic/aluminum/asbestos or vinyl siding or other
material which preserves the structure and does not contribute to
deterioration.
         (b)   All surfaces shall be maintained free of deterioration,
including but not limited to, broken glass, loose or missing shingles or
siding, crumbling brick, stone and mortar, and peeling, scaling or deteriorated
paint.
         (c)   Overhanging structures, including canopies, marquees, signs,
awnings, exterior stairways, fire escapes, and other structures with
overhanging extensions shall be maintained in good repair, be securely anchored
to the structure, and protected from rust and other signs of decay by
application of a weather protective material such as paint. Nonoperative or
broken electrical signs shall be repaired or removed. All obsolete signs and
sign structures shall be removed.
         (d)   Except for display merchandise in nonresidential buildings, no
storage of materials, goods, stock or inventory shall be permitted in building
openings ordinarily exposed to public view unless such areas are screened from
public view. All such screening shall be of clean material and will be
maintained in a good state of repair.
         (e)   All windows and other exterior openings shall be maintained in
good repair. Any damaged window, or other exterior building opening, may be
covered and secured by a temporary plywood or other acceptable temporary
material for a period not to exceed six months while the replacement window
and/or structure is being procured and installed. The Planning Department may
issue a one-time extension, not to exceed three additional months, based on
extenuating circumstances.
      (2)   Maintenance of accessory structures. Each accessory structure shall
be subject to the maintenance standards set forth in division (B)(1) of this
section. Further, each structure shall:
         (a)   Provide weatherproof usable space and shall not harbor rodents,
termites or other vermin.
         (b)   All business, servicing or processing, except for off-street
loading, shall be conducted within completely enclosed buildings.
         (c)   In nonresidential districts, storage shall be within enclosed
buildings or effectively screened from view by plantings as required by the
zoning code.
         (d)   In residential zones all outdoor storage for a continuous period
exceeding 15 days shall be within enclosed buildings or it shall be effectively
screened from view as required by the zoning code. However, the storage of
functional items such as children’s play structures, firewood and operable
vehicles and bicycles shall be exempt from this provision.
         (e)   Inoperable vehicles must be stored within an enclosed building
or effectively screened from view as required by the zoning code.
      (3)   Maintenance of premises and landscape elements.
         (a)   All premises and landscape elements shall be maintained in a
safe and sanitary condition, including but not limited to steps, walks,
driveways, fences, retaining walls, trees, shrubs, grass and weeds. If any such
area or object constitutes a danger to health or safety, it shall be repaired,
replaced or removed.
         (b)   All paved driveways and walks which exist within the public
right-of-way shall be maintained in safe condition.
         (c)   All fences, retaining walls or similar structures shall be
firmly anchored in the ground and maintained in good structural repair. Wooden
elements or other elements subject to deterioration from weathering shall be
maintained with chemicals or paint to preserve the element and to retard
deterioration.
         (d)   Weeds and grass shall be kept trimmed and from becoming
overgrown in accord with the provisions of this code.
         (e)   Trees and shrubs which have branches projecting into the public
right- of-way, including public sidewalks, public places or public highways,
shall be kept trimmed in accordance with the provisions of §
907.09 of this code.
         (f)   Trees and shrubs afflicted with a form of decay or vegetation
sickness which can be transmitted to other trees or shrubs shall be removed or
shall be treated or sprayed so as to eliminate the risk of such decay or
vegetation sickness being transmitted to other trees. Dead trees in proximity
to rights-of-ways, buildings, structures, or congregations of people which may
endanger such objects shall be removed.
         (g)   All yards, courts or lots shall be kept free of accumulations of
trash, garbage waste, rubbish, refuse, junk, and other noxious or offensive
materials or substances which may cause a fire hazard or may act as a breeding
place for vermin or insects. Storage of miscellaneous items must be within
enclosed structures or screened as required in the zoning code.
         (h)   All portions of all premises shall be graded so that there is no
pooling of water or recurrent entrance of water into any basement or cellar.
All condensate and waste cooling water shall be discharged into the storm sewer
system with approval of the City Engineer.
   (C)   Maintenance after casualty damage. Within a period of 30 days after
casualty damage to any premises the owner and/or operator shall have taken the
following steps:
      (1)   Contracted for the repair and restoration of damage areas and
removal of debris; and/or
      (2)   Contracted for the demolition and removal of any part of the
premises not to be repaired and restored and for the removal of debris in
connection therewith.
(Am. Ord. 5765, passed 1-27-86; Am. Ord. 6012, passed 1-27-87; Am. Ord. 2022-
087, passed 8-9-22) Penalty, see §
1301.99
§ 1301.06 ADOPTION OF THE 2005 OHIO BUILDING CODE, 2002 OHIO MECHANICAL CODE,
2002 OHIO PLUMBING CODE, AND 2002 NATIONAL ELECTRIC CODE AND SUBSEQUENT
UPDATES.
   All of the requirements of the 2005 Ohio Building Code, including
mechanical, and plumbing, dated 2002 and the 2002 National Electric Code, as
amended from time to time and where not in conflict with this Code, are
herewith adopted by the city for those buildings, structures and uses regulated
by said Ohio Building Code. (All existing permits and buildings under design
may be submitted under the 1998 current codes until June 30, 2002 with
implementation in accordance with the Board of Building Standards memo dated
November 2, 2001.)
(Am. Ord. 5285, passed 3-24-81; Am. Ord. 7488, passed 3-24-98; Am. Ord. 7586,
passed 12-22-98; Am. Ord. 8409, passed 1-8-02; Am. Ord. 9343, passed 6-13-06)
§ 1301.07 BUILDING OFFICIAL OR HIS OR HER REPRESENTATIVE, DUTIES AND POWERS.
   The Building Official or his or her representative is charged with the
administration and enforcement of the code and shall, in the enforcement and
administration of this code, act on any question relative to the make or manner
of construction and the materials to be used in the erection, repair, removal,
demolition, location, use, occupancy and the maintenance of, addition to, and
installation of service equipment in all buildings and structures, except as
may otherwise be specifically provided for by requirements of other laws or by
other provisions of this code. Without prejudice to the generality of the
foregoing, such Building Official or his or her representative shall, whether
as included within, or as additional to the foregoing, perform the following
specific duties:
   (A)   He or she shall receive applications and issue permits required by
this code and examine the premises for which such permits have been issued and
enforce compliance with the provisions of the code.
   (B)   He or she shall issue all notices and orders and do all things
necessary to remove illegal, unsafe and unsanitary conditions including
inadequate exit facilities in buildings or structures either now existing or
hereafter constructed.
   (C)   He or she shall make or cause to be made inspections to insure
compliance with this code. All reports of inspections shall be in writing and
signed by the person making same or responsible for making same.
   (D)   He or she shall keep official records of all business and activities
of the division or bureau he or she has been appointed to administer, including
but not limited to applications, drawings and specifications received, permits
and certificates issued, fees collected, reports of inspections and notices and
orders issued. File copies of all papers in connection with building operations
shall be retained indefinitely.
§ 1301.08 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   Generally. In the discharge of his or her duties, the Building
Official or his or her representative shall have the authority to enter at any
reasonable time, or anytime demanded by circumstances, any building, structure,
or premises in the interests of enforcing the provisions of the code.
   (B)   Official identification. The Building Official or his or her
representative shall display his or her official identification whenever
requested.
§ 1301.09 BUILDING OFFICIAL OR HIS OR HER REPRESENTATIVE, LIABILITY.
   The Building Official or his or her representative and any person serving
under him or her and charged with the enforcement of this code, acting for the
city in the discharge of his or her duties, shall not thereby render himself or
herself liable personally, and he or she is hereby relieved from all personal
liability for any damage that may occur to persons or property as a result of
any act required, or permitted in the discharge of his or her duties. Any suit
brought against any officer or employee because of such act performed by him or
her in the enforcement of any provision of this code shall be defended by the
City Attorney until the final termination of the proceedings therewith.
§ 1301.10 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   When permit is required. It shall be unlawful to construct, alter,
remove, or demolish any building, or change the occupancy thereof from one use
or use group to another; or to install or alter any equipment for which
provision is made or the installation of which is regulated by this code,
without first filing an application with the Building Official or his or her
representative in writing and obtaining the required permit therefore; except
that ordinary repairs which do not alter the appearance, safety, sanitary
facilities or structural qualities of the building and which do not involve any
violation of the code, shall be exempt from this provision.
   (B)   Form of application. Application for a permit shall be submitted in
such form as the Building Official or his or her representative may prescribe.
   (C)   By whom application is made. Application for a permit shall be made by
the owner or lessee of the property concerned, or agent of either. The licensed
engineer or architect employed in connection with the proposed work may, as
agent for the owner, make such application. The full names and addresses of the
owner or lessee and of the responsible officers of owner and lessee if a
corporate body or incorporated association shall be stated in the application.
All applicants for permit shall be duly qualified under applicable laws.
   (D)   (1)   Description of work. The application shall contain a general
description of the proposed work, its location, the use and occupancy of all
parts of the building or structure and of all portions of the site or lot not
covered by the building, the estimated costs of the proposed work and such
additional information as may be required by the Building Official or his or
her representative, including but not restricted to the working drawings and
specification, plot and location plans, statement, and such other information
as may be required elsewhere in this code, all of which shall be submitted in
triplicate.
      (2)   Verification of information. All facts in the application shall be
subject to affirmation or oath. If, in the judgment of the Building Official or
his or her representative, the reported data are incorrect, he or she shall
have the right as a condition precedent to issuance of the permit to request
the applicant for authority to have such data verified either by the Building
Official or his or her representative or by others appointed by him or her, and
when so authorized, the cost of such verifications shall be paid by the
applicant.
   (E)   Acting on applications. All applications for permits shall be dated on
receipt by the Building Official or his or her representative and examined in
order of their receipt insofar as is practicable. Where work involved is of a
complex character which required prolonged examination, such applications need
not be taken in order. Applications which are returned without action because
of being incomplete or because of violations of some of the provisions of this
code shall be taken in order as of the date of resubmission.
   (F)   Drawings and specifications. The drawings and specifications submitted
with the application for a permit shall be lettered, giving the name and
address of the owner of the building, the purposes for which the building or
structure is to be used, its location, and the name and address of the
architect, engineer, or other person by whom the drawings and specifications
were prepared. A minimum of three sets of drawings and specifications shall be
submitted. When quality of materials is essential for conformity to the code,
specific information shall be given to establish such quality; and in no case
shall the code be cited or the term “legal” or its equivalent be used as a
substitute for specific information. The Building Official or his or her
representative may waive the requirement for filing drawings when the work
involved is of a minor nature.
   (G)   Drawings. The drawings to be filed for buildings or structures shall
be the general architectural drawings, consisting of a plot or location plan; a
foundation and footing plan, basement plan; plans of the upper floors and roof;
at least four elevations and such additional drawings as may be necessary to
fully illustrate and show the type, size, and other dimensions of all
structural parts and service equipment of the building; any other information
required to determine compliance with this code; except as set forth otherwise
in this code. All drawings shall be made by some approved photographic process
that will not fade or obliterate within five years. All drawings shall be to a
scale that will clearly show the work to be done, but in no event less than 1/
8 inch to the foot. Surveys and similar location plans, or other plans when
specifically approved by the Building Inspector may be at an approved smaller
scale. All distances, heights, dimensions, thickness, and size of walls,
supporting members, structural parts and opening, shall be accurately listed by
legible figures and the drawings made accurate and complete. The drawing shall
show all pertinent parts of the structures to be constructed and/or the service
equipment and accessary mechanical, electrical, piping and duct work to be
installed, including but not limited to the entire sewage, drain, soil, waste
and vent pipes, location of all plumbing fixtures, hot water heaters, furnaces,
steam or hot water heating boilers, power boilers, heater rooms, hot air
registers, hot air riser ducts, cold air registers, steam or hot water
radiators, plenum chambers, fans, ventilation ducts and flues, smoke flues,
elevator hatchway enclosures, refrigerating units, gas heating outlets,
electric wiring outlets including outlets for heating units, motors, generators
and transformers.
      (1)   Special requirements of plans. The plans for each room, apartment,
or part of the building or structure shall be clearly lettered, showing the
purpose for which the same is designed to be used. If the room or part of the
building or structure is to be used for any purpose for which the various
sections of this code restrict or limit the number of persons to be assembled
or accommodated therein, the plans shall be clearly lettered to indicate the
prescribed limitation.
      (2)   Superimposed and typical plans. Nothing in this section shall be
construed so as to prevent the showing of several of the floor plans
superimposed over each other, providing that when there is any change or
deviation in the parts, such changes and deviations shall be distinctly
dimensioned and noted, and providing further that when there is a terrace,
block or group of buildings or part of such terrace, block or group, it shall
be shown on the block plan, and each such distinct building or part shall be
classed as one building and separate permits issued accordingly.
      (3)   Alterations and erasures. It shall be unlawful to erase, alter, or
modify any lines, figures, coloring, written or printed matter contained upon
any drawing or in any specifications or statement filed with the Building
Official or his or her representative after it has been approved by him or her
except as follows: If during the progress of the execution of the work or prior
thereto, it is desired to deviate in any manner affecting the construction or
other essential or vital feature of the work from the terms of the application,
drawings, specifications, or statement, notice of such intention to alter or
deviate, shall be given in writing to the Building Official or his or her
representative and his or her written consent shall be obtained before such
alteration or deviation may be made. If such change or deviation affects the
bearing or structural parts of such work or its class of occupancy, new plans
and specifications therefore shall be submitted for approval. Notices of
alterations and approvals therefore shall be filed with the original
application for permit.
Penalty, see § 1301.99
§ 1301.11 PLOT PLAN; LOCATION PLAN.
   (A)   The plot plan shall consist of a plan of the lot or site upon which it
is intended to build, erect, alter or add to such building or structure, and
shall show accurately, the location and dimensions of such lot.
   (B)   The location plan shall show the location of all easements and rights-
of-way on such lot and/or all facilities installed thereon; the widths of the
streets, alleys or courtways upon which the lot or site abuts; the sidewalk and
curb lines thereof; fire hydrant, the amount of space on such street or alley
that will be used when such space is desired for the storage of building
materials and rubbish; the location of any building or structure on the lot;
the plan of the first story in heavy lines and all projections in their
extremes in broken lines; the dimensions of the body of the building, its
extreme projections and the distances thereof from the adjoining street or lot
lines and the distance between the building or structure and any other building
or structure on the same lot or site. The plot plan may be combined with the
location plan, and such plans shall be drawn to a uniform scale, and the scale
and compass points shall be legibly marked on the plan. Where plot plan
indicates a conflict with an easement, right-of-way or facility of a public
utility or public authority, the Building Official or his or her representative
shall notify the utility or authority concerned and allow seven days interval
before issuing permit to allow utility or authority to contest applicants right
to build as proposed.
   (C)   For the purposes of this section, the record plan for a subdivision or
plat may be used as the required plot plan provided that the outlines of the
building or structure are shown on the appropriate lot with dimensions to show
its exact location with respect to the lot lines.
   (D)   (1)   Grading information. This code shall require grading information
determining existing and proposed grades of the floors of buildings and outside
each placement in relation to public streets, sewers, storm drainage lines and
adjoining properties.
      (2)   Utility connections. There shall be shown on the plot plan the
proposed location of the building sanitary sewer, water service line,
underground storm drains, electric service lines and the points of connection
of all such services to existing facilities.
§ 1301.12 SPECIFICATIONS.
   Each set of drawings submitted for a permit shall be accompanied by a set of
specifications describing all the materials to be used and the work
contemplated to be done, except that no separate specifications shall be
required for one-, two-, and three-family dwellings when the required
information to show compliance with the code is indicated on the drawings.
§ 1301.13 IMPERFECT APPLICATION, DRAWINGS, SPECIFICATIONS.
   If the application for a permit or the drawings, specifications, details, or
statement accompanying the same indicate to the Building Official or his or her
representative the work to be done is not clearly or specifically defined and/
or dimensioned or is imperfect or is not in all respects in accordance with the
provisions of the code, he or she may refuse to issue a permit subject to
conditions of approval covering minor omissions from or changes to the plans.
Such condition shall be in writing.
§ 1301.14 PERFORMING WORK WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   Except as provided below, any person, firm or corporation who performs work
for which a permit is required by this code without first having secured a
permit therefore shall be deemed in violation of this code and subject to the
penalties provided by this code.
   (A)   Emergencies. In case of emergency where there is actual and immediate
risk of failure or collapse of a building or structure or the existence of
defective equipment or service facilities such as to endanger life or health or
such other condition as to require immediate action to make repairs necessary
to prevent the occurrence of such failure or collapse or the occurrence of such
danger and time available is not sufficient to allow the securing of a permit
from the Building Official or his or her representative as required by this
code, the person, firm or corporation required to perform such repairs may
proceed to do so after having first notified the Building Official or his or
her representative of such fact without obtaining a permit as required by this
code. In case the Building Official or his or her representative is
unavailable, notice shall be given to the Division of Police.
   (B)   Failure to obtain permits before starting work. Any person who shall
commence any installation of work for which a permit is required by this code,
without first having obtained a permit therefore, if legally authorized and
subsequently allowed to obtain a permit, may be required to pay double the
permit fees prescribed by this code provided; however, that this requirement
shall not apply to emergency work or installation as provided by §
1301.14(A), when it shall be proved to the satisfaction of the Building
Official or his or her representative that such work or installation was
urgently necessary and that it would have been impractical to have awaited the
normal time consumed in application for and issuance of the permit.
Nevertheless, even in such emergencies the required permit shall be obtained
without unreasonable delay after installation starts, and in no case more than
three days in which the office of the Building Official or his or her
representative is open shall be allowed for obtaining the permit. Before
issuing such permit, the Building Official or his or her representative shall
take necessary steps to determine whether work performed prior to the date of
permit and inspection conform to this code. Such steps may include but shall
not be limited to directing the tearing out of sections of surface work for
access to subsurface sections, digging for access to foundations piping and
other subterranean work and the like. The applicant for the permit shall
perform all such work as may be directed at his or her own expense.
Penalty, see § 1301.99
§ 1301.15 PERMITS.
   (A)   Action on application. In accordance with §
1301.10(E) the Building Official or his or her representative shall examine or
cause to be examined all applications for permits and amendments thereto within
a reasonable time after filing. If the application or the drawing do not
conform to the requirements of all pertinent laws, he or she shall reject such
application stating the reasons therefor. If he or she is satisfied that the
proposed work conforms to the requirements of the code and all laws and
ordinances applicable thereto, he or she shall issue a permit thereto as soon
as practicable.
   (B)   Time limitation of permit. Each permit shall have on its face the
period of time for which it is valid. Notwithstanding such statement, a permit
for any proposed work shall be deemed to have been abandoned six months after
date of issuance, unless the work for which the permit was issued has been
diligently prosecuted or an extension of the permit shall have been issued for
reasonable cause. The Building Official or his or her representative may grant
not more than two extensions of time for additional periods of not more than
six months each. Any permit shall become invalid if the authorized work remains
uninitiated, or is suspended, postponed, or abandoned throughout any six-month
period.
      (1)   When a permit has expired by limitation it may be renewed by the
submission of a letter stating reasons for one six-month renewal period.
      (2)   If a second renewal is desired, another letter stating reasons must
be submitted and a $5 fee paid.
   (C)   Signature to permit. The Building Official or his or her
representative shall attach his or her signature to every permit or may
authorize a subordinate to affix his or her signature thereto.
   (D)   Approved papers. All approved drawings, specifications, and other
papers filed with the application for permit shall be stamped or endorsed by
the Building Official or his or her representative or authorized agent and one
set shall be returned to the applicant for a permit, and the certified copies
of the same shall be kept on the building or work until the same has been
completed. True copies of all or as many of the drawings, specification, and
statements as may be required in the opinion of the Building Official or his or
her representative to illustrate the features of construction and equipment of
the building referred to in this code, shall be retained by him or her and
shall become records to his or her office.
   (E)   Revocation of permits.
      (1)   The Building Official or his or her representative may revoke any
permit or approval issued under the provisions of this code or may stop the
work for any of the following reasons:
         (a)   Whenever the continuance of any work becomes dangerous to life
or property.
         (b)   Whenever there is a violation of any condition on which the
issuance of the permit or approval was based.
         (c)   Whenever any false statement or misrepresentation has been made
upon the application, drawings or specifications on which the issuance of the
permit or approval was based.
      (2)   The revocation notice of the permit in every instance shall be in
writing and shall be served upon the holder of the permit, the owner, his or
her agent, or the person having charge of the work. Any revocation notice shall
also be posted upon the building or structure in question by the Building
Official or his or her representative. After the notice is received or posted,
it shall be unlawful for any person to proceed with any operation for which
such a permit was issued. No part of the fees for such permit shall be
returned.
   (F)   Rescinding the revocation. The Building Official or his or her
representative may rescind the revocation of the permit in which case the
applicant may be required to pay a fee equal to the original permit fee or $25
whichever is less, or the applicant may appeal to the Board of Building Appeals
in which case he or she shall pay the fee for a hearing in conformance with
Chapter 1303 of this code.
   (G)   Approval in part. The Building Official or his or her representative
may issue a permit for the construction of foundations or any other part of a
building or structure before the entire drawings and specifications for the
whole building have been submitted, provided adequate information and detailed
statements have been filed to demonstrate that an unjustifiable hardship will
be entailed by the applicant if he or she is required to delay initiation of
such work until completion and approval of the drawings and specifications,
together with such other data as may be necessary to demonstrate that the work
will comply with all the pertinent requirements of the code. The holder of such
permit for the foundations or other part of the building or structure shall
proceed at his or her own risk with the building operation and without
assurance that a permit for the entire structure will be granted.
   (H)   Posting of permit. A true copy of the building permit or such other
instrument serving the purpose as the Building Official or his or her
representative may authorize or approve shall be kept on the site of operations
open to public inspection during the entire time of prosecution of the work and
until the completion of same.
(Am. Ord. 5737, passed 12-23-85)
Penalty, see § 1301.99
§ 1301.16 CONDITIONS OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Payment of fees. No permit shall be issued, and no amendment to a
drawing, application for permit, or other submission, shall be approved or
certified, until the fees prescribed in
Chapter 1304 have been paid. Fees shall be due and payable to the City of
Lebanon when a permit is ready for issuance whether work for which the permit
is issued is carried forward by the applicant or not.
   (B)   Compliance with code. A permit shall be an authorization to proceed
with the work, but shall not be construed as authority to violate, cancel, or
set aside any of the provisions of the code, zoning laws or other applicable
laws except as specifically allowed by lawfully granted modification or
deviation.
   (C)   Compliance with permit. All work shall conform to the approved
application and drawings for which the permit has been issued and any approved
amendments thereto.
   (D)   Compliance with plot plan. All new work shall be located in accordance
with the approved plot and location plan.
   (E)   Change in plot. No lot or plot shall be changed, increased or
diminished in area from that shown in the application for permit without first
amending the application to that effect, except where the change is caused by
reason of an official street opening, street widening, or other public
improvement.
   (F)   Lot lines. It shall be illegal to sell, lease or provide an easement
over any land at any time if by virtue of such sale, lease or easement any
clearance yard or court space prescribed by this code or the zoning or other
applicable law for fire clearance or for other legal purposes is reduced to
such an extent as to constitute a violation of this code or such other laws,
and such sale, lease or easement shall be deemed null and void until adequate
provisions are made to bring the property into conformance with this code or
the applicable law.
Penalty, see § 1301.99
§ 1301.17 INSPECTION.
   (A)   General. Before issuing a permit for the construction, enlargement,
alteration, repair, removal, demolition, or change of use of any building,
structure, or site, the Building Official or his or her representative may
examine or cause to be examined any or all such buildings, structures, and site
in connection with which an application has been filed for such a permit. He or
she shall conduct or cause to be conducted such inspections from time to time
during, and upon completion of, the work for which he or she issues such
permits as he or she may deem necessary to determine that the work is in
accordance with the requirements of this code and the approved drawings and
specifications; and he or she shall maintain a record of all such examinations
and inspections and of all violations of the code.
   (B)   Notice. It shall be the responsibility of the holder of a permit to
notify the Building Official or his or her representative when work is ready
for the various inspections required by the terms of the permit or the approved
rules. Such notice shall be given within a reasonable time within which such
inspection is desired, but in no event shall be less than 24 hours. Notice
given on a Friday or on a day prior to a legal holiday shall not constitute
notice for inspection on a Saturday, Sunday or holiday unless arrangements have
been made under approved rules for inspection on such days.
   (C)   Action on notice. Upon receipt of notice that work is ready for
inspection the Building Official or his or her representative shall inspect or
cause it to be inspected as soon as reasonably practicable, however, failure of
the Building Official or his or her representative to make a prompt inspection
shall not be deemed justification for covering work without inspection when
such work is required under the terms of the permit to be inspected before
being covered. If the Official does not make the requested inspection or
contact the applicant within 24 hours after an inspection is requested, then
the work may proceed. Failure to perform an inspection shall in no way relieve
an applicant from performing all work in accordance with this code and the
terms of any permit issued.
   (D)   Inspection by others. The Building Official or his or her
representative at his or her discretion may accept in lieu of inspection by
himself, herself or his or her inspectors a certificate or report of inspection
for any part or parts of the work made by any architect, engineer, board or
bureau recognized by him or her as authority in such part or parts of the work
providing, such certificate or report shall show that the part or parts of the
work conform to the requirements of this code and all other laws and ordinances
relating to the same subject matter.
§ 1301.18 FINAL INSPECTION AND OCCUPANCY.
   It shall be the duty of the Building Official or his or her representative
to make, or cause to be made, a final inspection and examination of all
buildings or structures included under the various classifications of this
code, hereafter erected, constructed, altered, repaired or added to, before any
such building or structure is occupied, and if such a building has been found
to have been constructed in conformity to the provisions of this code, to issue
a written certificate thereto to the owner as set forth below.
   (A)   Certificate of occupancy. A certificate of occupancy shall be obtained
by the owner or his or her agent before which time it shall be unlawful to
occupy a building. The owner or agent will be subject to penalties provided in
this code if he or she allows the building to be occupied before final
inspection has been made and a certificate of occupancy has been issued except
that temporary occupancy may be authorized as provided hereunder.
   (B)   Compliance with other codes. A certificate of occupancy shall be
issued only when the owner or builder has complied with all provisions of this
building code, the planning and zoning code, and the streets and public
services code.
   (C)   Work in public right-of-way. Where work in the public right-of-way is
necessary to bring the improvements located therein up to the standards of the
city as established by the Department of Engineering, such work shall be
completed prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy. This work shall
include sidewalks, curb and gutter, storm sewers and appurtenances, and street
paving. All work in the public right-of-way shall be done in conformance with
the specifications and standards established by the City Engineer and on file
in the Department of Engineering. The work required to be done in the public
right-of-way may be deferred for good reason such as when general street
improvements are proposed for the subject right-of-way, provided guarantees
acceptable to the City Engineer to assure the completion of such work at a
later date are provided.
   (D)   Cost of engineering services. Where engineering services are furnished
in connection with any improvement other than inspection and approval, the cost
of such services shall be paid to the city. Such cost shall be the City
Engineer’s estimate as based on fees recommended by the Ohio Society of
Professional Engineers.
   (E)   Temporary certificate of occupancy. The Building Official or his or
her representative may issue a temporary certificate of occupancy for a
specific time when a building or structure has been substantially completed so
that its occupancy would not be hazardous or detrimental to the general welfare
and when full compliance with all applicable codes and permits has not been
achieved and when there are valid reasons for allowing such occupancy on a
temporary basis. Delay of outside concrete work because of cold weather is an
example of a valid reason. Where a temporary certificate of occupancy is
requested by an owner or his or her agent, the Building Official or his or her
representative shall require that the owner and any other interested party such
as a tenant shall sign a statement guaranteeing full completion of all code
regulated items before expiration of the specified time and agreement to the
cut-off of any or all utility services without recourse from the date of
expiration of the temporary certificate of occupancy until all work is
satisfactorily completed.
§ 1301.19 CHANGE OF OCCUPANCY.
   A certificate of occupancy shall be required for each building or structure
whenever its use is changed from one occupancy class to another or for a part
of a building or structure where its use is changed. Inspections shall be made
in every case. The Building Official or his or her representative shall direct
all interested agencies to make inspection within their several jurisdictions
and attest to full compliance before a certificate of occupancy is issued. The
owner shall be obligated to make application for all certificates of occupancy
inspections and pay all charges for same. The owner shall make his or her
premises comply to this code before allowing this change of occupancy.
§ 1301.20 DEMOLITION OR MOVING OF BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Notice; report. As a condition precedent to obtaining a permit, the
owner, agent or person in control of a building or structure to be demolished,
razed, or moved shall notify in writing the appropriate utility companies or
public authorities serving the building and/or structure of his or her
intention to demolish, raze or move such building or structure. Such notice
shall request the public utility company or public authority to disconnect such
service. Within seven days after receipt of such notice the public utility
company or public authority shall disconnect and seal off and so report to the
Building Official or his or her representative, who shall not issue a permit
for demolition, razing, or moving until his or her receipt of such report.
   (B)   Lot regulation. Whenever a building is demolished or removed, the
premises shall be restored to a state that is free of dangers or hazards and as
approved by the Building Official or his or her representative. All laterals to
the sanitary sewer shall be sealed and inspected by the City Engineer.
Penalty, see § 1301.99
§ 1301.21 VIOLATIONS.
   The owner of a building or other structure or premises in or on which
buildings, structures, service equipment or machines are installed, altered,
replaced, repaired, or maintained shall be responsible for every violation of
any provisions of this code. Any person, firm or corporation which performs
work for which a permit is required by this code without first having secured a
permit therefore; and every person, firm, or corporation who shall violate or
assist in the violation of any provisions of this code shall also be
responsible and liable for such violation and subject to the penalty provided
by this code. Any person who misrepresents a material fact in securing a permit
under the provisions of this code shall be in violation thereof and subject to
the penalties provided therefor.
   (A)   Notice. The Building Official or his or her representative shall serve
written notice of violation of the provision of the code, or of violation of a
detailed statement or a plan approved thereunder of violation of a permit or
certificate issued under the code, on the person(s) responsible for such
violation or for its remedy; and the Building Official or his or her
representative shall order the discontinuance of illegal action or condition or
the abatement or correction of any such violation or the taking of such action
as may be necessary to achieve compliance with the code, and he or she shall
serve written notice of such order on such responsible person(s).
   (B)   Prosecution of violation. If such violation is not corrected or such
order is not complied with within the time specified in the notice after
service of such notice, the Building Official or his or her representative
shall request the City Attorney to institute appropriate proceedings at law or
in equity to restrain, correct, abate, or punish such violation of the code or
of such order.
   (C)   Abatement. The imposition of any penalty shall not preclude the
Building Official or his or her representative from instituting an appropriate
action or proceeding in a court of proper jurisdiction to prevent an unlawful
erection or use; or to restrain, correct, or abate a violation, or to prevent
an illegal act, conduct, business, or use, in or about any premises, or to
require compliance with provisions of this code or other applicable laws,
ordinances, rules, or resolutions, or the orders or determinations of the
Building Official or his or her representative or the Board of Building
Appeals.
Penalty, see § 1301.99
§ 1301.22 STOP-WORK ORDER.
   (A)   Notice. Whenever it shall come to the attention of the Building
Official or his or her representative that work of any kind is being prosecuted
contrary to the provisions of the code or in an unsafe or dangerous manner, he
or she shall promptly issue a stop-work order to the owner of the premises
involved, or to the agent of such owner, or the person doing such work and
shall post at the site of the work, a distinctive placard conforming to the
approved rules informing the public and all concerned that work at the site has
been stopped by official order. Upon receiving such order such recipient
thereof shall immediately cease such work and cause such work to be ceased by
all other persons engaged thereon. Such order may be oral or written and shall
in all cases state the conditions under which work may be resumed. Such order
shall also direct the performance of such work as may be necessary to remove
any violation of the code and any conditions which the Building Official or his
or her representative deems unsafe and shall describe what corrective work is
necessary. In the event the recipient of an order disagrees therewith he or she
may request confirmation thereof in writing from the Building Official or his
or her representative and may then appeal from such order as provided under §
1303.01, but such appeal shall not be deemed authority to resume such work
until such appeal has been heard and favorably acted upon.
   (B)   Unlawful continuance. Any person who shall violate any such order or
continue any such prohibited work after notice, oral or written, that any such
order has been issued shall be liable to the penalties prescribed in §
1301.99 and the Building Official or his or her representative may proceed as
provided in §
1301.21.
Penalty, see § 1301.99
§ 1301.23 UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Right of condemnation. All buildings or structures that are, or
hereafter shall become unsafe, unsanitary, or deficient in adequate exit
facilities, or which are, or shall constitute a fire hazard, or are, or shall
become in any way dangerous to human life or the public welfare or which, by
reason of illegal or improper use, occupancy or maintenance are, or shall
become unsafe, shall be taken down and removed or shall be made safe and secure
as the Building Official or his or her representative shall deem necessary and
as provided in this section or any other applicable laws or ordinances, or
resolutions. A vacant building which is open to vandalism at door, window or
other openings shall conclusively be deemed a fire hazard and unsafe, unless it
is guarded in an approved manner.
   (B)   Examination and record of unsafe, unsanitary, and damaged buildings.
The Building Official or his or her representative shall examine every building
or structure reported or observed as damaged, dangerous, structurally unsafe,
or constituting a health or fire hazard; and he or she shall cause a report of
such examination to be prepared and filed in a docket of unsafe or damaged
structures and premises, stating the use of the building or structure and the
nature and estimated amount of any such damage.
   (C)   Uncovering defects. Whenever it is established by inspection that
definite and serious hazard to safety or health may exist, the Building
Official or his or her representative shall have the right to require the
removal, or any remove, lath, plaster, boarding, earth or other cover or
obstruction thereof, but the extent of such removal shall be that reasonably
necessary for such inspection.
   (D)   Unsafe building orders. If an unsafe or unsanitary condition is found
in a building or structure, the Building Official or his or her representative
shall serve on the owner, agent, or person in control of the building or
structure a written order hereinafter referred to as an “unsafe building order”
designating the building or structure, describing the repairs or improvements
required to render the building or structure or its equipment or service
facilities safe and secure, and/or sanitary, ordering that such repairs or
improvements be made, or that the building or structure or equipment or service
facilities or unsafe portion thereof be demolished, within a period also
stipulated in the order, and requiring the person upon whom the unsafe building
order is served to give notice in writing immediately to the Building Official
or his or her representative stating whether he or she intends to comply with
the unsafe building order and, if the order is in the alternative as to repair
or demolition, what action he or she intends to take.
   (E)   Posting unsafe building orders. If neither the owners agent, or person
in control of such unsafe building or structure can be found within the city
after reasonable diligent search, the unsafe building order shall be sent to
one of them by registered or certified mail directed to his or her last known
address; and a copy thereof shall be posted in a conspicuous place on such
building or structure; and such procedure shall be deemed the equivalent of
personal notice or service.
   (F)   Discontinuance of service. The Building Official or his or her
representative shall furnish a copy of all unsafe building orders to the public
utilities serving that building or structure which may be affected by the
condition responsible for such order, and shall mark thereon a request that
service being furnished the building or structure by such utility be
discontinued when in his or her opinion the continuance of such service will
constitute a hazard to the public. Upon receipt of such copy of notice and the
request thereof, any person, firm, association and the like supplying such
service shall promptly discontinue its supply at the meter in the designated
portion of the building or structure. It shall be unlawful for such person,
firm, association and the like thereafter to continue such service or to
restore the same until furnished with a copy of a certificate of approval from
the Building Official or his or her representative certifying that an
inspection has been made, that the hazardous conditions have been corrected and
that the affected installation has been brought into substantial compliance
with the requirements of this code.
   (G)   No liability upon public utilities or public authorities. No liability
shall be imposed upon any public service company or public authority for
failure to render service, or for disconnecting service to any person or place
where such failure of disconnection is based upon the nonissuance of a permit
and/or certificate of approval by the Building Official or his or her
representative, or upon an order hereunder by the Building Official or his or
her representative to disconnect such service, including but not limited to the
following:
      (1)   Failure or refusal to render service to any person or place which
does not present a certificate of use and occupancy as required by §
1301.19 or a certificate of approval as required by §
1301.23(F).
      (2)   Disconnection of service to a person or place upon receipt of an
“unsafe building order” under the provisions of §
1301.23(F).
   (H)   Disregard of unsafe building order. Upon refusal of the person on whom
an unsafe building order is served to comply therewith, or upon his or her
failure or neglect to reply thereto stating his or her intention with regard
thereto, or upon his or her failure or neglect actually to comply therewith, or
upon his or her use of the unsafe building, structure, equipment or service
facilities in violation of the unsafe building order issued under §§
1301.23 or
1301.24 the proper legal official shall be advised and shall institute such
action in the court as may be appropriate to compel compliance.
   (I)   Appeals. The owner of any building or structure with regard to which
an unsafe building order has been issued and served under this section shall
have the right to appeal such order to the Board of Building Appeals. Such
appeal shall be presented in writing within 10 days after service of such
unsafe building order, but shall not operate to stay any emergency action or
the performance of any emergency work on such building or structure which the
Building Official deems immediately necessary as provided under §
1301.24; nor shall such appeal be heard unless it alleges such order to be
unnecessary, improper, or unreasonable, and contains statement of the specific
reasons which the appellant contends support such allegation(s).
Penalty, see § 1301.99
§ 1301.24 EMERGENCY MEASURES.
   (A)   Vacating.
      (1)   When, in the opinion of the Building Official or his or her
representative, there is actual and immediate risk of failure or collapse of a
building or structure or any part thereof or the existence of defective
equipment or service facilities such as to endanger life or health, or when any
structure or part of a structure has fallen or failed and use or occupancy of
the structure, equipment, service facility and/or equipment or part thereof
would, in his or her opinion, endanger life or health, he or she is hereby
authorized and empowered to order and require the occupants and inmates to
vacate the same forthwith, and/or to forthwith cease, desist and refrain from
use or operation of the building, structure, equipment, service facility or
part thereof which is deemed dangerous. If such order is made, he or she shall
cause to be posted a notice reading: “This (Building (and) Equipment) Is Unsafe
and Its Use or Occupancy or Operation Is Prohibited by Law.” and it shall be
unlawful for any person thereafter to enter, use and/or operate such structure,
equipment, service facility or part, except to repair or demolish.
      (2)   He or she shall also cause such work to be done as may be necessary
to render such structure, equipment, service facility, or part temporarily safe
with regard to passersby and adjacent properties as well as occupants, pending
vacation and repair or demolition, whether or not he or she has previously
issued any order of vacation thereof. In lieu of attempting to make such
structure or part temporarily safe for passersby and adjacent properties, he or
she may, when necessary for the public safety, temporarily close such adjacent
properties and any affected sidewalks, streets and other public ways and areas,
and prohibit the use thereof.
   (B)   Costs of emergency work. Costs incurred by the city in causing
emergency work to be performed under the provisions of this section shall be
paid in accordance with established purchasing procedures; the City Attorney
shall thereupon institute such action as may be appropriate to recover such
costs from the owner of such structure or part, and such owner shall be liable
for costs and the cost of their recovery.
§ 1301.25 VALIDITY.
   (A)   Partial invalidity. In the event any part or provisions of this code
are held illegal or void, this illegal or void provision shall not have the
effect of making illegal or void any other part or provisions thereof. It shall
be presumed in such event that the code would have been enacted even had such
illegal or invalid parts or provisions not been originally included, and the
remainder of the code shall continue in full force and effect regardless of any
extent to which such illegal or invalid parts or provisions may be integrated
in the code with such remaining portions.
   (B)   Decisions involving existing buildings. The validity of any provision
of the code as applied to existing buildings and structures shall not be held
to affect the validity of such provisions in its application to buildings and
structures hereafter erected or altered.
   (C)   Other federal, state and local laws. Nothing contained in this code
shall be deemed to nullify or repeal any provision of the zoning law or any
other law pertaining to the location, use or type of construction of any
structure or other thing to which this code may apply, except as such
nullification or repeal may be specifically asserted by specific provisions of
this code.
§ 1301.26 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Building Official or his or her representative, with the approval of the
City Manager, is authorized to adopt such rules and regulations as he or she
may deem necessary for the proper interpretation and enforcement of this code.
§ 1301.27 CITIZENS HOUSING COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Establishment of Citizens Housing Committee; membership; appointment;
terms; vacancies; oaths; compensation; removal; offices.
      (1)   The Citizens Housing Committee is hereby established pursuant to
the authority set forth in §
8.11 of the Charter.
      (2)   The Citizens Housing Committee shall consist of five electors of
the city none of whom may hold other public office in the city and each of whom
shall have resided in the city for a period of two years.
      (3)   The City Council shall be the appointing authority of the Citizens
Housing Committee.
      (4)   The term of office for each member of the Citizens Housing
Committee shall be for three years; however, the terms of office of the members
first appointed shall be staggered so that two members shall serve for one
year, two members shall serve for two years, and one member shall serve for
three years.
      (5)   Vacancies on the Citizens Housing Committee shall be filled within
60 calendar days. When an occupancy occurs, other than through expiration of
the term of office, it shall be filled for the remainder of that term.
      (6)   All members of the Citizens Housing Committee shall, before
entering upon their duties, qualify by taking the city’s oath of office.
      (7)   Reimbursement for expenses or compensation or both may be
authorized for members on the Citizens Housing Committee.
      (8)   Any member of the Citizens Housing Committee may be removed by the
City Council, for inefficiency, neglect of duty, malfeasance, or conflict of
interest.
      (9)   The Citizens Housing Committee shall elect annually a chairman,
vice-chairman, and secretary, and any officer shall be eligible for reelection
at the expiration of his or her term.
   (B)   Meetings of Citizens Housing Committee; quorum; minutes; bylaws;
finances; subpoena power; administration of oaths.
      (1)   The Citizens Housing Committee shall conduct meetings at the call
of the chairman, or upon written notice of an appeal of a violation notice
issued by the Code Enforcement Inspector, who shall give written or oral notice
to all members of the Citizens Housing Committee at least 15 days prior to the
meeting; which notice shall contain the date, time, and place for the meeting,
and the subject or subjects which will be discussed. Said written notice shall
be posted in the City Building.
      (2)   A simple majority of the total membership of the Citizens Housing
Committee, as established by regulation or agreement, shall constitute a
quorum. Any member of the Citizens Housing Committee who has any direct or
indirect financial interest in the outcome of any question before the body
shall discuss the nature of the interest and shall disqualify himself or
herself from voting on the question.
      (3)   The action of the Citizens Housing Committee shall be by motion or
resolution. No motion or resolution shall be passed without the concurrence of
at least three members of the Citizens Housing Committee.
      (4)   The Citizens Housing Committee shall adopt bylaws for the
transaction of business and shall keep minutes and records of all proceedings
including motions, resolutions, regulations, transactions, findings, and
determinations and the number of votes for and against each question, and if
any member is absent or abstains from voting, indicating the fact, all of which
shall immediately after adoption, be filed in the office of the Citizens
Housing Committee. A transcript of the minutes of the Citizens Housing
Committee shall be provided if requested by a party, at the expense of the
requesting party, and the transcript shall constitute the record.
      (5)   The chairperson of the Citizens Housing Committee shall have the
power to administer an oath to witnesses prior to their testimony before the
Committee on any issue.
      (6)   The chairperson of the Citizens Housing Committee shall have the
power to administer an oath to witnesses prior to their testimony before the
Committee on any issue.
   (C)   Duties, jurisdiction and responsibilities. The Citizens Housing
Committee shall review all appeals of property maintenance violation notices in
Chapter 1325, General Requirements of the Lebanon Codified Ordinances.
   (D)   Appeals procedure. The owner, or any person directly affected by a
decision of the Code Enforcement Inspector based on
Chapter 1325, of a premises, building, or structure aggrieved by an order of
the Code Enforcement Inspector, or designee, may appeal such order or decision.
Such appeal shall be in writing and shall state the refusal order or decision
which is being appealed and the reason therefor. Written appeal must be made
within 15 days of notification of the violation. Such appeal shall be filed
with the Citizens Housing Committee who shall, within 15 days of the receipt of
an appeal, call a meeting of the Citizens Housing Committee for the purpose of
meeting to affirm, modify, or reverse the decision of the Code Enforcement
Inspector. The appellant must be notified in writing of the meeting date,
location, and time.
   (E)   The Board shall affirm, modify or reverse the decision of the Code
Enforcement Inspector by a majority vote of the quorum. Action of the Citizens
Housing Committee shall be duly recorded in its minutes, and written notice of
the decision shall be furnished to the appellant.
   (F)   The Code Enforcement Inspector shall take immediate action in
accordance with the decision of the Board.
   (G)   Any person, whether or not a previous party of the appeal, shall have
the right to apply to the appropriate court to correct any errors of law.
Application for review shall be made in the manner and time required by law
following the filing of the decision of the Appeals Board.
   (H)   Fee for appeal. Each application for an appeal to the Citizens Housing
Committee from an action of the Code Enforcement Inspector shall be accompanied
by a fee of $50. All fees shall be deposited in the general fund.
(Ord. 5720, passed 8-27-85; Am. Ord. 9281, passed 3-14-06)
§ 1301.28 VACANT BUILDING REGISTRATION PROGRAM.
   (A)   Purpose. Structures which are left vacant for extended periods of time
have been shown to breed crime, pose public safety risks, and reduce property
values and the economic viability of the community in which they are found. The
purpose of this section is to establish a program for identifying and
registering vacant buildings that fall under the definitions below; to
determine the responsibilities of owners of vacant buildings and structures;
and to provide incentives for the rehabilitation and productive use of vacant
buildings. Shifting the cost or burden of the existence of vacant structures
from the general citizenry to the owners of the buildings is an intended result
of this section.
   (B)   Definitions. Unless otherwise expressly stated, the following terms
shall, for the purposes of this section, have the meanings indicated in this
section.
      SECURED BY OTHER THAN NORMAL MEANS. A building secured by means other
than those used in the design of the building.
      UNOCCUPIED. A building which is not being used for occupancy authorized
by the owner. The term "unoccupied" shall only be applicable to multi-unit
structures when more than half of the units and more than half of the available
space are not currently occupied by a tenant or tenants.
      UNSAFE. A physical condition of a vacant structure that fails to comply
with applicable laws, codes and regulations.
      UNSECURED. A building or portion of a building which is open to entry by
unauthorized persons without the use of tools or ladders.
      VACANT. A structure (excluding government-owned or public utility owned
buildings not intended to be occupied) which has been unoccupied for a period
of at least 120 days and is:
         (a)   Unoccupied and an unsafe building as determined by the Code
Enforcement Inspector; or
         (b)   Unoccupied and having utilities disconnected for an extended
period of time (more than 120 days); or
         (c)   Unoccupied and has had housing or building code violations
during its period of being unoccupied; or
         (d)   Illegally occupied, other than during a pending dispute between
landlord and tenant, but including loitering and vagrancy; or
         (e)   Unoccupied with a mortgage status of abandonment (i.e. deceased
or foreclosed); or
         (f)   Unoccupied and abandoned by the property owner; or
         (g)   Any condition that on its own or combined with other conditions
present would lead a reasonable person to believe the property is vacant and
unsafe. Such conditions may include, but are not limited to, or by the presence
of, one or more of the following: overgrown and/or dead vegetation,
accumulation of newspapers, circulars, flyers and/or mail, accumulation of
trash, junk, and/or debris, broken or boarded up windows, abandoned vehicles,
auto parts or materials, the absence of window coverings, such as curtains,
blinds, and/or shutters, the absence of furnishings and/or personal items
consistent with habitation or occupation, statement(s) by governmental employee
(s) that the property is vacant and unsafe.
   (C)   Vacant building registration.
      (1)   In all areas within the corporate limits of the city, an owner of a
structure which meets the definition of a "vacant building" as set forth in
this section shall register such structure with the Community Development
Department not later than 120 days after it becomes a vacant building as
defined herein, or not later than 30 days of being notified by the Code
Enforcement Inspector of the requirement to register based on evidence of
vacancy, whichever event first occurs.
      (2)   The registration shall be submitted on forms provided by the
Community Development Department and shall include the following information
supplied by the owner:
         (a)   The name(s) and address(es) of the owner or owners;
         (b)   If the owner does not reside in a location in the State of Ohio
within 60 miles of the Lebanon City corporate limits, a property agent, manager
or caretaker residing or doing business within the state and within said 60-
mile-radius shall be designated and identified by name, address and telephone
number. By designating an authorized agent under the provisions of this
section, the owner is consenting to the service of any and all notices required
or allowed under this section upon said agent;
         (c)   The names and addresses of all known lien holders and all other
parties known or believed upon information to have a claim of an ownership
interest in the building;
         (d)   A telephone number where a responsible party can be reached at
all times during business and non-business hours; and
         (e)   A vacant building plan as described in division (C)(3) of this
section.
         (f)   Proof of insurance.
      (3)   The owner shall submit a vacant building plan which must meet the
approval of the Code Enforcement Inspector. The plan, at a minimum, must
contain one of the following:
         (a)   If the building is to be demolished, a demolition plan
indicating the proposed time frame for demolition which includes starting
within 30 days of acceptance of the proposed demolition timeline and does not
exceed one year in accordance with the Ohio Building Code; or
         (b)   If the building is to remain vacant, a plan for ensuring the
building is secured and maintained in accordance with all applicable building
and fire codes along with the procedure that will be used to maintain the
property, and a statement of the reasons why the building will be left vacant
(e.g., building is for sale, etc.); or
         (c)   If the building is to be returned to appropriate occupancy or
use, rehabilitation plans for the building and grounds. The rehabilitation plan
shall not exceed 12 months from the time the owner obtains required permits,
unless the Code Enforcement Inspector grants an extension upon receipt of a
written statement from the owner detailing the reasons for the extension. Any
repairs, improvements or alterations to the property must comply with any
applicable zoning, housing, historic preservation, or building codes, and the
property must be secured during the rehabilitation.
      (4)   The owner shall comply with all applicable laws, regulations and
codes. The owner shall notify the Code Enforcement Inspector of any changes in
information of a vacant building registration within 30 days of the change. If
the plan or timetable for the vacant building is revised in any way, the
revision(s) must be submitted to the city in writing and must meet the approval
of the Code Enforcement Inspector.
      (5)   The owner and subsequent owners shall keep the building secured and
safe and the building and grounds properly maintained in accordance with all
applicable health codes, property maintenance codes and fire codes. A new owner
(s) shall register or re-register a vacant building with the Community
Development Department within 30 days of any transfer of an ownership interest
in the vacant building, unless the building is to become occupied upon
transfer. The new owner(s) shall comply with the approved plan and timetable
submitted by the previous owner until any proposed changes are submitted to the
city in writing and meet the approval of the Director.
      (6)   Failure of the owner or any subsequent owners to maintain the
building and premises that result in remedial action taken by the city shall be
grounds for revocation of the approved plan and shall be subject to any
applicable remedy and/or penalties provided by the law.
      (7)   The provisions of this chapter apply to all owners of record and
both the vendor and vendee under any actual or alleged land contract or lease-
purchase agreement, whether recorded or unrecorded.
      (8)   The registration and all associated processes must be completed in
its entirety annually for as long the property remains vacant as defined
herein.
      (9)   The Code Enforcement Inspector shall maintain a record of any
property-specific written statements from community organizations, other
interested parties, or citizens regarding the history, problems, status, or
blighting influence of a vacant building.
   (D)   Inspections. The Code Enforcement Inspector reserves the right to
inspect any premises in the city for the purpose of enforcing and assuring
compliance with the provisions of this chapter. Upon the written request of the
Code Enforcement Inspector, an owner shall provide access to all interior and
exterior portions of a vacant building in order to permit a complete inspection
of the premises within 90 days of receipt of the written request. If the owner
does not provide access within 90 days, the city may pursue court action
seeking admission. Any civil penalties under this section which remain unpaid
for more than ten days may be collected in an action at law by any method
permitted for collection of an unpaid account. Nothing in this section shall
limit the right of the Code Enforcement Inspector to seek a search warrant for
the vacant building from a court of competent jurisdiction.
      (1)   Vacant buildings will be subject to an exterior inspection at least
twice per year at the Zoning/Code Enforcement Officer's discretion to ensure
the compliance with property maintenance codes;
      (2)   Vacant buildings will be subject to both an interior and an
exterior inspection at the start of each registration period (new and renewal)
and when a registration under this section is terminated by the property owner;
      (3)   Vacant buildings will be subject to both an interior and an
exterior inspection upon acquisition of the property by a new owner.
      (4)   Any inspection that is to take place within 30 days of a previous
inspection may or may not be conducted at the discretion of the Code
Enforcement Inspector.
   (E)   Fees. The fees described in this section are established in order to
defray the cost to the city government and community as a whole related to the
health, safety and economic impacts of structures which remain vacant for long
periods of time, including but not limited to administrative costs for
registering and processing the vacant building owner registration form and for
the costs incurred by the city in monitoring the vacant building site. The fees
are also structured in order to provide appropriate incentives for owners of
vacant buildings to care for them properly, seek to fill them, and in
appropriate cases demolish them. The annually increased fee amounts are
intended to absorb the costs incurred by the city for demolition and hazard
abatement of or repairs to vacant buildings, as well as the continued normal
administrative costs stated above.
      (1)   The owner of a vacant building shall pay a fee of $250 for the
first year the building remains vacant. For every consecutive year that the
building remains vacant, an annual fee will be assessed at double the previous
year's fee amount for a maximum annual fee equaling the five-year fee of $3,750
to be used for the fifth and for all consecutive, subsequent years of vacancy.
      (2)   The first annual fee shall be paid at the time the building is
registered. If the owner successfully restores the building to occupancy or
demolishes it in accordance with applicable law during the first year following
registration, the fee shall be refunded, less an administrative charge equal to
5% of the amount refunded.
      (3)   The fee shall be paid in full prior to the issuance of any building
permits unless the property is granted an exemption.
      (4)   All delinquent fees shall be paid by the owner prior to any
transfer of an ownership interest in the vacant building. A lien may be placed
on the property to collect delinquent fees.
      (5)   Absent a showing of good cause, if a building is not registered
within the time frame required in this section, or the registration is not
renewed within 30 days after the expiration of one year from the date of the
previous registration, a penalty shall be paid in addition to the annual
registration fee. The penalty shall be equal to one-half of the current annual
fee or $500, whichever is less.
   (F)   Exemptions.
      (1)   A building under active construction, reconstruction or renovation
and having a valid building permit(s) at the time of initial inspection shall
be exempt from registration until the expiration of the longest running,
currently active building permit.
      (2)   A building which has suffered fire damage or damage caused by
extreme weather conditions shall be exempt from the registration requirement
for a period of 180 days after the date of the fire or extreme weather event if
the property owner submits a request for exemption in writing to the Code
Enforcement Inspector. This request shall include the names and addresses of
the owner or owners, and a statement of intent to repair and reoccupy the
building in an expedient manner, or the intent to demolish the building. One
extension of not more than 90 days' duration may be granted for good cause
shown.
      (3)   A building that is for sale and listed with a licensed State of
Ohio Realtor shall be exempted for a period of 12 months from the start of
vacancy, provided that the owner submits proof to the Code Enforcement
Inspector of such listing and for sale status, and the building and premises is
maintained free of any property maintenance violations. A building that has
been granted an exemption pursuant to the following: Any owner of a vacant
building may voluntarily register the same and request an exemption from the
remaining provisions of this chapter by filing a written application with the
Code Enforcement Inspector, who shall timely consider same. In determining
whether a request for exemption should be granted, the Director shall consider
the following: the applicant's prior record as it pertains to City Zoning Code,
City Nuisance Code, and/or Building Code violations; the amount of vacant
property the applicant currently has within the city; the length of time that
the building for which the exception is sought has been vacant; the reason or
reasons for the vacancy; and the difficulty or expense involved in any
necessary remediation or demolition. No exemption from registration shall be
granted unless the owner or representative first completes a vacant building
plan under this division (F) and addresses any and all existing code
violations. An owner who believes he or she is being denied an exemption for
arbitrary or capricious reasons may file an appeal of such denial within ten
days as forth in §
1301.27.
   (G)   Appeals. Any owner who is served a notice of vacant property
registration, may, within 30 calendar days of receipt of such notice, apply for
an exemption or appeal the decision. Such appeal shall be in writing and shall
state the order or decision which is being appealed and the reason for the
appeal. Such appeal shall be filed with the City Manager, who shall make a
determination with the assistance of the City Attorney. If the owner still
wishes to apply for an exemption or an appeal, the city shall call the Board of
Zoning Appeals for the purpose of meeting to affirm, modify, or reverse the
decision of the official, or designee. The appellant must be notified in
writing of the meeting date, location, and time. Such meetings shall be open to
the public.
   (H)   Penalty. Any person violating any provision of the vacant building
registry shall be subject to the penalties provided by §
1301.99.
(Ord. 2023-079, passed 9-26-23)
§ 1301.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any provisions of this code for which another
penalty is not provided, or fail to comply with any of its requirements, or who
shall erect, construct, alter, or repair, or do any work upon or in connection
with, any buildings or structures in violation of a plan therefore or directive
relating thereto approved or made by the Building Official or his or her
representative, or of a permit or certificate issued under this code, shall be
punishable by a fine of not more than $300 or by imprisonment for not more than
30 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment for each provision of law thus
violated. Each day that any such violation or failure continues shall be deemed
a separate offense.
(Ord. 5284, passed 3-24-81)
CHAPTER 1303: BOARD OF BUILDING APPEALS
Section
   
1303.01     Board of Building Appeals
§ 1303.01 BOARD OF BUILDING APPEALS.
   There is hereby created a Board of Building Appeals. The Board shall consist
of the Board of Zoning Appeals, as established by § 8.08 of the Charter of the
City of Lebanon, plus two additional members to be appointed by the City
Manager. Of the two members appointed by the City Manager, one shall be either
a registered professional architect or engineer. The two members shall serve
overlapping two-year terms, one member being appointed to serve originally
through December 31, 1971 and the other, through December 31, 1972. Vacancies
arising during a term shall be filled for the unexpired portion of such term.
   (A)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The Board of Building Appeals shall have the power to reverse or
modify an order or ruling of the Building Inspector, or designee, if it finds
that order contrary to a fair interpretation of the building or property
maintenance codes.
      (2)   The Board shall further have the power with respect to one-, two-
and three-family residences and accessory structures except industrialized
units, to grant variances from the strict requirements of the code provided
that the spirit and intent of the code is maintained.
   (B)   Rules of procedure. The Board of Building Appeals may adopt its own
rules of procedure. A complete record of all proceedings of the Board, and
minutes of all proceedings, shall be kept.
   (C)   Quorum. Three members of the Board shall constitute a quorum and any
action of the Board shall be voted upon affirmatively by a majority of those
present.
   (D)   Application for appeal. Any person adversely affected by a decision of
the Building Inspector, or designee’s findings may appeal such decision within
15 days of date of written decision of the Building Inspector either on the
ground that the code or rules legally adopted thereunder have been incorrectly
interpreted in that particular case or that there are no such code or
regulatory provisions covering the particular matter involved. Upon written
notice of an appeal of an order issued by the Building Inspector, or designee,
the Board shall determine all appeals within 30 days after the filing thereof.
Notice of an appeal shall include the time, place, and purpose of the Board
meeting. Decision of the Building Inspector, or designee, shall be deemed to be
written if it is noted on the copy of the permit kept at the site of the work
and signed by the appropriate inspector or other authorized representative of
the Building Inspector. The Building Inspector or any interested person may
apply to the Board for a modification or for an approved rule at any time.
   (E)   Fee for appeal. Each application for an appeal to the Board from an
action of the Building Inspector shall be accompanied by a fee of $50. All fees
shall be deposited in the general fund.
   (F)   Representation. Each appellant or supplicant and the Building
Inspector, and any other person whose interests may be affected by the appeal,
shall be given a fair opportunity to be heard orally, in person, or by counsel,
and to present written argument.
(Am. Ord. 9282, passed 3-14-06)
CHAPTER 1304: BUILDING AND ZONING FEES
Section
   
1304.01    Fees
   
1304.02    Zoning permit applications
   
1304.03    Certificate of occupancy permit
   
1304.04    Move and set permit
   
1304.05    Board of Zoning Appeals hearing
   
1304.06    Conditional use permit hearing and application fee
   
1304.07    Amendments to the city’s zoning ordinance
   
1304.08    Fees; not returnable
   
1304.09    Building permit applications
   
1304.10    (Reserved)
   
1304.11    Plumbing fees
   
1304.12    Electric permit fees
   
1304.13    Engineering fees
   
1304.14   Subdivision plat fees
   
1304.15   Technical consultants
§ 1304.01 FEES.
   (A)   Fees for permits, inspection and certificates shall be paid to the
City of Lebanon as set forth herein. The Account Clerk, Department of Service
shall keep an accurate account of all fees collected and such fees shall be
deposited by him or her as required by law.
   (B)   The fees listed in this chapter shall be paid by applicants for all
permits prior to their issuance, except as provided hereunder. The fees listed
in this chapter may be waived or reduced by the City Manager for schools or
other government agencies.
(Ord. 5472, passed 4-12-83; Am. Ord. 6495, passed 5-22-90; Am. Ord. 6853,
passed 6-22-93; Am. Ord. 9049, passed 11-23-04; Am. Ord. 2009-071, passed 9-8-
09; Am. Ord. 2012-089, passed 10-12-12)
§ 1304.02 ZONING PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   New construction.
      (1)   New construction or additions to single-family and two-family
dwellings — $200.
      (2)   New construction or additions to multi-family dwellings — $200
single unit base fee, plus $20 for each additional dwelling unit.
      (3)   New construction - accessory structures up to 200 square feet of
gross floor area — $50.
      (4)   New construction - accessory structures over 200 square feet of
gross floor area — $75.
   (B)   Commercial, industrial, conditional and other nonresidential uses.
(New construction or addition to existing building).
      (1)   Major Site Plan - $500 first 5,000 square feet of building gross
floor area, $10 for each 1,000 square feet or fraction thereof over 5,000.
      (2)   Minor Site Plan - $250 first 5,000 square feet of building gross
floor area, $10 for each 1,000 square feet or fraction thereof over 5,000.
   (C)   Change in use when the zoning classification and building dimensions
are not changed — $25.
   (D)   Signs, and other accessory structures (excluding fences and parking,
as regulated by divisions (E) and (F) of this section) — $Permanent - $50;
temporary - $30.
   (E)   Fences — $30.
   (F)   Off-Street parking and loading and/or unloading areas (when developed
separately and not included in divisions (B)(1) and (2) above).
      $150 first 5,000 sq ft of parking lot area; $10 for each 1,000 sq ft or
fraction thereof over 5,000.
   (G)   Certificate of appropriateness applications:
      (1)   Residential - $40, plus applicable zoning and building fees.
      (2)   Nonresidential - $75, plus applicable zoning and building fees.
      (3)   Demolition - $200, plus applicable zoning and building fees.
   (H)   Minor Administrative Modification - $100, plus applicable zoning and
building fees.
   (I)   Zoning Certificate of Occupancy Requirements. (no fee) Prior to the
issuance of the building final certificate of occupancy permit (§
1304.03), the city shall require a zoning certificate of occupancy be issued by
the Planning Department in accordance with § 1132.14 of the city’s zoning code.
The purpose of this permit is to ensure that all zoning and engineering
requirements have been met prior to final occupancy of the site.
   (J)   Temporary Use Permit (§ 1133.16) - $25.
(Ord. 5472, passed 4-12-83; Am. Ord. 6495, passed 5-22-90; Am. Ord. 6853,
passed 6-22-93; Am. Ord. 7451, passed 11-11-97; Am. Ord. 9049, passed 11-23-04;
Am. Ord. 9542, passed 6-12-07; Am. Ord. 2009-071, passed 9-8-09; Am. Ord. 2021-
004, passed 1-26-21)
§ 1304.03 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY PERMIT.
   (A)   For certification of lawful nonconforming uses and structures — $25.
   (B)   Final Certificate of Occupancy Permit for new construction — $75.
   (C)   Temporary Certificate of Occupancy Permit for new construction — $100.
In the event a structure is occupied prior to the issuance of a Final
Certificate of Occupancy, the applicant listed on the original building permit
application for which said certificate is required, shall pay an additional fee
of $100. Temporary certificates of occupancy shall be issued at the discretion
of the Chief Building Official.
(Ord. 5472, passed 4-12-83; Am. Ord. 6495, passed 5-22-90; Am. Ord. 6853,
passed 6-22-93; Am. Ord. 9049, passed 11-23-04; Am. Ord. 2009-071, passed 9-8-
09)
§ 1304.04 MOVE AND SET PERMIT.
   Move and set permit shall be as required by the zoning permit and building
permit, and in addition a transport permit shall also be required — $50.
(Ord. 5472, passed 4-12-83; Am. Ord. 6495, passed 5-22-90; Am. Ord. 6853,
passed 6-22-93; Am. Ord. 2009-071, passed 9-8-09)
§ 1304.05 BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS HEARING.
   Dimensional variances, changes from one nonconforming use to another and
other appeals – $150 for residential property; $300 for nonresidential
property.
(Ord. 5472, passed 4-12-83; Am. Ord. 6495, passed 5-22-90; Am. Ord. 6853,
passed 6-22-93; Am. Ord. 9049, passed 11-23-04; Am. Ord. 9542, passed 6-12-07;
Am. Ord. 2009-071, passed 9-8-09; Am. Ord. 2021-004, passed 1-26-21)
§ 1304.06 CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT HEARING AND APPLICATION FEE.
   Conditional use permit hearing and application fee shall be as required for
zoning permit in §
1304.02, plus $300.
(Ord. 5472, passed 4-12-83; Am. Ord. 6495, passed 5-22-90; Am. Ord. 6853,
passed 6-22-93; Am. Ord. 7451, passed 11-11-97; Am. Ord. 9049, passed 11-23-04;
Am. Ord. 9542, passed 6-12-07; Am. Ord. 2009-071, passed 9-8-09; Am. Ord. 2021-
004, passed 1-26-21)
§ 1304.07 AMENDMENTS TO THE CITY’S ZONING ORDINANCE.
   The fee for an amendment to the city’s zoning ordinance shall be as follows:
   (A)   Text amendments — $250.
   (B)   Map amendment (excluding a site plan or development plan) — $500.
   (C)   Map amendment, including submission of a site plan, development plan,
or Planned Unit Development (PUD):
      (1)   Single-family residential or single-family R-PUD - $750, plus
preliminary plan fees per §
1304.14;
      (2)   Multi-family residential or multi-family R-PUD - $750 plus site
plan fees per §
1304.02(B) and applicable subdivision plat fees per §
1304.14;
      (3)   Nonresidential PUD - $750, plus site plan fees per §
1304.02(B) and applicable subdivision plat fees per §
1304.14.
   (D)   Annexation Petition — $500.
(Ord. 5472, passed 4-12-83; Am. Ord. 6495, passed 5-22-90; Am. Ord. 6853,
passed 6-22-93; Am. Ord. 9049, passed 11-23-04; Am. Ord. 9542, passed 6-12-07;
Am. Ord. 2009-071, passed 9-8-09; Am. Ord. 2021-004, passed 1-26-21)
§ 1304.08 FEES; NOT RETURNABLE.
   Fees required in any of the foregoing regulations or in any parts of the
city’s zoning ordinance shall not be returnable for any cause, regardless of
outcome of decision on any application. In the event the permit is not paid for
within six months or work is not started within 12 months of issuance, or the
permit is withdrawn and/or canceled by the applicant, said fee shall not be
refunded.
(Ord. 5472, passed 4-12-83; Am. Ord. 6495, passed 5-22-90; Am. Ord. 6853,
passed 6-22-93; Am. Ord. 2009-071, passed 9-8-09)
§ 1304.09 BUILDING PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Single-family, two-family, and three- family residential dwellings:
(new construction, additions, and renovations) — Total floor area is inclusive
of living, garage and basement areas:
 
Building permit:    $50 plus $3 per $1,000 valuation
Electric permit:    $50 plus $1 per 100 sq. ft.
HVAC permit:        $50 plus $1 per 100 sq. ft.
Manufactured homes: $300 plus $1.30 per 100 sq. ft.
Moving a house:     $50 plus $3 per $1,000 valuation
 
Miscellaneous Residential Permits:
Miscellaneous Residential Permits:
Residential electrical registration: $50
Service release upgrade:             $50
Temporary pole:                      $50
Generator:                           $50
Satellite antennas:                  $50
Solar collectors:                    $50
Radio towers/wind turbines:          $50
Fireplace insert/heat stove:         $50
 
   (B)   Multi-family dwellings (above three- family dwellings) and commercial,
industrial, and other nonresidential uses (new construction and additions).
Based on total floor area inclusive of living area, garage, basements, storage
areas, sales and display areas, and the like.
Multi-family and nonresidential building permit:
Multi-family and nonresidential building permit:
Buildings up to 10,000 sq. ft.          $50 per 100 sq. ft.
Buildings 10,000 sq. ft. to 50,000 sq.  $15 per additional 100 sq. ft. plus
ft.                                     above
Buildings 50,000 sq. ft. to 100,000 sq. $6 per additional 100 sq. ft. plus
ft.                                     above
Buildings over 100,000 sq. ft.          $3 per additional 100 sq. ft. plus
                                        above
Electric permit:                        $200 plus $2.50 per 100 sq. ft.
HVAC permit:                            $200 plus $2.50 per 100 sq. ft.
Manufactured home:                      $300 plus $1.30 per 100 sq. ft.
Industrialized unit:                    $200 plus $1.30 per 100 sq. ft.
Construction trailer:                   $200 plus $1.30 per 100 sq. ft.
Hoods with suppression:                 $400
Hoods without suppression:              $200
Sprinklers (20 and under):              $200
Sprinklers (over 20):                   $400
Fire alarm:                             $400
Security system:                        $200
Retaining/entry walls:                  $200
Bridges/fountains:                      $200
Signs/awnings:                          $200
Tents:                                  $75
HVAC replacement:                       $200 plus $50 each unit
Public/commercial pools:                $400
Solar collector/wind turbine:           $400
Cell towers:                            $400
Sales trailer:                          $400
Fire damage:                            $200
Demolition:                             $200
 
   (C)   Multi-family and nonresidential remodeling and alterations. For
remodeling and alterations, and accessory structures that require a permit, the
following fee structure shall apply:
 
Buildings up to 10,000 sq. ft.:         $45 per 100 sq. ft.
Buildings 10,000 sq. ft. to 50,000 sq.  $10 per additional 100 sq. ft. plus
ft.                                     above
Buildings 50,000 sq. ft. to 100,000 sq. $3 per additional 100 sq. ft. plus
ft.                                     above
Buildings over 100,000 sq. ft.          $2 per additional 100 sq. ft. plus
                                        above
 
   (D)   Wrecking - demolition fees. For all residential demolition permits a
fee of $50 shall be applied. For nonresidential demolition permits a fee of
$200 shall be applied. In addition to this fee, a performance bond in the
amount of 100% of the total cost of the project shall be submitted to the city.
   (E)   Deposit required. For commercial building permits a deposit of $250
shall be required at the time the permit application is submitted to the city.
For residential building permits a deposit of $100 shall be required. This
deposit shall be applied to the final permit fees upon permit approval by the
city. The deposit is non-refundable.
   (F)   Plan revisions review fee of $50 for residential buildings and $200
for nonresidential and multi-family buildings shall apply.
   (G)   An additional inspection fee of $50 for residential, and $200 for
nonresidential buildings shall apply for each re-inspection that is required
through fault of the permittee.
(Ord. 5472, passed 4-12-83; Am. Ord. 6495, passed 5-22-90; Am. Ord. 6853,
passed 6-22-93; Am. Ord. 7451, passed 11-11-97; Am. Ord. 9049, passed 11-23-04;
Am. Ord. 9277, passed 2-28-06; Am. Ord. 9542, passed 6-12-07; Am. Ord. 2009-
071, passed 9-8-09; Am. Ord. 2011-023, passed 3-22-11; Am. Ord. 2014-010,
passed 2-25-14)
§ 1304.10 (RESERVED)
§ 1304.11 PLUMBING FEES.
   All plumbing permits, inspections and associated fees are administered by
the Warren County Health Department for properties located in the city
corporation limits.
(Ord. 5472, passed 4-12-83; Am. Ord. 6495, passed 5-22-90; Am. Ord. 6853,
passed 6-22-93; Am. Ord. 7451, passed 11-11-97; Am. Ord. 9049, passed 11-23-04;
Am. Ord. 2009-071, passed 9-8-09; Am. Ord. 2011-023, passed 3-22-11)
§ 1304.12 ELECTRIC PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Flat fee. New residential construction, flat fee shall be — $200
(includes three inspections). For two-family and three-family units the fee
shall be - $200 flat fee + $75 for each unit. (For fees on housing units over
three family, see division (B) and (C) of this section).
   (B)   Commercial fee. New commercial and industrial construction, including
multiple-family housing over three units. Base fee includes one inspection
visit — $100.
   (C)   Additional fee. For each new commercial unit, in addition to the base
fee, there shall be a fee, based on floor area measured by outside building
dimensions and including attached garage and basement. For each 100 square
feet, or fraction thereof, of floor area — $3.25 (This fee permits an
additional inspection visit for each 5,000 square feet of area).
   (D)   Reinspections. If more inspections are requested or required, there
shall be a charge of $40 per additional inspection.
   (E)   Unit Fees. Permits for rewiring existing structures, new circuits,
main service, branch panels, other miscellaneous apparatus, and temporary
service structures. In addition to the base fee of $70, which includes two
inspections, there shall be paid unit fees in accordance with the following:
Each circuit, service and circuit panel — $5.
(Ord. 5472, passed 4-12-83; Am. Ord. 6495, passed 5-22-90; Am. Ord. 6853,
passed 6-22-93; Am. Ord. 7451, passed 11-11-97; Am. Ord. 9049, passed 11-23-04;
Am. Ord. 2009-071, passed 9-8-09)
§ 1304.13 ENGINEERING FEES.
   (A)   Sewer line inspection — $40.
   (B)   Water line inspection — $40.
   (C)   Sidewalk construction inspection — $40.
   (D)   Curb and/or gutter inspection — $40.
   (E)   Drive approach inspection — $40.
   (F)   Reinspection (where required through fault of permittee) — $75.
(Ord. 5472, passed 4-12-83; Am. Ord. 6495, passed 5-22-90; Am. Ord. 6853,
passed 6-22-93; Am. Ord. 7451, passed 11-11-97; Am. Ord. 9049, passed 11-23-04;
Am. Ord. 2009-071, passed 9-8-09; Am. Ord. 2021-004, passed 1-26-21)
§ 1304.14 SUBDIVISION PLAT FEES.
   (A)   Preliminary plat fee — $300 plus $10 per lot.
   (B)   Final plat fee — $300 plus $10 per lot.
   (C)   Minor subdivision; no plat required fee — $100.
   (D)   Annexation plat — $300.
(Ord. 7451, passed 11-11-97; Am. Ord. 9049, passed 11-23-04; Am. Ord. 2009-071,
passed 9-8-09; Am. Ord. 2021-004, passed 1-26-21)
§ 1304.15 TECHNICAL CONSULTANTS.
   In the event an application request under this section requires information,
review and evaluation beyond the normal requirements of these regulations and
in-house expertise, the Planning Commission and/or City Manager may require the
employment of outside consultants or technical experts. All costs incurred in
this review process shall be passed through to the applicant and shall be in
addition to those fees normally charged under this
Chapter 1304.
(Ord. 9542, passed 6-12-07; Am. Ord. 2009-071, passed 9-8-09)
CHAPTER 1305: ONE, TWO and THREE FAMILY DWELLING CODE
Section
   
1305.01   Adoption of code
   
1305.02   Amendments
§ 1305.01 ADOPTION OF CODE.
   (A)   Pursuant to Section
3.06 of the Charter of the City of Lebanon, the “One, Two and Three Family
Dwelling Code, 2004 edition,” written by Building Officials and Code
Administrators International, Inc., International Conference of Building
Officials, and Southern Building Code Congress International, is hereby adopted
by reference to regulate the fabrication, erection, construction, enlargement,
alteration, repair, location and use of one, two and three family dwellings,
their appurtenances and accessory structures in the city.
(Ord. 6538, passed 10-9-90; Am. Ord. 9143, passed 5-24-05)
§ 1305.02 AMENDMENTS.
   Amendments to the One and Two Family Dwelling Code are as follows:
   (A)   Part I - Administrative.
      (1)   SECTION R-101. The words “One and Two” are to be deleted and
replaced with the words “One, Two, and Three.”
      (2)   SECTION R-103. The words “One and Two” are to be deleted and
replaced with the words “One, Two, and Three.”
      (3)   SECTION R-106.1. The words “One and Two” are to be deleted and
replaced with the words “One, Two, and Three.”
      (4)   SECTION R-107. The following words shall be added “(See code
Chapter 1303).”
      (5)   SECTION R-109.2. The following words shall be added “(See code
Chapter 1304).”
      (6)   SECTION R-110. All the requirements listed in § 1301.11 shall be
added to the requirement of this section.
      (7)   SECTION R-112. The following words shall be added after
Prefabricated Construction “Industrialized Units” 4101.2-1-55 through 4101.2-1-
65.
      (8)   SECTION R-115. The following definitions shall be deleted and
replaced with:
         ACCESSORY STRUCTURE — A building or any structure, the use of which is
incidental to that of the main building and which is located on the same lot.
         BUILDING — Building shall mean any one-, two-, and three-family
dwelling or portion thereof, which is used or designed or intended to be used
for nontransient human habitation, for living, sleeping, cooking, or eating
purposes or any combination thereof and shall include structures accessory
thereto.
         DWELLING — Dwelling is any building which contains one-, two-, or
three-dwelling units used, intended, or designed to be built, used, rented,
leased, let or hired out to be occupied, or which are occupied for living
purposes.
   (B)   Part II - Building Planning.
CHAPTER 2
      (1)   SECTION R-202.
 
TABLE 2-A
CLIMATIC AND GEOGRAPHIC DESIGN CRITERIA
Roof    Roof    Wind               Subject to Damage from:
Live    Snow    Velocity Seismic
Load    Load    in lbs.  Condition            Frost
lbs.    lbs.    per sq.  by Zone   Weathering Line   Termites Decay
per sq. per sq. ft.                           Depth
ft.     ft.
                                                     Yes
                                                     Solid
        Same as Section  Section              Yes    block or Yes
25      live    11 OBBC  11 OBBC   Yes        30     Conc.    Treated   Sill
                                              inches and
                                                     Treated
                                                     Sill
 
      (2)   SECTIONS R-208.6.3. through R-208.6.6. Delete these sections.
      (3)   SECTION R-209. ATTACHED GARAGES — The following sentence shall be
added: “The garage floor level shall be constructed at least 6” below the
living area floor level and shall slope to the garage doors.”
   (C)   Part III - Construction.
CHAPTER 3 - FOUNDATIONS
      (1)   FIGURE NO. R-303 MINIMUM FOUNDATION REQUIREMENTS, shall be deleted
and replaced with AMENDED FIGURE NO. R-303 as attached to Ordinance No. 6538.
      (2)   SECTION R-402 - WALL CONSTRUCTION.
         (a)   R-402.3 - CONSTRUCTION. That reference to 24” stud spacing be
changed to 16” stud spacing.
         (b)   R-402.3(b), (c), (d). That reference to 24” stud spacing be
changed to 16” stud spacing.
         (c)   R-402.4 - INTERIOR PARTITIONS. Delete this section.
      (3)   SECTION R-603 - CONCRETE FLOORS (ON GROUND). Delete this paragraph
starting with the words “Slabs shall be” including the exception at the end of
the paragraph and Table R-603.1.
   (D)   Part V - Plumbing.
      Delete the entire Chapters 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, and 25 and replace with
the OHIO PLUMBING CODE as regulated by Chapter 4101.2-51 of the Ohio
Administrative Code.
   (E)   Part VI - Electrical.
      The entire section shall be deleted and replaced with the following: The
1990 National Electric Code (NFPA 70-90)
(Ord. 6538, passed 10-9-90)
CHAPTER 1306: MISCELLANEOUS REQUIREMENTS
Section
   
1306.01   Miscellaneous requirements
   
1306.02   Backfill, grading and drainage
   
1306.03   [Reserved]
   
1306.04   [Reserved]
   
1306.05   Swimming pools
   
1306.06   Fall-out shelters
   
1306.07   Street encroachments
   
1306.08   Canopies
   
1306.09   Awnings
   
1306.10   Fire zone requirements
   
1306.11   [Reserved]
   
1306.12   [Reserved]
   
1306.13   [Reserved]
   
1306.14   Fire Insurance Trust Fund
 
   
1306.99   Penalty
§ 1306.01 MISCELLANEOUS REQUIREMENTS.
   The requirements of this chapter shall be applicable to all construction in
the City of Lebanon which is also regulated by Chapters 1301, 1303, 1304 and
1305.
§ 1306.02 BACKFILL, GRADING AND DRAINAGE.
   (A)   Backfill. Backfill material for foundation and/or cellar walls shall
be free of debris, wood scraps or other deleterious substances. Backfill shall
be placed carefully against walls in layers 12” or less in thickness, and each
layer shall be compacted to optimum density in order to avoid damaging
settlement to drainage structures, walks, driveways, lawns or other lot
improvements.
   (B)   Surface drainage. Positive surface drainage shall be provided for each
lot by proper drainage so that there shall be no pocketing of water. This can
be accomplished by grading or installing catch-basins or under-drains properly
connected to approved disposal points.
      (1)   When a lot is graded to a higher or lower level than the natural
grade, the owner shall provide suitable slopes or retaining walls or other
protection on his or her property to preserve the natural surface elevation of
adjoining property.
      (2)   Grading shall be done so that the existing natural ground drainage
of the area is not impeded.
      (3)   Grading shall be done so that storm water run off to adjoining
property is not concentrated to spill off the property at new locations.
   (C)   Roof and yard drainage. Where no storm sewer is available, then no
garage apron, runway, or any entrance area below ground level, nor any area
subject to receiving storm drainage, shall be permitted unless it has gravity
drainage to the street or to a natural drainage course. The storm sewer shall
not be considered available unless it is low enough to allow the slope of the
lateral entering it to be at least 1/8 inch per foot.
   (D)   Gutters. All new buildings, except accessory buildings less than 800
square feet in area, or buildings with roof overhangs of 12 inches or more that
have a side yard of at least 6 feet 6 inches from the far edge of the overhang
to the property line, shall be equipped with gutters and downspouts.
      (1)   Where no gutters are used, the plans submitted for the building
permit shall show on a grading plan of the lot that roof run off water shall
follow drainage swales formed by intersecting slopes and that these swales
carry water to some natural water course on the same property or to street
curb.
      (2)   When gutters and downspouts are used, then downspouts must be
connected by a pipe to a storm sewer if a storm sewer is available. If such
sewer is not available then collector pipe shall run to a street gutter or
street drainage ditch if same is available. If neither sewer nor gutter is
available, then collector shall run to a natural drainage course on the owner’s
property. The storm sewer shall not be considered available if the public
right-of-way paving would have to be broken to get to the sewer or if tunneling
would have to be resorted to under the street. Where connection to a storm
sewer is impractical, splash blocks in lieu of underground pipe drains may be
used when available yard area will permit dispersion of downspout water within
the limits of the building lot.
Penalty, see § 1306.99
§ 1306.03 [RESERVED].
§ 1306.04 [RESERVED].
§ 1306.05 SWIMMING POOLS.
   Any constructed pool which is used or intended to be used as a swimming pool
shall be in conformity with the requirements of this section.
   (A)   Exception. These regulations shall not be applicable to any pool less
than 24 inches deep.
   (B)   Location on lot. Swimming pools shall conform to the zoning code
except that no wall of a pool shall be located less than five feet from any
rear or side property line.
   (C)   Design and construction.
      (1)   Structural design. The pool structure shall be engineered and
designed to withstand the expected forces to which it will be subjected and be
in conformity with Chapters BB-5, BB-29, BB-31, O.B.C.
      (2)   (a)   Wall slopes. To a depth up to five feet from the top, the
wall slope shall be not more than two feet horizontal in five feet vertical.
         (b)   Floor slopes. The slope of the floor on the shallow side of
transition shall not exceed one-foot vertical to seven feet horizontal. The
transition point between shallow and deep water shall not be more than five
feet deep.
   (D)   Water supply, treatment and drainage systems.
      (1)   Water supply. Every pool shall be provided with a potable water
supply, free of cross-connections with the pool or its equipment.
      (2)   (a)   Water treatment. Every pool shall be equipped with a
recirculating system capable of filtering the entire contents of the pool in 18
hours.
         (b)   Owner instructions. The pool owner shall be instructed in proper
care and maintenance of the pool, by the supplier or contractor, including the
use of high test calcium hypochlorite (dry chlorine) or sodium hypochlorite
(liquid chlorine) or equally effective germicide and algicide and the
importance of proper PH (alkalinity and acidity) control.
      (3)   Drainage. Every pool designed to be emptied of water shall be
equipped to discharge water to a storm water discharge point, a storm sewer if
one is available, to a roadway drainage ditch or street curb if no storm sewer
is available, or to a natural drainage ditch on the owner’s property if neither
of the above is available.
      (4)   Plumbing code. All work shall conform to applicable provisions of
Chapter BB-51, O.B.C.
      (5)   Electrical code. All work shall conform to the National Electric
Code.
      (6)   Enclosure devices. Every person owning land on which there is
situated a swimming pool, which constitutes an obvious hazard and which is 24
inches or more in depth at any point, shall erect and maintain thereon an
adequate enclosure either surrounding the property or pool area, sufficient to
make such a body of water inaccessible to small children. Such enclosure,
including gates therein, must be not less than four feet above the adjacent
grade; all gates must be self-latching with latches placed four feet above the
grade or otherwise made inaccessible from the outside to small children.
      (7)   Minimum standards. When items not required by this section are used
in construction or operation of swimming pools, or when performance is required
by this section, the standards to be used in determining compliance to this
section shall be those as established by the National Swimming Pool Institute
(Harvard, Illinois).
   (E)   Where such swimming pools are also subject to the Ohio Building Code,
they shall meet all requirements thereof.
Penalty, see § 1306.99
§ 1306.06 FALLOUT SHELTERS.
   Because of the specialized purpose and emergency nature for which fallout
shelters are intended, any such shelter which complies with the paragraphs
following is hereby exempt from the provisions of this building code except as
otherwise provided herein.
   (A)   Definition. A fallout shelter is a structure designed and constructed
in accordance with this section, for emergency use only, to afford minimum
protection from nuclear radiation, commonly known as “fallout,” resulting from
a nuclear incident which is likely to be of catastrophic proportions.
   (B)   General provisions. A fallout shelter in matters relating to
construction and structural stability, shall be engineered and designed to
comply with the provisions of Chapters BB-29 and BB-31, O.B.C.
§ 1306.07 STREET ENCROACHMENTS.
   Except as herein provided, no part of any building hereafter erected and no
additions to an existing building heretofore erected shall project beyond the
lot lines or beyond the building line when such line is established by the
zoning code.
   (A)   All projections hereafter permitted beyond the street lot line or the
building line shall be so constructed as to be readily removable without
endangering the safety of the building.
   (B)   In any specific application, the Building Inspector may designate such
architectural features and accessories which are deemed desirable or necessary
for the health or safety of the public and the extent to which they may project
beyond the street lot line or the building line.
   (C)   Any permit granted or permission expressed or implied in the
provisions of this code to construct a building so as to project beyond the
street lot line or building line shall be revocable by the city at will.
   (D)   Subject to such provisions as may be otherwise prescribed, by law or
ordinance, the following projections shall be permitted beyond the street lot
line or the building line, as the case may be:
      (1)   Main cornices or roof eaves located at least 12 feet above the curb
level shall project not more than three feet.
      (2)   Belt courses, lintels, sills, architraves, pediments and similar
architectural decorations shall project not more than four inches when less
than ten feet above the curb level, and not more than ten inches when ten feet
or more above the curb level.
      (3)   Ornamental columns, or pilasters, including the bases and moldings
which emphasize the main entrance of the building shall project not more than
12 inches.
      (4)   Entrance steps shall project not more than 12 inches and shall be
guarded by cheek pieces not less than three feet high or shall be located
between ornamental columns or pilasters.
      (5)   Oriel windows with the lowest portion at least ten feet above the
curb level shall project not more than three feet except that when the balcony
is required in connection with a fire escape or exterior stairway as an element
of a means of egress, the projection may be increased, not to exceed four feet.
      (6)   Balconies located at least ten feet above the curb level shall
project not more than three feet except that when the balcony is required in
connection with a fire escape or exterior stairway as an element of a means of
egress, the projection may be increased but not to exceed four feet.
      (7)   Canopies may project beyond the street line as provided in §
1306.08
Penalty, see § 1306.99
§ 1306.08 CANOPIES.
   For the purpose of this section, a canopy is as defined in the Ohio Building
Code and shall include any object or decoration attached to or a part of such
canopy.
   (A)   Projection and clearance. The horizontal clearance between a canopy
and the curb line shall be not less than two feet. A canopy shall be not less
than ten feet above the ground or pavement below.
   (B)   Thickness. The maximum height or thickness of a canopy measured
vertically from its lowest to its highest point shall not exceed three feet.
   (C)   Roof construction. The roof or any part thereof may be a skylight of
approved plastics, or wired glass not less than ¼-inch thick with no single
pane more than 18 inches wide. Every roof and skylight of a canopy shall be
sloped to downspouts which shall conduct any drainage from the canopy in a
manner not to spill over the sidewalk.
   (D)   Location prohibited. Every canopy shall be so located as not to
interfere with the operation of any exterior standpipe or to obstruct the clear
passage of stairways or exitway discharge from the building or the installation
or maintenance of street lighting.
   (E)   Construction. A canopy shall be supported entirely from the building
and constructed by noncombustible material. Canopies shall be designed and
constructed to withstand wind or other lateral loads in accordance with
accepted engineering standards.
Penalty, see § 1306.99
§ 1306.09 AWNINGS.
   (A)   Permit required. A permit shall be obtained from the Building
Inspector for the erection, repair or replacement of any fixed awning or hood
except as provided in division (B) below, and for any retractable awning
located at the first story level and extending over the public street or over
any portion of a court or yard beside a building serving as a passage from a
required exitway or exitway discharge to a public street.
   (B)   Exemption from permit. No permit shall be required for the erection,
repair or replacement of fixed or retractable awnings installed on one-, two-
and three-family dwellings, unless they project over public property, or for
retractable awnings installed above the first story or where the awning does
not project over the public street or over any court or yard service as a
passage from a required exitway to a public street.
   (C)   Installation of awnings.
      (1)   Retractable awnings. There shall be a minimum clearance of seven
feet from the sidewalk to the lowest part of the framework or any fixed portion
of any retractable awning, except that the bottom of the valance of canvas
awnings may extend to six feet, nine inches above the sidewalk. Retractable
awnings shall be securely fastened to the building and shall not extend closer
than two feet from the curb line or more than eight feet from the building.
They shall be equipped with a mechanism or device for raising and holding the
awning in a retracted or closed position against the face of the building.
      (2)   Fixed or permanent awnings. The clearance from the sidewalk to the
lowest part of any fixed or permanent awning shall be seven feet. Fixed or
permanent awnings installed above the first story shall not project more than
four feet.
   (D)   Construction. Canopies or awnings shall be constructed of a metal
framework, with an approved covering, attached to the building at the inner end
and supported at the outer end by not more than two stanchions with braces
anchored in an approved manner and placed not less than two feet in from the
curb line. The horizontal portion of the framework shall be not less than eight
feet nor more than 12 feet above the sidewalk and the clearance between the
covering or valance and the sidewalk shall be not less than seven feet. The
width of canopies shall not exceed eight feet. The height above the sidewalk
may be increased and the distance which an awning or canopy may extend out from
a building may be decreased when necessary to assure traffic and pedestrian
safety.
Penalty, see § 1306.99
§ 1306.10 FIRE ZONE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Fire district. To control types of construction for the purpose of
reducing the inherent fire hazard exacerbated by congestion of buildings, it is
herewith determined that an area to be known as the “fire district” shall be
maintained. Such district is bounded and described as follows:
   Beginning at the intersection of the east branch of Turtlecreek with the
north branch of Turtlecreek; thence along the north branch of Turtlecreek
northwardly to its intersection with the centerline of East Warren Street
projected westwardly; thence along such projection of the centerline of East
Warren Street eastwardly to the centerline of East Street; thence southwardly,
along the centerline of East Street to its intersection with the east branch of
Turtlecreek; thence along the east branch of Turtlecreek westwardly to its
intersection with the centerline of Mechanic Street; thence northwardly along
the centerline of Mechanic Street to the centerline of South Street; thence
westwardly along the centerline of South Street to the centerline of South
Broadway; thence southwardly along the centerline of South Broadway to its
intersection with the east branch of Turtlecreek; thence along the east branch
of Turtlecreek westwardly to the place of beginning.
   (B)   Frame construction prohibited. No building of frame construction shall
be erected within the fire district nor shall such a building or structure be
moved from without to within, or from one lot to another within the fire
district, except as otherwise provided in this section and no building of
otherwise lawful construction shall be extended in height or area within the
fire district by frame construction; except that one-, two- and three-family
dwellings may be extended in area by not more than 300 square feet and to a
height of not more than 2½ stories nor more than 35 feet.
   (C)   Roof coverings. All roof coverings shall be constructed to meet the
requirements of Class A or Class B roofs.
      (1)   Where it is determined by the Building Inspector with the approval
of the City Engineer, because of distance between buildings, character of
development, type of building construction, or other factors affecting fire
safety, that the requirements that a roof be Class A or Class B is not
warranted, this requirement may be waived. Such waiver shall be in the form of
an endorsement on the application for building permit by both the Building
Inspector and City Engineer.
      (2)   Residential buildings and accessory residential buildings located
in the fire zone may be of frame construction where their location on a lot
provides separation from interior lot lines or other buildings on the same lot
of not less than 20 feet.
   (D)   Outbuildings and parking lot offices. Outbuildings and parking lot
offices not more than ten feet in height and 100 square feet in area may be
erected of frame (type V) construction when accessory to a lot approved for
motor vehicle parking and when located not less than six feet from all lot
lines or other buildings.
   (E)   Builder’s shanties and reviewing stands. Temporary builder’s shanties
erected in connection with approved building operations, platforms, reviewing
stands, booths erected for use during festivals, and other similar
miscellaneous structures may be erected of frame (type V) construction for a
limited period of time as approved by the Building Inspector.
   (F)   Private garages. Private garages not more than one story nor more than
15 feet in height when accessory to a one-, two- or three-family dwelling may
be erected of protected frame (type V-A) construction nor more than 750 square
feet in area, or of frame (type V-B) construction not more than 500 square feet
in area, when located not less than six feet from interior lot lines or from
any other building.
   (G)   Store fronts. Wood veneers of one-inch nominal thickness or exterior
grade plywood not less than 3/8-inch thick may be used on store fronts when
facing public streets; provided the veneer does not exceed one story in height
and is applied to noncombustible backing.
(Am. Ord. 1695, passed 8-8-72; Am. Ord. 4000, passed 6-20-77)
Penalty, see § 1306.99
§ 1306.11 [RESERVED].
§ 1306.12 [RESERVED].
§ 1306.13 [RESERVED].
§ 1306.14 FIRE INSURANCE TRUST FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Fire Insurance Trust Fund which shall be
maintained separately from all other city funds as a trust fund for the
purposes hereinafter enumerated.
   (B)   For the purposes specified in R.C. § 3929.86, the Director of Finance
is hereby designated as the officer to administer the Fire Insurance Trust
Fund.
   (C)   (1)   In the event of any loss by fire within the city occurring after
the effective date of this subchapter when the amount of the loss agreed to
between the named insured or insureds and the company or companies insuring
such loss equals or exceeds 60% of the aggregate limits of liability on all
fire policies covering the building or structure insured, the insurance company
or companies in accordance with R.C. § 715.26(F), shall transfer from the
insurance proceeds to the Director of Finance of the city in the aggregate
$2,000 for each $15,000 and each fraction of that amount, of a claim, or, if at
the time of a proof of loss agreed to between the named insured or insureds and
the insurance company or companies the named insured or insureds have submitted
a contractor’s signed estimate of the costs of removing, repairing, or securing
the building or other structure, shall transfer from the insurance proceeds the
amount specified in the estimate.
      (2)   Such transfer of proceeds shall be on a pro rata basis by all
companies insuring the building or other structure.
      (3)   The named insured or insureds may submit a contractor’s signed
estimate of the costs of removing, repairing, or securing the building or other
structure after the transfer, and the Director of Finance shall return the
amount of the fund in excess of the estimate to the named insured or insureds,
provided that the city has not commenced to remove, repair, or secure the
building or other structure.
   (D)   (1)   Upon receipt of proceeds by the city as authorized by this
subchapter and R.C. § 3929.86, the Director of Finance shall place the proceeds
in the Fire Insurance Trust Fund to be used solely as security against the
total cost of removing, repairing, or securing incurred by the city pursuant to
R.C. § 715.261.
      (2)   When transferring the fund as required by this subchapter an
insurance company shall provide the Director of Finance with the name and
address of the named insured or insureds, whereupon the Director of finance or
his or her designee shall contact the named insured or insureds, certify that
the proceeds have been received by the city and notify them that the procedures
as set forth in this division will be followed:
         (a)   The fund shall be returned to the name insured or insureds when
the repairs or removal, or securing of the building or other structure have
been completed and the required proof received by the Director of Finance, if
the city has incurred any costs for repairs, removal or securing of the
building or other structure, such costs shall be paid from the fund and if
excess funds remain, the city shall transfer the remaining funds to the named
insured or insureds.
         (b)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to limit the
ability of the city to recover any deficiency under R.C. § 715.261.
   (E)   In accordance with the provisions of R.C. § 3929.86, the Clerk of
Council is hereby directed to file a certified copy of Ordinance 6419 with the
Superintendent of Insurance of the State of Ohio.
(Ord. 6419, passed 10-24-89)
§ 1306.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, corporation or agent, employee or contractor of such, who
violates, disobeys, omits neglects or refuses to comply with, or who resists
enforcement of any provision of this chapter shall be fined not less than $25
nor more than $200 or imprisoned not more than 90 days, or both, for each
offense. Each day a violation continues to exist shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. 5286, passed 3-24-81; Am. Ord. 6419, passed 10-24-89)
CHAPTER 1307: REGULATIONS DURING CONSTRUCTION
Section
   
1307.01   Scope of chapter
   
1307.02   Plans, specifications and special permits
   
1307.03   Tests
   
1307.04   Inspection
   
1307.05   Maintenance
   
1307.06   Existing buildings
   
1307.07   Protection of public and workers
   
1307.08   Excavations
   
1307.09   Regulation of lots
   
1307.10   Retaining walls and partition fences
   
1307.11   Storage of materials
   
1307.12   Removal of waste material
   
1307.13   Protection of adjoining property
   
1307.14    Protection of floor and wall openings; guard rails
   
1307.15   Fire hazards
   
1307.16   Health hazards
   
1307.17   Welding safety precautions
   
1307.18   Sanitation
Cross-reference:
   Building and remodeling fees, see §
1304.09
   Fire Prevention, see
Ch. 1501
   Street obstructions, see §
311.01
   Streets, sidewalks to be kept free of obstructions, see §
541.01
§ 1307.01 SCOPE OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   Applicability. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all
construction operations in connection with the erection, alteration, repair,
removal or demolition of buildings and structures. The execution of the detail
requirements shall be regulated by the approved rules and the safety code for
building construction listed in Appendix B of the BOCA Building Code, adopted
in §
1301.01
   (B)   Other laws. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to nullify any
rules, regulations or statutes of state agencies governing the protection of
the public or workers from health or other hazards involved in manufacturing,
mining and other processes and operations which generate toxic gases, dust or
other elements dangerous to the respiratory system, eyesight or health.
(Ord. 1049, passed 8-13-63)
§ 1307.02 PLANS, SPECIFICATIONS AND SPECIAL PERMITS.
   (A)   Temporary construction. Before any construction is started, plans and
specifications shall be filed with the Building Inspector showing the design
and construction of all sidewalk sheds, truck runways, trestles, foot bridges,
guards, fences and other similar devices required in the operation. The
approval of the Building Inspector shall be secured before the commencement of
any work.
   (B)   Special permits. All special licenses and permits for the storage of
materials on sidewalks and streets, for the use of water or other public
facilities and for the storage and handling of explosives shall be secured from
the administrative authorities having jurisdiction.
   (C)   Temporary encroachments. Subject to the approval of the Building
Inspector, sidewalk sheds, underpinning and other temporary protective guards
and devices may project beyond the interior and street lot lines as may be
required to insure the safety of the adjoining property and the public. When
necessary, the consent of the adjoining property owner shall be obtained.
(Ord. 1049, passed 8-13-63)
§ 1307.03 TESTS.
   (A)   Loading. No person shall load any structure, temporary support,
scaffolding, sidewalk bridge or sidewalk shed or any other device or
construction equipment, during the construction or demolition of any building
or structure, in excess of its safe working capacity, as such capacity is
determined in accordance with the codes herein adopted.
   (B)   Unsafe equipment. Whenever any doubt arises as to the structural
quality or strength of scaffolding plank or other construction equipment, such
material shall be replaced. However, the Building Inspector may accept a
strength test to 2½ times the superimposed live load to which the material or
structural member is to be subjected. The member shall sustain the test load
without failure.
(Ord. 1049, passed 8-13-63)
Penalty, see § 1301.99
§ 1307.04 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Notice of hazard or violation. When inspection of any construction
operation reveals that any unsafe or illegal conditions exist, the Building
Inspector shall notify the owner and direct him or her to take the necessary
remedial measures to remove the hazard or violation.
   (B)   Prohibited use until safety tested. When the strength and adequacy of
any scaffold or other device or construction equipment is in doubt, or when any
complaint is made, the Building Inspector shall inspect such equipment and
shall prohibit its use until tested for safety.
(Ord. 1049, passed 8-13-63)
§ 1307.05 MAINTENANCE.
   All construction equipment and safeguards shall be constructed, installed
and maintained in a substantial manner and shall be so operated as to insure
protection to the workers engaged thereon and to the general public. No person
shall remove or render inoperative any structural, fire-protective or sanitary
safeguard or device herein required, except when necessary for the actual
installation and prosecution of the work.
(Ord. 1049, passed 8-13-63)
Penalty, see § 1301.99
§ 1307.06 EXISTING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Adjoining walls. The owner of any new or altered structure shall
preserve all adjoining independent and party walls from damage as provided
herein. He or she shall underpin where necessary and support the adjoining
building or structure by proper foundations.
   (B)   Maintenance. In case an existing party wall is intended to be used by
the person who causes an excavation to be made, and such party wall is in good
condition and sufficient for the use of both the existing and proposed
building, such person shall preserve the party wall from injury and support it
by proper foundations at his or her own expense, so that it shall be and remain
as safe and useful as it was before the excavation was commenced. During the
demolition, the party wall shall be maintained weatherproof and structurally
safe by adequate bracing until such time as the permanent structural supports
shall have been provided.
   (C)   Beam holes. When a structure involving a party wall is being
demolished, the owner of the demolished structure shall, at his or her own
expense, bend over all wall anchors at the beam ends of the standing wall and
shall brick up open beam holes and otherwise maintain the safety and usefulness
of the wall.
   (D)   Party wall exitways. No party wall balcony or horizontal fire exit
shall be destroyed unless and until a substitute means of egress has been
provided and approved by the Building Inspector.
   (E)   Adjoining roofs. When a building or demolition of an existing building
is being prosecuted at a greater height, the roof, roof outlets and roof
structures of adjoining buildings shall be protected against damage with
adequate safeguards by the person doing the work.
(Ord. 1049, passed 8-13-63)
Penalty, see § 1301.99
§ 1307.07 PROTECTION OF PUBLIC AND WORKERS.
   Whenever a building or structure is erected, altered, repaired, removed or
demolished, the operation shall be conducted in a safe manner, and suitable
protection for the general public and workers employed thereon shall be
provided.
   (A)   Every construction operation located five feet or less from the street
lot line shall be enclosed with a fence not less than eight feet high, to
prevent entry of unauthorized persons. When located more than six feet from the
street lot line, a fence or other barrier shall be erected when required by the
Building Inspector. All fences shall be of adequate strength to resist wind
pressure.
   (B)   When any building part thereof which is located within ten feet of the
street lot line is to be erected or raised to exceed 40 feet in height, or
whenever a building more than 40 feet in height within ten feet of the street
lot line is to be demolished, a sidewalk shed shall be maintained for the full
length of the building on all street fronts for the entire time that work is
performed on the exterior of the building.
   (C)   When the building being demolished or erected is located within 20
feet of the street lot line and is more than 40 feet in height, exterior flare
fans or catch platforms shall be erected at vertical intervals of not more than
two stories.
   (D)   Whenever a building is being demolished, erected or altered, a private
security officer shall be employed to warn the general public when intermittent
hazardous operations are conducted across the sidewalk or walkway.
(Ord. 1049, passed 8-13-63)
Penalty, see § 1301.99
§ 1307.08 EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   Temporary support. Until permanent support has been provided, all
excavations shall be safeguarded and protected by the person causing the
excavations to be made, to avoid all danger to life or limb. Where necessary,
such excavations shall be retained by temporary retaining walls, sheet-piling
and bracing or other approved method to support the adjoining earth.
   (B)   Examination of adjoining property. Before any excavation or demolition
is undertaken which is near enough to adjoining property to potentially affect
such property, license to enter upon adjoining property for the purpose of
physical examination shall be afforded by the owner and tenants of such
adjoining property to the person undertaking such excavation or demolition,
prior to the commencement and at reasonable periods during the progress of the
work.
   (C)   Notice to the Building Inspector. If the person who causes an
excavation to be made or an existing structure to be demolished has reason to
believe that an adjoining structure is unsafe, he or she shall forthwith report
in writing to the Building Inspector. The Building Inspector shall inspect such
premises, and if the structure is found unsafe, he or she shall order it
repaired.
   (D)   Duty to adjoining owner.
      (1)   The person making or causing an excavation to be made shall, before
starting the work, give at least one week’s notice in writing to the owner of
each neighboring building or structure, the safety of which may be affected.
      (2)   Having received consent to enter a building, structure or premises,
he or she shall make the necessary provisions to protect it structurally and to
insure it against damage by the elements which may ensue from such excavation.
(Ord. 1049, passed 8-13-63)
Penalty, see § 1301.99
§ 1307.09 REGULATION OF LOTS.
   (A)   Grading of lot. When a building has been demolished and no building
operation has been projected or approved, the vacant lot shall be filled,
graded and maintained in conformity to the established street grades at curb
level. The lot shall be maintained free from the accumulation of rubbish and
all other unsafe or hazardous conditions which endanger life or health of the
public. Provisions shall be made to prevent the accumulation of water or
drainage to the foundations on the premises or the adjoining property.
   (B)   Direction of surface water. In connection with any new construction,
the lot on which such new construction is located shall be graded so as to
conduct all surface water away from the building or structure. Any surface
water directed onto property of others shall be so directed as to comply with
the law and the legal rights of others.
(Ord. 1049, passed 8-13-63)
Penalty, see § 1301.99
§ 1307.10 RETAINING WALLS AND PARTITION FENCES.
   The person causing an excavation to be made shall erect, when necessary, a
retaining wall at his or her own expense and on his or her own land. Such wall
shall be built to a height sufficient to retain the adjoining earth, shall be
properly coped and shall be provided with a guard rail or fence not less than
four feet in height.
(Ord. 1049, passed 8-13-63)
Penalty, see § 1301.99
§ 1307.11 STORAGE OF MATERIALS.
   (A)   All materials and equipment required in construction operations shall
be stored and placed so as not to endanger the public, the workers or adjoining
property.
   (B)   Materials or equipment stored within the building, or on sidewalks,
sheds or scaffolds shall be placed so as not to overload any part of the
construction beyond its design capacity, or interfere with the safe prosecution
of the work.
(Ord. 1049, passed 8-13-63)
Penalty, see § 1301.99
§ 1307.12 REMOVAL OF WASTE MATERIAL.
   When proximity of other structures or public right-of-way or when for any
other reason the Building Inspector deems it to be advisable, no material shall
be dropped or thrown outside the exterior walls of a building during demolition
or erection. Wood or metal chutes shall be provided for this purpose, and any
material which in its removal will cause an excessive amount of dust shall be
wet down to prevent the creation of a nuisance.
(Ord. 1049, passed 8-13-63)
Penalty, see § 1301.99
§ 1307.13 PROTECTION OF ADJOINING PROPERTY.
   Adjoining property shall be completely protected from any damage incidental
to the building operation when the owner of the adjoining property permits free
access to the building at all reasonable times to provide the necessary
safeguards.
(Ord. 1049, passed 8-13-63)
Penalty, see § 1301.99
§ 1307.14 PROTECTION OF FLOOR AND WALL OPENINGS; GUARD RAILS.
   All floor and wall openings shall be protected with substantial guard rails
and toe boards in accordance with accepted engineering practice.
(Ord. 1049, passed 8-13-63)
Penalty, see § 1301.99
§ 1307.15 FIRE HAZARDS.
   All fire prevention regulations shall be strictly observed to safeguard
against all fire hazards attendant upon construction operations.
   (A)   Flame cutting and welding. The use of oxyacetylene torches for cutting
or welding shall be permitted only in accordance with the applicable standards
for air and gas welding in building construction.
   (B)   Accumulation of rubbish and trash. Rubbish and trash shall not be
allowed to accumulate on the site and shall be removed as fast as conditions
warrant. Combustible rubbish shall be removed daily and shall not be disposed
of by burning on the premises or in the immediate vicinity. The entire premises
and area adjoining and around the operation shall be kept in a safe and
sanitary condition and free of accumulations of trash and rubbish.
(Ord. 1049, passed 8-13-63)
Penalty, see § 1301.99
§ 1307.16 HEALTH HAZARDS.
   (A)   Every construction or maintenance operation which results in the
diffusion of dust, stone and other small particles, toxic gases or other
harmful substances in quantities hazardous to health shall be safeguarded by
means of local ventilation or other protective devices to insure the safety of
the public as required by the regulations of the Building Inspector.
   (B)   Dust, sand blasts, steam, water or other harmful agents, when employed
or occurring in construction operations, shall be disposed of at or near the
point of origin to prevent their diffusion over adjoining premises or streets.
(Ord. 1049, passed 8-13-63)
Penalty, see § 1301.99
§ 1307.17 WELDING SAFETY PRECAUTIONS.
   (A)   Welding enclosures. All welding and flame- cutting operations shall be
performed in protected areas with full consideration to safety and fire
hazards. Such closed spaces shall be properly ventilated while welding or
cutting is being done. Suitable protection against the rays of the electric arc
shall be maintained by the contractor where arc-welding operations might be
viewed within harmful range by persons other than the welding operators and
inspectors.
   (B)   Flammable materials. Proper precaution shall be taken to avoid all
risk of fire or explosion, and no flammable or explosive materials shall be
stored in the vicinity of welding or cutting operations.
(Ord. 1049, passed 8-13-63)
Penalty, see § 1301.99
§ 1307.18 SANITATION.
   Where practicable, every building in the course of demolition, erection or
repair shall be provided with toilet and drinking water facilities.
(Ord. 1049, passed 8-13-63)
Penalty, see § 1301.99
CHAPTER 1308: FLOOD DAMAGE REDUCTION STANDARDS FOR DESIGNATED FLOOD HAZARD
AREAS
Section
   
1308.01   General provisions
   
1308.02   Definitions
   
1308.03   Administration
   
1308.04   Use and development standards for flood hazard reduction
   
1308.05   Appeals and variances
   
1308.06   Enforcement
§ 1308.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Statutory authorization. Article XVIII, Section 3, of the Ohio
Constitution grants municipalities the legal authority to adopt land use and
control measures for promoting the health, safety, and general welfare of its
citizens. Therefore, the Council of the City of Lebanon, State of Ohio, does
ordain as follows.
   (B)   Findings of fact. The City of Lebanon has special flood hazard areas
that are subject to periodic inundation which may result in loss of life and
property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental
services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief,
and impairment of the tax base. Additionally, structures that are inadequately
elevated, floodproofed, or otherwise protected from flood damage also
contribute to the flood loss. In order to minimize the threat of such damages
and to achieve the purposes hereinafter set forth, these regulations are
adopted.
   (C)   Statement of purpose. It is the purpose of these regulations to
promote the public health, safety and general welfare, and to:
      (1)   Protect human life and health;
      (2)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      (3)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      (4)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      (5)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located
in areas of special flood hazard;
      (6)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the proper use and
development of areas of special flood hazard so as to protect property and
minimize future flood blight areas;
      (7)   Ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard
assume responsibility for their actions;
      (8)   Minimize the impact of development on adjacent properties within
and near flood prone areas;
      (9)   Ensure that the flood storage and conveyance functions of the
floodplain are maintained;
      (10)   Minimize the impact of development on the natural, beneficial
values of the floodplain;
      (11)   Prevent floodplain uses that are either hazardous or
environmentally incompatible; and
      (12)   Meet community participation requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Program.
   (D)   Methods of reducing flood loss. In order to accomplish its purposes,
these regulations include methods and provisions for:
      (1)   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health,
safety, and property due to water hazards, or which result in damaging
increases in flood heights or velocities;
      (2)   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities,
which serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      (3)   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels,
and natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel flood
waters;
      (4)   Controlling filling, grading, dredging, excavating, and other
development which may increase flood damage; and,
      (5)   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers, which
will unnaturally divert flood, waters or which may increase flood hazards in
other areas.
   (E)   Lands to which these regulations apply. These regulations shall apply
to all areas of special flood hazard within the jurisdiction of the City of
Lebanon as identified in division (F) below, including any additional areas of
special flood hazard annexed by City of Lebanon.
   (F)   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard. For the
purposes of these regulations, the following studies and/or maps are adopted:
      (1)   Flood Insurance Study Warren County, Ohio and Incorporated Areas
and Flood Insurance Rate Map Warren County, Ohio and Incorporated Areas both
effective December 17, 2010.
      (2)   Other studies and/or maps, which may be relied upon for
establishment of the flood protection elevation, delineation of the 100-year
floodplain, floodways or delineation of other areas of special flood hazard.
      (3)   Any hydrologic and hydraulic engineering analysis authored by a
registered Professional Engineer in the State of Ohio which has been approved
by the City of Lebanon as required by §
1308.04(C) Subdivisions and Large Scale Developments.
      (4)   Any revisions to the aforementioned maps and / or studies are
hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of these regulations.
Such maps and/or studies are on file at the Office of the City Engineer, 50
South Broadway, Lebanon, Ohio 45036.
   (G)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. These regulations are not
intended to repeal any existing ordinances (resolutions) including subdivision
regulations, zoning or building codes. In the event of a conflict between these
regulations and any other ordinance (resolution), the more restrictive shall be
followed. These regulations shall not impair any deed restriction covenant or
easement but the land subject to such interests shall also be governed by the
regulations.
   (H)   Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of these
regulations, all provisions shall be:
      (1)   Considered as minimum requirements;
      (2)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and,
      (3)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes. Where a provision of these regulations may be in conflict with
a state or Federal law, such state or Federal law shall take precedence over
these regulations.
   (I)   Warning and disclaimer of liability. The degree of flood protection
required by these regulations is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes
and is based on scientific and engineering considerations. Larger floods can
and will occur on rare occasions. Flood heights may be increased by man-made or
natural causes. These regulations do not imply that land outside the areas of
special flood hazard or uses permitted within such areas will be free from
flooding or flood damage. These regulations shall not create liability on the
part of the City of Lebanon, any officer or employee thereof, or the Federal
Emergency Management Agency, for any flood damage that results from reliance on
these regulations or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
   (J)   Severability. Should any section or provision of these regulations be
declared by the courts to be unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall
not affect the validity of the regulations as a whole, or any part thereof
other than the part so declared to be unconstitutional or invalid.
(Ord. 2009-014, passed 2-24-09; Am. Ord. 2010-115, passed 10-26-10)
§ 1308.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in these
regulations shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in
common usage and to give these regulations the most reasonable application.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure on the same lot with, and of a nature
customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal structure.
   APPEAL. A request for review of the Floodplain Administrator's
interpretation of any provision of these regulations or a request for a
variance.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a one percent chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. The base flood may also be referred to as the 1%
chance annual flood or 100-year flood.
   BASE (100-YEAR) FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The water surface elevation of the
base flood in relation to a specified datum, usually the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum of 1929 or the North American Vertical Datum of 1988, and
usually expressed in Feet Mean Sea Level (MSL). In Zone AO areas, the base
flood elevation is the natural grade elevation plus the depth number (from one
to three feet).
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ENCLOSURE BELOW THE LOWEST FLOOR. See "Lowest Floor."
   EXECUTIVE ORDER 11988 (FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT). Issued by President Carter in
1977, this order requires that no federally assisted activities be conducted in
or have the potential to affect identified special flood hazard areas, unless
there is no practicable alternative.
   FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (FEMA). The agency with the overall
responsibility for administering the National Flood Insurance Program.
   FILL. A deposit of earth material placed by artificial means.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters, and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). Usually the initial map, produced by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency, or U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development, for a community depicting approximate special flood hazard areas.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency or the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development has delineated the areas of special flood hazard.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RISK ZONES. Zone designations on FHBMs and FIRMs that
indicate the magnitude of the flood hazard in specific areas of a community.
Following are the zone definitions:
      (1)   Zone A. Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year flood;
base flood elevations are not determined.
      (2)   Zones Al-30 and Zone AE. Special flood hazard areas inundated by
the 100-year flood; base flood elevations are determined.
      (3)   Zone AO. Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year
flood; with flood depths of one to three feet (usually sheet flow on sloping
terrain); average depths are determined.
      (4)   Zone AH. Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year
flood; flood depths of one to three feet (usually areas of ponding); base flood
elevations are determined.
      (5)   Zone A99. Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year
flood to be protected from the 100-year flood by a Federal flood protection
system under construction; no base flood elevations are determined.
      (6)   Zone B and Zone X (shaded). Areas of 500-year flood; areas subject
to the 100-year flood with average depths of less than one foot or with
contributing drainage area less than one square mile; and areas protected by
levees from the base flood.
      (7)   Zone C and Zone X (unshaded). Areas determined to be outside the
500-year floodplain.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official report in which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency or the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development has provided flood profiles, floodway boundaries (sometimes shown
on flood boundary and floodway maps), and the water surface elevations of the
base flood.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. The Flood Protection Elevation, or FPE, is the
base flood elevation plus two feet of freeboard. In areas where no base flood
elevations exist from any authoritative source, the flood protection elevation
can be historical flood elevations, or base flood elevations determined and/or
approved by the Floodplain Administrator.
   FLOODWAY.  A floodway is the channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that have been reserved in order to pass the base flood
discharge. A floodway is typically determined through a hydraulic and
hydrologic engineering analysis such that the cumulative increase in the water
surface elevation of the base flood discharge is no more than a designated
height. In no case shall the designated height be more than one half foot at
any point within the community. The floodway is an extremely hazardous area,
and is usually characterized by any of the following: Moderate to high velocity
flood waters, high potential for debris and projectile impacts, and moderate to
high erosion forces.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for the purposes  of floodplain management. Freeboard tends to compensate for
the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than
the height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such
as wave action, obstructed bridge openings, debris and ice jams, and the
hydrologic effect of urbanization in a watershed.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE.  Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listings on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district; or
      (3)   Individually listed on the State of Ohio's inventory of historic
places maintained by the Ohio Historic Preservation Office.
      (4)   Individually listed on the inventory of historic places maintained
by City of Lebanon's historic preservation program, which program is certified
by the Ohio Historic Preservation Office.
   HYDROLOGIC AND HYDRAULIC ENGINEERING ANALYSIS. An analysis performed by a
professional engineer, registered in the State of Ohio, in accordance with
standard engineering practices as accepted by FEMA, used to determine flood
elevations and/or floodway boundaries.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC).  A Letter of Map Change is an official FEMA
determination, by letter, to amend or revise effective Flood Insurance Rate
Maps, Flood Boundary and Floodway Maps, and Flood Insurance Studies. LOMCs are
broken down into the following categories:
      (1)   Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA). A revision based on technical data
showing that a property was incorrectly included in a designated special flood
hazard area. A LOMA amends the current effective flood insurance rate map and
establishes that a specific property is not located in a special flood hazard
area.
      (2)   Letter of Map Revision (LOMR). A revision based on technical data
that, usually due to manmade changes, shows changes to flood zones, flood
elevations, floodplain and floodway delineations, and planimetric features. One
common type of LOMR, a LOMR-F, is a determination concerning whether a
structure or parcel has been elevated by fill above the base flood elevation
and is, therefore, excluded from the special flood hazard area.
      (3)   Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR). A formal review and
comment by FEMA as to whether a proposed project complies with the minimum
National Flood Insurance Program floodplain management criteria. A CLOMR does
not amend or revise effective Flood Insurance Rate Maps, Flood Boundary and
Floodway Maps, or Flood Insurance Studies.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement) of a structure. This definition excludes an "enclosure below the
lowest floor" which is an unfinished or flood resistant enclosure usable solely
for parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, provided that such enclosure is built in accordance with the
applicable design requirements specified in these regulations for enclosures
below the lowest floor.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
"manufactured home" does not include a "recreational vehicle". For the purposes
of these regulations, a manufactured home includes manufactured homes and
mobile homes as defined in Chapter 3733 of the Ohio Revised Code.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. As specified in the Ohio Administrative Code 3701-
27-01, a manufactured home park means any tract of land upon which three or
more manufactured homes, used for habitation are parked, either free of charge
or for revenue purposes, and includes any roadway, building, structure,
vehicle, or enclosure used or intended for use as part of the facilities of the
park. A tract of land that is subdivided and the individual lots are not for
rent or rented, but are for sale or sold for the purpose of installation of
manufactured homes on the lots, is not a manufactured home park, even though
three or more manufactured homes are parked thereon, if the roadways are
dedicated to the local government authority.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The NFIP is a federal program
enabling property owners in participating communities to purchase insurance
protection against losses from flooding. This insurance is designed to provide
an insurance alternative to disaster assistance to meet the escalating costs of
repairing damage to buildings and their contents caused by floods.
Participation in the NFIP is based on an agreement between local communities
and the federal government that states if a community will adopt and enforce
floodplain management regulations to reduce future flood risks to all
development in special flood hazard areas, the federal government will make
flood insurance available within the community as a financial protection
against flood loss.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the "start of construction" commenced
on or after the initial effective date of the City of Lebanon, Ohio Warren
County Flood Insurance Rate Map, Effective Date March 15, 1979, and includes
any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   PERSON. Includes any individual or group of individuals, corporation,
partnership, association, or any other entity, including state and local
governments and agencies. An agency is further defined in R.C. § 111.15 as any
governmental entity of the state and includes, but is not limited to, any
board, department, division, commission, bureau, society, council, institution,
state college or university, community  college district, technical college
district, or state community college. "Agency" does not include the general
assembly, the controlling board, the adjutant general's department, or any
court.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is (1) built on a single chassis, (2)
400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection, (3)
designed to be self- propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck,
and (4) designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ARCHITECT. A person registered to engage in the
practice of architecture under the provisions of R.C. §§ 4703.01 to 4703.19.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. A person registered as a professional
engineer under R.C. Chapter 4733.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL SURVEYOR. A person registered as a professional
surveyor under R.C. Chapter 4733.
   RIVERINE. Related to a watercourse with a defined channel.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. Also known as "Areas of Special Flood Hazard", it
is the land in the floodplain subject to a one percent or greater chance of
flooding in any given year. Special flood hazard areas are designated by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency on Flood Insurance Rate Maps, Flood
insurance Studies, Flood Boundary and Floodway Maps and Flood Hazard Boundary
Maps as Zones A, AE, AH, AO, Al-30, and A99. Special flood hazard areas may
also refer to areas that are flood prone and designated from other federal
state or local sources of data including but not limited to historical flood
information reflecting high water marks, previous flood inundation areas, and
flood prone soils associated with a watercourse.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. The date the building permit was issued, provided the
actual start  of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation,
addition, placement, or other improvement was within 180 days of the permit
date. The actual start means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of a building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, manufactured home, or gas or liquid
storage tank that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50 percent of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50
percent of the market value of the structure before the "start of construction"
of the improvement. This term includes structures, which have incurred
"substantial damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term
does not, however, include:
      (1)   Any improvement to a structure that is considered "new
construction;"
      (2)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified prior to the application for a development permit by
the local code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
      (3)   Any alteration of a "historic structure," provided that the
alteration would not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
"historic structure".
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the standards of these regulations
consistent with the variance conditions herein.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with these regulations.
(Ord. 2009-014, passed 2-24-09)
§ 1308.03 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Designation of the Floodplain Administrator. The City Engineer is
hereby appointed to administer and implement these regulations and is referred
to herein as the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   Duties and Responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator. The
duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall include but
are not limited to:
      (1)   Evaluate applications for permits to develop in special flood
hazard areas.
      (2)   Interpret floodplain boundaries and provide flood hazard and flood
protection elevation information.
      (3)   Issue permits to develop in special flood hazard areas when the
provisions of these regulations have been met, or refuse to issue the same in
the event of noncompliance.
      (4)   Inspect buildings and lands to determine whether any violations of
these regulations have been committed.
      (5)   Make and permanently keep all records for public inspection
necessary for the administration of these regulations including flood insurance
rate maps, letters of map amendment and revision, records of issuance and
denial of permits to develop in special flood hazard areas, determinations of
whether development is in or out of special flood hazard areas for the purpose
of issuing floodplain development permits, elevation certificates, variances,
and records of enforcement actions taken for violations of these regulations.
      (6)   Enforce the provisions of these regulations.
      (7)   Provide information, testimony, or other evidence as needed during
variance hearings.
      (8)   Coordinate map maintenance activities and FEMA follow-up.
      (9)   Conduct substantial damage determinations to determine whether
existing structures, damaged from any source and in special flood hazard areas
identified by FEMA, must meet the development standards of these regulations.
   (C)   Floodplain development permits. It shall be unlawful for any person to
begin construction or other development activity including but not limited to
filling; grading; construction; alteration, remodeling, or expanding any
structure; or alteration of any watercourse wholly within, partially within or
in contact with any identified special flood hazard area, as established in §
1308.01(F), until a floodplain development permit is obtained from the
Floodplain Administrator. Such floodplain development permit shall show that
the proposed development activity is in conformity with the provisions of these
regulations. No such permit shall be issued by the Floodplain Administrator
until the requirements of these regulations have been met.
   (D)   Application required. An application for a floodplain development
permit shall be required for all development activities located wholly within,
partially within, or in contact with an identified special flood hazard area.
Such application shall be made by the owner of the property or his or her
authorized agent, herein referred to as the applicant, prior to the actual
commencement of such construction on a form furnished for that purpose. Where
it is unclear whether a development site is in a special flood hazard area, the
Floodplain Administrator may require an application for a floodplain
development permit to determine the development's location. Such applications
shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Site plans drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions,
and topography of the area in question; the location of existing or proposed
structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage facilities, and the location
of the foregoing.
      (2)   Elevation of the existing, natural ground where structures are
proposed.
      (3)   Elevation of the lowest floor, including basement, of all proposed
structures.
      (4)   Such other material and information as may be requested by the
Floodplain Administrator to determine conformance with, and provide enforcement
of these regulations.
      (5)   Technical analyses conducted by the appropriate design professional
registered in the State of Ohio and submitted with an application for a
floodplain development permit when applicable:
         (a)   Floodproofing certification for non-residential floodproofed
structure as required in §
1308.04(E).
         (b)   Certification that fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor
of a structure not meeting the design requirements of §
1308.04(D) are designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces.
         (c)   Description of any watercourse alteration or relocation that the
flood carrying capacity of the watercourse will not be diminished, and
maintenance assurances as required in §
1308.04(I)(3).
         (d)   A hydrologic and hydraulic analysis demonstrating that the
cumulative effect of proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood by more than one half foot in special flood hazard
areas where the Federal Emergency Management Agency has provided base flood
elevations but no floodway as required by §
1308.04(I)(2).
         (e)   A hydrologic and hydraulic engineering analysis showing impact
of any development on flood heights in an identified floodway as required by §
1308.04(I)(1).
         (f)   Generation of base flood elevation(s) for subdivision and large-
scale developments as required by §
1308.04(C).
         (g)   A floodplain development permit application fee set by the
schedule of fees adopted by the City of Lebanon.
   (E)   Review and Approval of a Floodplain Development Permit Application.
      (1)   Review.
         (a)   After receipt of a complete application, the Floodplain
Administrator shall review the application to ensure that the standards of
these regulations have been met. No floodplain development permit application
shall be reviewed until all information required in division (D) above in this
section has been received by the Floodplain Administrator.
         (b)   The Floodplain Administrator shall review all floodplain
development permit applications to assure that all necessary permits have been
received from those federal, state or local governmental agencies from which
prior approval is required. The applicant shall be responsible for obtaining
such permits as required including permits issued by the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers under Section 10 of the Rivers and Harbors Act and Section 404 of the
Clean Water Act, and the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency under Section 401
of the Clean Water Act.
      (2)   Approval. Within 30 days after the receipt of a complete
application, the Floodplain Administrator shall either approve or disapprove
the application. If an application is approved, a floodplain development permit
shall be issued. All floodplain development permits shall be conditional upon
the commencement of work within one year. A floodplain development permit shall
expire one year after issuance unless the permitted activity has been
substantially begun and is thereafter pursued to completion.
   (F)   Inspections. The Floodplain Administrator shall make periodic
inspections at appropriate times throughout the period of construction in order
to monitor compliance with permit conditions.
   (G)   Post-construction certifications required.
      (1)   The following as-built certifications are required after a
floodplain development permit has been issued:
         (a)   For new or substantially improved residential structures, or
nonresidential structures that have been elevated, the applicant shall have a
Federal Emergency Management Agency Elevation Certificate completed by a
registered surveyor to record as-built elevation data. For elevated structures
in Zone A and Zone AO areas without a base flood elevation, the elevation
certificate may be completed by the property owner or owner's representative.
         (b)   For all development activities subject to the standards of
division (a) above, a Letter of Map Revision.
   (H)   Revoking a floodplain development permit. A floodplain development
permit shall be revocable, if among other things, the actual development
activity does not conform to the terms of the application and permit granted
thereon. In the event of the revocation of a permit, an appeal may be taken to
the Appeals Board in accordance with §
1308.05 of these regulations.
   (I)   Exemption from Filing a Development Permit.
      (1)   An application for a floodplain development permit shall not be
required for:
         (a)   Maintenance work such as roofing, painting, and basement
sealing, or for small nonstructural development activities (except for filling
and grading) valued at less than $5,000.
         (b)   Development activities in an existing or proposed manufactured
home park that are under the authority of the Ohio Department of Health and
subject to the flood damage reduction provisions of the Ohio Administrative
Code Section 3701.
         (c)   Major utility facilities permitted by the Ohio Power Siting
Board under R.C. Chapter 4906.
         (d)   Hazardous waste disposal facilities permitted by the Hazardous
Waste Siting Board under R.C. Chapter 3734.
         (e)   Development activities undertaken by a federal agency and which
are subject to Federal Executive Order 11988 - Floodplain Management.
      (2)   Any proposed action exempt from filing for a floodplain development
permit is also exempt from the standards of these regulations.
   (J)   Map Maintenance Activities. To meet National Flood Insurance Program
minimum requirements to have flood data reviewed and approved by FEMA, and to
ensure that City of Lebanon's flood maps, studies and other data identified in
§
1308.01(F) accurately represent flooding conditions so appropriate floodplain
management criteria are based on current data, the following map maintenance
activities are identified.
      (1)   Requirement to submit new technical data. For all development
proposals that impact floodway delineations or base flood elevations, the
community shall ensure that technical data reflecting such changes be submitted
to FEMA within six months of the date such information becomes available. These
development proposals include:
         (a)   Floodway encroachments that increase or decrease base flood
elevations or alter floodway boundaries;
         (b)   Fill sites to be used for the placement of proposed structures
where the applicant desires to remove the site from the special flood hazard
area;
         (c)   Alteration of watercourses that result in a relocation or
elimination of the special flood hazard area, including the placement of
culverts; and
         (d)   Subdivision or large scale development proposals requiring the
establishment of base flood elevations in accordance with §
1308.04(C).
      (2)   It is the responsibility of the applicant to have technical data,
required in accordance with division (J)(1) above of this section, prepared in
a format required for a conditional letter of map revision or letter of map
revision, and submitted to FEMA. Submittal and processing fees for these map
revisions shall be the responsibility of the applicant.
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator shall require a conditional letter of
map revision prior to the issuance of a floodplain development permit for:
         (a)   Proposed floodway encroachments that increase the base flood
elevation; and
         (b)   Proposed development which increases the base flood elevation by
more than one foot in areas where FEMA has provided base flood elevations but
no floodway.
      (4)   Floodplain development permits issued by the Floodplain
Administrator shall be conditioned upon the applicant obtaining a letter of map
revision from FEMA for any development proposal subject to division (J)(1)
above.
   (K)   Right to submit new technical data. The Floodplain Administrator may
request changes to any of the information shown on an effective map that does
not impact floodplain or floodway delineations or base flood elevations, such
as labeling or planimetric details. Such a submission shall include appropriate
supporting documentation made in writing by the City Manager of the City of
Lebanon, and may be submitted at any time.
   (L)   Annexation / detachment. Upon occurrence, the Floodplain Administrator
shall notify FEMA in writing whenever the boundaries of the City of Lebanon
have been modified by annexation or the community has assumed authority over an
area, or no longer has authority to adopt and enforce floodplain management
regulations for a particular area. In order that the City of Lebanon's flood
insurance rate map accurately represent the City of Lebanon boundaries, include
within such notification a copy of a map of the City of Lebanon suitable for
reproduction, clearly showing the new corporate limits or the new area for
which the City of Lebanon has assumed or relinquished floodplain management
regulatory authority.
   (M)   Data use and flood map interpretation. The following guidelines shall
apply to the use and interpretation of maps and other data showing areas of
special flood hazard:
      (1)   In areas where FEMA has not identified special flood hazard areas,
or in FEMA identified special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation and
floodway data have not been identified, the Floodplain Administrator shall
review and reasonably utilize any other flood hazard data available from a
federal, state, or other source.
      (2)   Base flood elevations and floodway boundaries produced on FEMA
flood maps and studies shall take precedence over base flood elevations and
floodway boundaries by any other source that reflect a reduced floodway width
and/or lower base flood elevations. Other sources of data, showing increased
base flood elevations and/or larger floodway areas than are shown on FEMA flood
maps and studies, shall be reasonably used by the Floodplain Administrator.
      (3)   When preliminary flood insurance rate maps and/or flood insurance
study have been provided by FEMA:
         (a)   Upon the issuance of a letter of final determination by the
FEMA, the preliminary flood hazard data shall be used and replace all
previously existing flood hazard data provided from FEMA for the purposes of
administering these regulations.
         (b)   Prior to the issuance of a letter of final determination by
FEMA, the use of preliminary flood hazard data shall only be required where no
base flood elevations and /or floodway areas exist or where the preliminary
base flood elevations or floodway area exceed the base flood elevations and/or
floodway widths in existing flood hazard data provided from FEMA. Such
preliminary data may be subject to change and/or appeal to FEMA.
      (4)   The Floodplain Administrator shall make interpretations, where
needed, as to the exact location of the flood boundaries and areas of special
flood hazard. A person contesting the determination of the location of the
boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation
as provided in Section §
1308.05, Appeals and Variances.
      (5)   Where a map boundary showing an area of special flood hazard and
field elevations disagree, the base flood elevations or flood protection
elevations (as found on an elevation profile, floodway data table, established
high water marks, etc.) shall prevail.
   (N)   Substantial damage determinations.
      (1)   Damages to structures may result from a variety of causes including
flood, tornado, wind, heavy snow, fire, etc. After such a damage event, the
Floodplain Administrator shall:
         (a)   Determine whether damaged structures are located in special
flood hazard areas;
         (b)   Conduct substantial damage determinations for damaged structures
located in special flood hazard areas; and
         (c)   Make reasonable attempt to notify owners of substantially
damaged structures of the need to obtain a floodplain development permit prior
to repair, rehabilitation, or reconstruction.
      (2)   Additionally, the Floodplain Administrator may implement other
measures to assist with the substantial damage determination and subsequent
repair process. These measures include issuing press releases, public service
announcements, and other public information materials related to the floodplain
development permits and repair of damaged structures; coordinating with other
federal, state, and local agencies to assist with substantial damage
determinations; providing owners of damaged structures materials and other
information related to the proper repair of damaged structures in special flood
hazard areas; and assist owners of substantially damaged structures with
increased cost of compliance insurance claims.
(Ord. 2009-014, passed 2-24-09)
§ 1308.04 USE AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION.
   The following use and development standards apply to development wholly
within, partially within, or in contact with any special flood hazard area as
established in §
1308.01(F) or §
1308.02:
   (A)   Use regulations.
      (1)   Permitted uses. All uses not otherwise prohibited in this section
or any other applicable land use regulation adopted by City of Lebanon are
allowed provided they meet the provisions of these regulations.
      (2)   Prohibited uses.
         (a)   Private water supply systems in all special flood hazard areas
identified by FEMA, permitted under R.C. Chapter 3701.
         (b)   Infectious waste treatment facilities in all special flood
hazard areas, permitted under R.C. Chapter 3734.
   (B)   Water and Wastewater Systems. The following standards apply to all
water supply, sanitary sewerage and waste disposal systems not otherwise
regulated by the Ohio Revised Code:
      (1)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems;
      (2)   New and replacement sanitary sewerage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharge from the systems into flood waters; and,
      (3)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to or contamination from them during flooding.
   (C)   Subdivisions and large developments.
      (1)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage and are subject to all applicable standards in these
regulations;
      (2)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and
constructed to minimize flood damage;
      (3)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood damage; and
      (4)   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation
data are not available, the applicant shall provide a hydrologic and hydraulic
engineering analysis that generates base flood elevations for all subdivision
proposals and other proposed developments containing at least 50 lots or five
acres, whichever is less.
      (5)   The applicant shall meet the requirement to submit technical data
to FEMA in §
1308.03(D) when a hydrologic and hydraulic analysis is completed that generates
base flood elevations as required by division (C)(4) above of this §
1308.04.
   (D)   Residential structures.
      (1)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure resulting
from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
Where a structure, including its foundation members, is elevated on fill to or
above the base flood elevation, the requirements for anchoring (1) and
construction materials resistant to flood damage (2) are satisfied.
      (2)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with methods and materials resistant to flood damage.
      (3)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and/or elevated so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding.
      (4)   New construction and substantial improvement of any residential
structure, including manufactured homes, shall have the lowest floor, including
basement, elevated to or above the flood protection elevation. Where flood
protection data are not available, the structure shall have the lowest floor,
including basement, elevated at least two feet above the highest adjacent
natural grade.
      (5)   New construction and substantial improvements, including
manufactured homes, that do not have basements and that are elevated to the
flood protection elevation using pilings, columns, posts, or solid foundation
perimeter walls with openings sufficient to allow unimpeded movement of flood
waters may have an enclosure below the lowest floor provided the enclosure
meets the following standards:
         (a)   Be used only for the parking of vehicles, building access, or
storage; and
         (b)   Be designed and certified by a registered professional engineer
or architect to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior
walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters; or
         (c)   Have a minimum of two openings on different walls having a total
net area not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area,
and the bottom of all such openings being no higher than one foot above grade.
The openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other coverings or
devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters.
      (6)   Manufactured homes shall be affixed to a permanent foundation and
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of
over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors.
      (7)   Repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon a
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure's continued designation as a historic structure and is the minimum
necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the structure, shall
be exempt from the development standards of division (D) of this section.
      (8)   In AO Zones, new construction and substantial improvement shall
have adequate drainage paths around structures on slopes to guide floodwaters
around and away from the structure.
   (E)   Nonresidential structures.
      (1)   New construction and substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial or other nonresidential structure shall meet the requirements of
divisions (D)(1) through (D)(3) and (D)(5) through (D)(8) above of this §
1308.04.
      (2)   New construction and substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial or other non-residential structure shall either have the lowest
floor, including basement, elevated to or above the level of the flood
protection elevation; or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, shall meet all of the following standards:
         (a)   Be dry floodproofed so that the structure is watertight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water to the level of the
flood protection elevation;
         (b)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and,
         (c)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect,
through the use of a Federal Emergency Management Agency floodproofing
certificate, that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with
divisions (a) and (b) above.
      (3)   Where flood protection data are not available, the structure shall
have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated at least two feet above the
highest adjacent natural grade.
   (F)   Accessory structures. Relief to the elevation or dry floodproofing
standards may be granted for accessory structures containing no more than 600
square feet. Such structures must meet the following standards:
      (1)   They shall not be used for human habitation;
      (2)   They shall be constructed of flood resistant materials;
      (3)   They shall be constructed and placed on the lot to offer the
minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
      (4)   They shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation;
      (5)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment shall
be elevated or floodproofed to or above the level of the flood protection
elevation; and
      (6)   They shall meet the opening requirements of §
1308.04(D)(5)(c);
   (G)   Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicles must meet at least one of
the following standards:
      (1)   They shall not be located on sites in special flood hazard areas
for more than 180 days, or
      (2)   They must be fully licensed and ready for highway use, or
      (3)   They must meet all standards of §
1308.04(D).
   (H)   Above ground gas or liquid storage tanks. All above ground gas or
liquid storage tanks shall be anchored to prevent flotation or lateral movement
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads.
   (I)   Assurance of flood carrying capacity. Pursuant to the purpose and
methods of reducing flood damage stated in these regulations, the following
additional standards are adopted to assure that the reduction of the flood
carrying capacity of watercourses is minimized:
      (1)   Development in floodways.
         (a)   In floodway areas, development shall cause no increase in flood
levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge. Prior to issuance of
a floodplain development permit, the applicant must submit a hydrologic and
hydraulic analysis, conducted by a registered professional engineer,
demonstrating that the proposed development would not result in any increase in
the base flood elevation; or
         (b)   Development in floodway areas causing increases in the base
flood elevation may be permitted provided all of the following are completed by
the applicant:
            1.   Meet the requirements to submit technical data in division (I)
(1)(a) above;
            2.   An evaluation of alternatives, which would not result in
increased base flood elevations and an explanation why these alternatives are
not feasible;
            3.   Certification that no structures are located in areas that
would be impacted by the increased base flood elevation;
            4.   Documentation of individual legal notices to all impacted
property owners within and outside the community, explaining the impact of the
proposed action on their property; and
            5.   Concurrence of the City Manager of the City of Lebanon and the
Chief Executive Officer of any other communities impacted by the proposed
actions.
      (2)   Development in riverine areas with base flood elevations but no
floodways.
         (a)   In riverine special flood hazard areas identified by FEMA where
base flood elevation data are provided but no floodways have been designated,
the cumulative effect of any proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development, shall not increase the base flood
elevation more than one half foot at any point. Prior to issuance of a
floodplain development permit, the applicant must submit a hydrologic and
hydraulic analysis, conducted by a registered professional engineer,
demonstrating that this standard has been met; or,
         (b)   Development in riverine special flood hazard areas identified by
FEMA where base flood elevation data are provided but no floodways have been
designated causing more than one half foot increase in the base flood elevation
may be permitted provided all of the following are completed by the applicant:
            1.   An evaluation of alternatives which would result in an
increase of one half foot or less of the base flood elevation and an
explanation why these alternatives are not feasible;
            2.   Section
1308.04(I)(1)(b)1. and 3. through 5.
      (3)   Alterations of a watercourse. For the purpose of these regulations,
a watercourse is altered when any change occurs within its banks. The extent of
the banks shall be established by a field determination of the "bankfull
stage." The field determination of "bankfull stage" shall be based on methods
presented in Chapter 7 of the USDA Forest Service General Technical Report RM-
245, Stream Channel Reference Sites: An Illustrated Guide to Field Technique or
other applicable publication available from a federal, state, or other
authoritative source. For all proposed developments that alter a watercourse,
the following standards apply:
         (a)   The bankfull flood carrying capacity of the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse shall not be diminished. Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit, the applicant must submit a description of the
extent to which any watercourse will be altered or relocated as a result of the
proposed development, and certification by a registered professional engineer
that the bankfull flood carrying capacity of the watercourse will not be
diminished.
         (b)   Adjacent communities, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and the
Ohio Department of Natural Resources, Division of Water, must be notified prior
to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse. Evidence of such notification
must be submitted to the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
         (c)   The applicant shall be responsible for providing the necessary
maintenance for the altered or relocated portion of said watercourse so that
the flood carrying capacity will not be diminished. The Floodplain
Administrator may require the permit holder to enter into an agreement with
City of Lebanon specifying the maintenance responsibilities. If an agreement is
required, it shall be made a condition of the floodplain development permit.
         (d)   The applicant shall meet the requirements to submit technical
data in §
1308.03(J)(1)(c) when an alteration of a watercourse results in the relocation
or elimination of the special flood hazard area, including the placement of
culverts.
(Ord. 2009-014, passed 2-24-09)
§ 1308.05 APPEALS AND VARIANCES.
   (A)   Appeals Board established.
      (1)   The City of Lebanon Board of Building Appeals as established by §
1303.01 of this code is hereby appointed to serve as the Appeals Board for
these regulations.
      (2)   Records of the Appeals Board shall be kept and filed in The Office
of the City Engineer, 50 South Broadway, Lebanon, Ohio 45036.
   (B)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The Appeals Board shall hear and decide appeals where it is alleged
there is an error in any order, requirement, decision or determination made by
the Floodplain Administrator in the administration or enforcement of these
regulations.
      (2)   Authorize variances in accordance with §
1308.05(D) of these regulations.
   (C)   Appeals.
      (1)   Any person affected by any notice and order, or other official
action of the Floodplain Administrator may request and shall be granted a
hearing on the matter before the Appeals Board provided that such person shall
file, within ten days of the date of such notice and order, or other official
action, a brief statement of the grounds for such hearing or for the mitigation
of any item appearing on any order of the Floodplain Administrator's decision.
Such appeal shall be in writing, signed by the applicant, and be filed with the
Floodplain Administrator. Upon receipt of the appeal, the Floodplain
Administrator shall transmit said notice and all pertinent information on which
the Floodplain Administrator's decision was made to the Appeals Board.
      (2)   Upon receipt of the notice of appeal, the Appeals Board shall fix a
reasonable time for the appeal, give notice in writing to parties in interest,
and decide the appeal within a reasonable time after it is submitted.
   (D)   Variances. Any person believing that the use and development standards
of these regulations would result in unnecessary hardship may file an
application for a variance. The Appeals Board shall have the power to
authorize, in specific cases, such variances from the standards of these
regulations, not inconsistent with federal regulations, as will not be contrary
to the public interest where, owing to special conditions of the lot or parcel,
a literal enforcement of the provisions of these regulations would result in
unnecessary hardship.
      (1)   Application for a variance.
         (a)   Any owner, or agent thereof, of property for which a variance is
sought shall make an application for a variance by filing it with the
Floodplain Administrator, who upon receipt of the variance shall transmit it to
the Appeals Board.
         (b)   Such application at a minimum shall contain the following
information: Name, address, and telephone number of the applicant; legal
description of the property; parcel map; description of the existing use;
description of the proposed use; location of the floodplain; description of the
variance sought; and reason for the variance request.
         (c)   All applications for a variance shall be accompanied by a
variance application fee set in the schedule of fees adopted by the City of
Lebanon.
      (2)   Public hearing.
         (a)   At such hearing the applicant shall present such statements and
evidence as the Appeals Board requires. In considering such variance
applications, the Appeals Board shall consider and make findings of fact on all
evaluations, all relevant factors, standards specified in other sections of
these regulations and the following factors:
            1.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others.
            2.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage.
            3.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents
to flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner.
            4.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed
facility to the community.
            5.   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use
that are not subject to flooding or erosion damage.
            6.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable.
            7.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development.
            8.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for that area.
            9.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles.
            10.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site.
            11.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
         (b)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
            1.   A showing of good and sufficient cause.
            2.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship due to the physical characteristics of the
property. Increased cost or inconvenience of meeting the requirements of these
regulations does not constitute an exceptional hardship to the applicant.
            3.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not
result in increased flood heights beyond that which is allowed in these
regulations; additional threats to public safety; extraordinary public expense,
nuisances, fraud on or victimization of the public, or conflict with existing
local laws.
            4.   A determination that the structure or other development is
protected by methods to minimize flood damages.
            5.   A determination that the variance is the minimum necessary,
considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
         (c)   Upon consideration of the above factors and the purposes of
these regulations, the Appeals Board may attach such conditions to the granting
of variances, as it deems necessary to further the purposes of these
regulations.
      (3)   Other conditions for variances.
         (a)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if
any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
         (b)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood level, providing items in §
1308.05(D)(2)(a)1. through 11. have been fully considered. As the lot size
increases beyond one-half acre, the technical justification required for
issuing the variance increases.
         (c)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given
written notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with a lowest
floor elevation below the base flood elevation and the cost of flood insurance
will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest
floor elevation.
   (E)   Procedure at hearings.
      (1)   All testimony shall be given under oath.
      (2)   A complete record of the proceedings shall be kept, except
confidential deliberations of the Board, but including all documents presented
and a verbatim record of the testimony of all witnesses.
      (3)   The applicant shall proceed first to present evidence and testimony
in support of the appeal or variance.
      (4)   The Administrator may present evidence or testimony in opposition
to the appeal or variance.
      (5)   All witnesses shall be subject to cross-examination by the adverse
party or their counsel.
      (6)   Evidence that is not admitted may be proffered and shall become
part of the record for appeal.
      (7)   The Board shall issue subpoenas upon written request for the
attendance of witnesses. A reasonable deposit to cover the cost of issuance and
service shall be collected in advance.
      (8)   The Board shall prepare conclusions of fact supporting its
decision. The decision may be announced at the conclusion of the hearing and
thereafter issued in writing or the decision may be issued in writing within a
reasonable time after the hearing.
   (F)   Appeal to the court. Those aggrieved by the decision of the Appeals
Board may appeal such decision to the Warren County Court of Common Pleas, as
provided in R.C. Chapter 2506.
(Ord. 2009-014, passed 2-24-09)
§ 1308.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Compliance required.
      (1)   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, erected,
constructed, reconstructed, repaired, extended, converted, enlarged or altered
without full compliance with the terms of these regulations and all other
applicable regulations which apply to uses within the jurisdiction of these
regulations, unless specifically exempted from filing for a development permit
as stated in §
1308.03(I).
      (2)   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit shall be a
violation of these regulations and shall be punishable in accordance with §
1308.06(C).
      (3)   Floodplain development permits issued on the basis of plans and
applications approved by the Floodplain Administrator authorize only the use,
and arrangement, set forth in such approved plans and applications or
amendments thereto. Use, arrangement, or construction contrary to that
authorized shall be deemed a violation of these regulations and punishable in
accordance with §
1308.06(C).
   (B)   Notice of violation.
      (1)   Whenever the Floodplain Administrator determines that there has
been a violation of any provision of these regulations, he shall give notice of
such violation to the person responsible therefore and order compliance with
these regulations as hereinafter provided. Such notice and order shall:
         (a)   Be put in writing on an appropriate form;
         (b)   Include a list of violations, referring to the section or
sections of these regulations that have been violated, and order remedial
action, which, if taken, will effect compliance with the provisions of these
regulations;
         (c)   Specify a reasonable time for performance;
         (d)   Advise the owner, operator, or occupant of the right to appeal;
         (e)   Be served on the owner, occupant, or agent in person. However,
this notice and order shall be deemed to be properly served upon the owner,
occupant, or agent if a copy thereof is sent by registered or certified mail to
the person's last known mailing address, residence, or place of business, and/
or a copy is posted in a conspicuous place in or on the dwelling affected.
   (C)   Violations and penalties. Violation of the provisions of these
regulations or failure to comply with any of its requirements shall be deemed
to be a strict liability offense, and shall constitute an unclassified
misdemeanor as set forth in §
599.02 of the Lebanon Code of Codified Ordinances, and shall be punishable by a
fine of not more than $500, imprisonment of not more than six months, or both.
Any person who violates these regulations or fails to comply with any of its
requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined or imprisoned as provided
by the laws of the City of Lebanon. Each day such violation continues shall be
considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the City
of Lebanon from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or
remedy any violation. The City of Lebanon shall prosecute any violation of
these regulations in accordance with the penalties stated herein.
(Ord. 2009-014, passed 2-24-09)
CHAPTER 1309: USE OF SIDEWALKS AND STREETS DURING CONSTRUCTION
Section
   
1309.01   Storage of material
   
1309.02   Temporary sidewalks
   
1309.03   Removal of fences and the like
   
1309.04   Gutters and sidewalks to be kept clean
   
1309.05    Application for use of sidewalks and roadways; permit duration
   
1309.06   Indemnity
Cross-reference:
   Protection of public during construction, see §
1307.07
   Sidewalks, curbs, gutters, driveways, see
Ch. 903
   Street excavations, see
Ch. 901
   Street obstructions, see §
311.01
   Streets, sidewalks to be kept free of obstructions, see §
541.01
§ 1309.01 STORAGE OF MATERIAL.
   Whenever any building or structure is about to be erected, constructed,
altered or repaired, the Building Inspector, with the consent of the Director
of Service, may permit the use of the roadway or of a street or alley if, in
his or her opinion, such space is necessary for the storage of material. In no
case shall the outside line of any material extend into a street or alley on
the side adjacent to the building site more than one-fourth of the width
between the curbs or alley lines, nor shall any material be stored beyond the
lot lines extended. Where a temporary sidewalk is constructed as prescribed
hereafter, no material shall be stored beyond the inner edge of such sidewalk.
Where a fence is used to enclose a site, no material shall be stored outside of
such fence.
(Ord. 1049, passed 8-13-63)
§ 1309.02 TEMPORARY SIDEWALKS.
   Whenever any fence, structure or material shall prevent the use of any
public sidewalk, the person erecting, constructing, altering or repairing the
building or structure shall lay and maintain a suitable sidewalk with
substantial handrails around the same or a roofed sidewalk through the same.
Where such sidewalks are used, they shall not extend into a street more than
one-fourth the width thereof between the curbs. In business district zones and
wherever else it may be deemed necessary by the Building Inspector, such
sidewalk shall be located within the width of the permanent sidewalk and shall
be substantially roofed over and protected at the sides with at least a clear
height of eight feet under such roof. All walls, roofs and other parts of such
enclosure shall be of plank construction in a manner satisfactory to the
Building Inspector. All sidewalks shall be at least four feet in the clear, and
where, in the opinion of the Building Inspector, the traffic requires, he or
she shall require greater width. All sidewalks roofed over shall be lighted by
electric light during the night season. All such sidewalk construction shall be
as prescribed by the Building Inspector.
(Ord. 1049, passed 8-13-63)
§ 1309.03 REMOVAL OF FENCES AND THE LIKE.
   All temporary fences, barriers, materials, and the like, obstructing any
street, alley or sidewalk shall be removed when so ordered by the Building
Inspector.
(Ord. 1049, passed 8-13-63)
§ 1309.04 GUTTERS AND SIDEWALKS TO BE KEPT CLEAN.
   The sidewalks and gutters shall at all times be kept clean and free from all
obstructions.
(Ord. 1049, passed 8-13-63)
§ 1309.05 APPLICATION FOR USE OF SIDEWALKS AND ROADWAYS; PERMIT DURATION.
   Applications for the use of sidewalks and roadways shall be made at the time
of the application for a building permit by the person owning such building or
structure, or by his or her agent, architect, engineer or contractor. Permits
for the use of such places shall be granted for a longer time than 60 days, but
may be renewed from time to time, at the discretion of the Building Inspector.
Such renewal shall not be for more than 30 days at any one time.
(Ord. 1049, passed 8-13-63)
§ 1309.06 INDEMNITY.
   All permits issued under this chapter shall provide that the person to whom
the same are issued shall, by acceptance thereof, agree to hold the city
harmless and free from any and all claims or damages, or otherwise, in favor of
any person, which may be caused by or arise out of the erection or maintenance
of such walk, fence or material in the streets or alleys. The privilege to do
so granted by such permit shall be conditioned upon such agreement and
liability.
(Ord. 1049, passed 8-13-63)
CHAPTER 1311: BUILDING SEWERS
Section
   
1311.01     Definitions
   
1311.02     Permit required; application; fee; responsibility
   
1311.03     Inspection
   
1311.04     Materials
   
1311.05     Construction and grade
   
1311.06     Separate building sewers
   
1311.07     Foundation drains
   
1311.08     Basement excavations
   
1311.09     Old building sewers
   
1311.10     Location and depth
   
1311.11     Sewer excavation
   
1311.12     Water and gas services
   
1311.13     Work in streets, roads, alleys
   
1311.14     Backfilling
   
1311.15     Ground and surface waters
   
1311.16   Responsibilities of permittees; insurance
   
1311.17   Responsibility of cost
   
1311.18   Fat, oil, and grease (FOG), waste food, and sand interceptors
required
   
1311.19   FOG trap/oil and sand separator/ interceptor requirements
   
1311.20   Grease interceptor maintenance, record keeping and grease removal
   
1311.21   Solvents prohibited
   
1311.22   Inspection of interceptors
   
1311.23   Enforcement
   
1311.24   Alteration of control methods
 
   
1311.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   City Engineer, see §
127.03
   Sanitary sewage, subdivisions, see §§ 1113.11 and 1115.06
   Street excavations, see
Ch. 901
§ 1311.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building to the public sanitary
sewer.
   COOKING ESTABLISHMENTS. Those establishments primarily engaged in activities
of preparing, serving, or otherwise making available for consumption foodstuffs
and that use one or more of the following preparation activities: cooking by
frying (all methods), baking (all methods), grilling, sauteing, rotisserie
cooking, broiling (all methods), boiling, blanching, roasting, toasting, or
poaching. Also included are infrared heating, searing, barbecuing, and any
other food preparation activity that produces a hot, non-drinkable food product
in or on a receptacle that requires washing.
   DEBRIS. FOG, sand, soil, silt, lint, food particles, etc.
   DIRECTOR. Director of Water and Wastewater, or his or her designee.
   FATS, OILS AND GREASES (FOG). Organic polar compounds derived from animal
and/or plant sources that contain multiple carbon chain triglyceride molecules.
These substances are detectable and measurable using analytical test procedures
established in 40 CFR 136, as may be amended from time to time. All are
sometimes referred to herein as "grease" or "greases".
   GREASE TRAP OR INTERCEPTOR. A device for separating and retaining waterborne
greases and grease complexes prior to the wastewater exiting the trap and
entering the sanitary sewer collection and treatment system. These devices also
serve to collect settleable solids, generated by and from food preparation
activities, prior to the water exiting the trap and entering the sanitary sewer
collection and treatment system. GREASE TRAPS and INTERCEPTORS are sometimes
referred to herein as "grease interceptors".
      (1)   GREASE TRAP. An interceptor whose rated flow exceeds 50 gpm and is
located outside the building.
      (2)   GREASE INTERCEPTOR.  An interceptor whose rated flow is 50 gpm or
less and is typically located inside the building.
   INTERCEPTOR. A devise designed and installed to separate and retain for
removal, by automatic or manual means, deleterious, hazardous or undesirable
matter from normal wastes, while permitting normal sewage or waste to discharge
into the drainage system by gravity.
   MINIMUM DESIGN CAPACITY. The design features of a grease interceptor and its
ability or volume required to effectively intercept and retain greases from
grease-laden wastewaters discharged to the public sanitary sewer.
   NON-COOKING ESTABLISHMENTS. Those establishments primarily engaged in the
preparation of precooked foodstuffs that do not include any form of cooking.
These include cold dairy and frozen foodstuffs preparation and serving
establishments. Also refers to garages, carwashes, etc.
   USER. Any person, including those located outside the jurisdictional limits
of the city, who contributes, causes or permits the contribution or discharge
of wastewater into the collection system leading to the POTW, including persons
who contribute such wastewater from mobile sources, such as those who discharge
hauled wastewater.
(Ord. 8784, passed 7-8-03)
§ 1311.02 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION; FEE; RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Before any building sewer is constructed, repaired, altered, or
connection made to an existing sewer, a permit must be obtained from the City
Engineer, and fees paid as set forth in
Chapter 1304 of this code. The owner of the property is responsible for
applying and paying for all required permits to complete the project.
   (B)   The person applying for a permit must furnish the name of the
subdivision, the number of the lot, the street on which the lot is located, the
house number, the name of the contractor doing the work and other data
affecting sewer flows. All costs and expense incident to the installation and
connection shall be borne by the owner.
   (C)   The person to whom a permit is issued will be held responsible for the
proper installation of the building sewer and its connection to the public
sewer in accordance with the rules and regulations contained herein.
(Am. Ord. 8784, passed 7-8-03)
§ 1311.03 INSPECTION.
   All building sewers shall be inspected and approved by the City Engineer
after the pipe has been laid but before covering with the backfill. The person
to whom the permit has been issued shall call the City Engineer, requesting the
inspection, at least one day before the inspection is desired. The owner of the
property is responsible for payment of inspection fees.
(Am. Ord. 8784, passed 7-8-03)
§ 1311.04 MATERIALS.
   The building sewer shall be constructed of a size and material as specified
in the City of Lebanon, Ohio, Construction Specifications available in the
office of the City Engineer.
(Am. Ord. 5464, passed 2-22-83)
§ 1311.05 CONSTRUCTION AND GRADE.
   (A)   The building sewer shall have a minimum fall of 1/4-inch per linear
foot of sewer from the building to the public sewer. The City Engineer, by
special permission in each case, may authorize the building sewer to be
constructed with a fall as little as 1/8-inch per linear foot if he or she
determines such procedure to be necessary. The junction between the building
sewer and the house plumbing shall be made watertight.
   (B)   The interior of each length of pipe shall be made perfectly clean and
free from offsets, fins and projections before the next length is connected
thereto. All building sewers shall be graded by line and pole, the line being
first leveled from the building to the public sewer and then lowered at the
downstream end to obtain the required fall.
(Ord. 1049, passed 8-13-63)
§ 1311.06 SEPARATE BUILDING SEWERS.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for each
residence or building, except where one building stands at the rear of another
on an interior lot, and separate building sewers cannot be made available to
each building. A permit shall be obtained, as required in §
1311.02(A), for each building connected to the building sewer.
(Ord. 1049, passed 8-13-63)
§ 1311.07 FOUNDATION DRAINS.
   Foundation drains shall not be connected, either directly or indirectly, to
the building sewer or public sewer. If any drains are installed, carrying
surface or subsurface water, they shall be constructed to carry such water to
the street or to natural watercourses.
§ 1311.08 BASEMENT EXCAVATIONS.
   Surface water which collects in basement or foundation excavations shall not
be discharged at any time into the building sewer. If the building sewer is
completed before the house plumbing can be connected thereto, the builder or
sewer tapper shall keep the end of the building sewer tightly closed at all
times with a plumber’s plug or other watertight plug in order to prevent the
surface or ground water from entering the building sewer.
§ 1311.09 OLD BUILDING SEWERS.
   Old or existing building sewers may be used in connection with new building
or alterations only when it can be demonstrated that they conform in all
respects to the requirements contained herein for new building sewers.
(Ord. 1049, passed 8-13-63)
§ 1311.10 LOCATION AND DEPTH.
   Building sewers shall not be constructed closer than three feet to any
exterior wall, cellar, basement or cistern, nor shall they have less than two
feet of earth or stone cover.
(Ord. 1049, passed 8-13-63)
§ 1311.11 SEWER EXCAVATION.
   All excavation for sewers shall be by open cut from the surface. The sides
of the trench shall be substantially vertical, using such sheeting and bracing
as may be necessary to accomplish this result. The trench shall be excavated
two inches below the required grade for the bottom of the pipe barrel and
refilled to the proper grade with pea gravel, sand or stone not over ¾-inch in
diameter. The width of the trench at the top of the pipe shall not exceed two
feet plus the outside diameter of the pipe.
(Ord. 1049, passed 8-13-63)
§ 1311.12 WATER AND GAS SERVICES.
   Water and gas services shall not be laid in the same trench as the building
sewer.
(Ord. 1049, passed 8-13-63)
Penalty, see § 1311.99
§ 1311.13 WORK IN STREETS, ROADS, ALLEYS.
   The person to whom a permit is issued shall be responsible for obtaining a
permit from the City Engineer to open cut any street, road or alley.
(Ord. 1049, passed 8-13-63)
§ 1311.14 BACKFILLING.
   (A)   The building sewer shall be backfilled to an elevation at least six
inches over the top of the pipe by tamping in six-inch layers. Soil containing
stones larger than three inches, in the greatest dimension, shall not be used
for backfill. The balance of the backfill may be deposited in any manner which
will not damage the pipe or disturb the alignment or grade of the sewer, except
that the backfill for all parts of the trench which are in the public right of
way shall be made in accordance with city specifications for such work.
   (B)   The permit holder will be required to repair or restore any drains or
service lines damaged or disturbed by him or her during the construction of the
building sewer.
(Ord. 1049, passed 8-13-63)
§ 1311.15 GROUND AND SURFACE WATERS.
   Downspouts, surface inlets and subsurface drains shall not be connected to
or discharged into any part of the sanitary sewer system.
(Ord. 1049, passed 8-13-63)
Penalty, see § 1311.99
§ 1311.16 RESPONSIBILITIES OF PERMITTEES; INSURANCE.
   The full primary responsibility of any excavation shall be with the
permittee, who shall at all times keep the excavation properly guarded and
enclosed so that the safety of persons and vehicles using the public roadway or
easement will be assured. This responsibility shall continue until
permanentreplacement of pavements and all other surfaces to their original
status and condition is made and shall include the defense, settlement and
payment of any and all claims, actions and court judgments for damages or
injuries to anyone, arising in any way out of the creation or maintenance of
excavations by the permittee. The permittee shall deposit with the Service
Department evidence of a public liability insurance policy, insuring the city
against any loss or damage to persons or property resulting from or growing out
of the work being done.
(Ord. 8784, passed 7-8-03)
§ 1311.17 RESPONSIBILITY OF COST.
   All cost and expense incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer and lateral shall be borne by the owner, including, but not
limited to, the cost to restore sidewalks, roadways and other surfaces
resulting from the operation, maintenance, repair and/or reconstruction of the
building sewer. The owner shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage that
may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building
sewer. The owner of premises served by a building sewer shall be responsible
for the operation, maintenance, repair and reconstruction of the building sewer
from the building to the point of connection with the public sanitary sewer.
(Ord. 8784, passed 7-8-03)
§ 1311.18 FAT, OIL, AND GREASE (FOG), WASTE FOOD, AND SAND INTERCEPTORS
REQUIRED.
   (A)   FOG, waste food and sand interceptors shall be installed when, in the
opinion of the Director, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing FOG, ground food waste, sand, soil, and solids, or other
harmful ingredients in excessive amounts which impact the wastewater collection
system. Such interceptors shall not be required for single-family residences,
but are required on multiple family residences. Take-out food establishments or
other establishments that prepare food but do not cook in oil or grease and who
serve food only in disposable containers may utilize alternative interceptors
as approved by the Director, provided their discharges will not violate any
discharge prohibitions of this chapter. FOG interceptors may also be required
in non-cooking or cold dairy and frozen foodstuff establishments when the
Director deems them necessary.
   (B)   All car washes, truck washes, garages, service stations and other
sources of sand, soil, and oil shall install effective sand, soil, and oil
interceptors. These interceptors shall be sized to effectively remove sand,
soil, and oil at the expected flow rates. These interceptors shall be cleaned
on a regular basis to prevent impact upon the wastewater collection and
treatment system. Owners whose interceptors are deemed to be ineffective by the
Director may be asked to change the cleaning frequency or to increase the size
of the interceptors. Owners or operators of washing facilities shall prevent
the inflow of rainwater into the sanitary sewers.
   (C)   Commercial laundries shall be equipped with an interceptor with a wire
basket or similar device, removable for cleaning, that prevents passage into
the sewer system of solids 1/2 inch or larger in size such as strings, rags,
buttons, or other solids detrimental to the system.
   (D)   All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the
Director, and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection.
(Ord. 8784, passed 7-8-03)
Penalty, see § 1311.99
§ 1311.19 FOG TRAP/OIL AND SAND SEPARATOR/INTERCEPTOR REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Upon construction or renovation, all restaurants, cafeterias, hotels,
motels, hospitals, nursing homes, schools, grocery stores, prisons, jails,
churches, camps, caterers, manufacturing plants and any other sewer users who
discharge applicable waste shall submit a FOG and food waste control plan
thatwill effectively control the discharge of FOG and food waste.
   (B)   All existing restaurants, cafeterias, hotels, motels, hospitals,
nursing homes, schools, grocery stores, prisons, jails, churches, camps,
caterers, manufacturing plants and any other sewer users who discharge
applicable waste shall be required to submit a plan for control of FOG and food
waste. After reviewing the plan the Director may require that an interceptor be
installed. The user will then have one-year from date of notification for the
need of an interceptor to become compliant with all of the provisions within
this chapter. All new interceptors or interceptors to replace or upgrade
existing interceptors will be required to meet all criteria stated in this
chapter.
   (C)   The following must be submitted to the city for review and approval
prior to installation of an interceptor.
      (1)   Site plans showing the location of the interceptor, lines, clean
out or manhole and sample port; and
      (2)   Details of the interceptor, lines, clean out or manhole and sample
port; and
      (3)   Formula and calculation used to determine the interceptor capacity.
   (D)   No non-grease-laden sources are allowed to be connected to sewer lines
intended for grease, oil and sand separators.
   (E)   After approval of the FOG plan by the Director the user must implement
the plan in order to prevent adverse impact upon the sewer collection system
and treatment facility within one year. If in the opinion of the Director the
user continues to impact the collection system and treatment plant, additional
pretreatment measures may be required.
   (F)   The equipment or facilities installed to control FOG, food waste, sand
and soil, must be designed in accordance with the Uniform Plumbing Code.
Control equipment shall be maintained by the owner so as to prevent a stoppage
of the public sewer, and the accumulation of FOG in the lines, pump stations
and treatment plant.
   (G)   The city, or its designee, retains the right to inspect and approve
installation of the control equipment.
   (H)   All interceptors shall be sized to ensure that the city's sewer system
is protected from excessive FOG and debris which may cause clogging or damage
and that the user is capable of meeting all discharge requirements.
   (I)   All interceptors shall be located outside the building in such a
manner that personnel from the city Division of Wastewater can inspect the
interceptors at any time.
   (J)   A sampling port shall be installed in an approved location to allow
sampling by the utility and the user. The sample port shall be located between
the interceptor and the discharge point to the sewer system.
   (K)   Access manholes, with a minimum diameter of 24 inches, shall be
provided over each chamber and sanitary tee. The access manholes shall extend
at least to finished grade and be designed and maintained to prevent water
inflow or infiltration. The manholes shall also have readily removable covers
to facilitate inspection, grease removal, and wastewater sampling activities.
   (L)   If an establishment desires, because of documented space constraints,
an alternate to an out-of-building grease interceptor, the request for an
alternative location shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Location of city sewer main and easement in relation to available
exterior space outside building; and
      (2)   Existing plumbing at or in a site that uses common plumbing for all
services at that site.
(Ord. 8784, passed 7-8-03)
Penalty, see § 1311.99
§ 1311.20 GREASE INTERCEPTOR MAINTENANCE, RECORD KEEPING AND GREASE REMOVAL.
   (A)   The user of the premises or business where such interceptor is located
shall obtain from the city a maintenance card which shall be posted in a
conspicuous manner showing proof of regular maintenance. Such card shall be
obtained annually and shall be presented upon request. All records pertaining
to the maintenance of an interceptor shall be retained by the user for a period
of not less than three years and available to the city upon request.
   (B)   No user shall allow wastewater discharge concentration from subject
grease interceptor to exceed 50 milligrams per liter, as identified by method
EPA Method 1664A (Hexane Extraction Method). All such grease interceptors shall
be serviced and emptied of accumulated waste content as required in order to
maintain minimum design capability or effective volume of the grease
interceptor, but not less often than every 30 days. Users who are required to
pass water through a grease interceptor shall:
      (1)   Remove any accumulated grease cap and sludge pocket as required,
but at intervals of not longer than 30 days at the users expense. An exemption
may be granted to the 30-day minimum requirement if the user can establish that
such maintenance schedule is not necessary.
      (2)   Keep the interceptors free of inorganic solid materials such as
grit, rocks, gravel, sand, eating utensils, cigarettes, shells, towels, rags,
etc., which could settle into this pocket and thereby reduce the effective
volume of the grease interceptor.
   (C)   If any skimmed or pumped wastes or other materials removed from the
grease interceptor are treated in any fashion onsite and reintroduced back into
the grease interceptor as an activity of and after said onsite treatment the
user shall be responsible for the attainment of established grease numerical
limit consistent with and contained in this chapter on all discharges of
wastewater from said grease interceptor into the city's sanitary sewer
collection and treatment system.
(Ord. 8784, passed 7-8-03)
Penalty, see § 1311.99
§ 1311.21 SOLVENTS PROHIBITED.
   The use of any free-enzyme, chemical, or other products designed to
emulsify, liquefy or further render grease soluble for the purpose of cleaning
drains or circumventing the design of the interceptor is prohibited. The
Director must approve all products claiming biological activity. Approval for
this or any other treatment does not relieve the user of properly maintaining
the interceptor as to prevent discharge violations to occur. Failure to comply
with this section shall subject the user to appropriate enforcement, fines, and
procedures as set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 8784, passed 7-8-03)
Penalty, see § 1311.99
§ 1311.22 INSPECTION OF INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   The Division of Water and Wastewater will inspect each interceptor at
least once per year for compliance with maintenance and record keeping. A
permit must be obtained at the City Service Department by the user to cover the
cost of the inspection, including labor and any necessary testing.
   (B)   When upon inspection the interceptor is found to have six inches or
more of solids in the bottom of the interceptor (using a Sludge Judge) or a
grease cap of three inches or more, or the establishment exceeds discharge
compliance levels, the Director can require a grease pump out. Upon completion
of an on-site inspection or analytical results of sampling indicate a violation
of this chapter,the Director may issue a "Notice of Violations" to the user or
representative to document any discrepancies, non-compliance, special
instructions or other guidance identified during the on-site inspection.
(Ord. 8784, passed 7-8-03)
§ 1311.23 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Except as provided herein, for a period of one year following adoption
of this chapter, although installation of grease interceptors will be required
to be installed, no enforcement actions will be taken under this chapter for
failure to achieve limits on FOG and sand discharges from interceptors. If,
during this one year period an obstruction of a city sewer main(s) occurs that
causes a sewer overflow to the extent that an impact on the environment is
realized and that said overflow or failure of the sanitary sewer collection
system to convey sewage can be attributed in part or in whole to an
accumulation of grease in the city's sewer main(s), the city will take
appropriate enforcement actions, as stipulated in the city's Industrial
Pretreatment Plan, against the generator or contributor of such grease or
debris.
   (B)   If the city is required to clean out the public sewer lines as a
result of a stoppage resulting from poorly maintained control equipment, or
lack thereof, the user shall be required to refund the labor, equipment,
materials, testing fees and overhead costs to the city. Nothing in this section
shall be construed to prohibit or restrict any other remedy the city has under
this chapter, or state or federal law.
   (C)   Failure to maintain the control system in an appropriate manner (two
sewer blockages of the city sanitary sewer system attributed to the user) will
result in discontinuation of sanitary sewer service until corrections are made
and the control system is in full compliance with this chapter. The user will
need to pay a new tap fee in order to reconnect to the city sanitary sewer
system.
(Ord. 8784, passed 7-8-03)
§ 1311.24 ALTERATION OF CONTROL METHODS.
   The Director reserves the right to make determinations of grease interceptor
adequacy and need, based on review of all relevant information regarding grease
interceptor performance, facility site and building plan review and to require
repairs to, or modification or replacement of such traps.
(Ord. 8784, passed 7-8-03)
§ 1311.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates this chapter shall be guilty of a civil violation
punishable under and according to
§ 101.99. Each day's violation of this chapter shall be considered a separate
offense.
(Ord. 8784, passed 7-8-03)
CHAPTER 1313: SIGNS AND OUTDOOR DISPLAY STRUCTURES
Section
   
1313.01     Permit required
   
1313.02     Definitions
   
1313.03     Application of zoning code
   
1313.04    Electrical signs
   
1313.05     Safety and structural stability
   
1313.06     Fees
   
1313.07     Exceptions
   
1313.08     Unsafe and unlawful signs
   
1313.09     Maintenance
   
1313.10     Existing signs
   
1313.11     General requirements for all signs
   
1313.12     Ground and pole signs
   
1313.13     Roof signs
   
1313.14     Wall signs
   
1313.15     Projecting signs
   
1313.16     Marquee signs
   
1313.17     Waiver of requirements
Statutory reference:
   Power to regulate signs, see R.C. § 715.27
Cross-reference:
   Electrical installation fees, see
Ch. 1304
   Zoning code, sign regulations, see Ch. 1141
§ 1313.01 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No sign shall hereafter be erected, constructed, altered or moved except as
herein provided, and until after a permit has been issued by the Building
Inspector.
(Ord. 1049, passed 8-13-63)
§ 1313.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GROUND SIGN. A display sign supported by uprights or braces in or upon the
ground surface.
   MARQUEE SIGN. A display sign attached to or hung from a marquee, canopy or
other covered structure projecting from and supported by the building and
extending beyond the building wall, building line or street lot line.
   POLE SIGN. Any sign which is erected on a pole or poles, which is wholly or
partially independent of any building for support.
   PROJECTING SIGN. A display sign which is attached directly to the building
wall and which extends more than 15 inches from the face of the wall.
   ROOF SIGN. A display sign which is erected, constructed and maintained above
the roof of the building.
   TEMPORARY SIGN. A display sign, banner or other advertising device
constructed of cloth, canvas, fabric or other light temporary material, with or
without a structural frame, intended for a limited period of display, including
decorative displays for holidays or public demonstrations.
   WALL SIGN. A display sign which is painted on or attached directly to the
building wall and which extends not more than 15 inches from the face of the
wall.
(Ord. 1049, passed 8-13-63)
§ 1313.03 APPLICATION OF ZONING CODE.
   No sign shall be constructed, erected, altered or moved except in compliance
with the zoning code regulating type, use, size and location.
(Ord. 1049, passed 8-13-63)
Cross-reference:
   Zoning code, sign regulations, see Ch. 1141
§ 1313.04 ELECTRICAL SIGNS.
   Where electrical signs, or signs involving the use of electricity, are
erected, constructed, moved or altered, an electrical permit therefor shall be
secured in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 1304 of this code.
(Ord. 1049, passed 8-13-63)
§ 1313.05 SAFETY AND STRUCTURAL STABILITY.
   No sign shall be erected, constructed, altered or moved except in compliance
with accepted engineering practices.
(Ord. 1049, passed 8-13-63)
§ 1313.06 FEES.
Editor’s note:
   Provisions regarding fees for signs and outdoor display structures can be
found in
Chapter 1304.
§ 1313.07 EXCEPTIONS.
   No permit shall be required for the signs or outdoor display structures
covered by the provisions of this section. Such exceptions, however, shall not
be construed to relieve the owner of the sign from responsibility for its
erection and maintenance in a safe manner, or from compliance with zoning
regulations
   (A)   Painted signs. Signs painted on the surface of masonry, concrete,
frame or other approved building walls.
   (B)   Government building signs. Signs erected on a municipal, state or
federal building which announce the name and nature of the occupancy and
information as to use of or admission to the premises.
   (C)   Other wall signs. Any wall sign erected on a building or structure
which is not more than one square foot in area.
   (D)   Fence signs. Signs painted on the surface of enclosure or division
fences, or on picket or other ornamental fences.
   (E)   Sale or rent. Signs erected to announce the sale or rent of the
property so designated, provided such signs are not over six square feet in
area.
   (F)   Transit directions. The erection or maintenance of a sign designating
the location of a transit line, a railroad station or other public carrier when
not more than three square feet in area.
   (G)   Street signs and other municipal signs. Signs erected by the city for
street direction and other information.
   (H)   Construction signs. Construction signs, engineer’s and architects’
signs, and other similar signs which may be authorized by the Building
Inspector in connection with construction operations.
   (I)   Special displays. Special decorative displays used for holidays,
public demonstrations or promotion of civic, welfare or charitable purposes,
when authorized by the City Manager, on which there is no commercial
advertising, provided the city is held harmless for any damage resulting
therefrom.
(Ord. 1049, passed 8-13-63)
§ 1313.08 UNSAFE AND UNLAWFUL SIGNS.
   (A)   Violations; compliance. When a sign becomes insecure, in danger of
falling or otherwise unsafe, or if any sign shall be unlawfully installed,
erected or maintained in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter,
the owner thereof or the person or firm maintaining same shall, upon written
notice of the Building Inspector, forthwith in the case of immediate danger and
in any case within not more than ten days, make such sign conform to the
provisions of this chapter or shall remove it.
   (B)   Obstructions to ingress or egress. The Building inspector shall notify
the owner or lessee of the building or structure by registered mail or personal
service whenever a sign is so erected as to obstruct free ingress to or egress
from a required door, window, fire escape or other required exitway. Such
obstruction shall be forthwith removed.
   (C)   Obstructions to roof access. A projecting display sign erected at
other than right angles to the wall of a building or structure outside of the
building line which extends above the roof cornice or parapet wall and which
obstructs access to the roof is deemed unlawful. Such signs shall be
reconstructed or removed as herein required.
   (D)   Projected beyond alley lot lines. No signs shall be permitted to
project beyond public alley lot lines.
(Ord. 1049, passed 8-13-63)
§ 1313.09 MAINTENANCE.
   All signs for which a permit is required, together with all their supports,
braces, guys and anchors, shall be kept in repair in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, and when not galvanized or constructed of approved
corrosion-resistant noncombustible materials, shall be painted when necessary
to prevent corrosion.
(Ord. 1049, passed 8-13-63)
§ 1313.10 EXISTING SIGNS.
   (A)   No sign heretofore erected shall be repaired, altered or moved, nor
shall any sign, or any substantial part thereof, which is blown down, destroyed
or removed, be re-erected, reconstructed, rebuilt or relocated unless it is
made to comply with all applicable requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed to prevent the repair or
restoration to a safe condition, as directed by the Building Inspector, of any
part of any existing sign when damaged by storm or other accidental emergency.
(Ord. 1049, passed 8-13-63)
§ 1313.11 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL SIGNS.
   (A)   Hindering fire fighting forces. No sign shall be erected, constructed
or maintained so as to obstruct any fire escape, required exitway, windows or
door opening used as a means of egress or to prevent free passage from one part
of a roof to another part of the roof or access thereto, as required by the
Division of Fire.
   (B)   Interference with ventilation. No sign shall be attached in any form,
shape or manner which will interfere with any opening required for ventilation,
except that such signs may be erected in front of and may cover transom
windows.
   (C)   Traffic hazards. No sign shall be erected, constructed or maintained
which shall constitute a hazard to traffic either by obstructing the view at an
intersection or entrance, or by reason of its propensity to distraction.
(Ord. 1049, passed 8-13-63)
§ 1313.12 GROUND AND POLE SIGNS.
   (A)   Obstructions to traffic. No ground sign or pole sign shall be erected
so as to obstruct free access to or egress from any building.
   (B)   Setback. No ground sign or pole sign shall be set in the public right-
of-way, but may project over the public right of way under the same conditions
as specified for projecting signs.
   (C)   Bottom clearance. The bottom capping of all ground signs shall be at
least 30 inches above the ground, but the intervening space may be filled with
open lattice work or platform decorative trim.
   (D)   Fire district limitations.
      (1)   Inside fire district. In fire districts, no ground sign shall be
constructed of combustible materials, except ornamental features.
      (2)   Outside fire district. Outside the fire limits, the structural
frame of ground signs shall not be erected of combustible materials to a height
of more than 35 feet above the ground.
(Ord. 1049, passed 8-13-63)
§ 1313.13 ROOF SIGNS.
   All roof signs shall be constructed entirely of metal or other approved
noncombustible materials, except ornamental features. Provisions shall be made
for electric ground of all metallic parts. Where combustible materials are
permitted in letters or other ornamental features, all wiring and tubing shall
be kept free and insulated therefrom.
(Ord. 1049, passed 8-13-63)
§ 1313.14 WALL SIGNS.
   (A)   Materials. Wall signs which have an area exceeding 40 square feet
shall be constructed of metal or other approved noncombustible materials,
except for nailing nails.
   (B)   Reflectors. Lighting reflectors may project eight feet beyond the face
of the wall, provided such reflectors are at least 12 feet above the sidewalk
level, but in no case shall such reflectors project beyond a vertical plane two
feet inside the curb line.
   (C)   Extension. Wall signs shall not be erected to extend above the top of
the wall, or extend beyond the ends of the wall to which they are attached,
unless meeting all the requirements for roof signs, projecting signs or ground
signs, as the case may be.
(Ord. 1049, passed 8-13-63)
§ 1313.15 PROJECTING SIGNS.
   (A)   No sign shall project over a street or other public space more than
ten feet from the face of the building or structure, or in any case beyond a
vertical plane two feet inside the curb line.
   (B)   A clear space of not less than ten feet shall be provided below all
parts of such signs projecting over the public right-of-way.
(Ord. 1049, passed 8-13-63)
§ 1313.16 MARQUEE SIGNS.
   (A)   Materials. Marquee signs shall be constructed entirely of metal or
other approved noncombustible materials, except ornamental features.
   (B)   Height. Such signs shall not exceed seven feet in height nor shall
they project below the fascia of the marquee or lower than ten feet above the
sidewalk.
   (C)   Length. Marquee signs may extend the full length, but in no case shall
they project beyond the ends of the marquee.
(Ord. 1049, passed 8-13-63)
§ 1313.17 WAIVER OF REQUIREMENTS.
   Where strict compliance with the regulations of this chapter is inconsistent
with the promotion of the public welfare or the civic interest, the City
Manager shall be authorized to waive specific requirements, provided the waiver
of any such requirements shall not result in undue hazard to the public.
(Ord. 1049, passed 8-13-63)
TITLE THREE - Property Maintenance Code
   EDITOR'S NOTE: Ordinance 9283, passed March 14, 2006, adopted the Property
Maintenance Code as Part 13, Title 3 of these Codified Ordinances, formerly the
Housing Code.
   
Chapter 1321 -   Adoption of Property Maintenance Code
   
Chapter 1323 - Administration
   
Chapter 1324 - Definitions
   
Chapter 1325 - General Requirements
   
Chapter 1326 - Light, Ventilation and Occupancy Limitations
   
Chapter 1327 - Plumbing, Facilities and Fixture Requirements
   
Chapter 1328 - Mechanical and Electrical Requirements
   
Chapter 1329 - Fire Safety Requirements
   
Chapter 1337 - Responsibilities of Owners, Operators, Occupants
   
Chapter 1339 - Urban Renewal/Redevelopment
CHAPTER 1321: ADOPTION OF PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
Section
   
1321.01   Adoption of Property Maintenance Code; file copies
§ 1321.01 ADOPTION OF PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE; FILE COPIES.
   (A)   Under the provisions of §
3.06 of the Charter of the City of Lebanon, there is adopted for the city, for
the purpose of prescribing and enforcing minimum regulations pertaining to
standards for housing and property maintenance, that certain code known as the
2009 International Property Maintenance Code, including such amendments as are
written from time to time by the Building Officials and Code Administrators
International, Inc. subject to amendments or other provisions as contained in
the following chapters of the Property Maintenance Code.
   (B)   A complete copy of such code shall be kept on file in the office of
the City Manager. The Department of Service shall keep copies available for
distribution to the public at cost.
(Am. Ord. 9284, passed 3-14-06; Am. Ord. 2010-027, passed 3-23-10)
CHAPTER 1323: ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
1323.01   General
   
1323.02   Applicability
   
1323.03   Enforcement
   
1323.04   Inspection of buildings; right of entry
   
1323.05   Violations
   
1323.06   Approval
   
1323.07   Appeals; Board of Appeals
   
1323.08   Unsafe buildings
   
1323.09   Emergency measures
   
1323.10   Demolition
 
   
1323.99   Penalty
§ 1323.01 GENERAL.
   (A)   These regulations shall be known as the Property Maintenance Code of
the City of Lebanon hereinafter referred to as “this code.”
Chapter 1323 of the Lebanon Codified Ordinances shall replace Chapter 1,
Administration, of the International Property Maintenance Code delineated in
Chapter 1321.
   (B)   The provisions of this code shall apply to all existing residential
and nonresidential structures and all existing premises and constitute minimum
requirements and standards for premises, structures, equipment and facilities
for light, ventilation, space, heating, sanitation, protection from the
elements, life safety, safety from fire and other hazards, and for safe and
sanitary maintenance; the responsibility of owners, operators, and occupants;
the occupancy of existing structures and premises, and for administration,
enforcement and penalties.
   (C)   This code shall be construed to secure its expressed intent, which is
to ensure public health safety, and welfare insofar as they are affected by the
continued occupancy and maintenance of structures and premises. Existing
structures and premises that pose a serious threat to public health and safety
shall be altered or repaired to provide a minimum level of health and safety as
required herein. Repairs, alterations, additions to and change of occupancy in
existing buildings shall comply with the current version of the City of
Lebanon, Ohio Residential Code, the Ohio Building Code, the Ohio Mechanical
Code, the Ohio Plumbing Code, the National Electric Code, and all subsequent
updates as they occur.
   (D)   If a section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this code is,
for any reason, held to be unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portions of this code.
(Ord. 9285, passed 3-28-06; Am. Ord. 2010-028, passed 3-23-10)
§ 1323.02 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The provisions of this code shall apply to all matters affecting or
relating to structures and premises, as set forth in §
1323.01. Where, in a specific case, different sections of this code specify
different requirements, the most restrictive shall govern.
   (B)   Maintenance. Equipment, systems, devices and safeguards required by
this code or a previous regulation or code under which the structure or
premises was constructed, altered or repaired shall be maintained in good
working order. No owner, operator or occupant shall cause any service,
facility, equipment or utility which is required under this section to be
removed from or shut off from or discontinued for any occupied dwelling, except
for such temporary interruption as necessary while repairs or alterations are
in progress. The requirements of this code are not intended to provide the
basis for removal or abrogation of fire protection and safety systems and
devices in existing structures. Except as otherwise specified herein, the owner
or the owner's designated agent shall be responsible for the maintenance of
buildings, structures and premises.
   (C)   The provisions in this code shall not be construed to abolish or
impair existing remedies of the jurisdiction or its officers or agencies
relating to the removal or demolition of any structure which is dangerous,
unsafe and unsanitary.
   (D)   Requirements necessary for the strength, stability or proper
operations of an existing fixture, structure or equipment, or for the public
safety, health and general welfare, not specifically covered by this code,
shall be determined by the code official.
(Ord. 9285, passed 3-28-06)
§ 1323.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the residential building official or designee to
enforce the provisions of this code. Whenever the residential building official
or designee determines that there has been a violation of any provision of this
code, he or she shall give notice of such violation to the person responsible
therefor as hereinafter provided. Such notice and order shall:
   (A)   Be put in writing;
   (B)   Include a description of the property sufficient for identification;
   (C)   Include a list of violations, refer to the section of this code
violated and order remedial action which, if taken, will effect compliance with
these provisions;
   (D)   Specify a reasonable time for performance;
   (E)   Be served upon the owner, operator or occupant in person. However,
such notice and order shall be deemed to be properly served upon such person if
a copy thereof is sent by registered mail and delivered to his or her last
known address. If the notice is returned showing that the letter was not
delivered, a copy thereof shall be sent to the last known address by ordinary
U.S. Mail and posted in a conspicuous place in or about the structure affected
by such notice;
   (F)   Include information regarding the appeals process available to the
property owner as delineated in this code;
   (G)   Include a statement of the city's right to file a lien in accordance
with §
1323.05.
(Ord. 1075, passed 2-25-64; Am. Ord. 9285, passed 3-28-06)
§ 1323.04 INSPECTION OF BUILDING; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The residential building official, or designee, is authorized to enter the
residential structure or premises at reasonable times to inspect or to perform
the duties imposed by this code, provided that credentials are presented to the
occupant and that entry is requested and obtained. Where permission to enter
has not been obtained, is denied, or the residential building official, or
designee, has probable cause to believe that there exists in a residential
structure or upon a premises a condition which is a serious hazard the
residential building official, or designee, shall have recourse to the remedies
provided by law to secure entry.
(Ord. 1075, passed 2-25-64; Am. Ord. 9285, passed 3-28-06)
§ 1323.05 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a person, firm, or corporation to be in
conflict with or in violation of any of the provisions of this code.
   (B)   The residential building official, or designee, shall serve notice of
violation(s) or order in accordance with §
1323.03.
   (C)   Any person failing to comply with a notice of violation or order
served in accordance with
Chapter 1323 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If
the notice of violation is not complied with, the city shall institute the
appropriate proceeding through the courts to restrain, correct or abate such
violation, or to require the removal or termination of the unlawful occupancy
of the structure in violation of the provisions of this code or of the order or
direction made pursuant thereto. Any action taken by the City on such premises
shall be charged against the property upon which the structure is located and
shall be a lien upon such property.
   (D)   Any person who shall violate a provision of this code, or fail to
comply therewith, or with any of the requirements thereof, shall be prosecuted
within the limits provided by local laws. Each day that a violation continues
after due notice has been served or the date the property was to be brought
into compliance with this code shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (E)   The imposition of the penalties herein prescribed shall not preclude
the city from instituting appropriate action to restrain, correct or abate a
violation, or to prevent illegal occupancy of a building, structure or
premises, or to stop an illegal act, conduct, business or utilization of the
building, structure or premises.
(Ord. 9285, passed 3-28-06)
§ 1323.06 APPROVAL.
   (A)   Modifications. Whenever there are practical difficulties involved in
carrying out the provisions of this code, the residential building official, or
designee, shall have the authority to grant modifications for individual cases,
provided that the residential building official, or designee, shall first find
that special individual reason makes the strict letter of this code impractical
and the modification is in compliance with the intent and purpose of this code
and that such modification does not lessen the health, life and fire safety
requirements. The details of action granting modifications shall be recorded
and entered into the department files.
    (B)   Whenever there is insufficient evidence of compliance with the
provisions of this code, or evidence that a material or method does not conform
to the requirements of this code, or in order to substantiate claims for
alternative materials or methods, the city shall have the authority to require
a test(s) to be made as evidence of compliance at no expense to the city.
(Ord. 9285, passed 3-28-06)
§ 1323.07 APPEALS; BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   The Board of Building Appeals, as defined in
Chapter 1303 of the Lebanon Codified Ordinances, shall serve as a Board of
Appeals to hear and rule upon decisions of the residential building official,
or designee, when appealed, and to exercise such other authority as is provided
for in this code. Appeals to violation notices shall be made to the Citizens
Housing Committee as defined in §
1301.27 of the Lebanon Codified Ordinances.
   (B)   Appeals Procedure. The owner, or any person directly affected by a
decision of the residential building official, or designee, of a premises,
building, or structure aggrieved by an order of the residential building
official, or designee, may appeal such order or decision. Such appeal shall be
in writing and shall state the refusal order or decision which is being
appealed and the reason therefore. Written appeal must be made within 15 days
of notification of the violation. Such appeal shall be filed with the City
Manager who shall, within 15 days of the receipt of an appeal, call a meeting
of the Board of Building Appeals for the purpose of meeting to affirm, modify,
or reverse the decision of the residential building official, or designee. The
appellant must be notified in writing of the meeting date, location. and time.
Such meetings shall be open to the public.
   (C)   The Board shall affirm, modify or reverse the decision of the
residential building official, or designee, by a majority vote of the quorum.
Action of the Board shall be duly recorded in its minutes, and written notice
of the decision shall be furnished to the appellant.
   (D)   The residential building official, or designee, shall take immediate
action in accordance with the decision of the Board.
   (E)   Any person, whether or not a previous party of the appeal, shall have
the right to apply to the appropriate court to correct any errors of law.
Application for review shall be made in the manner and time required by law
following the filing of the decision of the Appeals Board.
(Ord. 9285, passed 3-28-06)
§ 1323.08 UNSAFE BUILDINGS. 
   (A)   General. When a structure or equipment is found by the residential
building official, or designee, to be unsafe, or when a structure is found
unfit for human occupancy, or is found unlawful, such structure shall be
condemned pursuant to the provisions of this code.
      (1)   Unsafe structures. An unsafe structure is one that is found to be
dangerous to the life, health, property or safety of the public or the
occupants of the structure by not providing minimum safeguards to protect or
warn occupants in the event of fire, or because such structure contains unsafe
equipment or is so damaged, decayed, dilapidated, structurally unsafe or of
such faulty construction or unstable foundation, that partial or complete
collapse is possible.
      (2)   Unsafe equipment. Unsafe equipment includes any boilers, heating
equipment, elevator, moving stairway, electrical wiring or device, flammable
liquid containers or other equipment on the premises or within the structure
which is in such disrepair or condition that such equipment is a hazard to
life, health, property or safety of the public or occupants of the premises or
structure.
      (3)   Structure unfit for human occupancy. A structure is unfit for human
occupancy whenever the residential building official, or designee, finds that
such structure is unsafe, unlawful or, because of the degree to which the
structure is in disrepair or lacks maintenance, is unsanitary, vermin or rat
infested, contains filth and contamination, or lacks ventilation, illumination,
sanitary or heating facilities, or other essential equipment required by this
code, or because the location of the structure constitutes a hazard to the
occupants of the structure or to the public.
      (4)   Unlawful structure. An unlawful structure is one found in whole or
in part to be occupied by more persons than permitted under this code, or was
erected, altered or occupied contrary to law.
   (B)   Examination and record of unsafe, unsanitary, and damaged buildings.
The residential building official, or designee, shall examine every building or
structure reported or observed as damaged, dangerous, structurally unsafe, or
constituting a health or fire hazard; and he or she shall cause a report of
such examination to be prepared and filed in a docket of unsafe or damaged
structures and premises, stating the use of the building or structure and the
nature and estimated amount of any such damage.
   (C)   Uncovering defects. Whenever it is established by inspection that
definite and serious hazard to safety or health may exist, the residential
building official, or designee, shall have the right to require the removal, or
may remove, lath, plaster, boarding, earth or other cover or obstruction
thereof, but the extent of such removal shall be that reasonably necessary for
such inspection.
   (D)   Vacant structures. If the structure is vacant and unfit for human
habitation and occupancy, and is not in danger of structural collapse, the
residential building official, or designee, is authorized to post a placard of
condemnation on the premises and order the structure closed up so as not to be
an attractive nuisance. Upon failure of the owner to close up the premises
within the time specified by the order, the residential building official, or
designee, shall cause the premises to be closed and secured through any
available public agency or by contract with private persons and the cost
thereof shall be charged against the property upon which the structure is
located and shall be a lien upon such property, and maybe collected by any
other legal resource.
   (E)   Unsafe building orders. If an unsafe or unsanitary condition is found
in a building or structure as defined in §
1323.08(A), the residential building official, or designee, shall serve on the
owner, agent, or person in control of the building or structure a written order
hereinafter referred to as an “unsafe building order” designating the building
or structure, describing the repairs or improvements required to render the
building or structure or its equipment or service facilities safe and secure,
and/or sanitary, ordering that such repairs or improvements he made, or that
the building or structure or equipment or service facilities or unsafe portion
thereof be demolished, within a period also stipulated in the order, and
requiring the person upon whom the unsafe building order is served to give
notice in writing immediately to the residential building official, or
designee, stating whether he or she intends to comply with the unsafe building
order and, if the order is in the alternative as to repair or demolition, what
action he or she intends to take.
   (F)   Placarding.  Upon failure of the owner or persons responsible to
comply with the unsafe building notice provisions within the time give, the
residential building official, or designee, shall post on the premises or on
defective equipment a placard bearing the word “condemned” and a statement of
the penalties provided for occupying the premises, operating the equipment or
removing the placard. The residential building official, or designee, shall
remove the condemnation placard whenever the defect or defects upon which the
condemnation and placarding action were based have been eliminated. Any person
who defaces or removes a condemnation placard without the approval of the
residential building official, or designee, shall be subject to the penalties
provided by this code.
   (G)   Discontinuance of service. The residential building official, or
designee shall furnish a copy of all unsafe building orders to the public
utilities serving that building or structure which may be affected by the
condition responsible for such order, and shall mark thereon a request that
service being furnished the building or structure by such utility be
discontinued when in his or her opinion the continuance of such service will
constitute a hazard to the public. Upon receipt of such copy of notice and the
request thereof, any person, firm, association and the like supplying such
service shall promptly discontinue its supply at the meter in the designated
portion of the building or structure. It shall be unlawful for such person,
firm, association and the like thereafter to continue such service or to
restore the same until furnished with a copy of a certificate of approval from
the residential building official, or designee, certifying that an inspection
has been made, that the hazardous conditions have been corrected and that the
affected installation has been brought into substantial compliance with the
requirements of this code.
   (H)   No liability upon public utilities or public authorities. No liability
shall be imposed upon any public service company or public authority for
failure to render service, or for disconnecting service to any person or place
where such failure of disconnection is based upon the non-issuance of a permit
and/or certificate of approval by the residential building official, or
designee, or upon an order hereunder by the residential building official, or
designee, to disconnect such service.
   (I)   Disregard of unsafe building order. Upon refusal of the person on whom
an unsafe building order is served to comply therewith, or upon his or her
failure or neglect to reply thereto stating his or her intention with regard
thereto, or upon his or her failure or neglect actually to comply therewith, or
upon his or her use of the unsafe building, structure, equipment or service
facilities in violation of the unsafe building order issued under §
1323.08 the proper legal official shall be advised and shall institute such
action in the court as may be appropriate to compel compliance. Property shall
be subject to penalties as delineated in §
1323.99.
   (J)   Appeals. The owner of any building or structure with regard to which
an unsafe building order has been issued and served under this section shall
have the right to appeal such order to the Board of Building Appeals as defined
in
Chapter 1303 of the Lebanon Codified Ordinances. Such appeal shall be presented
in writing within 15 days after service of such unsafe building order, but
shall not operate to stay any emergency action or the performance of any
emergency work on such building or structure which the residential building
official, or designee, deems immediately necessary as provided under §
1323.09; nor shall such appeal be heard unless it alleges such order to be
unnecessary, improper, or unreasonable, and contains statement of the specific
reasons which the appellant contends support such allegation(s).
(Ord. 9285, passed 3-28-06)
§ 1323.09 EMERGENCY MEASURES.
   (A) Vacating.
      (1)   When, in the opinion of the residential building official, or
designee, there is actual and immediate risk of failure or collapse of a
building or structure or any part thereof or the existence of defective
equipment or service facilities such as to endanger life or health, or when any
structure or part of a structure has fallen or failed and use or occupancy of
the structure, equipment, service facility and/or equipment or part thereof
would, in his or her opinion, endanger life or health, he or she is hereby
authorized and empowered to order and require the occupants and inmates to
vacate the same forthwith, and/or to forthwith cease, desist and refrain from
use or operation of the building, structure, equipment, service facility or
part thereof which is deemed dangerous. If such order is made, he or she shall
cause to be posted a notice reading: "This (Building (and) Equipment) Is Unsafe
and Its Use or Occupancy or Operation Is Prohibited by Law.” and it shall be
unlawful for any person thereafter to enter, use and/or operate such structure,
equipment, service facility or part, except to repair or demolish.
      (2)   The residential building official, or designee, shall also cause
such work to be done as may be necessary to render such structure, equipment,
service facility, or part temporarily safe with regard to passersby and
adjacent properties as well as occupants, pending vacation and repair or
demolition whether or not he or she has previously issued any order of vacation
thereof. In lieu of attempting to make such structure or part temporarily safe
for passersby and adjacent properties, he or she may, when necessary for the
public safety, temporarily close such adjacent properties and any affected
sidewalks, streets and other public ways and areas, and prohibit the use
thereof.
   (B)   Costs of emergency work. Costs incurred by the city in causing
emergency work to be performed under the provisions of this section shall be
paid in accordance with established purchasing procedures; the City Attorney
shall thereupon institute such action as may be appropriate to recover such
costs from the owner of such structure or part, and such owner shall be liable
for all such costs and all costs of their recovery including but not limited to
reasonable attorney’s fees.
(Ord. 9285, passed 3-28-06)
§ 1323.10 DEMOLITION.
   (A)   The residential building official, or designee, shall order the owner
of any premises upon which is located any structure, which in the code
official’s judgment is so old, dilapidated or has become so out of repair as to
be dangerous, unsafe, unsanitary or otherwise unfit for human habitation or
occupancy, and such that it is unreasonable to repair the structure, to
demolish and remove such structure; or if such structure is capable of being
made safe by repairs, to repair and make sale and sanitary or to demolish and
remove at the owner’s option; or where there has been a cessation of normal
construction of any structure for a period of more than two years, to demolish
and remove such structure.
   (B)   Notices and Orders. All notices and orders shall comply with §
1323.03.
   (C)   Failure to comply. If the owner of a premises fails to comply with a
demolition order within the time prescribed, the residential building official,
or designee, shall cause the structure to be demolished and removed, either
through an available public agency or by contract or arrangement with private
persons, and the cost of such demolition and removal shall be charged against
the property upon which the structure is located and shall be a lien upon such
property.
   (D)   Salvage materials. When any structure has been ordered demolished and
removed, the designated official under said contract or arrangement aforesaid
shall have the right to sell the salvage and valuable materials at the highest
price obtainable. The net proceeds of such sale, after deducting the expenses
of such demolition and removal, shall be promptly remitted with a report of
such sale or transaction, including the items of expense and the amounts
deducted, for the person who is entitled hereto, subject to any order of a
court. If there is no such surplus, the report shall so state.
(Ord. 9285, passed 3-28-06)
§ 1323.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this code shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor of the fourth degree and fined not more than $100. Every day such
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Whoever fails, neglects or refuses to obey an order of the residential
building officials, or designee, as provided in §
1323.01 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree and fined
not more than $100.
   (C)   Due to a failure to obey an order of the Residential Code Official, or
designee, which results in the city taking action to bring the property into
compliance by either hiring a contractor or performing the work internally, an
administrative charge of $30 shall be included in the compliance invoice
submitted to the property owner.
(Ord. 1075, passed 2-25-64; Am. Ord. 9285, passed 3-28-06; Am. Ord. 2010-028,
passed 3-23-10)
CHAPTER 1324: DEFINITIONS
Section:
   
1324.01   Additions, insertions and changes.
§ 1324.01 ADDITIONS, INSERTIONS AND CHANGES.
   Chapter 2, Definitions, of the 2009 International Property Maintenance Code
is adopted in its entirety.
(Ord. 9286, passed 3-14-06; Am. Ord. 2010-029, passed 3-23-10)
CHAPTER 1325: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
Section
   
1325.01   Additions, insertions and changes
Cross-reference:
   Board of Appeals, see Charter §§
8.08 and
8.09
   Building duties, see
Ch. 1303
   Zoning duties, see Ch. 1151
§ 1325.01 ADDITIONS, INSERTIONS AND CHANGES.
   (A)   Chapter 3, General Requirements, of the 2003 International Property
Maintenance Code is adopted in its entirety subject to the following additions,
insertions and changes, which shall be incorporated into said Code:
      (1)   Section 302.4 Weeds shall be revised to read:
      Weeds:
         (a)   Removal of weeds by owner or occupant: All premises and exterior
property shall be maintained free from weeds or plant growth in excess of ten
inches. All noxious weeds shall be prohibited. WEEDS shall be defined as all
grasses, annual plants and vegetation, other than trees or shrubs, provided
however, this term shall not include cultivated flowers and gardens.
         (b)   All premises shall be maintained free of any plant species that
encroaches or invades a neighboring property or public right-of-way in a manner
that results in damage to property.
         (c)   Authority of the City Manager: The Code Enforcement Inspector,
or designee, upon notice of the existence of undesirable vegetation in
violation of the requirements defined above, shall send a notice of the
violation to the owner of the land directing that the weeds or other
undesirable vegetation be cut or destroyed. The notice shall be sent via
registered mail and shall state that the undesirable vegetation shall be cut or
destroyed within five days from the issuance of the notice. Failure of service
of the notice shall not prevent the cutting of the undesirable vegetation and
the billing for the cost thereof as hereinafter provided.
         (d)   Failure to comply: In the event that the owner of a parcel of
land fails to comply with the requirements of this code after receipt of the
notice, the Code Enforcement Inspector, or designee, shall cause the
undesirable vegetation to be cut and destroyed and the City Manager may employ
such labor and equipment necessary to perform the tasks, together with any
cleanup work required.
         (e)   Statement of costs to owner: When the city causes undesirable
vegetation to be cut and the land cleaned of debris, a statement of cost
therefor shall be mailed to the owner of such land by certified mail, return
receipt requested. Due to a failure to obey an order of the Code Enforcement
Inspector, or designee, which results in the city taking action to bring the
property into compliance by either hiring a contractor or performing the work
internally, an administrative charge of $30 shall be included in the compliance
invoice submitted to the property owner.
         (f)   Cost payment: The owner of such land may pay such fees as are
charged in accordance with this code to the City Auditor within 30 days after
receipt of the statement of costs without further cost or appropriation from
which the cost was paid. If the fee is not paid when due, the City Auditor
shall certify to the County Auditor the proceedings taken under this section,
together with a statement of the charges for services and a legal description
of the premises. Such amounts shall be entered upon the taxes and returned to
the City General Fund as provided by R.C. § 731.54. An administrative and
processing fee of $50 shall be added to the total amount entered upon the
taxes.
      (2)   Add Section 302.10 Outdoor Furniture Restriction:
         (a)   No person shall place, use, keep, store or maintain any
furniture not manufactured for outdoor use in any yard, alley, unenclosed porch
or in any other outside area. However, it will be an affirmative defense to any
alleged violation of this provision that such furniture was placed in an
outside location designated for the collection of garbage, refuse, or
recyclable materials, in accordance with the city's garbage, refuse, and
recycling service procedures, for the purpose of having such furniture removed,
and said placement at said location is not more than 24 hours before the
designated collection time.
      (3)   Section 302.14 Insect Screens shall be removed from the Code.
      (4)   Section 304.7 Roofs and Drainage shall be revised to read:
         304.7 Roofs and drainage. The roof and flashing shall be sound, tight
and not have defects that admit rain. Roof drainage shall be adequate to
prevent dampness or deterioration in the walls or interior portion of the
structure. Roof drains, gutters, and downspouts shall be maintained in good
repair and free from obstructions. Roof water shall not be discharged in a
manner that creates a public nuisance. Roof and ground water discharge lines
shall discharge at least ten feet off of the property tine whenever possible.
      (5)   Section 307.3.2 Rubbish and Garbage Containers shall be revised to
read
         307.3.2 Containers. The operator of every establishment producing
garbage and/or recycling material shall provide, and at all times cause to be
utilized, approved leak-proof containers provided with close-fitting covers for
the storage of such materials until removed from the premises for disposal All
containers shall be placed in the usual collection location no earlier than 5:
00 p.m. of the day before the regular pick-up. Once containers are serviced,
they shall be removed from the curbside collection location no later than 24
hours after pick- up.
(Ord. 9287, passed 3-14-06; Am. Ord. 2010-030, passed 3-23-10; Am. Ord. 2016-
002, passed 1-26-16)
CHAPTER 1326: LIGHT, VENTILATION AND OCCUPANCY LIMITATIONS
Section:
   
1326.01   Additions, insertions and changes
§ 1326.01 ADDITIONS, INSERTIONS AND CHANGES.
   Chapter 4, Light, Ventilation and Occupancy Limitations, of the 2009
International Property Maintenance Code is adopted in its entirety subject to
the following additions, insertions and changes, which shall be incorporated
into said Code:
      (1)   Section 404.5 Overcrowding shall be revised to read:
         404.5 Overcrowding. Dwelling units shall not be occupied by more
occupants than permitted by the minimum area requirements of table 404.5.
Table 404.5
Minimum Area Requirements
 
Minimum Area In Square Feet
Space            1-2 occupants   3-5 occupants 6 or more occupants
Living Room a, b No requirements 120           150
Dining Room a, b No requirements 80            100
Bedrooms         Shall comply with Section 404.4
a.   See Section 404.5.2 for combined living room /dining spaces
b.   See Section 404.5.1 for limitations on determining the minimum
occupancy area for sleeping purposes.
 
         404.5.1 Sleeping area. The minimum occupancy area required by Table
404.5 shall not be included as a sleeping area in determining the minimum
occupancy area for sleeping purposes. All sleeping areas shall comply with
Section 404.4.
         404.5.2 Combined spaces. Combined living room and dining room spaces
shall comply with the requirements of Table 404.5 if the total area is equal to
that required for separate rooms and if the space is located so as to function
as a combination living/dining room.
(Ord. 9288, passed 3-14-06; Am. Ord. 2010-031, passed 3-23-10)
CHAPTER 1327: PLUMBING, FACILITIES AND FIXTURE REQUIREMENTS
Section
   
1327.01   Additions, insertions and changes
§ 1327.01 ADDITIONS, INSERTIONS AND CHANGES.
   Chapter 5, Plumbing Facilities and Fixture Requirements, of the 2009
International Property Maintenance Code is adopted in its entirety.
(Ord. 9289, passed 3-14-06; Am. Ord. 2010-032, passed 3-23-10)
Cross-reference:
   Littering and deposit of garbage, rubbish, junk, see §
517.02
   Sanitation responsibilities, see §
1337.01
CHAPTER 1328: MECHANICAL AND ELECTRICAL REQUIREMENTS
Section:
   
1328.01   Additions, insertions and changes
§ 1328.01 ADDITIONS, INSERTIONS AND CHANGES.
   (A)   Chapter 6, Mechanical and Electrical Requirements, of the 2009
International Property Maintenance Code is adopted in its entirety subject to
the following additions, insertions and changes, which shall be incorporated
into said Code:
      (1)   602.2 Residential occupancies:
         Residential occupancies: Dwellings shall be provided with heating
facilities capable of maintaining a room temperature of not less than 68°F in
all habitable rooms, bathrooms and toilet rooms when the outdoor temperature is
minus 50° F. Cooking appliances shall not be used to provide space heating to
meet the requirements of this section. Portable heating equipment employing a
flame and heating equipment using gasoline or kerosene do not meet the
standards of this code and are prohibited.
      (2)   Section 602.3 Heat Supply:
         Heat supply: Every owner and operator of any building who rents,
leases or lets one or more dwelling unit, rooming unit, dormitory or guestroom
on terms, either expressed or implied, to furnish heat to the occupants thereof
shall supply heat to maintain a temperature of not less than 68°F in all
habitable rooms, bathrooms, and toilet rooms when the outdoor temperature is
minus 50°F. Portable heating equipment employing a flame and heating equipment
using gasoline or kerosene do not meet the standards of this code and are
prohibited. Exceptions as noted in the 2009 International Property Maintenance
Code.
      (3)   Section 602.4 Occupiable work spaces:
         Occupiable work spaces: Indoor occupiable work spaces shall be
supplied with heat during the period front September through May to maintain a
temperature of not less than 65°F during the period the spaces are occupied.
Exceptions as noted in the 2009 International Property Maintenance Code.
      (4)   Section 604.2 Service:
         Service: The size and usage of appliances and equipment shall serve as
a basis for determining the need for additional facilities in accordance with
the most recent update of the National Electric Code.
(Ord. 9290, passed 3-14-06; Am. Ord. 2010-033, passed 3-23-10)
CHAPTER 1329:  FIRE SAFETY REQUIREMENTS
Section
   
1329.01     Additions, insertions and changes
§ 1329.01 ADDITIONS, INSERTIONS AND CHANGES.
   Chapter 7, Fire Safety Requirements, of the 2009 International Property
Maintenance Code is adopted in its entirety subject to the following additions,
insertions and changes, which shall be incorporated into said code:
   (1)   All references in Chapter 7 to the International Fire Code shall be
revised to read “Most current version of the Ohio Fire Code”.
(Ord. 9291, passed 3-14-06; Am. Ord. 9314, passed 4-4-06; Am. Ord. 2010-034,
passed 3-23-10)
CHAPTER 1337: RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS, OPERATORS, OCCUPANTS
Section
   
1337.01     Sanitation
   
1337.02     Disposal of waste matter [Repealed]
   
1337.03     Extermination
   
1337.04     Heat
   
1337.05     Discontinuance of utilities and the like prohibited; exception
   
1337.06     Janitorial service
   
1337.07     Transfer of responsibility
   
1337.08     Notice of maximum occupancy
Cross-reference:
   Garbage and rubbish collection, see
Ch. 917
§ 1337.01 SANITATION.
   (A)   Every occupant of a dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit shall
maintain in a clean and sanitary condition that part of the dwelling, dwelling
unit and yard which he or she occupies and controls, and shall be responsible
for his or her own misuse of areas and facilities available in common.
   (B)   Every owner or operator of a two-family dwelling, multi-family
dwelling or rooming house shall maintain in a clean and sanitary condition the
shared or public areas of the dwelling and yard.
   (C)   Every occupant of a dwelling unit shall keep all supplied facilities,
including plumbing fixtures and cooking equipment, in a clean and sanitary
condition and shall be responsible for the exercise of reasonable care in their
proper use and operation.
(Ord. 1075, passed 2-25-64)
§ 1337.02 DISPOSAL OF WASTE MATTER.  [REPEALED]
Editor's note:
   Section
1337.02 was repealed by Ordinance No. 2010-035, passed March 23, 2010.
§ 1337.03 EXTERMINATION.
   (A)   Every occupant of a dwelling unit shall be responsible for the
extermination of any insects, rodents or other pests in such dwelling unit or
in the yard thereof. In a two-family dwelling or multi-family dwelling, the
occupant shall be responsible for such extermination whenever his or her
dwelling unit is the only one infested. When, however, infestation is caused by
failure of the owner or operator to maintain a dwelling in a rodent proof or
substantially insect proof condition, extermination shall be the responsibility
of the owner or operator.
   (B)   Every owner or operator shall be responsible for extermination of any
insects, rodents or other pests whenever infestation exists in two or more of
the dwelling units in any dwelling or in the shared or public areas of any two-
family dwelling or any multi-family dwelling.
   (C)   Every owner or operator of a rooming house shall be responsible for
the extermination of any insects, rodents or other pests in such rooming house
or in the yard thereof.
(Ord. 1075, passed 2-25-64)
§ 1337.04 HEAT.
   During the time of the year when it is necessary as determined by the
Building Inspector, every owner or operator of every two-family dwelling,
multi-family dwelling and rooming house shall supply adequate heat to every
habitable room therein, except where there are separate heating facilities for
each dwelling unit and which facilities are under the sole control of the
occupant of such dwelling unit.
§ 1337.05 DISCONTINUANCE OF UTILITIES AND THE LIKE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   No owner, operator or occupant shall cause any service equipment or utility
which is required by this Property Maintenance Code to be removed, shut off or
discontinued for any occupied dwelling let or occupied by him or her, except
for such temporary interruption as may be necessary while actual repairs or
alterations are in process, or during temporary emergencies.
(Ord. 1075, passed 2-25-64)
§ 1337.06 JANITORIAL SERVICE.
   Every dwelling of five or more dwelling units in which the owner or operator
does not reside shall have janitorial service.
(Ord. 1075, passed 2-25-64)
§ 1337.07 TRANSFER OF RESPONSIBILITY.
   A contract effective, as between owner and operator, operator and occupant
or owner and occupant with regard to compliance hereunder shall not relieve any
party of his or her direct responsibility under this Property Maintenance Code.
(Ord. 1075, passed 2-25-64)
§ 1337.08 NOTICE OF MAXIMUM OCCUPANCY.
   Every owner or operator shall advise the occupant in writing, either by
insertion in the lease between the parties or otherwise, of the maximum number
of occupants permitted in the occupied premises under this Property Maintenance
Code.
(Ord. 1075, passed 2-25-64)
CHAPTER 1339: URBAN RENEWAL / REDEVELOPMENT
Section
   
1339.01     Finding of blight and definitions
   
1339.02     Department of Development and Redevelopment
   
1339.03     Contents of Urban Renewal or Urban Redevelopment Plans and the
Relocation Plan
   
1339.04     Public hearing and Council action
   
1339.05     Implementation of Urban Renewal or Redevelopment Projects
   
1339.06     Building permits restricted in project areas
§ 1339.01 FINDING OF BLIGHT AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Findings of blight. It is determined that:
      (1)   There exists within the city certain areas of the type defined
below (“Blighted Areas”) which constitute a serious and growing menace
presently and/or potentially injurious to the public health, safety, morals,
and welfare of the residents of the city.
      (2)   The existence of such areas:
         (a)   Contributes substantially and increasingly to the spread of
disease and crime, and to losses by fire and accident necessitating excessive
and disproportionate expenditures of public funds for the preservation of the
public health and safety, for crime prevention, correction, prosecution, and
punishment, for the treatment of juvenile delinquency, for the maintenance of
adequate police, fire and accident protection, or for other public services and
facilities;
         (b)   Constitutes an economic and social liability; and
         (c)   Substantially impairs and arrests the sound growth of the
community; retards opportunities for suitable housing accommodations,
aggravates traffic problems, and substantially impairs and/or impedes the
elimination of traffic hazards and the improvement of traffic facilities.
      (3)   This menace is beyond remedy and control by regulatory processes
and exercise of the police power alone and cannot be dealt with effectively by
the ordinary operation of private enterprise without the aids herein provided.
      (4)   The elimination in whole or in part of blighted areas and the
prevention of occurrence or reoccurrence of such areas by redevelopment and by
the conservation, rehabilitation and reconditioning, to the extent feasible, of
the salvageable portions of such areas and by other activities pursuant to
Urban Renewal and/or Urban Redevelopment as defined herein are public uses and
purposes for which public monies may be expended and private property acquired
by purchase, donation and appropriation and are governmental functions of
concern to the city and require the exercise of the powers of government
granted to the city by the provisions of Ohio Constitution, Article XVIII.
      (5)   The necessity in the public interest and welfare for the provisions
of this chapter is hereby declared as a matter of legislative determination.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   BLIGHTED AREA. Means an area requiring urban renewal or redevelopment within
the city declared by ordinance as containing any of the following which either
individually or in combination substantially impairs or impedes the sound
growth, retards opportunities for suitable housing accommodations, constitutes
an economic or social liability, and is a menace to the public health, safety,
morals or welfare of the area or the City in its present condition and use:
      (1)   Deteriorated or deteriorating structures, whether occupied, vacant
or abandoned;
      (2)   Buildings or other structures that have been destroyed or partially
destroyed or damaged and have not been repaired and/or restored to comply with
the city’s building and other applicable codes;
      (3)   Land that is extensively littered with demolition or other debris,
scrap, refuse or solid waste;
      (4)   Defective, inadequate or inefficient street layout, or inadequate,
nonexistent or defective access to improved streets;
      (5)   Inadequate or nonexistent public utility facilities for water or
sewage within the area, or failure of residential units to connect to water or
sewer facilities reasonably available within the area;
      (6)   Unsanitary or unsafe conditions;
      (7)   Faulty lot or parcel layout in relation to size, adequacy,
accessibility or usefulness;
      (8)   Diversity of existing land uses or uses of land in a manner that is
detrimental to the orderly development and use of land in the area and
surrounding areas;
      (9)   The existence of public and/or private uses of land within or near
the area for sanitary landfills (whether actively used or inactive), dumps,
railroad tracks, lines, bridges, tunnels or facilities, limited access
highways, airports or landing fields, junk or salvage yards, or sewage
treatment facilities or land, the contours of which have been both unnaturally
and detrimentally affected;
      (10)   Inadequate storm water drainage, conditions conducive to flooding
or unhealthful retention of storm water and/or sewage;
      (11)   Tax or special assessment delinquency exceeding the fair market
value of the land;
      (12)   Defective or unusual conditions in respect of real property lines;
      (13)   The existence of conditions which endanger life or property by
fire or other causes;
      (14)   The existence of conditions which are conducive to ill health or
the transmission of disease, including, but not limited to, conditions which
foster and promote the habitation of rodents, vermin, mosquitos and other
harmful insects;
      (15)   Inadequate provisions for ventilation, light, air, sanitation or
open spaces;
      (16)   The location of land near sources of noise of sufficient intensity
to render as undesirable its use for residential purposes, including, but not
limited to, such sources as airports, limited access highways and industrial or
manufacturing plants.
   CITY. Means the City of Lebanon, Ohio.
   DIRECTOR. Means the Planning Director of the city.
   REDEVELOPER. Means any person or entity purchasing or leasing property from
the city within a blighted area, or one owning property located within such
area and entering into a conforming agreement with the city in consideration of
being permitted by the city to retain title to such property.
   REHABILITATION, CONSERVATION or RECONDITIONING. Includes those undertakings
and activities identified in divisions (2) to (7) of the definition of URBAN
RENEWAL PROJECT in this section.
   SOLID WASTE. Means such unwanted residual solid or semisolid material as
results from industrial, commercial, agricultural, and community operations,
including earth or material from construction, mining, or demolition operations
and slag and other substances, including, but not limited to, garbage,
combustible and noncombustible material, street dirt, and debris.
   URBAN RENEWAL and/or URBAN REDEVELOPMENT. Means city activities for
developing, undertaking, and carrying out of Urban Renewal and/or Urban
Redevelopment Programs and Projects, including all planning and other related
activities of the city in connection therewith, or any part of such activities.
   URBAN RENEWAL PLAN or URBAN REDEVELOPMENT PLAN. Means a plan as it exists
from time to time for the urban renewal or redevelopment of a blighted area or
part thereof.
   URBAN RENEWAL PROJECT, URBAN REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT or PROJECT. Means
undertakings and activities of the city, in accordance with Urban Renewal or
Urban Redevelopment Plans in any blighted area for the elimination of and the
prevention of the development or spread of blight and may involve clearance and
redevelopment in a blighted area, or rehabilitation and conservation in a
blighted area, or any combination or part thereof. Such undertakings and
activities in a blighted area may include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Acquisition of real property, or interests and rights therein,
(including the acquisition of air rights) by purchase or condemnation.
      (2)   Demolition and removal of buildings, structures and improvements.
      (3)   Installation, construction, or reconstruction of streets,
utilities, parks, playgrounds, and other improvements necessary for carrying
out any Urban Renewal or Urban Redevelopment Plan.
      (4)   Disposition of property by sale, lease or otherwise, for uses in
accordance with any Urban Renewal or Urban Redevelopment Plan.
      (5)   Encouraging and assisting interested citizens in a private or
governmental program of voluntary repair and rehabilitation of buildings or
other improvements in accordance with any Urban Renewal and/or Urban
Development Plan.
      (6)   The preparation of land for development and/or redevelopment,
including, but not limited to, clearance, grading, pilings and foundations.
      (7)   Relocating within a blighted area a structure which the city
determines to be of historic value and which will be disposed of to a public
entity or a private nonprofit organization which will renovate and maintain
such structure for historic purposes.
(Ord. 6986, passed 10-25-94)
§ 1339.02 DEPARTMENT OF DEVELOPMENT AND REDEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby created and established a Department of Development
and Redevelopment (the Department), to be headed by the Director of Planning
(the Director).
   (B)   The Department and the Director shall have the following powers,
duties and functions:
      (1)   Maintain a continuing evaluation of the sources available for
retention, development, redevelopment, or expansion of residential dwelling
units and industrial and commercial facilities in the city through both public
and private agencies.
      (2)   Consult with public and/or private agencies or authorities in the
preparation of studies of human and economic needs or advantages relating to
economic and community development and/or redevelopment.
      (3)   Assist the Planning Commission in the preparation and maintenance
of comprehensive plans and recommendations for the promotion of more desirable
economic patterns of growth with the city.
      (4)   Disseminate information concerning residential, industrial,
commercial, governmental, educational, cultural, recreational, and other
advantages and attractions of the city.
      (5)   Provide technical assistance to public and private agencies in the
preparation of promotional programs designed to attract business and industry
to the city.
      (6)   Implement (pursuant to §
1339.05) such Urban Renewal and Urban Redevelopment Plans and Projects as
authorized and approved by ordinance by Council.
      (7)   Prepare plans and studies concerning all matters affecting
development of the city, including, but not limited to, Urban Renewal and Urban
Redevelopment Plans pursuant to §
1339.03.
      (8)   Promote and coordinate economic development and redevelopment
within the city.
      (9)   Such other powers, duties and functions as provided in this chapter
or by ordinance or resolution adopted by Council.
   (C)   In addition to the duties of administering the Department, the
Director shall be an ex-officio representative of the city with any corporation
or association organized for promotion and development of economic growth
within the city, including, but not limited to, the Lebanon Chamber of
Commerce, community improvement corporations, community urban redevelopment
corporations, and trade associations.
   (D)   The Director shall report to Council at least quarterly on the status
of economic growth and Urban Renewal and Redevelopment Projects within the
city.
(Ord. 6986, passed 10-25-94)
§ 1339.03 CONTENTS OF URBAN RENEWAL OR URBAN REDEVELOPMENT PLANS AND THE
RELOCATION PLAN.
   (A)   In any Urban Renewal or Redevelopment Plan initiated and prepared
following the effective date of this section, the Director shall include, but
not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   A description of the boundaries of the project area;
      (2)   A land-use plan showing the location, character, and extent of
public and private land ownership, utilities, use, and occupancy existing and
proposed within the project area;
      (3)   A delineation of areas of land acquisition, demolition, and removal
of structures, or of rehabilitation, conservation, or reconditioning of
existing structures, if any, as may be proposed to be carried out in the
project area;
      (4)   A statement indicating the controls and the use, development, and
building restrictions to be placed on the property in the project area to
prevent a recurrence of blighted conditions;
      (5)   A report showing proposed change, if any, in the building, housing,
or zoning ordinances or maps, and in the layout of streets or utilities;
      (6)   A statement from the City Auditor setting forth the capability of
the city to finance any portion of the project costs to be contributed by the
city;
      (7)   A statement showing the relationship of the plan to the objectives
of the city regarding appropriate land uses, improved traffic conditions and
transportation, public utilities, recreation, and community facilities and
other public improvements;
      (8)   A proposed chronology of events including a narrative of any
anticipated scheduling difficulties;
      (9)   A summary of any previous studies and plans concerning matters
directly affecting the project area; and
      (10)   A relocation plan which shall:
         (a)   Set forth a method for the relocation of persons to be displaced
by the Urban Renewal or Urban Redevelopment Project; and
         (b)   Indicate whether there are or are being provided in blighted
areas, or in other areas not generally less desirable in regard to public
utilities and public and commercial facilities, and at rents or prices within
the financial means of the individuals and families to be displaced from the
Urban Renewal or Redevelopment Project area decent, safe and sanitary dwellings
equal in number to the number of such displaced persons and available to them
and reasonably accessible to their places of employment.
   (B)   The Director may submit such plan to Council.
(Ord. 6986, passed 10-25-94)
§ 1339.04 PUBLIC HEARING AND COUNCIL ACTION.
   (A)   After the effective date of this section, Council, before approving
any Urban Renewal Plan or Urban Redevelopment Plan, or amendments to existing
plans, shall refer all such plans to the Planning Commission for review and
report to Council. Council shall then hold a public hearing on the plan. Notice
of the date, time and place of such hearing shall be published once in a
newspaper of general circulation in the city and at least five full days shall
elapse between the publication and the date of the public hearing. The notice
shall also contain a description of the project area by its location in
relation to highways, streets, watercourses, or other natural or artificial
boundaries, and shall also designate the place at which the plan, maps, plats,
and other materials describing the project area are and will be available for
public inspection. The failure to give such notice or a defect in the notice
given under this section shall not invalidate any Urban Renewal or
Redevelopment Plan adopted by Council. The public hearing may be held at a
regular or special meeting of Council.
   (B)   Following completion of a public hearing held pursuant to division (A)
of this section, Council by ordinance may either approve or reject the Urban
Renewal or Redevelopment Plan, or make modifications and approve the plan as
modified.
   (C)   The ordinance adopted by the Council approving any Urban Renewal or
Redevelopment Plan shall include the following findings:
      (1)   Findings of the fact as to the conditions in the blighted area.
      (2)   That the size and character of the blighted area and the location
of elements of blight in the area make it appropriate for urban renewal and/or
redevelopment activities.
      (3)   That the proposals for the proper relocation of persons displaced
in carrying out the project in decent, safe and sanitary dwellings in
conformity with acceptable standards are feasible and can be reasonably and
timely effected to permit the proper prosecution and completion of the project;
and that the dwellings or dwelling units available or to be made available to
such displaced persons are not generally less desirable in regard to public
utilities and public and commercial facilities than the dwellings of the
displaced persons in the project area, are available at rents or prices within
the financial means of the displaced persons, and are reasonably accessible to
their places of employment.
      (4)   That the plan for the blighted area will afford maximum opportunity
consistent with the sound needs of the community as a whole for the
rehabilitation or redevelopment of the blighted area.
      (5)   That the plan conforms to the existing comprehensive plan for the
overall development of the city.
(Ord. 6986, passed 10-25-94)
§ 1339.05 IMPLEMENTATION OF URBAN RENEWAL OR REDEVELOPMENT PROJECTS.
   (A)   When authorized by Council and monies have been appropriated, the
Director shall cause the city to acquire by negotiation the land in the
blighted area in accordance with the Urban Renewal or Redevelopment Plan. In
the event that appropriation of property is necessary, Council shall initiate
and carry out the proceedings in accordance with the Charter and applicable
provisions of R.C. Chapter 163, and the City Attorney shall be responsible for
implementing the appropriation of the property. Further, the Director shall
then initiate such city activities as may be necessary to carry out the Urban
Renewal or Redevelopment Project, including, but not limited to, the
demolition, rehabilitation, or repair of structures (whether voluntarily by the
private owners thereof or by the city); the removal of pavement, sidewalks,
lighting, debris, scrap, solid wastes, capping, removal, and relocation of city
owned utility lines; grading, construction of site improvements and supporting
facilities, temporary lease, rental, or permission to let others use structures
or parcels of land while owned by the city; relocation activities and the
enforcement of any applicable provisions of law or conforming agreements
relative to building, zoning, platting; and the repair or rehabilitation of
land and structures remaining in private ownership. This section shall not be
construed to modify the authority of the City Manager and Auditor concerning
purchases, contracts, expenditures, credits and the like.
   (B)   After determination that real property is not needed for any municipal
purpose, other than the continuing municipal purpose of preventing the
recurrence of blight, Council may authorize by ordinance the transfer, lease,
or conveyance of any real property in accordance with and for the purposes of
the plan, subject to such lawful terms, conditions, restrictions, and covenants
(including covenants running with the land) to assist in carrying out the
purposes of the plan. The manner of disposition shall be prescribed by
ordinance, and may be by negotiation, with or without any competitive bidding.
If disposition is by way of competitive bidding for the sale, lease or other
disposition of property, the competition and award may be on factors other than
price alone. The City Manager shall execute, on behalf of the city, such
instruments as may be necessary to transfer, lease or convey such real property
in such form as approved by the City Attorney and authorized by Council, which
form shall include all covenants, if any, running with the land, including any
portions of the plan incorporated by reference.
   (C)   If the owner of any property in the project area is willing to make
the use of such property conform to the Urban Renewal or Redevelopment Plan and
the Council finds and determines that the acquisition of the property by the
city will not be necessary if so conformed, the City Manager, upon Council
authorization, may enter into a conforming agreement upon such terms and
security as may be authorized by Council. Such agreement may provide for the
acquisition of property upon failure of the property owner to keep the
agreement after notice from the city specifying such failure.
   (D)   In the execution of Urban Renewal or Redevelopment Projects, the
Council may authorize, as to any appropriate projects or parts of projects, the
employment of community improvement corporations, community redevelopment
corporations, limited dividend housing corporations, and metropolitan housing
authorities, as defined by the Ohio Revised Code, and may authorize leases,
conveyances and agreements with such corporations related to appropriate
aspects of such projects to the full extent of the powers possessed by such
corporations.
(Ord. 6986, passed 10-25-94)
§ 1339.06 BUILDING PERMITS RESTRICTED IN PROJECT AREAS.
   After approval of an Urban Renewal or Redevelopment Plan by Council, no
building permit shall be issued for the improvement or enlargement of any
existing structure, or for the construction of any new structure, in the
clearance and redevelopment portion of the project area, except that such
permit may be issued for the repair of an existing structure when such repair
is deemed necessary for the immediate preservation of the public health or
safety or is required by the redeveloper in accordance with the redevelopment
plan.
(Ord. 6986, passed 10-25-94)
PART FIFTEEN - FIRE PREVENTION CODE
   
Chapter 1501 -   Adoption of National Code
CHAPTER 1501: ADOPTION OF NATIONAL CODE
Section
   
1501.01     Adoption of fire code; file copies
   
1501.02     Modifications to BOCA National Fire Code
   
1501.03     Permits required
 
   
1501.99     Penalty for violation
Statutory reference:
   Investigation of fires, see R.C. §§ 737.08 and 737.27
   Power to regulate against fires, see R.C. §§ 737.21 and 737.37
Cross-reference:
   Adoption of codes by reference, see Charter §
3.06
   Driving over fire hose, see § 331.33
   False fire alarm, see §
508.10
   Fire hazards during construction, see §
1307.15
   Parking near fire station, see § 351.03(J)
   Powers and duties of Division of Fire, see §
121.03
   Resisting or abusing firefighters, see §
508.11
   Signs hindering firefighters, see §
1313.11(A)
   Smoke detectors, see §
1306.13
   Transportation and parking of hazardous materials, see §§ 339.04(C), 339.06,
351.18
   Volunteer Firefighters Dependent Fund, see §
121.05
§ 1501.01 ADOPTION OF FIRE CODE; FILE COPIES.
   (A)   Under the provisions of §
3.06 of the City Charter, there is adopted by the city, for the purpose of
prescribing minimum standards for the safety and welfare of the citizens of
Lebanon, the 1987 edition of the BOCA National Fire Code including any
subsequent amendments to the code which may be published.
   (B)   Copies of the code shall be kept on file by the city and shall be made
available for distribution to the public at cost.
   (C)   From the effective date of this chapter the 1987 BOCA National Fire
Code and subsequent editions of the BOCA National Fire Code shall be the fire
code for the city until amended by ordinance.
(Ord. 1598, passed 6-21-71; Am. Ord. 5052, passed 2-13-79; Am. Ord. 6312,
passed 1-24-89)
§ 1501.02 MODIFICATIONS TO THE BOCA NATIONAL FIRE CODE.
   (A)   Delete BOCA National Fire Code section F-100.1 and replace with the
following section F-100.1:
      F-100.1 The regulations as set forth herein shall be known as the Lebanon
Fire Code and herein referred to as such or as “this Code.”
   (B)   Add section F-101.2.1:
      F-101.2.1 CONTRADICTORY PROVISIONS. When any provision of this Code is
found to be in conflict with any other provision of this Code, the provision
which establishes the higher standard for the promotion and protection of the
safety and welfare of the public shall prevail.
   (C)   Add section F-102.3.1:
      F-102.3.1 AUTHORITY AT FIRES AND EMERGENCIES. The Fire Chief or his or
her authorized representative shall be in charge at the scene of a fire or
other emergency involving the protection of life and/or property, and shall
remain in charge until authority is relinquished.
   (D)   Add section F-102.7.1:
      F-102.7.1 MODIFICATION. The Code Official may modify the application of
any provision of this Code upon application in writing by the owner or lessee
or his or her authorized agent, when there are practical difficulties that
prevent the strict application of this Code and require an alternate procedure,
provided that the spirit of the Code shall be observed, public safety secured,
and substantial justice done. The particulars of such modification when granted
or allowed and the decision of the Code Official shall be entered upon the
records of the Code Official and a signed copy shall be furnished to the
applicant.
   (E)   Delete section F-104.2.1 and replace with following section F-104.2.1:
      F-104.2.1 QUALIFICATIONS OF MEMBERS. Each member of the Fire Code Board
of Appeals shall be a licensed professional engineer or architect or a builder
or superintendent of building construction or a fire safety inspector certified
by the State of Ohio. Each member shall have at least ten years experience in
their respective fields as such with the exception of the fire safety
inspectors who shall have at least three years of experience. At least one of
the professional engineers on the board shall be a practicing structural or
civil engineer.
   (F)   Add section F-105.3.3:
      F-105.3.3 PROCEDURE IN EVENT OF FIRE. In the event of an unfriendly fire,
as defined by Ohio law, in any building or premise, the responsible person, as
defined by state law, shall notify the Fire Division concerning the fire, and
shall spread an alarm, immediately, to all occupants of the building or
premises.
   (G)   Add section 105.3.4:
      F-105.3.4 FIRE DAMAGED STRUCTURES. Any building, grounds or structure
that has been damaged by fire shall be secured from tampering or trespass and
maintained in a nuisance free condition by the owner or his or her agent, in a
manner acceptable to the Code Official. All structures damaged by fire or
explosion shall have repairs under way or the structure shall be demolished or
torn down, with all fire debris removed within 90 days after being damaged by
fire or explosion. Exception: Structures involved in suspicious or arson fires
and deemed as evidence by the Code Official.
   (H)   Delete section F-105.4 and replace with following section F-105.4:
      F-105.4 NOTICE OF VIOLATION. Whenever the Code Official observes an
actual or apparent violation of this Code or any other code, ordinance, law or
regulation under his or her jurisdiction, he or she shall seek corrective
action by:
         (A)   Preparing a written notice of violation which shall describe the
violation and establish time limits for correction. The written notice shall be
served personally upon the owner, his or her authorized agent or person in
custody of the premises or by regular mail to the last known address of the
owner. As an alternative to the foregoing procedure a copy of the notice may be
posted at any entrance to the property.
         (B)   Preparing and filing a complaint with a court of competent
jurisdiction in the event the aforementioned notice of violation is not obeyed.
   (I)   Delete section F-105.5.1 and replace with § 1501.99 of this Code.
   (J)   Add section F-105.6:
      F-105.6 STOP WORK ORDER. Upon written notice from the Code Official that
work on any building or structure is being performed contrary to law or in an
unsafe or dangerous manner, such work shall be immediately stopped. A stop work
order shall be given to the owner of the property involved, or the owners
agent, or the person doing the work, and the order shall state the conditions
under which work may be resumed.
   (K)   Add section F-105.6.1:
      F-105.6.1 UNLAWFUL CONTINUANCE. No person may continue work in or about a
structure after having been served a stop work order, except such work as may
be directed to be performed to remove the violation or unsafe condition.
   (L)   Add section F-105.7:
      F-105.7 POSTING OF ORDERS. The Code Official may require that any order
or notice issued under this Code be posted by the responsible person, owner, or
agent of the premises at or near the main entrance or lobby to such premises
where the violation or violations are located.
   (M)   Add section F-105.7.1:
      F-105.7.1 UNLAWFUL REMOVAL. The owner, agent, occupant or other
responsible person responsible for the premises under violation shall be
responsible for maintaining the order or notice in the posted location until
the entire order or notice has been cleared by the Code Official. Removal of a
posted order or notice until cleared by the Code Official is prohibited.
   (N)   Add section F-106.1:
      F-106.1 DRIVING OVER UNPROTECTED FIRE HOSE. No vehicle shall, without the
consent of the fire official in command, be driven over any unprotected fire
hose.
   (O)   Add section F-106.2:
      F-106.2 FIRE DRILLS-GENERAL. Fire drills shall be held in buildings and
all parts thereof, when of educational or institutional use, and such other
occupancies equipped with a signaling system complying with the provisions of
NFiPA 72A listed in Appendix A of this Code, and required to have been
installed by this Code.
   (P)   Add section F-106.2.1:
      F-106.2.1 FREQUENCY. At least once a month in educational occupancies and
at least once every three months on each work shift in institutional
occupancies, and at least once every three months in such other occupancies
equipped with a signaling system complying with the provisions of NFiPA 72A
listed in Appendix A of this Code.
   (Q)   Add section 106.2.2:
      F-106.2.2 RECORDS. A record of all fire drills shall be kept on the
premises and persons in charge of such occupancies shall make such record
available to the Code Official which should detail time of drill, date of
drill, weather conditions at the time of the drill, approximate number of
persons drilled, and any other relevant information.
   (R)   Add section 313.4:
      F-313.4 ENFORCEMENT. The members of the Lebanon Division of Police and
members of the Lebanon Division of Fire may enforce the parking restrictions
concerning fire lanes anytime they observe a violation. Members of the Fire
Division with this enforcement power is limited to Certified Fire Safety
Inspectors.
   (S)   Add section 502.1.1:
      F-502.1.1 FIRE PROTECTION AND FIREFIGHTING EQUIPMENT. No person shall
sell, offer for sale, or use any fire protection or firefighting equipment
which does not meet the minimum standards for such equipment as specified in
the building code, law, or this Code. Except for public and private mobile fire
trucks, no person shall engage in the business of servicing, testing,
repairing, or installing fire protection equipment for profit, without first
being certified as required by law.
   (T)   Delete entire article 27 and replace with current state law concerning
fireworks.
   (U)   Add section 2804.1.2:
      F-2804.1.2 UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANKS ANCHORING. All underground storage
tanks for flammable or combustible liquids must be anchored to an eight-inch
concrete base slab, which shall extend twelve inches beyond the outline of
tank. All anchoring must be in accordance with the manufacturer’s requirements
unless amended by this Code.
   (V)   Delete section 2908.1.1 and replace with following sections F-
2908.1.1, F-2908.1.2, and F-2908.1.3 which are the same as city ordinances
339.04(C), 339.06 and 351.14
      F-2908.1.1 (339.04(C)) DUTY TO USE STATE OR TRUCK ROUTES. The operator of
a vehicle carrying explosives or hazardous materials as defined by the Public
Utilities Commission of Ohio or the United States Department of Transportation
regulations shall remain on the streets and highways designated as truck
routes, except for deliveries. The operator of a vehicle carrying explosives or
hazardous materials may deliver or pickup property at those places located off
truck routes provided such vehicles are operated to affect the least amount of
travel possible on such streets.
      F-2908.1.2 (339.06) VEHICLES TRANSPORTING EXPLOSIVE MATERIALS OR
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any person operating any vehicle transporting explosives
or hazardous materials shall at all time comply with the following:
         (A)   Each vehicle shall be marked or placarded in accordance with
regulations or rules established by the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio or
the United States Department of Transportation, which ever requires the higher
standard of care.
         (B)   Each vehicle shall be provided with at least one portable fire
extinguisher having a rating of not less than 2A-20BC.
      F-2908.1.3 (351.14) PARKING OF VEHICLES CONTAINING EXPLOSIVES OR
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Vehicles containing explosives or hazardous materials
shall not be parked in the city except during delivery of their load. During
any delivery the vehicle must be attended at all times.
   (W)   Add Standard 3.08 Kerosene Heaters:
      STANDARD #3.08 (1988) KEROSENE HEATERS
      3.08.1 SCOPE. The provisions of this standard shall apply to all unvented
kerosene heaters exempted from division A of § 3701.82 of the Ohio Revised Code
when used in assembly, business, high hazard, institutional, mercantile, or R-
1 and R-2 residential buildings, as defined by building code listed in Appendix
A of the Fire Code.
      3.08.2 GENERAL. The use of unvented kerosene heaters in the
aforementioned buildings and the storage of fuel for such heaters, shall comply
with the requirements of this standard.
      3.08.2.1 PROHIBITED USE. Unvented kerosene heaters shall not be operated
in any structure utilized for assembly, high hazard, educational,
institutional, day care centers or facilities used for servicing or repair of
motor vehicles, transient residential dwelling units.
      3.08.3 MEANS OF EGRESS. No unvented kerosene heater shall be located in
any building means of egress, as defined by the building code listed in
appendix A of the Fire Code.
      3.08.4 ELEVATION. An unvented kerosene heater shall not be elevated by
being placed upon any stand or otherwise placed or suspended above the floor.
      3.08.5 COMBUSTIBLE CLEARANCE. An unvented kerosene heater shall not be
placed within three feet of any furniture, drapery, curtain, decorative
material, accessory, appliance, equipment, merchandise, goods, fixture, or
other such device which is, or may be, combustible.
      3.08.6 ATTENDED. An unvented kerosene heater shall not be left unattended
while it is operating.
      3.08.7 MAT OR BASE. Every unvented kerosene heater shall be set and
centered upon a non-combustible mat or shallow base, three feet of mat or base
to extend outward, in all directions, from any part of the unvented kerosene
heater.
      3.08.8 FUELING. Every unvented kerosene heater shall be fueled, or re-
fueled, strictly in accordance with the instructions of its manufacturer.
      3.08.8.1 REFUELING. An unvented kerosene heater shall not be fueled or
re-fueled, while it is in operation or within ten minutes of flame
extinguishment, or contrary to the operating instructions of its manufacturer.
      3.08.8.2 LOCATIONS. An unvented kerosene heater, or its fuel reservoir,
shall not be fueled, or re-fueled, inside a building. All such fueling
operations shall be performed outdoors.
      3.08.9 FUEL. The fuel used in every unvented kerosene heater shall only
be number 1-K grade kerosene, as designated in section 1301:7-5-15 of the Ohio
Administrative Code. The mixing of number 1-K grade kerosene with any other
fuel or additives prohibited.
      3.08.10 FUEL STORAGE. All storage of kerosene shall be in approved
containers or tanks as required by the Fire Code. The fuel used in every
unvented kerosene heater shall be stored away from occupied areas.
      3.08.11 FUEL LABELING. Kerosene shall be stored in an approved container
(s) which shall be marked or labeled in a conspicuous manner to read “1-
K KEROSENE.” The use of red containers for 1-K kerosene is prohibited.
      3.08.12 FIRE PROTECTION. At least one portable fire extinguisher with a
minimum Underwriters Laboratory Inc., classification rating of 2-A:20-BC shall
be provided and available for use no closer than five nor greater than 25 feet
from every operating unvented kerosene heater.
      3.08.13 DISPLAY REQUIREMENTS. A permit shall be obtained from the Code
Official prior to any display or attempt to promote the sale of an unvented
kerosene heater where such heater is displayed or promoted while operating.
      3.08.13.1 GUARDING. All displayed operating unvented kerosene heaters
shall be protected from accidental contact by a substantial shield or guard.
      3.08.13.2 HEATER OPERATION. An unvented kerosene heater shall not be
placed within 50 feet of any area that may contain flammable vapors, or storage
of such material that may emit flammable vapors, while such heater is
operating.
      3.08.14 APPROVAL. No person, firm, group, organization, or business shall
sell, or offer for sale, any unvented kerosene heater exempt from section
3701.82 of the Ohio Revised Code, unless the unit bears the label of a
nationally recognized testing laboratory.
   (X)   Add Standard 3.13:
   STANDARD #3.13 (1988) - FIRE DIVISION ACCESS
      3.13.1 SCOPE. This standard shall apply to all premises which the Fire
Division may be called upon to protect. Suitable gates, access roads, and fire
lanes shall be provided so that all buildings on the premises are accessible to
emergency vehicles.
      3.13.2 RESTRICTED ACCESS. When access to or within a structure or an area
is unduly difficult because of secured openings or where immediate access is
necessary for lifesaving or firefighting purposes, the Code Official may
require a key box be installed in an accessible location. The key box shall be
of a type approved by the Code Official and shall contain keys to gain
necessary access as required by the Code Official.
      3.13.3 HEIGHT AND SETBACK. Fire lanes shall be required by the Code
Official for all building which are set back more than 150 feet from a public
road, or exceed 30 feet in height and are set back more than 50 feet from a
public road.
      3.13.4 SIGNS. Fire lanes shall be posted at a maximum of every 75 feet
with an approved sign capable of being seen from the direction of travel.
      3.13.4.1 SIGN DESIGN. Signs for the posting of fire lanes shall conform
to Ohio Department of Transportation sign regulations and standards for parking
control zones as contained in the Ohio Manual of Uniform Traffic Control
Devices.
      3.13.5 NOTIFICATION. The property owner shall provide a drawing of any
proposed fire lane during the site plan review process pursuant to § 1135.26 of
the Codified Ordinances of Lebanon.
   (Y)   Add Standard 4.04:
   STANDARD #4.04 (1988) - RESIDENTIAL SMOKE DETECTORS
      4.04.1 SCOPE. All residential structures shall be provided with an
automatic means of detecting the presence of fire and notifying the occupants
in danger of such fire. Protection shall be in accordance with the requirements
of the Fire Code, and such detail requirements of this standard.
      4.04.2 DEFINITIONS. Residential occupancies and terms used within this
standard are the same as those set forth in the Fire Code, and the building
code listed in appendix A of the Fire Code.
      4.04.3 GENERAL. All residential uses shall be provided with smoke
detection in the sleeping area, guest room or suite of a hotel room, motel,
lodging house, or residential multi-family dwelling unit. Each detector shall
be installed in accordance with NFiPA 72E of NFiPA 74 listed in appendix A of
the Fire Code. When activated, the smoke detector shall provide an alarm
suitable to warn the occupants within the individual room or unit.
      4.04.3.1 EXIT STAIRWAY. Multiple family dwelling units two or more
stories in height and having only one common means of egress shall be provided
with at least one hundred ten (110) volt single station detector at the toe of
the stairway.
      4.04.4 RESPONSIBILITY. It shall be the responsibility of each property
owner to provide the equipment and devices required by this standard and to
properly maintain such equipment and devices. It shall be the responsibility of
the occupant of all non-transient occupancies to maintain the battery of the
smoke detector(s) within their respective control so that the detectors shall
be operational at all times.
      4.04.5 TAMPERING. No person shall deface, remove, alter, damage, destroy
or otherwise tamper with any smoke detector or any part of such system
providing smoke detection protection that could cause any malfunction, defect,
or other improper alarm to be transmitted or prevented from being transmitted
when necessary. Persons duly authorized to perform service or maintenance work
shall notify the Code Official when working on an automatic fire alarm system,
and should make such notification when working on any other type of detection
system.
(Ord. 6312, passed 1-24-89)
   (Z)   Add Standard 5.01:
   STANDARD #5.01 FIRE SAFETY DURING CONSTRUCTION, ALTERATION AND DEMOLITION
      5.01.1 GENERAL. This section shall apply to all structures under
construction, alteration or demolition.
      5.01.2 FIRE DIVISION ACCESS. Fire Department access shall be provided and
maintained to all structures undergoing construction, alteration and
demolition. Fire Division access roadways shall be of an approved surface
material capable of providing emergency vehicle access and support at all
times, and shall be a minimum of 18 feet in unobstructed width. The access
roadways shall provide a minimum turning radii capable of accommodating the
largest fire apparatus of the jurisdiction and a minimum vertical clearance of
13 feet 6 inches.
      501.2.1 TEMPORARY ROADWAYS. Where approved by the code official,
temporary fire department access roadways of such a surface, width, turning
radii and vertical clearance width as will permit access by fire apparatus
shall be allowed until permanent roads are constructed.
      501.2.2 NEW SUBDIVISION STREETS. All streets or alleys not dedicated that
provide access to buildings under construction, alteration or demolition are
declared to be Fire Lanes.
      5.01.3 FIRE-FIGHTING ACCESS. Where required by the code official,
temporary access to a structure for the purpose of fire-fighting shall
beprovided. Construction materials shall not block any temporary fire-fighting
access required by the code official, or access to fire hydrants and fire
department connections.
      5.01.4 EGRESS. Required means of egress in occupied structures shall be
maintained, or approved alternative facilities shall be provided during
construction, alteration or demolition.
      5.01.5 PORTABLE FIRE EXTINGUISHERS. All structures under construction,
alteration or demolition shall be provided with not less than one approved fire
extinguisher at each stairway on all floor levels where combustible materials
have accumulated. An approved portable fire extinguisher shall be provided in
every storage and construction shed, the code official shall require additional
approved portable fire extinguishers where special hazards, such as flammable
or combustible liquid storage hazards exist.
      5.01.6 FIRE DEPARTMENT STANDPIPE SYSTEMS. The standpipe system shall be
carried up with each floor and installed and ready for utilization as each
floor progresses as required by the building code. Standpipes shall be extended
as construction progresses to within one floor of the highest point of
construction having secured decking or flooring.
      5.01.6.1 DEMOLITION. When a structure is being demolished and a standpipe
or sprinkler system exists within said structure, such standpipe or sprinkler
system shall be maintained in an operable condition so as to be available for
utilization by the fire department. Such standpipe or sprinkler system shall be
demolished with the structure, but the system shall not be demolished more than
one floor below the floor being demolished.
      5.01.7 TEMPORARY HEATING DEVICES. Temporary heating devices shall be
inaccordance with the mechanical code and the Lebanon Fire Code."
(Ord. 6312, passed 1-24-89; Am. Ord. 8435, passed 3-12-02)
§ 1501.03 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Applicants for permits required by the Fire Code shall pay the fee
indicated to the City Auditor prior to the issuance of such permits. All
permits required by the Fire Code will require an inspection by a fire
inspector to insure compliance to the Code. The receipt of a permit is not
permission to operate, that permission is granted only after an inspection
assures Code compliance.
   (B)   Fee schedule as follows:
F-301.3   Bonfires      $1
F-303.2    Torches for Removing Paint      1
F-305.2   Storage Combustible Material 2500 cu ft      5
F-316.2    Cellulose Nitrate Motion Picture Film      5
F-317.2    Cellulose Nitrate Plastics      5
F-800.2    Airports, Heliports and Helistops      5
F-900.2    Application of Flammable Finishes      5
F-1000.2   Bowling Establishments/Pin Refinishing      5
F-1100.2   Crop Ripening or Coloring Processes      5
F-1200.2   Dry Cleaning Plants      5
F-1300.2   Dust Explosion Hazards      5
F-1400.2   Fumigation/Thermal Fogging      5
F-1500.2   Lumber Yards      5
F-1600.2   Oil and Gas Production      5
F-1700.2   Place of Assembly      5
F-1800.2   Semiconductor Fabrication      5
F-1900.2   Service Stations and Garages      5
F-2100.2   Vehicle Wrecking/Junk Yards      5
F-2200.2   Welding or Cutting      5
F-2205.1   Calcium Carbide Systems      5
F-2206.1   Acetylene Generators      5
F-2206.7   Acetylene/LP Cylinder Storage      5
F-2300.2   Combustible Fibers      5
F-2400.2   Compressed Gases in excess of 2000 cu ft      5
F-2500.2   Cryogenic Liquids      5
F-2600.2   Explosives, Ammunition, Blasting Agents      5
F-2800.2   Flammable and Combustible Liquids      5
F-2900.2   Hazardous Materials      5
F-3000.2   Liquefied Petroleum Gases      5
F-3100.2   Magnesium      5
F-3200.2   Matches      5
F-3300.2   Organic Coatings      5
Fireworks as required by State Law      5
(Ord. 6312, passed 1-24-89)
§ 1501.99 PENALTY FOR VIOLATION.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of
this Code or failing to comply with any order issued pursuant to any section
thereof, shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor. Violations by organizations
shall be punished by a fine as provided by law. Each day that a violation
continues, after service of notice as provided by this Code, shall be deemed a
separate offense and punishable as such.
   (B)   The application of the above penalty shall not be held to prevent the
enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
(Ord. 1086, passed 4-14-64; Am. Ord. 6312, passed 1-24-89)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
Table
   
I.     ACCEPTANCES AND DEDICATIONS
   
II.     FRANCHISES
   
III.     REAL PROPERTY TRANSACTIONS
   
IV.     ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS
   
V.     CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
   
VI.     VACATIONS
TABLE I: ACCEPTANCES AND DEDICATIONS
Ord. No. Date Description
Ord.  Date     Description
No.
3013  5-25-76  Accepting final plat of Rosemarie Heights, Section 4, lots 3975 through 3999
3055  11-23-76 Accepting replat of Tecumseh Trails Subdivision, Section 2, lots 3709 through
               3717, 3720 through 3724 and 3726 through 3728
4003  6-20-77  Accepting replat for Cedar Ridge Subdivision, Section 1, lot 4066
4073  3-14-78  Accepting replat of Cedar Ridge Subdivision, Section 3, lots 3974-1 though
               3974-13
5020  9-26-78  Accepting replat of Cedar Ridge Subdivision, Section 4, lots 3973-1 through
               3973-15
5085  5-22-79  Accepting replat of Cedar Ridge Subdivision, Section 5, lots 3968-1 through
               3968-23
5131  9-25-79  Accepting replat of Rosemarie Heights Subdivision, Section 3, lots 3828 through
               3831
5854  8-12-86  Accepting final plat of McBurney Hills Subdivision, 7th Addition, lots 3925
               through 3939
5855  8-12-86  Accepting final plat of McBurney Hills Subdivision, 8th Addition, lots 3940
               through 3953
6107  8-11-87  Accepting final plat of DeSales Heights Subdivision, lots 4358 through 4389
6121  10-13-87 Accepting final plat of Walnut Hills Subdivision, Section 10, lots 4172 through
               4189
6125  10-27-87 Accepting final plat of Country Creek Subdivision, Section 2-A, lots 4329
               through 4333 and 4347 through 4357
6126  10-27-87 Accepting final plat of Shaker Trace Subdivision, Section 1, lots 4395-
               1 through 4395-17
6127  10-27-87 Accepting final plat of Kingsview Subdivision, Section 1, lots 4294 through
               4297
6178  3-22-88  Accepting final plat of Harlan Subdivision, Section 2, lots 4390 through 4394
6235  6-14-88  Accepting final plat of Cedar Woods Subdivision, Section 2, lots 4427 through
               4442
6236  6-14-88  Accepting final plat of Jackson Place Subdivision, lots 4406 through 4415
6247- 7-12-88  Accepting final plat of Inverness Subdivision, lots 3925 through 3936
A
6270  8-23-88  Accepting dedication plat of Kingsview Drive and Fujitec Drive
6276  9-27-88  Accepting final plat of Park Place Subdivision, lots 4398 through 4405
6335  3-14-89  Accepting final plat of Miller Road Subdivision, Section 1, lots 4453 through
               4454
6348  4-11-89  Accepting final plat of Lebanon Commerce Center, Section 1, lots 4461 through
               4462
6364  5-9-89   Accepting final plat of Country Creek Subdivision, Section 2-B, lots 4334
               through 4346
6387  7-25-89  Accepting final plat of Shaker Trace Subdivision, Section 2, lots 4395-19
               through 4395-34
6400  9-12-89  Accepting final plat of Countryside Place Subdivision, lots 4455 through 4471
6441  12-12-89 Accepting final plat of Idle Creek Subdivision, lots 4472 through 4476
6442  12-12-89 Accepting final plat of Rocky Ridge Subdivision, lots 4509 through 4510
6443  12-12-89 Accepting final plat of Walnut Creek Subdivision, Section 1, lots 4477 through
               4493
6461  2-13-90  Accepting final plat of Baily Condominiums Subdivision, lots 4511-1 through
               4511-2
6474  2-27-90  Accepting final plat of Shaker Trace Subdivision, Section 2, lots 4395-19
               through 4395-27
6475  3-13-90  Accepting final plat of Corwin Heights Subdivision, 11th Addition, lots 4273
               through 4293 and 4512
6476  3-13-90  Accepting final plat of Kingsview Industrial Park, Section 2, lots 4298 through
               4300
6482  4-10-90  Accepting final plat of American Village Subdivision, Section 4, lots 4494
               through 4508
6523  8-11-90  Accepting final plat of Office Park East, First Addition, lot 4220
6589  3-26-91  Accepting final plat of Kingsview Industrial Park, Section 2, lots 4298 through
               4300
6590  3-12-91  Accepting dedication plat of sanitary sewer easement for Belvedere Woods
               Subdivision
6606  4-23-91  Accepting final plat of East Ridge Subdivision, Section 2, lots 4526 through
               4539
6910  1-11-94  Accepting final plat of the Dorcelin Subdivision, lots 5004 through 5009
6923  2-22-94  Accepting replat of Corwin Heights Subdivision, Section 12, lots 4523A and
               4524A
6936  3-22-94  Accepting final plat of the Lebanon Commerce Center, Section 3, lots 5054 and
               5055
6953  5-10-94  Accepting replat of Hunter’s Run Subdivision, lots 4540 through 4550
6966  6-14-94  Accepting final plat of Maplewood Subdivision, lots 5168 through 5176
6980  8-9-94   Accepting replat of Hunter’s Run Subdivision, lots 4556 through 4565
6993  9-27-94  Accepting replat of Shaker Terrace Subdivision, Section 4, lots 4395-50 A-1 and
               B-1
6994  9-27-94  Accepting final plat of Revere’s Run Subdivision, Section 1, lots 5010 through
               5053
6995  9-27-94  Accepting final plat of Glosser Road Stor-N- Lok Subdivision, lots 4492 and
               4493
6996  10-11-94 Accepting final plat of Poplar Hill Subdivi- sion, Section 1, lots 4952 through
               5002
7007  10-25-94 Accepting replat of Shaker Trace Subdivision, Section 4, lots 4395-39 A-1 and
               B-1
7008  11-8-94  Accepting replat of Maplewood Subdivision, lots 5168 through 5176
7009  11-8-94  Accepting replat of Hunter’s Run Subdivision, lot 5056
7022  11-22-94 Accepting final plat of American Village Subdivision, Section 6, lots 5057
               through 5071
               Accepting final plat of Stone Ridge Subdivision, Section 1, lots 5291 through
7023  12-13-94 5301, 5318 through 5324, 5337 through 5355, 5400, 5401, 5444, 5445, and 5488
               through 5498
7024  11-22-94 Accepting final plat of Silverwood Farms Subdivision, Section 1, lots 5177
               through 5217
7036  12-27-94 Accepting final plat of Hathaway Commons Subdivision, lots 5563 inclusive
7037  12-27-94 Accepting replat of Hunter’s Run Subdivision, lots 5561 and 5562
7038  1-10-95  Accepting replat of Garfield Park Subdivision, lot 4805
7039  1-10-95  Accepting final plat of Garfield Park Subdivision, Section 5, lots 5119 through
               5167
7050  2-28-95  Accepting final plat of Fairway Crossing Subdivision, Section 1, lots 5638
               through 5678
7060  4-25-95  Accepting final plat of Cornerstone Place Subdivision, lots 5738 and 5739
7061  4-25-95  Accepting replat of Lebanon Commerce Center, Section 3, lot 5055
7073  5-23-95  Accepting replat of Lebanon Eastgate, Section 1, lot 3900
7074  5-23-95  Accepting replat of Poplar Hill Subdivision, Section 1, lots 4996 through 4998
7075  6-13-95  Accepting final plat of Drakewood Subdivision, Section 4, lots 5072 through
               5117
7085  6-27-95  Accepting final plat of Commerce Center West Subdivision, Section 1, lots 5746
               through 5748
7104  8-22-95  Accepting replat of Kingsview Subdivision, Section 2, lot 4298
7112  9-26-95  Accepting replat of Kingsview Subdivision, Section 2, lot 4298-B
7114  9-26-95  Accepting final plat of Silverwood Farms Subdivision, Section 2, lots 5751
               through 5786
7115  9-26-95  Accepting final plat of Stone Ridge Subdivision, Section 2, lots 5332 through
               5336 and 5356 through 5361
               Accepting final plat of Silverwood Farms Subdivision, Section 3, lots 5789
7133  11-14-95 through 5821, subject to five conditions set forth and attached to the
               ordinance as “Schedule 1”
               Accepting final plat of Oak Forge Subdivision, Section 1, lots 5679 through
7134  11-14-95 5736, subject to six conditions set forth and attached to the ordinance as
               “Schedule 1”
               Accepting final plat of Garfield Park Subdivision, Section 6, lots 5564 through
7135  11-28-95 5637, subject to the five conditions set forth and attached to the ordinance as
               “Schedule 1”
               Accepting final plat of Stone Ridge Subdivision, Section 3, containing 60 lots,
7150  12-12-95 subject to the 11 conditions set forth and attached to the ordinance as
               “Schedule 1”
               Accepting the final plat of Harmon Woods Subdivision, Section 1, containing 2
7167  2-13-96  lots, being Lot Nos. 5822 and 5823, and the dedication of the right-of-ways,
               streets and easements subject to the 13 conditions set forth and attached to
               the ordinance as “Schedule 1”
               Accepting the replat of Lots 5647 and 5674 in Fairway Crossing Subdivision,
7181  2-27-96  Section 1, subject to the conditions set forth in the memorandum attached to
               the ordinance as “Schedule 1”
               Accepting the revised final plat of Commerce Center West, Section 1, containing
7182  3-12-96  7 lots, being Lot Nos. 5746 through 5748 and 5839 through 5842, and the
               dedication of the right- of-ways, streets and easements subject to the 18
               conditions set forth and attached to the ordinance as “Schedule 1”
               Accepting the final plat of Lebanon Commerce Center, Section 5, containing 2
7196  3-26-96  lots, being Lot Nos. 5965 and 5966, and the dedication of the right-of-ways,
               streets and easements subject to the 3 conditions set forth and attached to the
               ordinance as “Schedule 1”
               Accepting the final plat of Lebanon Commerce Center, Section 6, containing 1
7197  3-26-96  lot, being Lot No. 5967, and the dedication of the right-of- ways, streets and
               easements subject to the 5 conditions set forth and attached to the ordinance
               as “Schedule 1”
               Accepting the final plat of East Ridge Subdivision, Section 3, containing 13
7235  6-11-96  lots, being lot Nos. 6013 through 6025, and the dedication of the right-of-
               ways, streets and easements subject to the 10 conditions set forth and attached
               to the ordinance as “Schedule 1”
               Accepting the final plat of Colony Woods Subdivision, Section 1, containing 2
7237  6-11-96  lots, being Lot Nos. 5970 and 5971, and the dedication of the right-of-ways,
               streets and easements subject to the 8 conditions set forth and attached to the
               ordinance as “Schedule 1”
               Accepting the revised final plat of Commerce Center West, Section 1, containing
7238  6-11-96  4 lots, being Lot Nos. 5839 through 5842, and the dedication of the right-of-
               ways, streets and easements subject to the 6 conditions set forth and attached
               to the ordinance as “Schedule 1”
               Accepting the final plat of Pleasant View Subdivision, containing 17 lots,
7240  6-25-96  being Lot Nos. 4815 through 4831, and the dedication of the right-of-ways,
               streets and easements subject to the 6 conditions set forth and attached to the
               ordinance as “Schedule 1”
               Accepting the final plat of Mockingbird Farms Subdivision, Section 1,
7248  6-25-96  containing 1 lot, being Lot No. 6030, and the dedication of the right- of-ways,
               streets and easements subject to the 12 conditions set forth and attached to
               the ordinance as “Schedule 1”
               Accepting the replat of Lot 5965 in Lebanon Commerce Center, Section 5, being
7278  8-27-96  Lot Nos. 5965A and 5965B, subject to the conditions set forth and attached to
               the ordinance as “Schedule 1”
7279  8-27-96  Accepting the replat of Lots 161 and 163 for St. Patrick’s Episcopal Church.
7277  9-10-96  Accepting the replat of Lots 5817 and 5818 in Rocky Ridge Subdivision, subject
               to the conditions set forth and attached to the ordinance as “Schedule 1”
               Accepting the final plat of Revere’s Run Subdivision, Section 2, containing 43
7288  10-8-96  lots, being Lot Nos. 6082 through 6124, and the dedication of the right-of-
               ways, streets and easements subject to the 4 conditions set forth and attached
               to the ordinance as “Schedule 1”
               Accepting the final plat of Stone Ridge Subdivision, Section 4, containing 18
7289  8-8-96   lots, being Lot Nos. 5384 through 5417, subject to the 4 conditions set forth
               and attached to the ordinance as “Schedule 1”
               Accepting the final plat of Poplar Hill Subdivision, Section 2, containing 51
7290  8-8-96   lots, being Lot Nos. 6050 through 6080, and the dedication of the right-of-
               ways, streets and easements subject to the 6 conditions set forth and attached
               to the ordinance as “Schedule 1”
               Accepting the final plat of Oak Forge Subdivision, Section 2, containing 36
7312  12-10-96 lots, being Lot Nos. 5929 through 5964, and the dedication of the right-of-
               ways, streets and easements subject to the 5 conditions set forth and attached
               to the ordinance as “Schedule 1”
               Accepting the final plat of Miller’s Crossing Subdivision, Section 1,
7313  12-10-96 containing 55 lots, being Lot Nos. 6227 through 6278, and the dedication of the
               right-of-ways, streets and easements subject to the 10 conditions set forth and
               attached to the ordinance as “Schedule 1”
               Accepting the final plat of Lebanon Commerce Center, Section 7, containing 1
7343  2-11-97  lot, being Lot No. 6313, and the dedication of the right-of- ways, streets and
               easements subject to the five conditions set forth in the memorandum attached
               to the ordinance as “Schedule 1”
               Accepting the final plat of Silverwood Farms Subdivision, Section 4, containing
               32 lots, being Lot Nos. 6158 through 6172, 6188 through 6192, 6213, and 6216
7349  3-11-97  through 6226, inclusive, and the dedication of the right-of- ways, streets and
               easements subject to the seven conditions set forth in the memorandum attached
               to the ordinance as “Schedule 1”
               Accepting the replat of Lot 5054 in Lebanon Commerce Center, Section 3,
7369  4-22-97  containing Lot 5054-A, subject to the conditions set forth in the memorandum
               attached to the ordinance as “Schedule 1”
               Accepting the replat of Lots 3148, 3149, and 3150 in McBurney Hills
7394  7-8-97   Subdivision, First Addition, being Lots 3148-A and 3150-A, subject to the
               conditions set forth in the memorandum attached to the ordinance as “Schedule
               1”
7410  8-12-97  Accepting the dedication plat dedicating the 200' wide right-of-way for the
               Miller Road extension
               Accepting the replat of Lot 105 in Yawger & Hathaway Addition, being Lots 105-
7423  9-9-97   A, 105-B, and 105-C, subject to the conditions set forth in the memorandum
               attached to the ordinance as “Schedule 1”
               Accepting the replat of Lots 4065 and 4158 in Walnut Hills Subdivision, being
7424  9-9-97   Lots 4056-A and 4158-A, subject to the conditions set forth in the memorandum
               attached to the ordinance as “Schedule 1”
               Accepting the replat of Lots 5651-A and 5651-B in Fairway Crossing Subdivision,
7425  9-9-97   Section 1, being Lot 5651-C, subject to the conditions set forth in the
               memorandum attached to the ordinance as “Schedule 1”
               Accepting the replat of Lot 5820 in Silverwood Farms Subdivision, Section 3,
7426  9-9-97   being Lot 5820-A, subject to the conditions set forth in the memorandum
               attached to the ordinance as “Schedule 1”
               Accepting the final plat of American Village Subdivision, Section 7, a
               subdivision containing 6 lots, being Lot Nos. 5740 through 5745 inclusive, and
7427  9-9-97   the dedication of the right- of-ways, streets and easements subject to the
               conditions set forth in the memorandum attached to the ordinance as “Schedule
               1”
               Accepting the final plat of Watson Crossing Subdivision, containing 5 lots,
7428  9-9-97   being Lot Nos. 6356 through 6360, and the dedication of the right-of-ways,
               streets and easements subject to the conditions set forth in the memorandum
               attached to the ordinance as “Schedule 1”
               Accepting the final plat of Cedar Subdivision, containing 2 lots, being Lot
7429  9-9-97   Nos. 6361 and 6362 inclusive, and the dedication of the right- of-ways, streets
               and easements subject to the conditions set forth in the memorandum attached to
               the ordinance as “Schedule 1”
               Accepting the replat of Lot 5965-B in Lebanon Commerce Center, Section 7, being
7430  8-26-97  Lot No. 5965-C, subject to the conditions set forth in the memorandum attached
               to the ordinance as “Schedule 1”
               Accepting the final plat of Lebanon Commerce Center, Section 7, being Lot No.
7439  9-23-97  6397 and 6398, and the dedication of the right-of-ways, streets and easements
               subject to the memorandum attached to the ordinance as “Schedule 1”
7449  11-11-97 Accepting a dedication plat dedicating the 50' wide right-of-way for the East
               Street Extension
               Accepting the replat of Lots 29 and 30, Corwin Addition, subject to the
7450  11-11-97 conditions set forth in the memorandum attached to the ordinance as “Schedule
               1”
               Accepting the replat of Lots 3150-A and 3151, in McBurney Hills Subdivision,
7453  12-9-97  First Addition, being Lot 3150-B, subject to the conditions set forth in the
               memorandum attached to the ordinance as “Schedule 1”
7462  12-23-97 Accepting the application for annexation of a 49.253 acre parcel known as the
               Classic Properties Annexation
               Accepting the replat of Lot 105, Yawger & Hathaway Addition, being Lot 6403,
7466  12-23-97 subject to the conditions set forth in the memorandum attached to the ordinance
               as “Schedule 1”
               Accepting the replat of Lots 5652-A and B, 5653-A and B, 5654-A and B, 5655-
               A and B, 5656-A and B, 5657-A and B of Fairway Crossing Subdivision, Section 1,
7465  1-13-98  being Lots 5652-C, 5653-C, 5654-C, 5655-C, 5656-C, and 5657-C, subject to the
               conditions set forth in the memorandum attached to the ordinance as “Schedule
               1”
               Accepting the replat of Lots 5641 and 5642 of Fairway Crossing Subdivision,
7476  2-10-98  Section 1, being Lot 5642-A, subject to the conditions set forth in the
               memorandum attached to the ordinance as “Schedule 1”
               Accepting the final plat of American Village Subdivision, Section 8, containing
7477  2-10-98  2 lots, being Lots 6354 and 6355, subject to the conditions set forth in the
               memorandum attached to the ordinance as “Schedule 1”
               Accepting the final plat of Oak Forge Subdivision, Section 4, a subdivision
7478  2-10-98  containing 34 lots, being Lot Nos. 6363 through 6396, subject to the conditions
               set forth in the memorandum attached to the ordinance as “Schedule 1”
               Accepting the final plat for Bob Evans Subdivision, a subdivision containing
7517  7-28-98  two lots, being Lot Nos. 6480 and 6481; and the dedication of the right-of-
               ways, streets and easements, subject to the conditions set forth in the
               memorandum attached to the ordinance as “Schedule 1”
               Accepting the final plat for American Village Subdivision, Section 9, a
               subdivision containing 9 lots, being Lot Nos. 6471 through 6479 inclusive; and
7518  8-25-98  the dedication of the right- of-ways, streets and easements, subject to the
               conditions set forth in the memorandum attached to the ordinance as “Schedule
               1”
               Accepting the final plat for Harmon Woods Subdivision, Section 2, a subdivision
               containing 4 lots, being Lot Nos. 5824 through 5827 inclusive; and the
7519  7-14-98  dedication of the right- of-ways, streets and easements, subject to the
               conditions set forth in the memorandum attached to the ordinance as “Schedule
               1”
               Accepting the dedication plat for the north side of Monroe Road, just west of
7531  8-11-98  its intersection with By-pass 48, dedicating the 406± foot right-of-way to
               construct public improvements, subject to the conditions set forth in the
               memorandum attached to the ordinance as “Schedule 1”
               Accepting the replat of Lot 5640 of Fairway Crossing Subdivision, Section 1,
7532  8-25-98  being Lot 5640-A, subject to the conditions set forth in the memorandum
               attached to the ordinance as “Schedule 1”
               Accepting the final plat for Oak Forge Subdivision, Section 5, a subdivision
               containing 30 lots, being Lot Nos. 6482 through 6511 inclusive; and the
7533  8-11-98  dedication of the right-of-ways, streets and easements, subject to the
               conditions set forth in the memorandum attached to the ordinance as “Schedule
               1”
               Accepting the replat of Lots 145, 146, 147, and 148, being Lot 6470, subject to
7544  9-8-98   the conditions set forth in the memorandum attached to the ordinance as
               “Schedule 1”
               Accepting the final plat for Poplar Hill Subdivision, Section 3, a subdivision
               containing 41 lots, being Lot Nos. 6214 through 6345 inclusive; and the
7545  9-8-98   dedication of the right-of-ways, streets and easements, subject to the
               conditions set forth in the memorandum attached to the ordinance as “Schedule
               1”
               Accepting the final plat for Revere’s Run Subdivision, Section 3, a subdivision
               containing 37 lots, being Lot Nos. 6514 through 6550 inclusive; and the
7546  9-8-98   dedication of the right-of-ways, streets and easements, subject to the
               conditions set forth in the memorandum attached to the ordinance as “Schedule
               1”
               Accepting the final plat for Miller’s Crossing Subdivision, Section 3, a
               subdivision containing 79 lots, being Lot Nos. 6305 through 6309, 6427 through
7550  10-13-98 6435, and 6442 through 6470 inclusive; and the dedication of the right-of-ways,
               streets and easements, subject to the conditions set forth in the memorandum
               attached to the ordinance as “Schedule 1”
               Accepting the replat of Lots 4144, 6354, 6355, of American Village Subdivision,
7551  10-13-98 being Lots 4144-A, 6354-A, and 6355-A, subject to the conditions set forth in
               the memorandum attached to the ordinance as “Schedule 1”
               Accepting the final plat for Oak Forge Subdivision, Section 6, a subdivision
               containing 19 lots, being Lot Nos. 5910 through 5928 inclusive; and the
7565  12-8-98  dedication of the right-of-ways, streets and easements, subject to the
               conditions set forth in the memorandum attached to the ordinance as “Schedule
               1”
               Accepting the final plat for Silverwood Farms Subdivision, Section 5, a
               subdivision containing 36 lots, being Lot Nos. 6190 through 6225 inclusive; and
7566  12-8-98  the dedication of the right-of-ways, streets and easements, subject to the
               conditions set forth in the memorandum attached to the ordinance as “Schedule
               1”
               Accepting the replat of Lots 5642-A and 5642-B, of Fairway Crossing
7588  1-12-99  Subdivision, Section 1, being Lot 5642-C, subject to the conditions set forth
               in the memorandum attached to the ordinance as “Schedule 1”
               Accepting the final plat for Stone Ridge Subdivision, Section 5, a subdivision
               containing 20 lots, being Lot Nos. 5375 through 5378, 5423 through 5430, and
7596  2-9-99   5459 through 5466 inclusive; and the dedication of the right-of-ways, streets
               and easements, subject to the conditions set forth in the memorandum attached
               to the ordinance as “Schedule 1”
               Accepting the final plat for Lebanon Commerce Center Subdivision, Section 8, a
7597  2-9-99   subdivision containing 1 lot, being Lot No. 6469; and the dedication of the
               right-of-ways, streets and easements, subject to the conditions set forth in
               the memorandum attached to the ordinance as “Schedule 1”
               Accepting the final plat for Oak Forge Subdivision, Section 7, a subdivision
               containing 35 lots, being Lot Nos. 6551 through 6585 inclusive; and the
7640  5-11-99  dedication of the right-of-ways, streets and easements, subject to the
               conditions set forth in the memorandum attached to the ordinance as “Schedule
               1”
               Accepting the replat of Lots 5112 and 5113 of Drakewood Subdivision, Section 4,
7641  5-11-99  being Lots 5112-A and 5113-A, subject to the conditions set forth in the
               memorandum attached to the ordinance as “Schedule 1”
               Accepting the final plat for the Lebanon Commerce Center North Subdivision,
               Section 1, a subdivision containing 2 lots, being Lot Nos. 6586 through 6587
7658  6-8-99   inclusive; and the dedication of the right-of-ways, streets and easements,
               subject to the conditions set forth in the memorandum attached to the ordinance
               as “Schedule 1”
               Accepting final the plat of Fairway Crossing Subdivision, Section 4, containing
7736  11-9-99  6 lots, being Lot Nos. 6655 through 6660 inclusive, and the dedication of
               right-of-ways, streets and easements subject to the conditions set forth in the
               memorandum and attached to the ordinance as “Schedule 1”
               Accepting final the plat of Fairway Crossing Subdivision, Section 4, containing
7749  11-23-99 6 lots, being Lot Nos. 6655 through 6660 inclusive, and the dedication of
               right-of-ways, streets and easements subject to the conditions set forth in the
               memorandum and attached to the ordinance as “Schedule 1”
               Accepting the final plat of Silverwood Commerce Park, Section 1, containing 3
7748  12-14-99 lots, being Lot Nos. 6661 through 6663 inclusive, and the dedication of right-
               of-ways, streets and easements, subject to the conditions set forth in the
               memorandum and attached to the ordinance as “Schedule 1”
7754  12-28-99 Accepting the replat of Lot 5668 in Fairway Crossing Subdivision, Section 4
7763  1-11-00  Accepting the final plat of Sterling Chase Subdivision, Section 1
7764  1-11-00  Accepting the final plat of Stone Ridge Subdivision, Section 6
7777  2-8-00   Accepting the final plat of Lebanon Commerce Center, Section 10
7801  4-11-00  Accepting the replat of lots in Cedar Subdivision
7802  4-11-00  Accepting the dedication plat dedicating the right-of-way at the south end of
               Mound Street
7803  4-11-00  Accepting the final plat of Revere’s Run Subdivision, Section 4
7815  5-9-00   Accepting the final plat of Kardol Subdivision
7837  6-13-00  Accepting the replat of Lot 2511 Sharon Acres Subdivision, a 0.392 acre tract,
               a 0.416 acre tract, and a 0.499 acre tract for CVS Subdivision
7838  6-13-00  Accepting the final plat of Columbia Business Park, Section 1
7872  7-11-00  Accepting the replat of Lot 5842 in Commerce Center West Subdivision
7890  7-11-00  Accepting the final plat of Lebanon Commerce Center North, Section 1 - Revised
7902  8-22-00  Accepting the final plat of Sterling Chase Subdivision, Section 2
7903  8-8-00   Accepting the replat of Ridgewood Subdivision, Section 9, Lot 2656, and part of
               Lot 2657
7940  9-12-00  Accepting the final plat of Catalpa Ridge Subdivision, Section 1
7985  10-24-00 Accepting the final plat of Countyside PUD Subdivision, Section 1
7986  11-14-00 Accepting the final plat of Columbia Business Park, Section 2
7987  10-24-00 Accepting the replat of Kardol Subdivision
8060  1-9-01   Accepting the final plat of Harmon Woods Subdivision, Section 3
8061  1-9-01   Accepting the plat of Commerce Center West Subdivision, Section 2, being a
               replat of certain lots of Sections 1 and 3
8084  1-23-01  Accepting the final plat of Columbia Business Park, Section 3
8137  4-10-01  Accepting the replat of a recently annexed tract of land, including Lot 8 of
               Norgal Industrial Park
8138  4-10-01  Accepting the final plat of Harmon Woods Subdivision, Section 4
8191  5-22-01  Accepting the replat of Inlots 93 and 94, City of Lebanon
8211  6-26-01  Accepting the final plat of Sterling Chase Subdivision, Section 3
8235  7-10-01  Accepting the final plat of Lakeside Landing Subdivision, Section 2
8236  7-10-01  Accepting the final plat of Stone Ridge Subdivision, Section 7
8237  7-10-01  Accepting the final plat of Countryside PUD Subdivision, Section 2
8238  7-10-01  Accepting the replat of Lots 4455-A and 4456-A of Countryside Place Subdivision
8277  8-28-01  Accepting the final plat of Security Self- Storage
8278  8-28-01  Accepting the final plat of Stone Ridge Subdivsion, Section 8
8279  8-28-01  Accepting the final plat of Columbia Business Park, Section 4
8280  8-28-01  Accepting the replat of certain lots in Yawger & Hathaway Subdivision
Res.  10-9-01  Accepting the layout of a gazebo and restrooms for Bicentennial Park
8324
8342  11-13-01 Accepting the replat of lots 27 and 28 in Hurin Corwin Addition
8343  11-13-01 Accepting the final plat of Countryside PUD Subdivision, Section 3
8344  11-13-01 Accepting the final plat of Lebanon Commerce Center, Section 11
8345  11-13-01 Accepting the final plat of Columbia Business Park, Section 5
8383  1-8-02   Accepting the final plat of Columbia Business Park, Section 6
8431  3-12-02  Designating the public park bordering S. Cherry Street, E. Mulberry Street, S.
               Mechanic Street, and E. Main Street as “Bicentennial Park”
8481  6-11-02  Accepting the Bicentennial Park plan
8501  7-9-02   Accepting replat of certain lots in Hart's Plaza Subdivision
8502  7-9-02   Accepting the final plat of Prestige Park Subdivision
8528  8-27-02  Accepting the final plat of Peachtree Place Subdivision
8529  8-13-02  Accepting the final plat of Watson's Crossing III Subdivision
8530  8-27-02  Accepting the final plat of Revere's Run Subdivision, Section 5
8564  10-22-02 Accepting the final plat of Stone Ridge Subdivision, Section 9
8601  11-12-02 Accepting the plat of Commerce Center West Subdivision, Section 2, being a
               replat of Lot Nos. 5841 and 5842-B of Commerce Center West
8602  11-12-02 Accepting the final plat of Fairway Crossing Subdivision, Section 6
8603  11-12-02 Accepting the final plat of Countryside PUD Subdivision, Section 4
8629  12-23-02 Accepting the final plat of Columbia Business Park, Section 7
8706  3-25-03  Accepting the final plat of Columbia Business Park, Section 8
8707  3-25-03  Accepting the final plat of Columbia Business Park, Section 9
8766  6-10-03  Accepting the replat of Lot 6663 of Silverwood Commerce Park
8767  6-10-03  Accepting the replat of Lot 5 and part of Lot 4568 Warren County Center
8768  6-10-03  Accepting the final plat of Revere’s Run Subdivision, Section 6
8802  7-8-03   Accepting the final plat of Walnut Creek Subdivision, Section 2
8840  9-23-03  Accepting the replat of Lot 4488 in Walnut Creek Subdivision
8873  11-25-03 Accepting the replat of Peachtree Place Subdivision
8874  11-25-04 Accepting a dedication plat, dedicating the right-of-way for the Hart Road
               frontage of Bowman Elementary School
8900  2-24-04  Accepting the final plat of Revere's Run Subdivision, Section 7
8923  4-13-04  Accepting the final plat of Lebanon Commerce Center, Section 11
8948  6-8-04   Accepting the final plat of Countryside PUD Subdivision, Section 5
8949  6-8-04   Accepting the final plat of Columbia Business Park, Section 11
8950  6-8-04   Accepting the final plat of Columbia Business Park, Section 12
8951  6-22-04  Accepting the replat of Lots 7441 and 7442 in Walnut Creek Subdivision, Section
               2
8983  7-27-04  Accepting the final plat of Wal-Mart Subdivision
8992  8-10-04  Accepting the final plat of Watson's Crossing III Subdivision
9004  9-14-04  Accepting the final plat of Countryside PUD Subdivision, Section 6
9023  10-12-04 Accepting replat No. 2 of Commerce Center West Subdivision
9024  10-26-04 Accepting the final plat of Revere's Run Subdivision, Section 8
9073  12-14-04 Accepting the final plat of Poplar Hill Subdivision, Section 4
9079  12-14-04 Accepting the final plat of Countryside PUD Subdivision, Section 6-B
9091  1-25-05  Accepting the final plat of Countryside PUD Subdivision, Section 7
9111  2-8-05   Accepting the final plat of Lakeside Landing Subdivision, Section 4
9138  5-10-05  Accepting the final plat of S.H.I. Subdivision
9140  5-24-05  Accepting the replat of Lots 4480 and 4481 in Walnut Creek Subdivision
9181  6-28-05  Accepting the replat of Lots 7890 and 7896 of the WalMart Subdivision
9182  7-12-05  Accepting the replat of Norgal Subdivision, Section 7
9189  7-26-05  Accepting the final plat of Kingsview Industrial Park, Section 3
9194  7-26-05  Accepting the final plat of Columbia Business Park, Section 10
9210  9-13-05  Accepting the replat of Lots 7491 and 7493 of Watson’s Crossing III Subdivision
9211  9-27-05  Accepting the replat of Lots 3105, 3106 and 3107 of McBurney Hills Subdivision
9219  9-27-05  Accepting the replat of Lot 4298-D of Kingsview Industrial Park, Section 2
9225  10-25-05 Accepting the replat of Lots 6969 of the Poplar Hill Subdivision, Section 4
9226  10-25-05 Accepting the replat of Lots 5675-A and 5675-B of Fairway Crossings Subdivision
9230  10-25-05 Accepting the final plat of Columbia Business Park, Section 13
9244  11-22-05 Accepting the final plat of Countryside PUD Subdivision, Section 6, Block C
9245  11-22-05 Accepting the final plat of Countryside PUD Subdivision, Section 8
9261  12-27-05 Accepting the replat of Lots 3106-C and 3106-D of the McBurney Hills
               Subdivision
9218  2-28-06  Accepting the final plat of Columbia Business Park, Section 14
9267  1-10-06  Accepting the replat of Lakeside Landing Subdivision, Section 4
9280  2-14-06  Accepting the final plat of Horseshoe Falls Subdivision
9295  3-14-06  Accepting the final plat of Regency Pointe Town Homes Subdivision
9316  3-28-06  Authorizing the dedication plat for Arrow Springs Boulevard
9339  5-23-06  Accepting the replat of Lots 6661 and 6662 of Silverwood Commerce Park
9340  6-13-06  Accepting the final plat of Poplar Hill Subdivision, Section 4, Block B
9369  7-25-06  Accepting the final plat of Reeders Run Estates, Section 1
9374  8-22-06  Accepting the final plat of Wal-Mart Subdivisions, Section 2
9434  11-28-06 Accepting the final plat of Lebanon Professional Office Park
9493  3-13-07  Accepting the replat of Lots 7447, 7448, and 7449 of Prestige Park Subdivision.
9496  3-13-07  Accepting the replat of Lot 4222 of Hart’s Plaza Subdivision.
9503  4-10-07  Accepting the final plat of Countryside PUD Subdivision, Section 9.
9507  4-10-07  Accepting the replat of Lakeside Landing Subdivision, Lots 6926 and 7520.
9515  4-24-07  Accepting the plat for Wal-Mart Subdivision Section 3 being a replat of Lot
               7896-A of the Wal-Mart Subdivision.
9547  6-26-07  Accepting the replat of Lots 7770, 7771, and 7772 of Countryside PUD
               Subdivision, Section 6, Block C.
9559  7-24-07  Accepting the replat for the easement of Watson’s Crossing III Subdivision.
9560  7-10-07  Accepting application for annexation - 1.235 acre parcel known as the Fecon
               Annexation.
9561  7-24-07  Accepting application for annexation - 13.707 acre parcel known as the
               Alexander Annexation.
9568  8-14-07  Approving the record plan for the right-of-way dedication plat along N.
               Broadway and Miller Road.
9569  8-14-07  Accepting the final plat of Triple Crown at Keeneland Estates.
9580  9-11-07  Accepting the final plat of Lebanon Commerce Center Section 12.
9597  10-9-07  Accepting the replat of Lots 8008 and 8009 of Horseshoe Falls Section Three.
9618  11-13-07 Accepting the final plat of Columbia Business Park, Section 13.
9619  11-13-07 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an annexation agreement with the Board
               of Trustees of Union Township.
9627  11-13-07 Accepting Watson’s Crossing IV Subdivision, a replat of Lot 7491.
9628  11-13-07 Accepting the replat of Rocky Ridge Subdivision.
9645  1-22-08  Approving the R-1B PUD concept plan for Countryside Subdivision, Section 9.
9646  1-8-08   Accepting Harmon Industrial Park, Section 3, a replat of Lots 2875 and 2893.
9712  5-13-08  Accepting the final plat for Hart's Plaza, Section 2 being a replat of Lot
               4222-A.
9731  6-10-08  Accepting the final plat of Warren County Industrial Park, Section 2, being a
               replat of Lot 4.
               Accepting the final plat for the Thirteenth Addition to Corwin Heights
9732  6-24-08  Subdivision being a replat of Lots 3449 & 3450 of the Second Addition to Corwin
               Heights Subdivision.
9733  6-24-08  Accepting the Columbia Business Park, Section 10 easement dedication plat.
9735  6-24-08  Accepting the final plat of Harmon Woods Subdivision, Section 5.
9768  9-23-08  Accepting the replat of Lot 8 of Norgal Industrial Park, Section 1.
9775  10-28-08 Accepting the final plat of Stone Subdivision.
2009- 2-10-09  Accepting the final plat of Lebanon East Industrial Park, section three.
007
2009- 7-14-09  Accepting the record plan for the final plat for Public Library Pavilion, being
073            a replat of all of lots 93 and 94 Original Plat.
2009- 8-25-09  Accepting the record plan for the final plat of the Seegull Subdivision.
083
2009- 8-11-09  Accepting the dedication plat for the Robinson Property and dedication of the
084            rights-of-way, streets and easements.
2009- 8-11-09  Accepting the record plan for the dedication plat for the Henry Property and
085            approving the dedication of the rights-of-way, streets, and easements.
2009- 8-11-09  Accepting the record plan for the dedication plat for the City of Lebanon
086            property and approving dedication of rights-of-way, streets and easements.
2009- 8-11-09  Accepting the record plan for the dedication plat for the Imbus Property, and
087            approving the dedication of the rights-of-way, streets and easements.
2009- 9-22-09  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Northside Subdivision.
096
2009- 10-27-09 Approving the record plan for the final plat of Hunters Run Subdivision -
099            replat of Lot 4563.
2009- 10-27-09 Approving the record plan for the final plat of Ault Subdivision.
100
2010- 1-12-10  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Wal-Mart Subdivision, Section
005            Three - Replat of Lot 7894.
2010- 2-17-10  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Commerce Center West - Replat
015            No. 3.
2010- 2-17-10  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Ulrich Estate.
016
2010- 5-11-10  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Peach and Venters Subdivision.
059
2010- 7-13-10  Approving the record plan for the final plat of LCNB Subdivision.
078
2011- 1-25-11  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Lebanon Commerce Center Section
009            13.
2011- 3-8-11   Approving the dedication plat for right-of-way on Mason-Morrow-Millgrove Road
019            and Columbia Road.
2011- 4-26-11  Approving the record plan for the final plat of the St. Francis DeSales
036            Subdivision.
2011- 6-28-11  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Avalon Heights being a replat
061            of Lots 9 and 10.
2011- 7-12-11  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Walnut Creek Two-A being a
062            replat of Lots 7444 and 7445.
2011- 9-27-11  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Avalon Heights being a replat
085            of Lots 11 and 12.
2012- 3-13-12  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Lebanon Commerce Center Section
019            14.
2012- 5-8-12   Approving the record plan for the final plat of Horseshoe Falls Subdivision,
042            being a replat of Lots 8008 & 8009.
2012- 5-8-12   Approving the record plan for the final plat of Walnut Creek, Section 3-A.
043
2012- 5-22-12  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Orient Firehouse Subdivision.
045
2012- 9-11-12  Approving the record plan for the final plat of the Lebanon United Methodist
083            Church Subdivision.
2012- 12-11-12 Approving the record plan for the final plat of Reeder's Run Estates Section
113            One, Rev. 1.
2013- 2-12-13  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Keever Place Subdivision.
015
2013- 6-25-13  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Lebanon Commerce Center - North
070            Two.
2013- 7-9-13   Approving the record plan for the final plat Mitchell Subdivision.
081
2013- 11-12-13 Approving the record plan for the final plat of Lebanon Commerce Center XV.
102
2014- 1-14-14  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Kingsview Subdivision Section
001            4.
2014- 1-28-14  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Horseshoe Falls Section 3.
005
2014- 2-11-14  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Fairway Crossings Section
011            Seven.
2014- 6-9-14   Approving the record plan for the final plat of Harmon Industrial Park Section
048            4.
2014- 8-26-14  Approving the record plan for the final plat of St. Francis De Sales.
075
2014- 8-26-14  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Berkshire Way.
076
2014- 11-24-14 Approving the record plan for the final plat of Horseshoe Falls Section 4.
097
2015- 6-9-15   Approving the record plan for the final plat of Lebanon Junior High School.
072
2015- 9-22-15  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Ohio Environmental Development
100            Limited Partnership.
2015- 9-22-15  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Shields Subdivision.
101
2015- 9-22-15  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Lebanon United Methodist Church
102            Subdivision Section 2.
2015- 9-22-15  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Lebanon United Methodist Church
103            Subdivision Section 3.
2015- 10-27-15 Approving the record plan for the final plat of Old Fort Drive-In Theater.
115
2015- 11-10-15 Approving the record plan for the final plat of Trupointe Subdivision Section
123            1.
2015- 11-10-15 Approving the record plan for the final plat of Trupointe Subdivision Section
124            2.
2016- 2-9-16   Approving the record plan for the final plat of South Park Section 2.
015
2016- 2-23-16  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Watson Crossing V.
019
2016- 2-9-16   Approving the record plan for the final plat of Lebanon Citizens National Bank
021            Subdivision.
2016- 4-12-16  Approving the record plan for the final plat of North Broadway Commons.
043
2016- 7-12-16  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Columbia Business Park Section
075            15.
2016- 7-12-16  Approving the record plan for the final plat of S.H.I. Subdivision.
076
2016- 10-11-16 Approving the record plan for the final plat of Anna Lee Wharton Subdivision.
093
2016- 11-22-16 Approving the record plan for the final plat of Avalon Heights Section 3.
105
2016- 12-13-16 Approving the record plan for the final plat of Old Fort Drive-In Theater
117            Section 2.
2016- 12-13-16 Approving the record plan for the final plat of Stephens First Subdivision.
118
2017- 2-14-17  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Broadway North Subdivision.
018
2017- 2-28-17  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Lebanon Public Library.
023
2017- 7-11-17  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Turtlecreek Road Subdivision.
067
2017- 7-11-17  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Lake Commons Subdivision.
074
2017- 11-8-17  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Rosemarie Heights Section
106            Seven.
2017- 11-8-17  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Norris-Bunce First Subdivision.
107
2017- 12-12-17 Approving the record plan for the final plat of Walker Subdivision.
124
2018- 1-9-18   Approving the dedication of plat for right-of- way for Berry Street and Harper
001            Street.
2018- 2-13-18  Approving the Warren County Center Phase Two being a replat of Warren County
010            Center Phase One.
2018- 3-13-18  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Walnut Creek Section 3-B.
021
2018- 4-10-18  Approving the record plan for the final plat of the Old Fort Drive in Theater
036            Section 2 Subdivision.
2018- 4-10-18  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Lebanon Ford Subdivision.
037
2018- 9-11-18  Approving the record plan for the final plat of the Golden Lamb Section 1
079            Subdivision.
2018- 10-23-18 Approving the record plan for the final subdivision plat of the Old Fort Drive
094            In Theater Section 3.
2018- 10-23-18 Approving the record plan for the final plat of Reveres Run Section 9.
095
2019- 1-8-19   Approving the record plan for the final plat of Blair Subdivision.
006
2019- 1-8-     Approving the record plan for the final plat of Harts Plaza Section 2
007   19    Subdivision.
2019- 1-8-     Approving the record plan for the final plat of West Mulberry Street First
008   19    Subdivision.
2019- 3-12-19  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Watson Crossing VI Subdivision.
022
2019- 3-12-19  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Prestige Park Subdivision.
023
2019- 4-23-19  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Heirloom Estates Subdivision.
037
2019- 8-27-19  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Rosemarie Heights Section 8
069            Subdivision.
2019- 12-10-19 Approving the record plan for the final plat of Yawger & Hathaway Addition New
105            Freedom Church Revision Subdivision.
2019- 12-10-19 Approving the record plan for the final plat of Lebanon Commerce Center Section
106            16 Subdivision.
2020- 1-14-20  Approving the record plan for the final plat of North Broadway Commons Section
006            2.
2020- 1-14-20  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Cardinal Acres Subdivision.
007
2020- 2-11-20  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Autumn Ridge Section One.
020
2020- 3-10-20  Approving the record plat for the final plat of Maple Grove Subdivision.
024
2020- 3-24-20  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Monroe Meadows Section One.
027
2020- 5-26-20  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Commerce Center West Section 2.
058
2020- 5-26-20  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Hageman Crossing.
062
2020- 9-11-18  Approving the record plan for the final plat of the Golden Lamb Section 1
079            Subdivision.
2020- 8-11-20  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Bethel African Methodist
080            Episcopal Church Plat.
2020- 8-11-20  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Avalon Heights Section 4.
081
2020- 8-11-20  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Northside Subdivision, Section
082            2, replat of Lot 8099.
2020- 8-11-20  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Traditions of Lebanon.
083
2020- 8-11-20  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Lebanon Public Safety Campus.
084
2020- 12-8-20  Approving the record plan for the final plat of the Estates of Monroe Meadows
125            Section 2.
2021- 4-27-21  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Walnut Creek Section 1-
038            A Subdivision.
2021- 4-27-21  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Cardinal Acres Revision One.
039
2021- 4-27-21  Authorizing the final plat for a section of Justice Drive.
041
2021- 4-27-21  Approving the record plan for the final plat of the Creekside Landing Phase 1.
044
2021- 5-11-21  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Columbia Business Park, Section
046            16 Subdivision.
2021- 5-11-21  Approving the record plan for the final plat of 42 Flats Subdivision.
047
2021- 5-25-21  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Countryside Place Section 1
050            Subdivision.
2021- 6-8-21   Approving the record plan for the final plat of Miller Orchard Subdivision.
056
2021- 8-10-21  Approving the record plan for the final plat of McGinty Southard.
070
2021- 8-10-21  Approving the record plan for the final plat of the Creekside Landing Phase 1
071            “amended”.
2021- 8-10-21  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Hageman Crossing Phase 2.
072
2021- 9-28-21  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Hollingsworth Addition Section
092            One.
2021- 10-12-21 Approving the record plan for the final plat of Autumn Ridge Section 2-
098            A Subdivision.
2022- 1-25-22  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Autumn Woods Section 2-
007            B Subdivision.
2022- 2-22-22  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Columbia Business Park Section
022            17, being a replat of Lot 7859-A and Lot 7297.
2022- 2-22-22  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Bainum’s Run Subdivision.
023
2022- 3-22-22  Approving the record plan for the final plat of McBurney Woods Subdivision.
032
2022- 3-22-22  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Parkside Subdivision Section 1.
033
2022- 4-26-22  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Lebanon Ford Subdivision.
050
2022- 5-24-22  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Pratt Plat Subdivision.
064
2022- 7-12-22  Approving the record plan for the right-of-way dedication plat of Kamlowsky
079            Property.
2022- 7-12-22  Approving the record plan for the right-of-way dedication plat of Klei
080            Property.
2022- 7-12-22  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Lebanon Commerce Center Section
081            XVI.
2022- 8-9-22   Approving the record plan for the final plat of 140 Harmon Ave.
092
2022-          Approving the record plan for the final plat of Horseshoe Falls Section 5,
093   8-9-22   being a replat of Lots 8060A, 8064A, 8066A, and 8068A, and Horseshoe Falls
               Section 3.
2022- 11-9-22  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Norgal Industrial Park Section
124            3.
2022- 11-9-22  Approving the record plan for the right-of-way dedication plat of Mason-Morrow-
125            Millgrove Road.
2022- 11-9-22  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Summerlyn Farms.
126
2023- 1-10-23  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Watson Crossing VII.
003
2023- 4-11-23  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Dew Orchard Subdivision.
035
2023- 4-25-23  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Hollingsworth Addition Section
041            Two.
2023- 7-5-23   Approving the record plan for the final plat of Legacy Landing.
062
2023- 7-11-23  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Grey’s Run.
067
2023- 8-8-23   Approving the record plan for the final plat of Lebanon United Methodist Church
074            - Section 3.
2023- 9-12-23  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Lebanon Landing.
087
2023- 12-12-23 Approving the record plan for the final plat of Lebanon Ford Section 3.
125
2024- 3-26-24  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Lebanon Eagles Aerie
030            Subdivision.
2024- 3-26-24  Approving the record plan for the final plat of Fairway Crossing Section One B
031            Subdivision.
2024- 3-26-24  Approving the record plan for the final plat of CCA Lebanon Subdivision.
032
2024- 4-9-     Approving the record plan for the final plat of Founders Landing Subdivision.
038   24   
2024- 4-9-     Approving the record plan for McBurney Hills Subdivision replat for Lots 3125
039   24    and 3126 and part of Lot 3124.
              
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Description
Ord. Date Description
No.
5263 - -  Awarding a non-exclusive franchise to operate a cable broadband communications
          system within the city to Warner Amex Cable Communications, Inc.
     1-   Awarding a non-exclusive franchise to operate a cable broadband communications
5274 27-  system within the city to Warner Amex Cable Communications, Inc.
     81
     1-   Permitting the transfer of a non-exclusive franchise to operate a cable
5374 12-  broadband communications system within the city from Warner Amex Cable
     82   Communications, Inc., to Warner Amex Cable Communications Co. of Greater
          Cincinnati.
     7-   Awarding a non-exclusive franchise to operate a cable broadband communications
6091 14-  system within the city to R. & S. Cable Co.
     87
Res. 8-8- Authorizing transfer of cable television franchise from R. & S. Cable Co. to
6389 89   Coaxial Communications of Southern Ohio, Inc.
     12-  Authorizing assignment of cable television franchise from Coaxial
7029 13-  Communications of Southern Ohio, Inc., to Chemical Bank.
     94
          Finding Warner Cable Communications, Inc., not in compliance with material
Res. 6-   provision of the non-exclusive cable franchise and providing Warner Cable
7072 13-  Communications, Inc, with notice of opportunity to cure such non- compliance
     95   pursuant to §626(d) of the Cable Communications Act of 1984 and 1992, being 47
          USC 546(d).
Res. 8-   Disapproving the social contract negotiated by Warner Cable and the FCC for
7106 22-  cable television rates and associated costs charged by Warner Cable in the
     95   city.
     2-   Extending the current franchise held by Time Warner Cable for up to three
7176 13-  months beyond the February 27, 1996 expiration.
     96
     5-   Extending the current franchise held by Time Warner Cable for up to three
7224 14-  months beyond the May 23, 1996 expiration.
     96
     7-   Granting Time Warner Cable a non-exclusive franchise to construct, operate and
7256 23-  maintain a cable television system in the city and providing for the regulation
     96   of the franchise in the public interest and providing for compensation to the
          city for the use of the city’s streets and rights of way.
     8-   Establishing effective date of franchise agreement with Time Warner Cable as
7283 27-  August 20, 1996.
     96
     8-   Granting the Lebanon Department of Service - Division of Electricity - Bureau
7432 26-  of Telecommunication Services, a non-exclusive franchise to construct, operate
     97   and maintain a cable television system/utility in the city.
          Authorizing the City Manager to execute a consent to modify its franchise
     2-   agreement with Coaxial Communications of Southern Ohio, Inc. (“Coaxial”)
7610 23-  whereby Coaxial may grant to Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, et al. a
     99   security interest, collateral assignment of, and/or Coaxial’s right, title and
          interest in and to the franchise agreement dated August 8, 1989, between
          Coaxial and the city.
     5-   Granting the Cincinnati Gas and Electric Company a 25-year franchise to place
8449 14-  facilities in public streets and places in the city.
     02
     6-   Authorizing the City Manager to execute a franchise extension agreement with
9175 28-  Century Cablevision Holdings, LLC l/k/a Adelphia Cable Communications.
     05
     12-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with American Electric
9445 12-  Power Service Corporation for a term of three years.
     06
     2-   Assigning the LBTS Franchise agreement to Cincinnati Bell Extended Territories,
9473 13-  LLC.
     07
         
 
TABLE III: REAL PROPERTY TRANSACTIONS
Ord. No. Date Description
Ord.  Date Description
No.
           Authorizing the City Manager to determine terms and conditions for sale of real
      11-  property designated as Kingsview Industrial Park, subject to review and approval
5530  8-83 of Council, the Director of Economic and Community Development, the City Attorney
           and City Auditor, and designating that proceeds of the sale be added to the
           Industrial Park Fund.
           Declaring improvements to real property at Kingsview Industrial Park to be a
      12-  public purpose exempt from real property taxation, and entering into a lease
6154  8-87 agreement with the structure’s owner, and designating all service payments made
           pursuant to the lease agreement be deposited in the Urban Redevelopment Tax
           Increment Equivalent Fund.
           Authorizing the City Manager to determine terms and conditions for sale of real
      5-   property designated as Kingsview Industrial Park, subject to review and approval
6237  24-  of Council, the Director of Economic and Community Development, the City Attorney
      88   and City Auditor, and designating that proceeds of the sale be added to the
           Industrial Park Fund.
           Declaring improvements to real property at Kingsview Industrial Park leased to
      7-   Lucas Sumitomo Brakes, Inc., to be a public purpose exempt from real property
6252  26-  taxation, and entering into a lease agreement with the structure’s owner, and
      88   designating all service payments made pursuant to the lease agreement be
           deposited in the Urban Redevelopment Tax Increment Equivalent Fund.
           Declaring improvements to real property owned by the city at Lebanon Commerce
      1-   Center and leased to Bunnell Hill Development Company to be a public purpose
6320  24-  exempt from real property taxation, and entering into a lease agreement with the
      89   structure’s owner, and designating all service payments made pursuant to the
           lease agreement be deposited in the Urban Redevelopment Tax Increment Equivalent
           Fund.
6920  2-8- Authorizing execution of pre-annexation agreement with Design Homes and
      94   Development Co.
      3-   Authorizing purchase of real estate totaling 10.4505 acres in the Lebanon
6938  22-  Commerce Center from Bunnell Hill Development Co.
      94
      3-   Authorizing the City Manager to execute a lease agreement with Cinmar, L.P., for
6939  22-  real property owned by the city in the Lebanon Commerce Center.
      94
      3-   Authorizing the City Manager to execute a lease agreement with JBM Envelope for
6940  22-  real property owned by the city in the Lebanon Commerce Center.
      94
      4-   Authorizing annexation of real estate owned by the city — Abraham/City of Lebanon
6947  26-  Property.
      94
      4-
6948  26-  Authorizing annexation of Warren County Lumber Property.
      94
      5-   Authorizing annexation of real estate owned by the city — Regional Sewage
6958  10-  Treatment Plant Property.
      94
      5-
6959  10-  Authorizing annexation of real estate owned by the city — Miller Road.
      94
      5-
6960  10-  Authorizing annexation of real estate owned by the city — Bike Path.
      94
Res.  7-
6972  12-  Declaring intent to appropriate easement — Agnello Property.
      94
      7-   Authorizing purchase of real estate located at 458 East Main Street from Lucy R.
6979  12-  Watson- Campbell.
      94
6981  8-9- Accepting annexation of 105.329 acres -- the Garrison Property.
      94
      8-   Authorizing the City Manager to purchase 6.39 acres of real estate at 309-311
6985  23-  Jameson Drive.
      94
      9-
7001  27-  Accepting annexation of 1.926 acres — Mann Property.
      94
7005  11-  Accepting annexation of 2.436 acres — Tudor Property.
      8-94
7006  11-  Accepting annexation of 192.902 acres — Abraham Property.
      8-94
7011  11-  Authorizing annexation of state-owned real estate (I-71) adjacent to Wastewater
      8-94 Treatment Plant and Kingsview Industrial Park areas.
7012  11-  Appropriating easement in, over and across 1.96 acres held by Angelo A. Agnello.
      8-94
      4-   Appropriating easement in, over and across 144.918 acres held by Bernard R.
7056  11-  Froehlich and David A. Garten.
      95
      4-   Authorizing the City Manager to purchase real estate totaling 2.316 acres in the
7065  25-  Lebanon Commerce Center from Cinmar, L.P.
      95
      4-
7068  25-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a lease with Cinmar, L.P.
      95
      7-
7083  11-  Appropriating real property — Wharton, Shaw, Harmon and Summers property.
      95
      7-   Authorizing the City Manager to employ appraisers and others to acquire easements
7094  25-  in, over and across Summit Street property.
      95
Res.  7-   Authorizing the City Manager to appropriate easements for utility purposes in,
7095  25-  over and across Summit Street property.
      95
      8-   Appropriating easements for utility purposes in, over and across real estate
7102  22-  owned by Ruth Downing, Ronnie Stone, Christine Stone and the Ohio Department of
      95   Transportation.
      8-   Appropriating easements for utility purposes in, over and across real estate
7103  22-  owned by Lebanon Farms, Inc., George and Shirley Howard, and Beckmeyer Investment
      95   Co.
      9-
7109  26-  Accepting annexation of 59.2718 acres — DeGarmo property.
      95
      11-  Authorizing annexation of 53.067 acres owned by the Commissioners of Warren
7126  14-  County, Ohio, Engineers Office.
      95
Res.  2-   Lease agreement with Warren County Community Services, Inc. for a 6.39± acre
7180  13-  tract on the west side of Jameson Lane. (Rescinded by Res. 8254, passed 7-10-01.)
      96
      2-   Appropriating real property, described in “Exhibit 1” and “Exhibit 2” as attached
7186  27-  to the ordinance, for the public purpose of providing utilities including storm
      96   sewers to the citizens of the city.
Res.  3-   Declaring intent to appropriate real property, owners of the real estate to be
7184  12-  appropriated are listed in “Schedule 1” attached to the ordinance.
      96
      3-   Accepting application for annexation, 5.0891 acres known as the Calloway Farms
7185  12-  property.
      96
      3-   Authorizing purchase of real estate described in “Schedule 1” attached to the
7187  12-  ordinance for the purposes of the Urban Renewal and Redevelopment Plan.
      96
      3-   Authorizing purchase of real estate described in “Schedule 1” attached to the
7188  12-  ordinance, for purposes of the Urban Renewal and Redevelopment Plan.
      96
      3-
7189  12-  Authorizing purchase of real estate from the estate of Ruth Downing.
      96
      3-   Appropriating easement, as described in “Schedule 1” attached to the ordinance,
7190  12-  for the purpose of providing utility services.
      96
Res.  3-   Municipal services to be provided to certain real property proposed to be annexed
7192  26-  to the city.
      96
      3-   Authorizing purchase of real estate located at 319 - 321 N. Mechanic for Urban
7195  26-  Renewal and Redevelopment Plan.
      96
      3-   Accepting application for annexation of 187.16 acre parcel known as the St. Rt.
7201  26-  48/Highway Patrol Post Annexation.
      96
      3-
7203  26-  Authorizing purchase of real estate for lease to Portman Equipment Company.
      96
      3-   Declaring improvement to real property to be a public purpose in accordance with
7204  26-  the provisions of Ch. 157 of the Codified Ordinances.
      96
      4-
7208  23-  Appropriating real property located at 102 N. High Street.
      96
      5-
7215  14-  Authorizing purchase of real estate known as Fox Farm.
      96
      5-   Appropriating real property, as described in “Schedule 1” attached to the
7216  14-  ordinance for the use and benefit of the owners of the property appropriated.
      96
      5-   Authorizing purchase of a 2± acre parcel of real estate from Mockingbird Farms,
7220  14-  Inc. for lease to R & I Enterprise, Inc.
      96
      5-   Declaring improvements to real property to be a public purpose in accordance with
7221  14-  the provisions of Ch. 157 of the Codified Ordinances.
      96
      5-   Authorizing lease of a certain 2± acre parcel of real estate to R & I Enterprise,
7222  14-  Inc.
      96
      5-   Authorizing purchase of real estate described in “Schedule 1” attached to the
7227  14-  ordinance for the purposes of the Urban Renewal and Redevelopment Plan.
      96
      6-   Authorizing annexation of the real estate described in “Schedule 1” attached to
7242  11-  the ordinance.
      96
7252  7-9- Accepting application for annexation of a 56.898 acre parcel.
      96
7255  7-9- Authorizing purchase of real estate located at 313 N. Mechanic for the purposes
      96   of the Urban Renewal and Redevelopment Plan.
      8-
7262  13-  Accepting application for annexation of a 53.615 acre parcel of land.
      96
      8-   Authorizing purchase of structure located at the corner of Cherry and Mulberry
7263  13-  Streets, being a taxi stand.
      96
      7-   Authorizing purchase of real estate located at 16 Pleasant Street for the
7264  23-  purposes of the Urban Renewal and Redevelopment Plan.
      96
      7-   Authorizing purchase or real estate totaling 7.96 acres in the Lebanon Commerce
7267  23-  Center from Bunnell Hill Development Co., Inc.
      96
      7-   Declaring improvements to real property to be a public purpose in accordance with
7268  23-  the provisions of Ch. 157 of the Codified Ordinances.
      96
      7-   Authorizing lease of 7.96 acre parcel in the Lebanon Commerce Center to Knauf USA
7269  23-  Polystyrene.
      96
Res.  8-   Municipal services to be provided to certain real property proposed to be annexed
7271  13-  to the city from Union Township, Warren County, Mason Farms, Inc.
      96
      8-   Appropriating real estate described in “Schedule 1” attached to the ordinance for
7272  13-  utility purposes from Beckmeyer Investment Co.
      96
      8-   Appropriating a 0.736 acre tract of real property described in “Exhibit A”
7276  27-  attached to the ordinance for utility and roadway purposes.
      96
7292  10-  Accepting application for annexation of a 7.9959 acre parcel known as the St. Rt.
      8-96 48 annexation.
      10-  Authorizing purchase of real estate as described in “Schedule 1” attached to the
7303  22-  ordinance for the purposes of industrial development and employment for the
      96   citizens of the city.
      11-  Authorizing purchase of real estate totaling 9.1827 acres in the Lebanon Commerce
7304  12-  Center from Bunnell Hill Development Co., Inc.
      96
      11-  Declaring improvement to real property to be a public purpose in accordance with
7306  12-  the provisions of Ch. 157 of the Codified Ordinances.
      96
      11-
7307  12-  Authorizing lease of 9.1827 acre parcel to OPW Engineered Systems.
      96
      11-  Authorizing acquisition of easement described in “Schedule 1” attached to the
7324  26-  ordinance for the purposes of industrial development and employment for the
      96   citizens of the city.
      12-  Appropriating real property described in “Schedule 1” attached to the ordinance
7327  10-  for the public purpose of grading, construction and reconstruction of Main
      96   Street.
      12-  Accepting application for annexation of a 61.608 acre parcel known as the Mason
7334  23-  Farms, Inc.
      96
      1-   Authorizing purchase of real estate - Richard R. Shaw property - 511 N. Broadway,
7340  14-  Lebanon, Ohio 45036.
      97
      1-
7341  14-  Authorizing annexation petition - Miller Road right-of-way.
      97
      1-   Authorizing purchase of real estate - Harold K. Sorter property - Central
7342  14-  Business District, Lebanon, Ohio 45036.
      97
      2-
7348  25-  Authorizing exchange of real estate - Warren County Lumber & Truss.
      97
7363  4-8- Authorizing purchase of real estate - 2.9049 acres - Lebanon Commerce Center.
      97
7366  4-8- Authorizing lease to JBM Realty Co. - 2.9049± acre parcel - Lebanon Commerce
      97   Center.
7368  4-8- Appropriating real property - Northwest Farms, Inc., 3000 G Henkle Drive,
      97   Lebanon, Ohio 45036.
      4-
7372  22-  Appropriating real property - Summers.
      97
      4-
7373  22-  Authorizing purchase of real estate - Bluebird Farms, Inc.
      97
      5-   Accepting application for annexation - 80.1271 acre parcel known as the Foley
7379  13-  Annexation.
      97
      5-   Accepting application for annexation - 107.084 acre parcel known as the Fox Farm
7381  27-  - Pence Property annexation.
      97
      6-
7389  10-  Authorizing annexation petition - Bluebird Farms.
      97
      6-
7392  24-  Authorizing annexation petition - Miller Road - 5.249 acre parcel.
      97
      6-
7393  24-  Appropriating easement - Garten/Froehlich Property.
      97
7396  7-8- Accepting application for annexation - 26.064 acre parcel known as the Watson
      97   Annexation.
      7-
7398  22-  Authorizing purchase of real estate - 11± acres - Lebanon Commerce Center.
      97
      7-   Authorizing lease to E-Beam Services, Inc. - 11± acre parcel - Lebanon Commerce
7401  22-  Center.
      97
      7-
7402  22-  Authorizing purchase of real estate - 14± acres - Lebanon Commerce Center.
      97
      7-   Authorizing lease to Manders Premier, Inc. - 14± acre parcel - Lebanon Commerce
7405  22-  Center.
      97
      7-
7406  22-  Authorizing purchase of real estate - 3.64± acres - Lebanon Commerce Center.
      97
      7-   Authorizing lease to J. & N. Distribution and Design, Inc. - 3.64± acre parcel -
7409  22-  Lebanon Commerce Center.
      97
      8-   Authorizing lease to J.I.T. Packaging, Inc. - 5± acre parcel - Lebanon Commerce
7417  12-  Center.
      97
      8-
7418  12-  Authorizing purchase of real estate - 4.7 acres - Norgal Industrial Park.
      97
      8-   Authorizing lease to Eastgate Graphics, Inc. -4.7 acre parcel - Norgal Industrial
7421  12-  Park.
      97
      8-
7414  26-  Appropriating real property - Nixon/Whitley.
      97
7436  9-9- Appropriating real property - Nixon/Whitley.
      97
      2-
7473  10-  Authorizing transfer of real estate containing 2.000 acres.
      98
      2-   Purchase of 6.04± acres of old railroad right of way north of Mason-Morrow Road
7481  24-  between Columbia Road and St. Rt. 42.
      98
      3-
7487  24-  Appropriate real property - Beckmeyer Investment Company.
      98
      5-   Declaring improvement to real property to be a public purpose in accordance with
7502  12-  the provisions of Ch. 157 of the Codified Ordinances.
      98
      5-   Authorizing lease to Unitherm, Inc., a 3.2± acre parcel at Kingsview Industrial
7503  12-  Park.
      98
      5-
7511  26-  Authorizing grant of option to purchase a 3.581 acre parcel with Unitherm, Inc.
      98
Res.  7-   Authorizing the City Manager to negotiate a contract for the purchase of the
7525  28-  former United States Post Office building on South Broadway.
      98
      8-   Determining to proceed with improvement of real estate owned by city and others
7528  25-  in the area of real property owned by Northwest Farms, Inc. by construction of a
      98   utility line.
      8-   Authorizing City Manager to purchase a 64.91 acre parcel of real estate from BMR,
7543  25-  Ltd.
      98
      10-
7552  13-  Amending Ord. 7481 authorizing purchase of railroad right-of-way.
      98
      11-  Authorizing the City Manager to purchase the former United States Post Office
7561  24-  building on South Broadway.
      98
7570  12-  Authorizing City Manager to purchase real estate totaling 3 acres in the Lebanon
      8-98 Commerce Center from Bunnell Hill Development.
7571  12-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a lease with Collins Ink.
      8-98
7572  12-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an addendum to lease to J.I.T. Packaging,
      8-98 Inc.
      12-
7589  22-  Authorizing the City Manager to purchase 123 Glosser Road Interconnect.
      98
Res.  1-   Declaring intent to appropriate a 4.9382 acre parcel of real estate, designated
7593  26-  as Lot #7 and attached to the ordinance as “Schedule 1.”
      99
Res.  2-9- Declaring intent to appropriate real property located at 5-7 South Cherry Street.
7602  99
7603  2-9- Authorizing the City Manager to purchase the real estate at 5-7 South Cherry
      99   Street (the southwest corner of Mulberry and Cherry).
Res.  2-9- Authorizing City Manager to negotiate for the purchase of a 56.75± acre parcel on
7612  99   Cook Road known as the Holman Farm.
      3-   Authorizing the City Manager to purchase real estate located at 104 E. Main
7620  23-  Street.
      99
      3-   Authorizing the sale of the former Post Office property located at 121 South
7624  23-  Broadway to the Warren County Historical Society.
      99
      4-   Declaring improvements to real property to be a public purpose in accordance with
7626  13-  the provisions of Ch. 157 of the Codified Ordinances.
      99
      4-   Authorizing the City Manager to lease to the Warren Historical Society real
7632  27-  estate at the northwest corner of Broadway and South Streets; and to lease from
      99   the Warren Historical Society, the lobby of the building at 121 South Broadway
           for use by the city.
      4-   Accepting application for annexation of a .929 acre parcel known as the Steven L.
7633  27-  Meyer annexation.
      99
      5-   Authorizing the purchase of real estate owned by Terra International, Inc.
7634  11-  located at 1036 State Route 63.
      99
      5-   Authorizing the City Manager to purchase real estate known as Lot #7, Norgal
7648  11-  Industrial Park.
      99
      6-   Authorizing City Manager to execute an agreement to purchase 8± acres of real
7662  22-  estate (Lebanon cemetery) from Charles Stephens.
      99
      6-   Authorizing the City Manager to purchase a 9.7392 acre parcel of real estate from
7673  22-  Bunnell Hill Development Company.
      99
      6-   Declaring improvements to real property to be a public purpose in accordance with
7674  22-  the provisions of Ch. 157 of the Codified Ordinances.
      99
      6-   Authorizing the City Manager to lease a 9.7392 acre parcel of real estate to
7675  22-  Bunnell Hill Development Company.
      99
      9-
7708  14-  Appropriating real property - Summers.
      99
      9-
7709  14-  Appropriating real property - Shaw.
      99
      9-   Accepting application for the annexation of a 56.75 acre parcel known as the
7716  28-  Summers Property Annexation.
      99
Res.  9-
7717  28-  Authorizing acquisition of easements for improvement of SR 63/SR 123.
      99
7742  11-  Appropriating real property - Deerfield Crossings Limited Partnership.
      1-99
      11-
7723  23-  Appropriating real property - Main Street Improvement.
      99
      12-  Accepting application for the annexation of a 2.8356 acre parcel known as the
7745  14-  Horton Annexation.
      99
      1-   Declaring improvements to real property owned by the city and leased to AWS
7770  25-  Industries, Inc. dba Tomak Precision to be a public purpose in accordance with
      00   Chapter 157.
7820  5-9- Declaring improvements to real property owned by the city and leased to Columbia
      00   Franklin L.L.C. to be a public purpose in accordance with Chapter 157.
7821  5-9- Authorizing lease to Columbia Franklin L.L.C.
      00
7823  5-9- Appropriating real property at 27 North Mechanic Street.
      00
      6-   Declaring improvements to real property owned by the city and leased to Quantum
7847  13-  Metals, Inc. to be a public purpose in accordance with Chapter 157.
      00
      6-
7858  27-  Authorizing lease to Trim Parts, Inc.
      00
      6-   Declaring improvements to real property owned by the city and leased to Trim
7859  27-  Parts, Inc. to be a public purpose in accordance with Chapter 157.
      00
      10-
7949  10-  Authorizing lease to Quantum Metals, Inc. or Alloy Farms, LLC.
      00
      10-  Indicating municipal services to be provided to certain real property proposed to
7974  24-  be annexed to the city from Turtlecreek Township.
      00
      11-
7983  14-  Authorizing lease to Doran Enterprises, Inc.
      00
      11-  Declaring improvements to real property owned by the city and leased to Doran
7984  14-  Enterprises, Inc. to be a public purpose in accordance with Chapter 157.
      00
      10-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an estoppel certificate and lessor
7993  24-  consent agreement between Firstar Bank, N.A., E- Beam Services, Inc. and the
      00   city.
      11-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an estoppel and attornment agreement and
8011  28-  consent to leasehold mortgage between Peoples Community Bank and the city.
      00
      12-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute and adopt covenants and restrictions for
8014  12-  Columbia Business Park.
      00
      12-  Authorizing the City Manager to pay $1,400 to Bonnie Lou Clark for real property
8023  28-  taken in appropriation.
      00
8035  1-9- Authorizing the City Manager to execute an assignment of lease between Unitherm
      01   Inc. and Messer Holdings Ltd. on behalf of the city.
      2-   Accepting the application for the annexation of a 9.839 acre parcel known as the
8080  13-  Agri-Urban Annexation.
      01
      3-   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an acknowledgment and consent agreement
8158  27-  between Bunnell Hill Development Co. and the city.
      01
      4-
8149  10-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a lease with CTS Construction, Inc.
      01
      4-   Declaring improvements to real property owned by the city and leased to CTS
8150  10-  Construction, Inc., to be a public purpose in accordance with Chapter 157.
      01
      4-
8152  10-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a lease with Keland Steel Erectors, Inc.
      01
      4-   Declaring improvements to real property owned by the city and leased to Keland
8153  10-  Steel Erectors, Inc., to be a public purpose in accordance with Chapter 157.
      01
      4-
8155  10-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a lease with G/C Contracting Corporation.
      01
      4-   Declaring improvements to real property owned by the city and leased to G/
8156  10-  C Contracting Corporation to be a public purpose in accordance with Chapter 157.
      01
Res.  4-   Indicating municipal services to be provided to certain real property, known as
8165  24-  the Kuehn Property, proposed to be annexed to the city from Turtlecreek Township,
      01   Warren County, Ohio.
      5-   Authorizing the City Manager to execute a lease with Superior Walls Southwest
8186  22-  Ohio, LLC.
      01
      5-   Declaring improvements to real property owned by the city and leased to Superior
8187  22-  Walls Southwest Ohio, LLC, to be a public purpose in accordance with Chapter 157.
      01
      6-
8203  12-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a lease with 4 Sands Industries, Inc.
      01
      6-   Declaring improvements to real property owned by the city and leased to 4 Sands
8204  12-  Industries, Inc., to be a public purpose in accordance with Chapter 157.
      01
      5-
8207  22-  Appropriating certain real property for the purpose of improving Main Street.
      01
Res.  7-   Rescinding Res. 7180, which authorized a lease agreement with Warren County
8254  10-  Community Services.
      01
      8-   Authorizing the City Manager to execute a lease between the city and the Lebanon
8257  14-  Historic Conservancy Foundation, Inc.
      01
      8-   Authorizing the City Manager to execute a landlord waiver, consent,
8271  14-  nondisturbance and attornment agreement between Bank One Ohio, N.A., and the
      01   city.
      9-   Accepting the application for annexation of a 162.8365 acre parcel known as the
8286  12-  Kuehn Property.
      01
      10-
8320  23-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a lease with the Lebanon Food Pantry.
      01
      10-
8321  23-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a lease with the Lebanon Free Store.
      01
      10-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a lease with the Youth for a Better
8322  23-  Tomorrow.
      01
Res.  10-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a landlord consent, subordination and
8328  9-01 estoppel agreement with 4 Sands Industries, Inc.
      11-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a lease with Contemporary Image Labeling,
8335  13-  Inc.
      01
      11-  Declaring improvements to real property owned by the city and leased to
8336  13-  Contemporary Image Labeling, Inc. to be a public purpose in accordance with
      01   Chapter 157.
Res.  10-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a petition for annexation of certain
8348  23-  territory known as Calloway Farms.
      01
Res.  10-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a petition for annexation of certain
8349  23-  territory known as Kings Acres.
      01
Res.  10-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a petition for annexation of certain
8350  23-  territory known as Drake Road.
      01
Res.  11-  Indicating municipal services to be provided to certain real property, known as
8353  13-  the “Hart Road Annexation” proposed to be annexed to the city from Turtlecreek
      01   Township, Warren County, Ohio.
Res.  11-  Indicating municipal services to be provided to certain real property, known as
8354  13-  the “Lavelle Annexation” proposed to be annexed to the city from Turtlecreek
      01   Township, Warren County, Ohio.
Res.  11-  Indicating municipal services to be provided to certain real property, known as
8356  13-  the “Watson Annexation” proposed to be annexed to the city from Turtlecreek
      01   Township, Warren County, Ohio.
Res.  11-  Indicating municipal services to be provided to certain real property, known as
8357  13-  the “School District Annexation” proposed to be annexed to the city from
      01   Turtlecreek Township, Warren County, Ohio.
Res.  11-  Indicating municipal services to be provided to certain real property, known as
8358  13-  the “Glosser- Richardson Road Annexation” proposed to be annexed to the city from
      01   Turtlecreek Township, Warren County, Ohio.
Res.  11-  Indicating municipal services to be provided to certain real property, known as
8359  13-  the “Cincinnati Avenue Annexation” proposed to be annexed to the city from
      01   Turtlecreek Township, Warren County, Ohio.
Res.  11-  Indicating municipal services to be provided to certain real property, known as
8360  13-  the “Las Colinas de Lebanon Annexation” proposed to be annexed to the city from
      01   Turtlecreek Township, Warren County, Ohio.
Res.  11-  Indicating municipal services to be provided to certain real property, known as
8361  13-  the “Eigel and Weis Annexation” proposed to be annexed to the city from
      01   Turtlecreek Township, Warren County, Ohio.
Res.  11-  Indicating municipal services to be provided to certain real property, known as
8362  13-  the “Turtlecreek-Union Road Annexation” proposed to be annexed to the city from
      01   Union Township, Warren County, Ohio.
Res.  11-  Indicating municipal services to be provided to certain real property, known as
8363  13-  the “Powell Annexation” proposed to be annexed to the city from Union Township,
      01   Warren County, Ohio.
Res.  11-  Indicating municipal services to be provided to certain real property, known as
8364  13-  the “Byrd Annexation” proposed to be annexed to the city from Union Township,
      01   Warren County, Ohio.
Res.  11-  Indicating municipal services to be provided to certain real property, known as
8365  13-  the “Cardinal Farms Annexation” proposed to be annexed to the city from Union
      01   Township, Warren County, Ohio.
Res.  11-  Indicating municipal services to be provided to certain real property, known as
8366  13-  the “Rainey Annexation” proposed to be annexed to the city from Union Township,
      01   Warren County, Ohio.
Res.  11-  Indicating municipal services to be provided to certain real property, known as
8367  13-  the “Federle and Craft Annexation” proposed to be annexed to the city from Union
      01   Township, Warren County, Ohio.
Res.  11-  Indicating municipal services to be provided to certain real property, known as
8368  13-  the “Kingsview Drive Annexation” proposed to be annexed to the city from Union
      01   Township, Warren County, Ohio.
      11-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute and present to the Board of County
8369  13-  Commissioners a petition for a change of township boundaries.
      01
Res.  12-  Indicating municipal services to be provided to certain real property, known as
8408  20-  the “Gambill Annexation” proposed to be annexed to the city from Turtlecreek
      01   Township, Warren County, Ohio.
      1-   Authorizing the City Manager to execute a landlord consent, subordination and
8413  22-  estoppel agreement in favor of the Certified Development Corporation of Warren
      02   County, Inc.
      2-   Authorizing the acting City Manager to execute a lease with Nu-Tech Polymers Co.,
8427  26-  Inc.
      02
      2-   Declaring improvements to real property owned by the city and leased to Nu-Tech
8428  26-  Polymers Co., Inc. to be a public purpose in accordance with Chapter 157.
      02
      3-   Authorizing the City Manager to execute a municipal lease agreement with
8439  26-  Southeastern Equipment Co., Inc.
      02
      3-   Authorizing the City Manager to execute a quit-claim deed in connection with the
8442  26-  purchase of the Harold K. Sorter property.
      02
Res.  4-   Declaring intent to appropriate real property for the purpose of completing the
8450  23-  North Loop Extension project.
      02
      5-7- Authorizing the City Manager to execute an acknowledgment and consent on an open-
8458  02   end leasehold mortgage and security agreement between JBM Realty Company, P.L.L.
           and Fifth Third Bank.
      5-7- Authorizing the City Manager to execute an acknowledgment and consent on an
8459  02   assignment of rents and leases between JBM Realty Co., P.L.L. and Fifth Third
           Bank.
      5-   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement and an entry permit with
8471  28-  Timothy T. Lewis.
      02
8492  7-9- Accepting the application for annexation of a 0.905 acre parcel known as the
      02   Powell Annexation.
8493  7-9- Accepting the application for annexation of a 2.764 acre parcel known as the
      02   Turtlecreek- Union Road Annexation.
      7-   Accepting the application for annexation of a 90.5793 acre parcel known as the
8503  23-  School District Annexation.
      02
      7-   Declaring improvements to real property owned by the city and leased to Spectrum
8509  23-  Computer Products to be a public purpose in accordance with Chapter 157.
      02
      7-
8511  23-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a lease with Spectrum Computer Products.
      02
      7-   Declaring improvements to real property owned by the city and leased to Allen
8512  23-  Fields Associates, Inc., Phoenix Custom Homes, Inc., and A.C.R., Inc. to be a
      02   public purpose in accordance with Chapter 157.
      7-   Authorizing the City Manager to execute a lease with Allen Fields Associates,
8514  23-  Inc., Phoenix Custom Homes, Inc., and A.C.R., Inc.
      02
      8-   Accepting the application for annexation of a 2.466 acre parcel known as the Byrd
8534  27-  Annexation.
      02
      8-   Accepting the application for annexation of a 165.329 acre parcel known as the
8535  27-  Watson Annexation.
      02
      8-   Accepting the application for annexation of a 3.722 acre parcel known as the
8536  27-  Kingsview Drive Annexation.
      02
      9-   Accepting application for annexation of a 34.817 acre parcel known as the Rainey
8538  10-  Annexation.
      02
      10-  Accepting application for annexation of a 14.776 acre parcel known as the
8582  22-  Cincinnati Avenue Annexation.
      02
      10-  Accepting application for annexation of a 7.439 acre parcel known as the Cardinal
8583  22-  Farms Annexation.
      02
      10-  Accepting application for annexation of a 3.294 acre parcel known as the Glosser-
8584  22-  Richardson Road Annexation.
      02
Res.  11-
8610  26-  Rescinding Ordinance Nos. 8152 and 8153
      02
      11-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a lease with Star Packaging and
8612  26-  Distribution, Inc.
      02
      12-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a memorandum of lease with ZHW
8619  10-  Properties, LLC.
      02
      12-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an assignment of lease between Eastgate
8620  10-  Graphics, Inc. and Novel Properties, LLC.
      02
      2-   Authorizing the City Manager to execute a lease with the Lebanon, Ohio Optimists
8674  11-  Club.
      03
      2-   Authorizing the City Manager to execute a lease with the Lebanon, Ohio Rotary
8675  11-  Club.
      03
      2-   Authorizing the City Manager to execute a lease with the Lebanon, Ohio Lion’s
8676  11-  Club.
      03
      3-
8699  25-  Assenting to detachment of territory in Turtlecreek Township.
      03
      3-   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an amendment to lease with Bunnell Hill
8701  25-  Development Company.
      03
      3-   Authorizing the City Manager to execute a purchase contract with Beckmeyer
8702  25-  Investment Company.
      03
      4-   Accepting application for annexation of a 123.67 acre parcel known as the Eigel &
8709  22-  Weiss Annexation.
      03
      4-   Authorizing the City Manager to execute a lease with Ohio Premium Provisions,
8723  22-  Inc.
      03
      4-
8726  22-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a lease with Triple Q Foundations.
      03
      4-   Authorizing the City Manager to execute a lease with Nu-Tech Polymers. (Repealed
8729  22-  by 9458)
      03
      5-
8751  27-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a lease with Pump Pro’s.
      03
8800  7-8- Authorizing the City Manager to execute a lease with FECON, Inc.
      03
8803  7-8- Authorizing the City Manager to execute an acknowledgment and consent of
      03   assignment and assumption of lease to CR&G, Ltd.
      8-   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement for sale and limited
8825  26-  warranty deed from the city of Lebanon to Mr. John Mullins.
      03
      11-  Declaring intent to acquire real property - Lebanon-Countryside YMCA Bikeway
8875  25-  Project.
      03
      11-  Declaring improvements to real property to be a public purpose in accordance with
8876  25-  the provisions of Chapter 157.
      03
      11-
8878  25-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a lease with JSB Industries.
      03
      1-
8895  27-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a lease agreement with Fred Vonderhaar.
      04
      1-
8897  27-  Appropriating real property - Lebanon- Countryside YMCA Bike Path.
      04
      1-   Authorizing the City Manager to execute a lease agreement with Lebanon Community
8898  27-  Services.
      04
      2-   Authorizing the City Manager to execute a lease with Ohio Valley Environmental
8906  24-  Engineering, Inc.
      04
      2-   Declaring improvements to real property to be a public purpose in accordance with
8907  24-  the provisions of Chapter 157.
      04
8957  6-8- Authorizing the City Manager to execute an assignment and assumption of lease
      04   between Fecon, Inc. and Grant Road Properties, LLC.
      6-   Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract to purchase between the city
8958  17-  of Lebanon and Henkle-Schueler and Associates, Inc.
      04
      9-
8997  14-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a lease with Everything's Image, Inc.
      04
      9-   Declaring improvements to real property to be a public purpose in accordance with
8998  14-  the provisions of Chapter 157.
      04
      10-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a lease with Addis Glass Fabricating,
9015  12-  Inc.
      04
      10-  Declaring improvements to real property to be a public purpose in accordance with
9016  12-  the provisions of Chapter 157.
      04
      11-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a lease with Tranet, Inc. (Repealed by
9047  23-  9574)
      04
      11-  Declaring improvements to real property to be a public purpose in accordance with
9048  23-  the provisions of Chapter 157. (Repealed by 9574)
      04
      11-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a quit claim deed with the Civic Trust of
9051  23-  Lebanon on the William Elmer Harmon Foundation.
      04
      9-   Authorizing the City Manager to execute a lease with ADMC Holding Co. LLC for a
9204  13-  parcel of land in Kingsview Industrial Park.
      05
      3-   Accepting application for annexation of a 61.5 acre parcel known as the White
9304  28-  Annexation.
      06
9320  5-9- Accepting application for annexation of a 1.689 acre parcel known as the church
      06   annexation.
      8-   Accepting application for annexation of a 1.827 acre parcel known as the
9371  22-  Turtlecreek Annexation
      06
      11-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an amendment to lease with Grant Road
9441  28-  Properties, LLC
      06
      2-   Authorizing the City Manager to execute a lease with Cincinnati Bell Extended
9476  13-  Territories LLC.
      07
      2-
9483  27-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a governmental Annexation Agreement.
      07
9512  5-8- Authorizing the City Manager to execute a lease with the Lebanon Free Store.
      07
9513  5-8- Authorizing the City Manager to execute a lease with the Lebanon Food Pantry.
      07
      4-   Authorizing the City Manager to execute a lease addenda for use of office space
9514  24-  in Sams House.
      07
      4-
9517  24-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a lease with Miami Woodworking, Inc.
      07
      5-   Approving the purchase of a utility easement for the North Fork Sanitary Sewer
9528  22-  Extension.
      07
      9-
9574  25-  Repealing Ords. 9046, 9047, and 9048.
      07
      2-   Accepting application for annexation - 48.805 acre parcel known as the Spurling
9660  26-  Farm Annexation.
      08
      3-   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an assignment of ground lease with
9675  17-  Fukutomo Company, Inc.
      08
      3-   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an estoppel certificate with Fukutomo
9676  17-  Company, Inc.
      08
      5-   Accepting application for annexation - 1.326 acre parcel known as the Grant Road
9704  27-  Properties, LLC Property Annexation.
      08
      6-   Authorizing the City Manager to execute a lease with the Warren-Butler Community
9728  24-  Chaplains Corps.
      08
9736  7-1- Authorizing the City Manager to execute an assignment and assumption of lease
      08   between Knauf USA Polystyrene, Inc. and Ultimate Building Systems, Inc.
9737  7-1- Authorizing the City Manager to execute an estoppel certificate with Knauf USA
      08   Polystyrene, Inc.
Res.  7-
9744  22-  Accepting ownership of 5.3206 acres of land from Countryside YMCA.
      08
      8-   Authorizing the City Manager to execute and present a petition for a change of
9745  12-  township boundaries to the Warren County Board of Commissioners - 1.326 acre
      08   parcel known as the Grant Road Properties, LLC Property Annexation.
      8-   Accepting application for annexation - 98.881 acre parcel known as the Ulrich &
9746  12-  Brooks Property Annexation.
      08
9765  9-9- Authorizing the City Manager to execute a modified lease with Cincinnati Bell
      08   Extended Territories, LLC.
Res.  1-   Exchanging 0.4086 acres of property from the Miller Park Property for 0.4086
2009- 13-  acres of right-of-way from Steven and Kathleen Henry, property owners of 629
001   09   Miller Road.
2009- 4-   Authorizing City Manager to execute lease addenda for use of office space in SAMS
027   14-  House.
      09
2012- 1-   Authorizing the City Manager to execute a modified lease with Cincinnati Bell
005   10-  Extended Territories, LLC.
      12
2012- 3-   Authorizing the City Manager to execute a consent to assignment of lease between
023   27-  Star Packaging and Distribution, Inc. and Star Packaging and Distribution, LLC.
      12
2012- 6-   Appropriating property known as 1002 West Main Street and owned by Jeffrey J.
060   26-  Myers and Christine M. Frick, for the construction and maintenance of Highway
      12   Project WAR-SR63/SR123.
2012- 8-   Appropriating property known as 1002 West Main Street and owned by Jeffrey J.
071   14-  Myers and Christine M. Frick, for the construction and maintenance of Highway
      12   Project WAR-SR63/SR123.
2012- 9-   Appropriating multiple parcels of real estate required for the construction and
085   11-  maintenance of Highway Project WAR- SR63/SR123, for property owned by Eastside
      12   Development, LLC, Toll House Farms, Inc., and P.A. Rodenbeck and Associates, Inc.
      11-  Appropriating multiple parcels of real estate required for the construction and
2012- 13-  maintenance of Highway Project WAR- SR63/SR123, for property owned by Eastside
098   12   Development, LLC, Toll House Farms, Inc., P.A. Rodenbeck and Associates, Inc.,
           and Michael L. and Michelle R. Benner.
2013- 2-   Approving the internal asset sale of city-owned property from the Water Fund to
016   26-  the Tax Increment Financing Fund.
      13
2013- 3-   Authorizing the City Manager to execute lease addenda for use of office space in
024   12-  Sams House.
      13
2013- 4-9- Authorizing a settlement for property interests owned by Toll House Farms, Inc.
046   13
2013- 10-  Authorizing a settlement for property interests owned by Jeffrey J. Myers and
097   8-13 Christine M. Frick.
2014- 2-   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an assignment and assumption of lease and
013   11-  inducement agreement between B&R Ventures, LLC and Grant Road Properties, LLC.
      14
2014- 4-8- Authorizing the City Manager to transfer 3.5516 acres of land within Columbia
026   14   Business Park to Grant Road Properties, LLC, and execute a quit claim deed.
2014- 4-   Authorizing the City Manager to execute a consent to assignment of lease between
034   22-  Centerpoint Properties Trust and Becknell Industrial, LLC.
      14
2014- 5-   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an estoppel certificate and a consent to
046   27-  assignment of lease between Centerpoint Properties Trust and Ohio Becknell
      14   Investors 2007 LLC.
2014- 6-3- Authorizing the City Manager to execute an affidavit of consent to leasehold
047   14   mortgage and consent to assignment of lease between AWS Real Estate, Inc. and the
           Huntington National Bank.
2015- 6-   Approving the donation of the city owned property at 14 West Silver Street to
065   23-  Bunnell Hill Development Company.
      15
Res.  11-  Authorizing the modification to lease agreement with Wizeguys, LLC (Village Wine
2015- 24-  Cellars).
128   15
2016- 3-   Approving the lease agreement between the city and Fiducia LRC, Inc. for an
030   22-  outdoor dining area at 6-12 West Mulberry Street (Doc’s Place).
      16
2016- 4-   Authorizing the City Manager to terminate the lease agreement between the city
044   12-  and Flint Group North America Corporation; and to transfer ownership of leased
      16   property to the Flint Group through execution and delivery of a warranty deed.
      5-   Authorizing the City Manager to terminate the lease agreement between the city
2016- 24-  and Quantum Metals, Inc./Alloy Farms, LLC; and to transfer ownership of lease
060   16   property to Allow Farms, LLC through execution and delivery of a general warranty
           deed.
2016- 7-   Authorizing the City Manager to terminate specific lease agreements and to
070   12-  transfer ownership of leased property to specific owners through execution and
      16   delivery of a general warranty deed.
2016- 10-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a five-year farm lease agreement with
091   11-  Fred Vonderhaar allowing Mr. Vonderhaar to lease 233 acres of city-owned
      16   property.
2016- 10-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a real estate purchase contract for the
099   25-  sale of city owned property on Kingsview Drive with Sundance Partners, LLC.
      16
2017- 2-   Authorizing the City Manager to transfer city owned property to the Board of the
017   14-  Lebanon Public Library, and to execute a quit claim deed.
      17
2017- 4-
039   11-  Authorizing the purchase of real property.
      17
2017- 11-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a real estate purchase contract with
114   14-  Lebanon West Main Street Development, LLC for the sale of city owned property at
      17   the corner of State Route 63 and Neil Armstrong Way.
2018- 9-   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with the Warren County
077   25-  Commissioners for the purchase of six acres located at 601 North Broadway.
      18
2019- 2-   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with the Kings Local School
013   26-  District for the sale of 13 acres located at 1525 Mason Morrow Millgrove Road.
      19
2019- 4-9- Rescinding Ordinance 2017-122 and authorizing the City Manager to execute a
028   19   purchase agreement with Highland Development Partners LLC to sell 64.91 acres of
           real property located at U.S. 42.
2019- 8-   Authorizing the City Manager to execute a real estate purchase contract with
065   27-  Bethel AME Church for the sale of city owned parcels in the Pleasant Square
      19   vicinity in the amount of $46,000.
2020- 2-   Authorizing the City Manager to execute a real estate purchase and sales contract
018   11-  with Newman Sanitary Gasket for the sale of city owned property located on Neil
      20   Armstrong Way.
2020- 10-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a real estate purchase agreement with
103   13-  Rise Lebanon OH, LLC for certain property.
      20
2020- 12-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a development and real estate transfer
118   8-20 agreement with High Pointe Custom Homes, LLC for certain property located in
           Lebanon.
2021- 3-
034   23-  Authorizing the purchase of real property located at 580 N. Broadway Avenue.
      21
2021- 11-  Authorizing the purchase of a 16.17 acre vacant parcel located on Glosser-
111   9-21 Richardson Road.
2021- 12-  Authorizing the exchange of real property at 119. S. East Street between the city
119   14-  and Amy Elizabeth Sheppard.
      21
2022- 1-   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a real estate purchase and sale
005   25-  agreement with Premier Packaging, LLC for certain properties.
      22
2022- 2-8- Authorizing the City Manager to execute a lease agreement for use of space at 535
015   22   N. Broadway Avenue.
2022- 2-8- Authorizing the City Manager to execute a real estate exchange agreement with
017   22   Fecon, Inc.
2022- 2-
025   22-  Authorizing the purchase of real property located at 541 N. Broadway Avenue.
      22
2022- 4-   Authorizing the City Manager to purchase property from the Fellowship Baptist
049   26-  Church for the Deerfield Road bike path extension.
      22
2022- 4-   Approving an annexation agreement with the Board of Township Trustees of Union
052   26-  Township and authorizing and directing the City Manager to execute and deliver
      22   said annexation agreement.
2022- 7-   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a development and real estate transfer
078   12-  agreement with JDH Building Group, LLC for certain property.
      22
2022- 11-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a petition for annexation with the Board
115   9-22 of County Commissioners of Warren County, OH.
2022- 11-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a petition for annexation with the Board
116   9-22 of County Commissioners of Warren County, OH.
2022- 11-
134   15-  Authorizing the purchase of real property located at 998 Cincinnati Avenue.
      22
2022- 12-  Authorizing the purchase of real property located at 120 S. Broadway Avenue.
135   6-22
2022- 12-  Accepting an annexation of 80.511 acres known as the Byer Property from Union
136   13-  Township.
      22
Res.  2-   Authorizing the City Manager to execute the first addendum to the development
2023- 14-  with JDH Building Group, LLC.
020   23
2023- 6-   Rescinding Ordinance 2022-116 and authorizing the City Manager to execute a
049   13-  petition for annexation with the Board of County Commissioners of Warren County,
      23   OH.
2023- 5-   Rescinding Ordinance 2023-042 and approving an annexation agreement with the
050   23-  Board of Township Trustees of Turtlecreek Township.
      23
2023- 7-5- Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a development and real estate transfer
063   23   agreement with JCS Broadway Holding Company, LLC for property located at 535
           North Broadway.
2023- 7-   Accepting annexation of 51.4419 acres of city- owned land in Turtlecreek
070   11-  Township.
      23
Res.  8-
23-   24-  Approving annexation of 12.7807 acres to the city.
1102  23
2023- 9-   Accepting annexation of 54.6772 acres of city- owned land in Turtlecreek
086   12-  Township.
      23
2023- 9-   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a development and real estate transfer
093   26-  agreement with Bloomfield Schon Investments, LLC for property located at 120
      23   South Broadway.
2023- 11-  Accepting annexation of 12.7807 acres known as the Shaw Property from Turtlecreek
106   28-  Township.
      23
2023- 11-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with the Warren County
111   28-  Commissioners for approximately 5.0001 acres of real property from the city.
      23
2023- 11-
118   28-  Authorizing the purchase of property located at 576 Columbus Avenue.
      23
2024- 2-   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a development and real estate transfer
013   13-  agreement with High Pointe Construction & Development, LLC for certain property
      24   located in Lebanon.
2024- 2-
017   27-  Authorizing the sale of property in the form of an easement to Duke Energy.
      24
2024- 3-   Authorizing the City Manager to negotiate the disposition of 3.931 acres of city-
026   26-  owned land for economic development purposes.
      24
2024- 5-   Authorizing the City Manager to execute the first addendum to the 2022-2026 farm
050   14-  lease agreement for non-exempt property.
      24
          
 
TABLE IV: ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS
Ord. No. Date Description
Ord.  Date Description
No.
      4-   Rezoning an area encompassing approximately 9.940± acres located at 665 N.
7211  23-  Broadway from R-1C to Resort District.
      96
7246  7-9- Rezoning a recently annexed area, encompassing approximately 187.16± acres,
      96   located on the east side of By-Pass 48, north of I-71, from R-1A to SC.
      8-   Rezoning an area described in “Exhibit A” attached to the ordinance, from R-1A to
7247  13-  R-1B- PUD.
      96
      3-   Rezoning an area described in “Exhibit A” attached to the ordinance, from R-1A to
7360  25-  I-1.
      97
      3-   Rezoning an area described in “Exhibit A” attached to the ordinance, from R-1A to
7361  25-  I-1.
      97
      3-   Rezoning an area described in “Exhibit A” attached to the ordinance, from R-1A to
7362  25-  PO.
      97
      5-   Rezoning an area described in “Exhibit A” attached to the ordinance, from R-1U to
7385  27-  CBD.
      97
      8-   Rezoning an area described in “Exhibit A” attached to the ordinance, from R-1A to
7411  12-  SC.
      97
      1-   Rezoning an area described in “Exhibit A” attached to the ordinance, from R-1CC
7464  13-  to I-1.
      98
      7-   Rezoning an area described in “Exhibit A” (Bluebird Farms) attached to the
7520  14-  ordinance, from R-1A to I-1.
      98
      7-   Rezoning an area described in “Exhibit A” (Fox/Pence Farm) attached to the
7521  14-  ordinance, from R-1A to I-1.
      98
      8-   Rezoning an area described in “Exhibit A” (intersection of Georgetown and Harvard
7539  25-  Drives) attached to the ordinance, from R-2 to R-1CC.
      98
      6-   Rezoning an area described in “Exhibit A” (located south of Turtlecreek-Union
7660  22-  Road) attached to the ordinance, from PO to I-1.
      99
      8-   Rezoning an area being a tract of 58.8± acres, described in map attached to the
7692  10-  ordinance, from R-R to R-1A PUD.
      99
      8-   Rezoning an area described in “Exhibit A” attached to the ordinance, from I-1 to
7693  10-  SC.
      99
      8-   Rezoning an area described in “Exhibit A” attached to the ordinance, from R-1C to
7694  10-  NC.
      99
      8-   Rezoning an area described in “Exhibit A” attached to the ordinance, to GW
7695  10-  (Gateway) Overlay.
      99
7775  2-8- Rezoning an area (498 Drexel Avenue) described in “Exhibit A,” attached to the
      00   ordinance, from R-1D to GC.
      3-   Rezoning an area (west side of Deerfield Road) described in the ordinance from R-
7776  28-  1B to R-1B- PUD.
      00
      4-   Rezoning an area (Horton Annexation) described in “Exhibit A,” attached to the
7799  11-  ordinance, from R-R to PO.
      00
      4-   Rezoning an area (BMR Annexation) described in “Exhibit A,” attached to the
7800  11-  ordinance, from PO to I-1.
      00
      5-9- Rezoning an area (southwest corner of West Main Street and Glosser Road, owned by
7812  00   Larry Buchanan) described in “Exhibit A,” attached to the ordinance, from I-1 to
           NSC.
      4-   Rezoning an area (2015 Homan Road) described in “Exhibit A,” attached to the
8135  10-  ordinance, from R-1C to PO.
      01
      4-   Rezoning an area described in “Exhibit A,” attached to the ordinance, from R-R to
8136  10-  I-1.
      01
      8-   Rezoning an area (southwest corner of West Main Street and Glosser Road, owned by
8261  14-  Larry Buchanan) described in “Exhibit A,” attached to the ordinance, from NSC to
      01   I-1.
      10-  Rezoning an area encompassing approximately 3 acres, located on the north side of
8311  9-01 E. Main Street, just east of Oregonia Road, described in “Exhibit A,” attached to
           the ordinance, from R-3 to NSC.
      5-   Rezoning an area bordered by Turtle Creek to the west, New Street to the north,
8444  14-  Mechanic street to the east and Warren Street to the south from R-1U to CBD.
      02
      6-
8738  10-  Rezoning property off of Turtlecreek-Union Road from R-1C to PO.
      03
      12-
8883  23-  Rezoning an area described in a map attached to the ordinance from R-1U to CBD.
      03
      12-  Rezoning the area of Lebanon City Schools (Dunlavy), 501 Water Street, 15.0±
8884  23-  acres, from R-1C to PO.
      03
      3-   Rezoning property at the northeast corner of U.S. 42 and By-Pass 48, 57.363±
8890  23-  acres, from RR to SC.
      04
      6-   Rezoning property at the southeast corner of North Broadway and Miller Road
8952  22-  Extension, 30.23± acres, from R-1B to PO.
      04
      9-   Rezoning 204 Monroe Road (Lebanon Swim Club), 9.738± acres, from R-1C to R-1C-
9003  28-  PUD.
      04
      4-
9124  12-  Approving the city’s official zoning map.
      05
(Repealed by 9510)
      4-
9127  12-  Rezoning 122.15 acres of land in the Bluffs of Lebanon II from RR to RR-PUD.
      05
9370  8-8- Rezoning 1536 N. U.S. Route 42, 1.38± acres, from RR to SC.
      06
9510  5-8- Repealing the city’s official zoning map adopted by Ord. 9124.
      07
      11-
9629  27-  Rezoning 3409 Columbia Road, 1.373± acres, from PO to I-1.
      07
      4-
9684  22-  Rezoning 3845 and 3905 Columbia Road from PO to I-1.
      08
2009- 8-4- Rezoning 1.672 acres of property located at 749 Columbus Avenue from R-1C to GC.
072   09
2009- 9-
095   22-  Rezoning 11.5332 acres of property located at 161 Miller Road from R-1C to PO.
      09
2010- 10-  Rezoning 1.333 acres of property located at 210 West Main Street from R-1U to
101   12-  CBD.
      10
2013- 11-
106   26-  Rezoning 0.6818 +/- acres located at 3949 Columbia Road from PO to I-1.
      13
2014- 8-   Rezoning 1.8618+/- acres located at the northwest corner of Main Street and the
068   12-  future Neil Armstrong Way from I-1 to NC.
      14
2014- 8-
074   26-  Rezoning 8.56 +/- acres located at 20 De Sales Avenue from R-1C to PO.
      14
2015- 9-
094   22-  Rezoning 0.773 +/- acres located at 100 Stubbs Mill Road from R-3 to NC.
      15
2015- 11-  Rezoning 120.257 +/- acres located at 1699 Deerfield Road from R-1B to PO with a
121   24-  PUD Overlay.
      15
2015- 11-
122   24-  Rezoning 8.8882 +/- acres located at 764 Columbus Avenue from R-1CC/PO/GC to GC.
      15
2016- 2-9- Rezoning a 0.073 acre lot at the southwest corner of W. Warren Street and N.
016   16   Sycamore Street and a 0.15 acre lot at the northwest corner of W. Silver Street
           and N. Sycamore Street from R-1U to CBD.
2016- 6-
061   14-  Rezoning 1.5 acres at 557 Chillicothe Avenue from R-1CC to GC.
      16
2016- 1-   Rezoning 10.3 acres at the southeast corner of State Route 63 and Glosser Road
116   10-  from I-1 to GC.
      17
2017- 1-
002   24-  Rezoning 10 +/- acres at 875 Covenant Way from R-1C to P-I.
      17
2017- 4-   Rezoning 10+/- acres at the northwest corner of State Route 63 and Neil Armstrong
030   11-  Way from NC to NC PUD.
      17
2017- 7-
066   17-  Rezoning 9.8+ acres of property located at 1111 West Main Street from I-1 to GC.
      17
2017- 10-  Rezoning 9.8+ acres of property located at the northwest corner of State Route 63
093   10-  and Neil Armstrong Way from NC PUD to GC.
      17
2018- 5-   Rezoning 64.91+ acres of property located at 3390 State Route 42 from I-1 to R-1A
044   22-  PUD.
      18
2018- 10-
089   23-  Rezoning 1.637+ acres of property located at 1000 East Main from R-3 to NC.
      18
2019- 2-   Rezoning 6.3+ acres of property located at 511 North Broadway from NC and R-1C to
012   12-  MU PUD.
      19
2019- 6-   Rezoning 6.125+ acres of property located north of Southline Drive and west of
050   25-  Deas Drive from R-1CC to R-1CC PUD.
      19
2019- 10-  Rezoning 64.91+ acres of property located at 3390 State Route 42 from R-RPUD to
083   22-  R-RPUD.
      19
2019- 11-  Rezoning 8.75+ acres of property located at 511 North Broadway, 525 North
087   12-  Broadway, and part of 501 North Water Street from R-1C, NC, and PO to MUPUD.
      19
2019- 12-  Rezoning 5.42+ acres of property located at 1831 W. Main Street from R-R and P-
100   10-  I to GC.
      19
2020- 1-   Rezoning 18+ acres of property located south of State Route 123 and west of Neil
004   28-  Armstrong Way from CC to R-2.
      20
2020- 7-
069   14-  Rezoning 6+ acres of property located west of North Broadway from R-1C to P-I.
      20
2020- 1-
124   12-  Rezoning 12.2802 acres located at 363 South West Street from I-1 to MU.
      21
2021- 7-   Rezoning 11.8710 acres located at 818 Cincinnati Avenue (Parcel No. 12114000360)
060   13-  from I-1 to I-1 PUD.
      21
2021- 11-  Rezoning 10.952 acres located at 600 Cincinnati Avenue (Parcel No. 1205128001)
110   23-  from I-1 to R-2 and I-1 PUD.
      21
2022- 1-   Rezoning 275.677 acres located at 1784 Route 63 (Parcel Nos. 12123000070,
001   25-  12184000060, 12184000030) from R-R to MU PUD.
      22
2022- 3-8- Rezoning 9.148 acres located at Neil Armstrong Way (Parcel No. 12122860010) from
020   22   R-1CC to R-1CC PUD.
2022- 5-   Rezoning properties located at New Street and N. Mechanic Street, Warren Street
054   10-  and Cherry Street, and W. Main Street and Clay Street from R-1U to CBD.
      22
2022- 5-
055   10-  Rezoning 4.47 acres located at 345 Miller Road from R-1C to R-1C PUD.
      22
2022- 8-   Rezoning 35.852 acres located at 1606 Wal-Mart Drive (Parcel No. 09254000171)
094   23-  from GC and R-R to MU PUD.
      22
2023- 2-   Rezoning 80.511 acres located at Kingsview Drive (Parcels No. 12094000040 and
019   28-  12082000090) from PO to I-1.
      23
2023- 11-
100   14-  Rezoning properties located along E. Warren Street from R-1U to CRD.
      23
2024- 3-   Rezoning approximately 12.78 acres at the intersection of Columbus Avenue and
016   12-  Miller Road (portion of Parcel 09- 25-100-020 and all of Parcel 09-25-100-040)
      24   from R-R to GC.
2024- 4-   Rezoning approximately 98.6164+/- acres at the intersection of Columbia Road and
041   23-  Mason Morrow Millgrove Road (Parcel 12-13-200-030) from I-1 to R-RPUD.
      24
          
 
TABLE V: CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Description
Ord.  Date     Description
No.
               Authorizing the City Manager to contract for a feasibility study
7161  1-9-96   regarding the location, construction and operation of a municipal
               swimming pool.
7165  1-23-96  Authorizing pre-annexation agreement with Robert B. Shaw and Roxie C.
               Shaw.
7166  1-23-96  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement for the sale of a
               truck to Lebanon City Schools.
7175  2-13-96  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement with the Ohio
               Department of Transportation for the purpose of replacing a bridge.
7179  2-13-96  Authorizing a job creation agreement with Lebanon Plastics.
7202  3-26-96  Authorizing agreement to construct a warehouse facility with Portman
               Equipment Company.
7205  4-9-96   Authorizing pre-annexation agreement with Mason Farms, Inc.
7209  4-23-96  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement with Sumitomo
               Electric.
7214  4-23-96  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement with Stanley
               Consultants, P.C.
7219  5-14-96  Authorizing agreement to construct a warehouse facility with R & I
               Enterprise, Inc.
7257  7-23-96  Authorizing pole attachment agreement with Time Warner, Inc.
7266  7-23-96  Authorizing an inducement agreement with Knauf USA Polystyrene.
7270  8-13-96  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement with the Ohio
               Department of Transportation.
7286  10-22-96 Authorizing pre-annexation agreement with Charles E. Watson, et al.
7293  10-22-96 Authorizing pre-annexation agreement with Albert L. Harmon and Mary L.
               Harmon.
7295  10-8-96  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement with the Board of
               Warren County Commissioners.
7298  10-22-96 Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement with the Warren
               County Commissioners.
7302  10-22-96 Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement with Michael
               McMurray.
7305  11-12-96 Authorizing inducement agreement with OPW Engineered Systems.
7308  11-12-96 Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement with the Warren
               County Commissioners.
Res.  1-28-97  Authorizing participation in ODOT Cooperative Purchasing Program.
7344
7350  2-25-97  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement with the Indiana
               & Ohio Railway Company and the Indiana & Ohio Rail Passenger Corporation.
7351  2-25-97  Authorizing hazardous material response team agreement.
7352  3-11-97  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement with the Ohio
               Department of Transportation.
7358  3-25-97  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement with the Ohio
               Department of Transportation.
7359  4-8-97   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement with Ernst
               Enterprises, Inc.
7364  4-8-97   Authorizing agreement with JBM Envelope Company.
7377  5-13-97  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement with the Ohio
               Department of Transportation.
7384  5-27-97  Entering into contract for deposit of active funds.
7383  6-10-97  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a management agreement for
               Bluebird Farms.
7388  6-10-97  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement with Seasongood &
               Mayer.
7399  7-22-97  Authorizing agreement with E-Beam Services, Inc.
7403  7-22-97  Authorizing agreement with Manders Premier, Inc.
7407  7-22-97  Authorizing agreement with J. & N. Distribution and Design, Inc.
7413  7-22-97  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement with the Warren
               County Commissioners - E-Beam Services, Inc.
7419  8-12-97  Authorizing inducement agreement with Eastgate Graphics, Inc.
7422  8-12-97  Authorizing a job creation agreement with Eastgate Graphics, Inc.
7433  8-26-97  Authorizing pole attachment agreement with Lebanon Department of Service
               - Division of Electricity - Bureau of Telecommunication Services.
               Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement with the Lebanon
7447A 11-11-97 City Schools for lighting for the athletic fields at the Lebanon High
               School and the Berry Middle School.
7480  2-24-98  Authorizing agreement with Cinergy Services to install electric
               facilities.
               Accepting the terms of a collective bargaining agreement between the city
7484  3-10-98  and International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (I.B.E.W.) Local
               #648.
7501  5-12-98  Authorizing inducement agreement with Unitherm. Inc.
Res.  8-11-98  Authorizing the City Manager to amend agreement approved by Ord. 7447 to
7541           include a new sound system for high school athletic field.
7555  11-10-98 Authorizing City Manager to execute a settlement agreement with Time
               Warner Cable Communications.
7559  11-10-98 Authorizing agreement between the city and the Harmon Civic Trust.
7563  11-24-98 Authorizing City Manager to execute an extension agreement with the
               Lebanon FOP.
7564  11-24-98 Authorizing City Manager to execute a mutual aid assistance contract.
7569  12-8-98  Authorizing City Manager to enter into inducement agreement with Collins
               Ink.
7582  12-8-98  Authorizing City Manager to execute a work service agreement with Cinergy
               Services.
7599  1-26-99  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement with the Ohio
               Department of Transportation for highway improvements.
7604  2-9-99   Authorizing the City Manager to amend the city s refuse collection and
               recycling agreement with Browning Ferris Industries.
7607  2-23-99  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a settlement agreement with
               Western Water.
7608  2-9-99   Authorizing the City Manager to modify existing agreement with Union
               Township regarding the sale of a fire truck.
Res.  2-9-99   Authorizing participation in ODOT Cooperative Purchasing Program.
7609
7649  5-25-99  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a written agreement between
               the city and the Lebanon Fraternal Order of Police, Lodge #133.
7650  5-25-99  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into contract for deposit of active
               funds.
Res.           Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Lebanon Self
7651  6-8-99   Storage to delay construction of certain public improvements until
               Gateway plans are finalized.
7661  6-22-99  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an amended agreement with E-
               Beam Services Inc. and The Warren Group, Inc.
7666  6-22-99  Authorizing the Mayor to sign the employment agreement with the City
               Manager.
7672  6-22-99  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an inducement agreement with
               Bunnell Hill Development Company.
               Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement with Headend In
7722  9-14-99  The Sky and General Instrument Corporation for HITS digital launch
               services and training, headend equipment, digital consumer terminals, and
               related equipment including transponders.
Res.           Authorizing the City Manager to employ Organizational Resources Group to
7725  9-28-99  provide services to the city in the search, screening and selection of a
               City Auditor.
Res.           Authorizing the City Manager to enter into such agreements as may be
7724  10-12-99 necessary to obtain financial assistance from the Ohio Public Works
               Commission.
Res.  10-12-99 Authorizing an agreement with the Regional Telecommunications Authority
7729           to provide services related to telecommunications.
7747  12-14-99 Authorizing the City Manager to execute a Fire Protection Mutual Aid
               Agreement with area municipalities.
7788  3-14-01  Authorizing City Manager to sign an agreement with the Ohio Department of
               Natural Resources.
7796  3-14-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an electric wholesale purchase
               agreement with Cinergy.
               Authorizing and directing the City Manager to enter into a law
7806  4-11-00  enforcement mutual aid assistance agreement with other political
               subdivisions.
               Authorizing and directing the City Manager to enter into a hazardous
7807  4-11-00  materials response assistance agreement with the Warren County
               Commissioners.
7819  5-9-00   Authorizing inducement agreement with Columbia Franklin L.L.C. - Columbia
               Business Park.
Res.  5-9-00   Terminating agreement with Organizational Resource Group relating to
7826           search for new City Auditor.
               Authorizing the City Manager to file an application and enter into an
Res.  5-9-00   agreement with the Ohio Department of Natural Resources for the purpose
7830           of acquiring funds through the Division of Forestry s Urban Forestry
               Assistance Program.
7833  6-27-00  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Glaus, Plye,
               Schomer, Burns and DeHaven, Inc.
7839  6-27-00  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an Agreement with American
               Municipal Power- Ohio.
7848  6-13-00  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with J.B. Schmitt
               Co., Inc.
7854  6-13-00  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement with Jim Russell,
               Auctioneer.
7855  6-13-00  Authorizing a contract for the retention of Dinsmore & Shohl LLP as
               special counsel.
7856  6-13-00  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement with Pyrotecnico.
7860  6-27-00  Authorizing inducement agreement with Trim Parts, Inc.
7873  6-27-00  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Brian Brenner
               dba Bandstand Products.
7877  6-27-00  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with National Cable
               Television Cooperative.
7878  6-27-00  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with E!
               Entertainment Television, Inc., dba style.
7879  6-27-00  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with The Health
               Network.
7880  6-27-00  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with William Light
               Paving Co.
7881  6-27-00  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Brock & Sons,
               Inc.
7882  6-27-00  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with David Williams
               & Associates.
7884  6-29-00  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Weidle
               Corporation.
7885  7-11-00  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Cinergy
               Services, Inc.
7886  6-29-00  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Go Concepts,
               Inc.
               Authorizing the City Manager to prepare and submit an application to
Res.  7-11-00  participate in the Ohio Public Works Commission State Capital Improvement
7889           and/or Local Transportation Improvement program(s) and to execute
               contracts as required.
7891  7-11-00  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with International
               Mailing Systems.
7892  7-11-00  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Oregonia
               Wrecking & Demolition.
7893  7-11-00  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract for the retention of
               Gustavson, Lewis & Jones L.L.P. as special counsel.
7894  7-11-00  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract for the retention of
               Timothy Fischer, Esq. as special counsel.
7895  7-11-00  Authorizing the City Manager to ratify and re- execute a contract for the
               retention of Frost & Jacobs L.L.P. as special counsel.
7896  7-11-00  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with QEI, Inc.
7897  7-11-00  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Peregrine
               Communications.
7898  7-11-00  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Marty Egelston.
7899  7-11-00  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Tom McRoberts.
7900  7-11-00  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Jim Van De
               Grift.
7905  7-25-00  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract for the retention of
               Chester, Wilcox & Saxbe L.L.P. as special counsel.
7907  8-8-00   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Lebanon City
               Schools.
7910  7-25-00  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Trio Cable,
               Inc.
7911  7-25-00  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with the National
               Cable Television Cooperative, Inc.
7913  8-8-00   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Brandstetter
               Carroll, Inc.
7914  8-22-00  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Xerox
               Corporation.
7915  8-8-00   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Pflum,
               Klausmeier & Gehrum Consultants, Inc.
7917  8-8-00   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with the State of
               Ohio.
7918  8-8-00   Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract for the retention of
               Chris Watkins, Esq. as special counsel.
7919  8-8-00   Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract for the retention of
               Kaufman & Florence as special counsel.
7923  8-8-00   Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract for the retention of
               Thompson Coburn, L.L.P. as special counsel.
7929  8-22-00  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with ISG Thermal
               Systems USA, Inc.
7931  8-22-00  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with W.G. Stang.
7932  8-22-00  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Brock & Sons.
7934  9-12-00  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with the Indiana &
               Ohio Rail Passenger Corp.
7935  8-22-00  Authorizing the Mayor to execute an employment agreement with Gregory T.
               Dixon for the position of City Auditor.
7948  10-10-00 Authorizing and directing the City Manager to enter into an inducement
               agreement with Quantum Metals, Inc. or Alloy Farms, LLC.
7950  9-12-00  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with L.P. Cavett Co.
7953  10-10-00 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with King s Local
               School District.
7956  9-26-00  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement with the State of
               Ohio for reconstruction of grade crossings.
7967  10-10-00 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Crossman
               Communities of Ohio, Inc.
7969  10-10-00 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Indiana & Ohio
               Railway Company.
7970  10-10-00 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Classic-Summers
               Ltd.
               Authorizing the City Manager to pay $500 to Scott Burris in consideration
7971  10-10-00 of his waiver of all salvage rights to the property located at 5-7 South
               Cherry Street.
7973  10-10-00 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Design Homes
               and Development Company, Inc.
7976  10-24-00 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Armrel-Byrnes
               Company.
7981  11-14-00 Amending the employment agreement authorized by Ord. 7935.
7982  11-14-00 Authorizing and directing the City Manager to enter into an inducement
               agreement with Doran Enterprises, Inc.
7988  11-14-00 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with King s Local
               School District.
7989  10-24-00 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Hydro Mechanics
               Systems Ltd.
7990  11-14-00 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Xerox.
7992  10-24-00 Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a release and settlement
               agreement with Scott Burris.
7997  11-28-00 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Rumpke Waste
               Collection Services.
7998  11-28-00 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Excel
               Contracting, Inc.
7999  11-14-00 Authorizing the City Manager to execute a cooperative agreement between
               Warren County and the city.
8002  11-28-00 Authorizing the City Manager to pay $15,646.80 to Electric Laboratories &
               Sales for the purchase of post-top insulators.
8008  11-28-00 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Countryside
               Property Development, LLC.
8010  11-28-00 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement between the city,
               the Auditor for the state of Ohio, and Clark, Schaefer & Hackett.
8017  12-12-00 Authorizing the City Manager to execute a payment form and permission
               request between the Cincinnati Gas & Electric Co. and the city.
8019  12-12-00 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement between the city and
               Layne-Ohio.
8024  12-12-00 Authorizing the City Manager to ratify an agreement with Electric
               Laboratories & Sales Corporation.
8025  12-12-00 Authorizing the City Manager to ratify an agreement with Wesco
               Distribution, Inc.
8026  12-12-00 Authorizing the City Manager to ratify an agreement with Richard Electric
               Supplies Co., Inc.
8027  12-12-00 Authorizing the City Manager to ratify an agreement with the Okonite
               Company.
8028  12-12-00 Authorizing the City Manager to ratify an agreement with Reed City
               Powerline Supply Co., Inc.
8029  12-12-00 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with LJB Engineers &
               Architects.
8030  12-14-00 Authorizing the City Manager to purchase fuel from BP Amoco Oil Company
               through the authority of the State of Ohio.
8043  12-28-00 Authorizing the City Manager to make an expenditure to Interco Energy
               Development on behalf of the city.
8044  12-28-00 Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement with Jim Clark &
               Sons Excavating and the city.
8045  12-28-00 Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement with the Armrel
               Byrnes Co. and the city.
8046  1-9-01   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into agreements with Cincinnati
               Bell and the city.
               Extending the term of the collective bargaining agreement between the
8047  12-28-00 International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers and the city to allow
               additional time for negotiations.
8048  12-28-00 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with NEC Business
               Network Solutions, Inc., through the authority of the State of Ohio.
8049  12-28-00 Authorizing the City Manager to execute a release and settlement
               agreement between Deerfield Crossings Limited Partnership and the city.
8050  1-9-01   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement between Finkbeiner,
               Pettis & Strout, Inc., and the city.
8051  1-9-01   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement between Finkbeiner,
               Pettis & Strout, Inc., and the city.
8052  12-28-00 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an Agreement between Lebanon City
               Schools and the city.
8053  12-28-00 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an Agreement between Lebanon City
               Schools and the city.
8054  12-28-00 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement between the Xerox
               Company and the city.
8055  12-28-00 Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement with Clark
               Substations L.L.C. and the city.
8056  12-28-00 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement between Virginia
               Transformer Corp. and the city.
8057  12-28-00 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement between Alstom
               U.S.A., Inc. and the city.
8058  12-28-00 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement between Utiliserve
               High Voltage Group and the city.
               Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement with G.E. Energy
8062  1-5-01   Rentals and the city, pursuant to R.C. 735.051, regarding an electric
               generator for the Franklin Brazing Co.
8066  1-9-01   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement between the city and
               Utility Truck Equipment.
8067  1-23-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement between the city and
               Deco Supply Co.
8068  1-23-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement between the city and
               Pepco.
8069  1-23-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement between the city and
               Reed City Powerline Supply Co.
8070  1-23-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement between the city and
               Richards Electric Supply.
8071  1-23-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement between the city and
               Elasco.
8072  1-23-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement between the city and
               Lebanon Electric Supply.
8073  1-23-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement between the city and
               Wesco-Aurora Utility.
8075  1-17-01  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement with World Wide
               Packets and the city.
               Authorizing the City Manager to execute a landlord consent, subordination
8076  1-9-01   and estoppel agreement between PNC Bank, N.A., Doran Enterprises, Inc.
               and the city.
8079  1-23-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with National Cable
               Television Cooperative, Inc.
8086  1-23-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Fritz-Rumer-
               Cooke Co., Inc.
8087  2-13-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Let It Gro Lawn
               Care.
8088  2-13-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Brandstetter
               Carroll, Inc.
8089  2-13-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Pyrotecnico.
8090  1-23-01  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a release and settlement
               agreement with Elizabeth Edwards.
8091  1-23-01  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a release and settlement
               agreement with Kenneth and Rhonda Greely.
8092  1-23-01  Authorizing the City Manager to purchase a 2001 Ford Crown Victoria
               Police Interceptor.
8093  1-23-01  Authorizing the City Manager to purchase a 2001 Chevrolet half-ton pick-
               up truck.
8094  1-23-01  Authorizing the City Manager to purchase a Chevrolet half-ton pick-up
               truck.
8097  1-23-01  Authorizing the City Manager to dispose of a surplus fire engine to the
               City of Hyden, Kentucky, for the sum of $1.00.
8106  2-13-01  Authorizing the City Manager to purchase four 2001 Ford Crown Victoria
               Police Interceptors.
8108  2-27-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Woolpert LLP.
8109  2-13-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with David Williams
               & Associates.
8110  2-13-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Mike Albert.
8111  2-13-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement between the Xerox
               Company and the city.
8114  2-27-01  Authorizing the City Manager to purchase a Toro Groundmaster 455 D mower
               from Century Equipment Inc.
8115  2-27-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Timber Systems.
               Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with the Board of
8116  3-13-01  Warren County Commissioners on behalf of the Warren County Water
               Department.
8122  3-27-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a grant agreement between the
               State of Ohio, Ohio Rail Development Commission, and the city.
8123  3-27-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Ohio Rail
               Development Commission.
               Authorizing the City Manager to execute a renewal agreement between
8124  3-27-01  National Cable Television Cooperative, Inc., and International Family
               Entertainment, Inc. dba Fox Family Channels.
8125  3-27-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Specialized
               Technical Services.
               Authorizing the City Manager to execute a participation agreement between
8126  3-13-01  Fox Cable Network Services, LLC, and National Cable Television
               Cooperative and the city to launch the National Geographic Channel.
8127  3-13-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Cole + Russell
               Architects, Inc.
8128  3-27-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with the State of
               Ohio, Department of Development.
8129  3-27-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Indell
               Construction.
8130  3-13-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with G.C.
               Contracting.
8132  3-27-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Gemstar-TV
               Guide Interactive, Inc.
8141  4-10-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an renewal agreement between
               National Cable Television Cooperative, Inc. and the Golf Channel.
8142  3-27-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement between R.L. Newton
               & Son Construction and the city.
8144  3-27-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Klais &
               Company, Inc.
8145  4-10-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Utility Test
               Equipment Company.
8148  4-10-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an inducement agreement with CTS
               Construction, Inc.
8151  4-10-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an inducement agreement with
               Keland Steel Erectors, Inc.
8154  4-10-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an inducement agreement with G/
               C Contracting Corporation.
8170  4-10-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with American
               Registry for Internet Numbers, Ltd.
8171  4-16-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Jennings, Inc.
8174  5-8-01   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement between Fox Movie
               Channel, Inc. and City of Lebanon Telecommunications.
8175  4-24-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Woolpert LLP.
8176  5-8-01   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement between Fox Cable
               Networks Services, LLC and City of Lebanon Telecommunications.
8177  5-8-01   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Jennings, Inc.
8178  5-8-01   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with HD Water
               Services.
8179  5-8-01   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Free Flow
               Tapping & Inserting, Inc.
8180  4-24-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with King-
               Hasselbring & Associates.
8182  4-24-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Tri-States
               Railroad Consultants.
8185  5-22-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an inducement agreement with
               Superior Walls Southwest Ohio, LLC.
8190  5-8-01   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with the Ohio
               Department of Natural Resources.
               Authorizing the City Manager to file an application and enter into an
8195  5-8-01   agreement with the Ohio Department of Natural Resources for the purpose
               of acquiring funds through the Division of Forestry s Urban Forestry
               Assistance Program.
8196  5-8-01   Authorizing the City Manager to pay $17,396.72 to Cooper Power Systems
               for the purchase of bushing inserts.
8202  6-12-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an inducement agreement with 4
               Sands Industries, Inc.
8205  5-22-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Stephen
               Campbell & Associates.
8206  6-12-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with the Seybold
               Company.
               Authorizing the City Manager to enter into contracts with Lebanon
8208  6-26-01  Citizens National Bank, Fifth Third Bank, National City Bank, Bank One
               and Firstar for deposit of the city s active funds from July 1, 2001 to
               June 30, 2006.
8212  6-26-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with J.B.
               Enterprise.
8213  6-26-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with L.P. Cavett Co.
8214  6-12-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Rhule
               Excavating, Inc.
8216  6-26-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with B.R. Bryant
               Construction, Inc.
8219  6-26-19  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Sharp
               Electronics Financial Services.
8221  6-26-01  Authorizing employment agreement with Mark S. Yurick as City Attorney.
8222  6-12-01  Authorizing a contract for the retention of Dinsmore & Shohl LLP as
               Special Counsel.
8225  6-12-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Trend
               Construction, Inc.
Res.  6-12-01  Authorizing the settlement of litigation with Time Warner Entertainment
8226           L.P.
8242  6-26-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Advanced
               Contractors & Engineers.
8243  7-10-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Vaughn
               Industries.
8244  7-10-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Pflum,
               Klausmeier & Gehrum Consultants, Inc.
8245  7-10-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with ACI
               Technologies, Inc.
8246  7-10-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with New Age
               Technologies.
8248  7-24-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Cooper Energy
               Services.
8249  7-10-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with WG Stang, Inc.
Res.  7-24-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with AWS Industries,
8250           Inc.
               Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract with William M.
8251  7-10-01  Gustavson, Esq. for the provision of legal services as Special Counsel to
               the city.
8255  7-24-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Cable
               Constructors Inc.
               Authorizing the City Manager to execute a renewal agreement between
8258  8-14-01  National Cable Television Cooperative, Inc. and Scripps Howard
               Broadcasting Company dba Home and Garden Television.
8260  8-14-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Wilson-Feist
               Inc.
8262A 8-14-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Jim Stiegel
               Electric.
8274  8-28-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Sternberg
               Vintage Lighting.
8276  8-28-01  Authorizing the City Manager to renew the City of Lebanon Health Benefit
               Plan Agreement.
8281  8-28-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Klungness
               Electronic Supply.
               Authorizing the City Manager to execute a settlement agreement between
8282  8-20-01  the Coalition Opposed to Additional Spending & Taxes (COAST) and John
               McComb and the city.
8288  9-12-01  Authorizing the City Manager to purchase a 2001 Ford Expedition.
8289  8-28-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Armrel Byrnes
               Company.
8290  9-12-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with A.Y. Mills
               Building.
8291  8-28-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Jennings, Inc.
8293  9-25-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Western Water
               Company.
8294  9-25-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Cincinnati Bell
               Telephone.
8299  9-25-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Miami Systems
               Corporation. (repealed by Ord. 8465)
8300  9-12-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with David Williams
               and Associates.
8301  9-12-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with CSR Hydro-
               Conduit.
8302  9-12-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Federal Signal
               Corporation.
8303  9-12-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Powerline
               Supply.
8306  10-9-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Orner's Village
               Gazebos.
8307  10-9-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with the Armrel
               Byrnes Company.
8308  9-25-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with the Wagner
               Smith Company.
               Authorizing the City Manager to execute a renewal agreement between
8309  9-25-01  National Cable Television Cooperative, Inc. and Courtroom Television
               Network.
8317  11-27-01 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Nextel.
8318  10-23-01 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with the Center for
               Local Government.
8319  10-9-01  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Lebanon City
               Schools.
               Authorizing the City Manager to execute a memorandum of settlement
8323  10-9-01  between the City of Lebanon and the International Brotherhood of
               Electrical Works, Local Union 648.
8330  10-23-01 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement between Lifetime
               Entertainment Services and the City of Lebanon.
8331  10-23-01 Authorizing the City Manager to execute a renewal agreement between
               National Cable Television Cooperative, Inc. and Bloomberg Television.
8332  12-11-01 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement between the State of
               Ohio, Department of Transportation, and the City of Lebanon.
8333  12-11-01 Authorizing the City Manager to execute a final resolution for the State
               Routes 63 and 123 construction project.
8334  11-13-01 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an inducement agreement with
               Contemporary Image Labeling, Inc.
8337  11-13-01 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with MU Net, Inc.
8338  11-13-01 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Apex
               Construction.
8346  11-13-01 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Industrial
               Video.
8347  11-13-01 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with the Office
               Furniture Store.
Res.  10-23-01 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with William E.
8351           Rainey and Barbara J. Rainey.
8370  11-27-01 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with World Wide
               Packets, Inc.
8375  11-27-01 Authorizing a contract with Chester, Willcox and Saxbe LLP to serve as
               special counsel for the city.
8379  11-27-01 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an extension agreement with FOP
               Lodge #133.
8385  11-29-01 Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with the City Manager.
8386  11-29-01 Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with the City Auditor.
8389  12-4-01  Authorizing an employment agreement with the City Auditor.
8390  12-11-01 Authorizing the City Manager to execute a renewal agreement between
               National Cable Television Cooperative, Inc. and the City of Lebanon.
8397  12-11-01 Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract between Trend
               Construction and the city.
8398  12-11-01 Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract between Excel
               Contracting and the city.
Res.  12-11-01 Authorizing the City Manager to negotiate a contract with a professional
8399           design firm.
8407  12-20-01 Authorizing the Acting City Manager to execute an agreement with the J.B.
               Schmitt Co., Inc.
8411  1-8-02   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Software
               Solutions, Inc.
8414  2-12-02  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an extension agreement with FOP
               Lodge #133.
8416  2-12-02  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Pflum,
               Klausmeier and Gehrum Consultants, Inc.
8418  2-12-02  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Finkbeiner,
               Pettis and Strout, Inc.
8419  2-26-02  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a legal settlement with Betsy-
               Da Ltd.
8422  2-12-02  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Burgess and
               Niple, Limited.
8424  4-9-02   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with the Lebanon
               Baseball/Softball Association.
8425  4-9-02   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with the Lebanon
               Youth Soccer Association.
8426  2-26-02  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an inducement agreement with Nu-
               Tech Polymers Co., Inc.
8437  3-26-02  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Kovatch Mobile
               Equipment Corporation, Fire Apparatus Division.
8438  4-9-02   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Wooton Fire and
               Rescue.
               Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with the Fraternal
8440  3-26-02  Order of Police Ohio Labor Council, Inc. on behalf of the Lebanon
               Fraternal Order of Police, Lodge #133.
8447  4-23-02  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with the Shelly
               Company.
8448  4-9-02   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with the Warren
               County Advisory Health Council.
8452  4-23-02  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Dinnen
               Excavating, Inc.
8453  4-23-02  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an employment agreement with
               George P. Clements.
8456  4-23-02  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Pinpoint
               Technologies, Inc.
8457  4-23-02  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Charlie Watson
               Ford.
8461  5-28-02  Authorizing the City Manager to amend the Health Benefit Plan for the
               city.
8463  5-14-02  Authorizing the purchase of a Ford Expedition.
8465  5-28-02  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Miami Systems
               Corporation.
8470  5-28-02  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Lebanon
               Citizens National Bank.
8472  5-28-02  Authorizing the City Manager to execute A release and settlement
               agreement with the Warren County Board of Commissioners.
8473  5-28-02  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Southeastern
               Contractors, Inc.
8475  5-28-02  Authorizing the purchase of equipment for the Streets Department.
8480  6-11-02  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Finkbeiner,
               Pettis and Strout, Inc.
8482  6-11-02  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with HD Water
               Services.
8483  6-11-02  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with William M.
               Gustavson to serve as special counsel.
8484  6-11-02  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with Dinsmore and
               Shohl LLP to serve as special counsel.
8485  6-11-02  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with Kaufman and
               Florence to serve as special counsel.
8486  6-20-02  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Mischell
               Productions, Inc.
8490  6-25-02  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Jim Russell,
               Auctioneer.
Res.           Authorizing the City Manager to prepare and submit an application to
8491  6-25-02  participate in the Ohio Public Works Commission State Capital Improvement
               and/or Location Transportation Improvement Programs
8495  7-9-02   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Lebanon School
               District.
8496  6-25-02  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Dixon
               Engineering, Inc.
8497  7-9-02   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Klungness
               Electric Supply.
8499  7-9-02   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with W.G. Stang,
               Inc.
8500  7-23-02  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Northwest
               Consultants, Inc.
8504  7-9-02   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Allied
               Technical Services, Inc.
8510  7-23-02  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an inducement agreement with
               Spectrum Computer Products.
               Authorizing the City Manager to execute an inducement agreement with
8513  7-23-02  Allen Fields Associates, Inc. Phoenix Custom Homes, Inc., and A.C.R.,
               Inc.
8516  7-23-02  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with J.K. Meurer
               Corp.
8523  8-13-02  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Southpointe
               Engineering Systems.
8524  8-13-02  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with the Turtlecreek
               Township Board of Trustees.
8526  8-13-02  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with the Cincinnati
               Gas and Electric Company.
8533  8-27-02  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with Chester Willcox
               and Saxbe LLP to serve as Special Counsel.
8537  8-27-02  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with the Warren
               County Health Department.
8540  9-24-02  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Earth Tech.
8549  9-24-02  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with J.G.K. Testing
               & Supply, Inc.
8559  9-24-02  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Bank One, N.A.
8561  10-8-02  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with the Turtlecreek
               Township Board of Trustees and rescinding Ordinance No. 8524.
8562  10-8-02  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with the Turtlecreek
               Township Board of Trustees.
8580  10-22-02 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with J.K. Meurer
               Corp.
8589  10-22-02 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Electric
               Laboratories & Sales Corporation (ELASCO).
8593  11-12-02 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with ICS, Inc.
8596  11-26-02 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Pyper
               Construction Co., LLC.
8598  11-12-02 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Schreiber, Inc.
8599  11-26-02 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Andrea N.
               Hicks, Esq.
Res.  11-26-02 Rescinding Ordinance No. 8151.
8610
8611  11-26-02 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an inducement agreement with Star
               Packaging and Distribution, Inc.
8614  11-26-02 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with SK Construction
               Company.
8618  12-10-02 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with DLZ Ohio, Inc.
8621  12-10-02 Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a settlement agreement and
               release with Deborah and Walter Biggs.
8625  1-14-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with the Ohio
               Department of Natural Resources.
               Authorizing the City Manager to execute an assignment and assumption
8626  12-23-02 agreement between Superior Walls of Cincinnati, Ltd. and Tri- State
               Superior Walls, LLC.
               Authorizing the City Manager to execute an assignment and assumption
8627  12-23-02 agreement between Superior Walls of Cincinnati, Ltd. and KBI Precast,
               LLC.
8631  1-14-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Finkbeiner,
               Pettis & Stout, Inc.
Res.  2-11-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with the Warren County
8667           Drug Task Force.
Res.  2-11-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an amendment to a contract with
8668           the Warren County Drug Task Force.
8670  2-11-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Specialized
               Technical Services.
8671  2-11-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract to purchase a pick-up
               truck.
8673  2-11-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Global
               Painting.
8679  2-25-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with National Cable
               Television Cooperative, Inc.
8680  2-25-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with the Cable
               Constructors, Inc.
8681  2-25-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Peregrine
               Communications.
8682  2-25-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Las Colinas De
               Lebanon, LLC.
8683  2-25-03  Authorizing the City Manager to ratify an agreement with National
               Inspection Corporation.
8685  3-11-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Severn Trent
               Environmental Services.
8687  3-11-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a termination agreement with
               Warren County Historical Society, Inc.
8690  3-11-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with MobileTEK, LLC.
8691  3-11-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Lebanon
               Baseball/Softball Association.
8692  3-11-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Lebanon Youth
               Soccer Association.
8693  3-11-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with W.G. Stang,
               Inc.
8695  3-11-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Peregrine
               Communications.
8696  3-11-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement to purchase a 2003
               Ford Expedition.
8697  3-11-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement to purchase a 2003
               Ford Crown Victoria.
8700  3-25-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with the Turtlecreek
               Township Board of Trustees.
8703  3-25-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Moody s of
               Dayton, Inc.
8704  3-25-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a professional service contract
               with URS, Inc.
8705  3-25-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Wesco Utility.
8710  4-8-03   Authorizing the City Manager to execute a professional service agreement
               with LJB, Inc.
8711  4-8-03   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Peregrine
               Communications.
8712  4-8-03   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Cable
               Contractors, Inc.
8713  4-8-03   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with North Pacific
               Group, Inc.
8714  4-8-03   Authorizing the City Manager to execute a professional service agreement
               with Northwest Consultants, Inc.
8715  4-8-03   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Fisher
               Scientific Company.
8716  4-8-03   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Hach Company.
8720  4-22-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a professional service contract
               with Cincinnati Railway Company.
8722  4-22-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an inducement agreement with Ohio
               Premium Provisions, Inc.
8725  4-22-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an inducement agreement with
               Triple Q Foundations.
8728  4-22-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an inducement agreement with Nu-
               Tech Polymers. (Repealed by 9458)
8730  4-22-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a professional service agreement
               with Camp Dresser & McKee, Inc.
8731  4-22-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Asplundh Tree
               Expert.
8733  4-22-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Arbors of
               Lebanon, LCC.
8742  5-13-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Peregrine
               Communications.
8743  5-13-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Peregrine
               Communications.
8744  5-13-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Peregrine
               Communications.
               Authorizing the City Manager to execute a second amendment to a
8746  5-13-03  telecommunications service agreement with Cincinnati Bell Telephone
               Company.
8750  5-27-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an inducement agreement with Pump
               Pro s.
8753  5-13-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement to purchase an Ohio
               Caterpillar.
8757  5-27-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with ACI
               Technologies, Inc.
8758  5-27-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with GPD Group.
8759  5-27-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Novak
               Engineering, Inc.
8761  5-27-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Vermeer of
               Southern Ohio.
8763  6-10-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Cable
               Constructors, Inc.
8764  6-10-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with J.K. Meurer
               Corporation.
8775  6-10-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Plangraphics,
               Inc.
8776  6-10-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with SK Construction
               Company.
8777  6-10-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a license agreement with P.A.
               Rodenbeck & Associates.
8778  6-24-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Hartford Fire
               Insurance Company.
8779  6-24-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with John R.
               Jurgensen Co.
8780  6-24-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with Chester Wilcox &
               Saxbe, LLP.
8781  6-24-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with Dinsmore & Schol,
               LLP.
8782  6-24-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with William M.
               Gustavson, Esq.
8783  6-24-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with Kaufman &
               Florence.
8787  6-24-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Cable
               Constructors, Inc.
8790  6-26-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with CR&G, Ltd. and
               National City Bank.
8792  7-8-03   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Brandstetter
               Carroll, Inc.
8796  7-8-03   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with HDR
               Engineering, Inc.
8798  7-8-03   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement between Star
               Packaging and Distribution, Inc., the city and Fifth Third Bank.
8799  7-8-03   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an inducement agreement with
               FECON, Inc.
8806  7-22-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a memorandum of understanding
               with the Board of Education of the Lebanon City School District.
8808  7-22-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with ec link.
8809  7-22-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with the Lebanon
               Warrior Youth Football League.
8813  8-12-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a release agreement with
               International Fidelity Insurance Company.
8814  8-12-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Ameritcon, Inc.
8815  8-12-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Byrnes, Inc.
8816  8-12-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with O.R.E.
               Electric, Inc.
8819  8-26-03  Authorizing the purchase of a 2003 Dodge truck for the Recreation
               Coordinator.
8822  8-12-03  Authorizing the City Manager to purchase a Toro Groundmaster 4000-
               D mower.
8823  8-12-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with John R.
               Jurgensen Company.
8826  8-26-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Albert L. and
               Mary L. Harmon.
8828  9-23-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with American Energy
               Solutions, Inc.
8829  8-26-03  Authorizing the City Manager to purchase telecommunications supplies from
               Peregrine Communications.
8838  9-23-03  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with General Tree
               Service.
8842  10-14-03 Authorizing the City Manager to execute a settlement agreement and
               release with Woolpert LLP.
8843  10-14-03 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with the Wagner-
               Smith Company.
8844  10-14-03 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Donald W. May,
               Contractors, Inc.
8845  10-14-03 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Zande
               Environmental Service, Inc.
8846  10-14-03 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Rawdon Myers,
               Inc.
8847  10-14-03 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Adam Robinson
               Enterprises, Inc.
8848  10-14-03 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Instrumentation
               and Control Systems, Inc.
8849  10-14-03 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Quality Control
               Inspection, Inc.
8852  10-14-03 Authorizing a contract for the retention of special counsel; Peck,
               Schaffer and Williams LLP.
8853  10-14-03 Authorizing the City Manager to purchase telecommunications supplies from
               Cable Constructors, Inc.
8854  10-14-03 Authorizing the City Manager to contract technicians and construction
               work with ACI Industries.
8856  11-11-03 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Fisher
               Scientific Company, LLC.
8857  11-11-03 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Hach Company.
8858  11-11-03 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with National
               Waterworks, Inc.
8859  11-11-03 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Utility Service
               and Supply, Inc.
8860  11-11-03 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Midwest Pipe
               and Supply.
8861  11-11-03 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Everett J.
               Prescott, Inc.
8862  11-11-03 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Hughes Supply,
               Inc.
8863  11-11-03 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Viking Supply,
               Inc.
               Authorizing the City Manager to execute a landlord consent, subordination
8867  11-11-03 and estoppel agreement between Lebanon Citizens National Bank,
               Contemporary Image Labeling, Inc., and the city of Lebanon.
8877  11-25-03 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an inducement agreement with JBS
               Industries, Inc.
8866  12-23-03 Authorizing the purchase of a 2004 Ford Excursion for the Fire Division.
8888  12-23-03 Authorizing the City Manager to purchase telecommunications supplies from
               Peregrine Communications.
8891  1-13-04  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with the Cincinnati
               Railway Company.
8903  2-10-04  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with the Lebanon
               Basball/Softball Association.
8904  2-10-04  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with the Lebanon
               Youth Soccer Association.
               Authorizing the City Manager to execute a tax increment financing and
8905  2-24-04  economic development agreement with Ohio Valley Environmental
               Engineering, Inc.
8908  2-24-04  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Culy
               Construction and Excavating, Inc.
8910  2-24-04  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a recognition agreement with
               Portman Equipment Company, Inc.
               Authorizing the City Manager to execute a subordination, non-disturbance
8911  2-24-04  and attornment agreement between Sizemore and Sizemore LLC and North Side
               Bank and Trust Company.
8912  2-24-04  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Rawdon Myers,
               Inc.
               Authorizing the City Manager to execute a collective bargaining agreement
8913  3-9-04   with the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, AFL-CIO-CLC,
               and Local Union No. 648.
8914  3-9-04   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Brock and Sons,
               Inc.
8920  4-13-04  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Miami Systems
               Corporation.
8921  4-13-04  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with HDR
               Engineering, Inc.
8922  3-23-04  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Langenheim and
               Thomson Company.
8926  4-13-04  Authorizing the purchase of a 2005 Diamond Spec International truck for
               the Public Works Department.
8927  4-13-04  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Cable
               Constructors, Inc.
8928  4-13-04  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Peregrine
               Communications.
8929  4-13-04  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a settlement agreement with the
               Lebanon Fraternal Order of Police, Lodge No. 133.
8931  4-27-04  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an assignment and assumption
               agreement between B&R Ventures, LLC and KBI Precast, LLC.
               Authorizing the City Manager to execute a subordination, non-disturbance
8932  4-27-04  and attornment agreement between B&R Ventures, LLC and First Financial
               Bank, NA.
               Authorizing the City Manager to execute an assignment and assumption
8933  4-27-04  agreement between C&S Properties of Ohio LLC and Ohio Valley
               Environmental Engineering, Inc.
               Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement with the Ohio
8936  4-27-04  Department of Transportation for the construction of the War Countryside
               YMCA Bikepath.
8941  5-11-04  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Brunk
               Excavating, Inc.
8942  5-11-04  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an estoppel certificate between
               Bank One, NA, the city of Lebanon and C&S Properties of Ohio LLC.
8943  5-25-04  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with John R.
               Jurgensen Company.
               Authorizing the City Manager to execute a subordination, non-disturbance
8953  6-8-04   and attornment agreement between Tall Timber Properties LLC and Fifth
               Third Bank.
8956  6-8-04   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an assignment of inducement
               agreement between Fecon, Inc. and Grant Road Properties LLC.
8962  6-22-04  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with CR&R
               Construction.
8963  6-22-04  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Trend
               Construction.
8965  6-22-04  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with William Light
               Paving Company.
8968  6-22-04  Authorizing the City Manager to purchase telecommunications supplies from
               Peregrine Communications.
8969  6-22-04  Authorizing the City Manager to purchase telecommunications supplies from
               Cable Constructors, Inc.
8972  7-13-04  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Edwards and
               Kelcey.
8973  7-13-04  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with UCL, Inc.
8975  7-27-04  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Western Water
               Company.
8980  7-27-04  Authorizing the purchase of cardiac monitors/defibrillators for the Fire
               Department.
8981  7-27-04  Authorizing the City Manager to purchase telecommunications supplies from
               Peregrine Communications.
8982  7-27-04  Authorizing the City Manager to purchase contract labor from ACI
               Technologies, Inc.
8985  7-27-04  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Jim Clark and
               Sons Excavating, Inc.
8986  7-27-04  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Neptune
               Equipment Company.
8990  8-10-04  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Trend
               Construction.
8995  8-24-04  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with the Warren
               County Health Department.
8996  9-14-04  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a tax increment financing and
               economic development agreement with Everything's Image, Inc.
8999  8-24-04  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Edwards and
               Kelcey.
9005  9-28-04  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Southwest
               Landmark, Inc.
9007  9-28-04  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Floyd Browne
               Associates, Inc.
9009  9-14-04  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Chicago Bridge
               and Iron.
9011  9-28-04  Authorizing the Mayor to execute an employment agreement with George P.
               Clements.
9012  9-28-04  Authorizing the Mayor to execute an employment agreement with Mark S.
               Yurick.
9013  9-28-04  Authorizing the Mayor to execute an employment agreement with Sharee'
               Dick.
9014  10-12-04 Authorizing the City Manager to execute a tax increment financing and
               economic development agreement with Addis Glass Fabricating, Inc.
9019  9-28-04  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Serco
               Management Services, Inc.
9020  9-28-04  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with the Wagner-
               Smith Company.
9026  10-12-04 Authorizing the City Manager to purchase a GMC bucket truck for the
               Electric Department.
9028  10-12-04 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Finley Fire
               Equipment.
9029  10-12-04 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Schreiber, Inc.
9046  11-23-04 Authorizing the City Manager to execute a tax increment financing and
               economic development agreement with Tranet, Inc.
(Repealed by 9574)
9053  11-23-04 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Ameritcon, Inc.
9054  11-23-04 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Glenwood
               Electric, Inc.
9055  11-23-04 Authorizing the City Manager to purchase telecommunications supplies from
               Peregrine Communications.
9056  12-14-04 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Paul Rack
               Excavating and Paving, Inc.
9057  11-23-04 Authorizing a contract for the retention of special counsel.
9058  11-23-04 Authorizing a contract for the retention of special counsel.
9059  11-23-04 Authorizing a contract for the retention of special counsel.
9060  11-23-04 Authorizing a contract for the retention of special counsel.
9063  12-14-04 Authorizing the purchase of GIS field survey equipment.
9064  12-14-04 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Brown Wood
               Preserving Company.
9065  12-14-04 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Brownstone
               Electric Supply Company.
9066  12-14-04 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Deco Supply
               Company.
9067  12-14-04 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Hughes Supply,
               Inc.
9068  12-14-04 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Reed City Power
               Line Company.
9069  12-14-04 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Solomon
               Corporation.
9070  12-14-04 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with T&R Electric
               Supply Inc.
9071  12-14-04 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Wesco
               Distribution, Inc.
9074  12-28-04 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Bethesda
               Hospital, Inc.
9075  12-14-04 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with David and
               Melody Oeder.
9080  12-14-04 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Cooper Power
               Systems, Inc.
9081  12-14-04 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an assignment between Novel
               Properties LLC and Red Apple Properties LLC.
9082  12-14-04 Authorizing the City Manager to execute a facilities agreement with JBM
               Envelope.
9083  1-11-05  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with C.A. Stempfley
               Contractor, Inc.
9084  1-11-05  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with SK Construction
               Company.
9085  1-11-05  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Cable
               Constructors, Inc.
9086  1-11-05  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Toner Cable
               Equipment, Inc.
9087  1-11-05  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Digicomm
               International.
9088  1-11-05  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Peregrine
               Communications, Inc.
9090  12-28-04 Authorizing the purchase of a 2005 Ford Expedition for the Fire Division.
9095  2-8-05   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Warren County
               Board of Commissioners.
9096  1-25-05  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an extension agreement with FOP
               Lodge #133.
9097  1-25-05  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Suburban
               Maintenance and Construction, Inc.
9099  2-8-05   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Specialized
               Technical Services, Inc.
               Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement between the Village
9103  2-22-05  of South Lebanon, the Warren County Board of Commissioners and the City
               of Lebanon.
9113  2-22-05  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an addendum to the agreement with
               Go Concepts, Inc.
9123  3-22-05  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Donald W. May
               Construction, Inc.
9126  4-12-05  Authorizing the City Manager to execute third amendment to
               Telecommunications Service agreement.
9128  3-22-05  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an assignment of an inducement
               agreement between Unitherm, Inc. and Groundmasters, Inc.
9129  3-22-05  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an assignment of a lease between
               Messer Holdings, LTD. and MAR Investments, Inc.
9130  4-26-05  Authorizing the City Manager to execute various agreements with Quantum
               Metals, Inc.
9132  4-12-05  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Trend
               Construction.
               Authorizing the City Manager to execute a lessor estoppel certificate,
9133  4-12-05  waiver and consent to leasehold mortgage, security agreement and
               financing statement, assignment of rents, and assignment to U.S. Small
               Business Administration.
               Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with the Fraternal
9134  4-12-05  Order of Police Ohio Labor Council, Inc. on behalf of the Lebanon
               Fraternal Order of Police, Lodge # 133.
9136  5-10-05  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an amendment to the agreement
               with the Warren County Drug Task Force Council of Governments.
9141  5-10-05  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Complete
               General Construction Company.
9142  5-10-05  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Acterna.
9145  5-24-05  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with E.H. Wachs
               Company.
9148  5-24-05  Authorizing a contract for the retention of special counsel.
9149  5-24-05  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with National Cable
               Television Cooperative, Inc.
9150  5-24-05  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Pyramid
               Advertising.
9153  6-14-05  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with McBride Dale
               Clarion.
9156  6-14-05  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Fifth Third
               Bank.
9161  6-14-05  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Trend
               Construction.
9162  6-14-05  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Heritage Real
               Estate Investments, Inc. (Repealed by 9575)
9163  6-14-05  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with WG Stang LLC.
9164  6-14-05  Authorizing the City Manager to execute purchase power agreements with
               American Electric Power Service Corporation.
9165  6-14-05  Authorizing the City Manager to execute agreements with MISO.
               Authorizing the City Manager to execute an interconnection agreement
9166  6-14-05  between the City of Lebanon, the Cincinnati Gas and Electric Company and
               the Midwest Independent Transmission System Operator, Inc.
9167  6-14-05  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with National City
               Commercial Capital Corporation.
9169  6-14-05  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Tall Timber
               Properties LLC and Certified Development Company of Butler County, Inc.
9176  6-28-05  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Calvary
               Contracting, Inc.
9184  7-12-05  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with W.G. Stang LLC.
9186  8-9-05   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an annexation agreement with the
               Board of Trustees of Turtlecreek Township.
9187  7-26-05  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with The Bank of New
               York Trust Company.
9195  8-23-05  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an addendum to the agreement with
               Bethesda Hospital, Inc.
9203  9-13-05  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a tax increment financing and
               economic development agreement with ADMC Holding Co. LLC.
               Authorizing the City Manager to execute an assignment of lease and
9213  9-13-05  assignment of inducement agreement between Ohio Premium Provisions, Inc.
               and H.B. Sisters, LLC.
9214  9-13-05  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with CK Excavating,
               Inc.
9215  9-13-05  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Classic
               Properties.
9236  11-22-05 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Southwest
               Landmark, Inc.
9239  11-22-05 Authorizing the City Manager to execute a service agreement with
               Cincinnati Bell Telephone.
Res.           Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement with the Ohio
9232  11-22-05 Department of Transportation for the project administration
               responsibilities for the 2007 and 2008 urban paving programs.
9243  11-22-05 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with DURO-LAST
               Roofing, Inc.
9246  11-22-05 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Andrea N.
               Hicks, Esq.
9247  12-27-05 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Rumpke, Inc.
9249  12-27-05 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Waste
               Management of Ohio, Inc.
9252  12-27-05 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with The Cincinnati
               Railway Company.
9254  1-10-06  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with R.B. Jergens,
               Contractors, Inc.
9257  1-10-06  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Countryside
               YMCA.
9258  1-10-06  Rescinding legislation authorizing the City Manager to enter into
               agreements with Addis Glass Fabricating, Inc.
9259  1-10-06  Rescinding legislation authorizing the City Manager to enter into
               agreements with Everything s Image, Inc.
9260  1-10-06  Rescinding legislation authorizing the City Manager to enter into
               agreements with Pump Pro s.
9307  3-28-06  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Moody s of
               Dayton, Inc.
9319  5-9-06   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Fan
               Partnership, Ltd.
9321  4-25-06  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Peregrine
               Communications.
9322  4-25-06  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Cable
               Constructors, Inc.
9324  5-9-06   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement with the Ohio
               Department of Transportation for the 2007 ODOT Urban Paving Program.
9325  5-9-06   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement with the Ohio
               Department of Transportation for the 2008 ODOT Urban Paving Program.
9327  5-9-06   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Prus
               Construction Company.
9328  5-23-06  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Arcadis G&M of
               Ohio, Inc.
               Authorizing the City Manager to execute an addendum to the 2005 - 2007
9269  2-14-06  collective bargaining agreement between the city and the Fraternal Order
               of Police Ohio Labor Council, Inc.
9274  2-14-06  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement regarding real
               property with Quantum Metals, Inc. and Alloy Farms, LLC.
9278  2-28-06  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with National
               Inspection Corporation.
9294  2-28-06  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Fields
               Excavating.
               Authorizing the City Manager to execute an assignment of and addendum to
9296  2-28-06  inducement agreement with J.I.T. Packaging, Inc. and J. & J. Properties,
               LLC.
               Authorizing the City Manager to execute an assignment of and second
9297  2-28-06  addendum to lease with J.I.T. Packaging, Inc. and J. & J. Properties,
               LLC.
               Authorizing the City Manager to execute a consent and conditional
9298  2-28-06  assignment of inducement agreement with Alloy Farms, LLC and the
               Huntington National Bank.
9302  3-14-06  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Matrix Imaging
               Solutions, Inc.
9305  3-14-06  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a lease agreement with Creative
               Volunteer Services, Inc.
               Authorizing the City Manager to execute renewal agreements with Lebanon
9330  5-23-06  Citizens National Bank, Fifth Third Bank, National City and J.P Morgan
               Chase Bank.
9333  5-23-06  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a roadway maintenance agreement
               with the Union Township Board of Trustees.
9341  6-13-06  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Nelson Tree
               Service, Inc.
9344  6-13-06  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Seachange.
9345  6-13-06  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with TVN
               Entertainment Corporation.
9348  6-27-06  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Larry Smith
               Contractors, Inc.
9353  7-11-06  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a master services agreement with
               American Municipal Power - Ohio, Inc.
9354  7-11-06  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Municipal
               Energy Services Agency and American Municipal Power - Ohio, Inc.
9355  7-11-06  Authorizing the City Manager to execute agreements with the Cincinnati
               Gas & Electric Company, dba Duke Energy Ohio, Inc.
9358  7-11-06  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Legacy
               Construction Solutions, Inc.
9360  7-11-06  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with ACI
               Technologies, Inc.
9363  7-25-06  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with HDR
               Engineering, Inc.
9367  7-25-06  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Peregrine
               Communications.
9376  9-12-06  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with the Lebanon
               Youth Soccer Association.
9377  9-12-06  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with the Warren
               County Soccer Club.
9378  9-12-06  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with the Thunder
               United Futbol Club.
9379  8-22-06  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Holden
               Excavating.
9380  8-22-06  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Trend
               Construction.
9386  9-26-06  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Warren County.
9387  9-12-06  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with R.B. Jergens
               Contractors.
9388  9-26-06  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with ITT Flygt
               Dewatering.
9389  9-26-06  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Utility Service
               & Supply, Inc.
9390  9-26-06  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Ferguson Water
               Works.
9391  9-26-06  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Utility Sales
               of America, LLC.
9392  9-26-06  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Neptune
               Equipment Company.
9393  9-26-06  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Applied
               Specialties, Inc.
9394  9-26-06  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Rawdon Myers,
               Inc.
9395  9-26-06  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with INC Technical
               Incorporated.
9396  9-26-06  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a sanitary sewer service
               agreement with the Warren County Board of County Commissioners.
9397  9-26-06  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Serco, Inc.
9398  9-26-06  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Capital
               Electric Line Builders, Inc.
9403  9-26-06  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with John R.
               Jurgensen Company.
9418  11-14-06 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Tetra Tech EM,
               Inc.
9419  11-28-06 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Cooper Power
               Systems.
9420  11-28-06 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Current
               Electrical and Lighting Supply.
9421  11-28-06 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Deco Supply
               Company.
9422  11-28-06 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Hughes Supply,
               Inc.
9423  11-28-06 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Key Cable and
               Supply.
9424  11-28-06 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Lebanon
               Electric Supply Incorporated.
9425  11-28-06 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Reed City Power
               Line Supply.
9426  11-28-06 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Solomon
               Corporation.
9427  11-28-06 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with WESCO
               Distribution Incorporated.
9428  11-28-06 Authorizing the City Manager to execute a tax incentive agreement with
               Kings Local School District.
9429  11-14-06 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Resource
               International, Inc.
9430  11-14-06 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Northwest
               Consultants, Inc.
9436  12-12-06 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with the Lebanon
               Baseball/Softball Association.
9440  11-28-06 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with William R. and
               Stephanie Smith.
9442  11-28-06 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an amendment to inducement
               agreement with Grant Road Properties, LLC.
9443  11-28-06 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with William Kramer
               & Son, Inc.
9444  12-12-06 Approving the cancellation of an agreement with American Electric Power
               Service Corporation.
               Authorizing the City Manager to execute an interconnection agreement
9449  12-27-06 between Duke Energy Ohio, Inc., the City of Lebanon and the Midwest
               Independent Transmission System Operator, Inc.
               Authorizing the City Manager to execute an extension agreement with the
9452  12-27-06 International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, AFL-CIO- CLC and Local
               Union No. 648.
9455  1-23-07  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with QEI, Inc.
9458  2-13-07  Rescinding Ordinances 8727, 8728 and 8729 which approved a tax increment
               financing agreement with Nu Tech Polymers, Inc.
9459  2-13-07  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Specialized
               Technical Services, Inc.
9460  1-23-07  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with SK
               Construction.
9461  1-23-07  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Paul Rack
               Excavating and Paving.
9467  2-8-07   Authorizing the City Manager to execute a recognition agreement between
               Spring Valley Bank, the City of Lebanon, Ohio and I.R.D.S. Limited.
9471  2-27-07  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Brandstetter
               Carroll, Inc.
9472  2-13-07  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an asset purchase agreement with
               Cincinnati Bell Extended Territories LLC.
9474  2-13-07  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a pole use agreement with
               Cincinnati Bell Extended Territories LLC.
9475  2-13-07  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a fiber license and maintenance
               agreement with Cincinnati Bell Extended Territories LLC.
9477  2-13-07  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an addendum to professional
               service contract with Pyramid Advertising.
               Authorizing the City Manager to execute a collective bargaining agreement
9487  3-13-07  with International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers AFL-CIO-CLC and
               Local Union No. 648.
9491  3-13-07  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with RA Miller
               Construction Company, Inc.
9492  3-13-07  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with C.K.
               Excavating, Inc.
9495  3-27-07  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with MK Power
               Solutions, Inc.
9516  4-24-07  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a tax increment financing and
               economic development agreement with Miami Woodworking, Inc.
9519  4-24-07  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an addendum to a professional
               service contract between the city and the Cincinnati Railway Company.
9529  5-22-07  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with J.K. Meurer
               Corp.
9541  5-22-07  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Trend
               Construction.
               Authorizing the City Manager to execute an addendum to the 2007-2009
9545  6-26-07  collective bargaining agreement between the city and the International
               Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, AFL-CIO-CLC, Local Union No. 648.
9548  6-12-07  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with GPD Associates.
9550  7-10-07  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with EC Link.
9553  6-26-07  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with the Warren
               County Board of County Commissioners.
9554  6-26-07  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with SK
               Construction.
9558  7-10-07  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Langenheim &
               Thomson Company.
9563  7-24-07  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with J.K. Meurer
               Corporation.
9571  8-28-07  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with John R.
               Jurgensen Company.
9574  9-25-07  Repealing Ords. 9046, 9047 and 9048.
9575  9-25-07  Repealing Ord. 9162 pertaining to an agreement with Heritage Real Estate
               Investments, Inc.
9582  9-25-07  Authorizing the Mayor to execute an employment agreement with George P.
               Clements.
9583  9-25-07  Authorizing the Mayor to execute an employment agreement with Sharee
               Dick.
9585  10-9-07  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with INC Technical
               Incorporated.
9586  10-9-07  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Neptune
               Equipment company.
9587  10-9-07  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Utility Sales
               Agency, LLC.
9588  10-9-07  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Utility Sales
               Agency, LLC.
9590  9-25-07  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Barrett Paving
               Materials, Inc.
9593  9-25-07  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Hylant Group.
9595  9-25-07  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a tax increment financing and
               economic development agreement with Mane, Inc.
9596  9-25-07  Authorizing the City Manager to approve a Warren County Enterprise Zone
               agreement.
9598  10-23-07 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with MSI.
9600  10-9-07  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement of sale with
               Innatech, LLC.
9603  10-9-07  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Laura
               Construction.
               Authorizing the City Manager to execute a preannexation agreement between
9606  10-9-07  the Union Township Board of Trustees, Kiesland, Ltd. and the City of
               Lebanon.
9609  10-23-07 Authorizing the City Manager to execute a ground lease estoppel,
               amendment and extension agreement.
9613  10-23-07 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with DECO Supply.
9614  11-13-07 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Applied
               Specialties, Inc.
9615  11-13-07 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with NRP Midwest,
               Inc.
9616  11-13-07 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Tidewater
               Products, Inc.
9617  11-13-07 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with ITT Flyght
               Dewatering Inc.
9630  11-13-07 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Hamby Young.
9633  11-27-07 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with SK
               Construction.
Res.  11-27-07 Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement with the Ohio
9634           Department of Transportation for the Lebanon Streetscape Project.
9635  11-27-07 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with PEPCO.
9638  12-11-07 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Fishbeck,
               Thompson, Carr and Huber, Inc.
9639  12-22-07 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Fishbeck,
               Thompson, Carr and Huber, Inc.
9640  12-11-07 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with W.G. Stang LLC.
9647  1-8-08   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Southwest
               Landmark, Inc.
9648  1-22-08  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an economic development
               inducement agreement with Cincinnati Bell Technology Solutions.
9650  2-12-08  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a mutual aid assistance agreement
               with Warren County.
9651  2-12-08  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with National
               Inspection Corporation.
9653  2-12-08  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Lifespan Design
               Studio.
9655  1-22-08  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Trend
               Construction.
9656  2-12-08  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Matthew J.
               Graber, Esq.
9657  2-26-08  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a municipal lease/purchase
               agreement with Southeastern Equipment Co., Inc.
9662  2-26-08  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with the Cincinnati
               Railway Company.
9667  2-26-08  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Prus
               Construction Company.
Res.  3-11-08  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an extension agreement with FOP
9670           Lodge #133.
9671  3-25-08  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with John R.
               Jurgensen Company.
9674  3-17-08  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a landlord consent, subordination
               and estoppel agreement with Conaco Capital, LLC.
9677  3-25-08  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Fornshell
               Properties, Ltd.
9679  3-25-08  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Arista
               Information Systems.
9680  4-8-08   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Woolpert, Inc.
9682  3-25-08  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with HD Supply
               Utilities.
9689  4-8-08   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Holden
               Excavating.
Res.  4-22-08  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an extension agreement with FOP
9694           Lodge #133.
9695  4-22-08  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Stantec
               Consulting Services, Inc.
9696  4-22-08  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Bayer Becker.
9697  4-22-08  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Evans,
               Mechwart, Hambleton & Tilton, Inc.
9698  4-22-08  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Midwest
               Electric.
9700  5-13-08  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with the Hamilton
               County Emergency Management Agency.
               Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with the Fraternal
9701  5-13-08  Order of Police Ohio Labor Council, Inc. on behalf of the Lebanon
               Fraternal Order of Police, Lodge #133.
9713  5-13-08  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Northwest
               Consultants, Inc.
9714  5-27-08  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Northwest
               Consultants, Inc.
9715  5-27-08  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with GPD Group.
9716  5-27-08  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with ME Companies.
9717  5-27-08  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Barge Waggoner
               Sumner & Cannon, Inc.
9722  5-27-08  Authorizing the City Manager to execute purchase power agreements with
               American Electric Power Service Corporation.
Res.  5-27-08  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a grant agreement with the State
9723           of Ohio, Department of Development.
9726  6-24-08  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with C.J. Hughes &
               Sons, Inc.
9729  6-10-08  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Larry Smith
               Contractors, Inc.
9742  7-22-08  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Hope Habitat
               for Humanity.
9747  8-12-08  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Greater
               Cincinnati Water Works.
9751  8-26-08  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a ground lease agreement with the
               Warren County Board of County Commissioners.
9754  8-12-08  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Warren County.
9757  8-12-08  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with SK
               Construction.
9758  8-12-08  Repealing Ordinance No. 9674.
9759  8-12-08  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a landlord consent, subordination
               and estoppel agreement with Conaco Capital, LLC.
9767  9-9-08   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with NeCamp
               Construction Company.
9769  9-9-08   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an estoppel agreement with
               Superior Walls of the Tri-State, LLC.
Res.  10-14-08 Approving and authorizing the City Manager to execute a cooperation
9774           agreement with the Warren County Board of Commissioners.
9779  11-11-08 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Cooper Power
               Systems.
9780  11-11-08 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Deco Supply
               Company.
9781  11-11-08 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with HD Supply
               Utilities, Ltd.
9782  11-11-08 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Lebanon
               Electric Supply, Inc.
9783  11-11-08 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Power Line
               Supply Company.
9784  11-11-08 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Solomon
               Corporation.
9785  11-11-08 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with WESCO
               Distribution, Inc.
9791  11-24-08 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an athletic facilities
               utilization agreement with Lebanon City School District.
9801  12-9-08  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Kelchner.
9803  12-23-08 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Countryside
               YMCA.
9804  12-23-08 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Trend
               Construction.
2009- 2-10-09  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with the Warren
005            County Fire Response and Life Safety Council of Governments.
2009- 2-10-09  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Schrudde &
009            Zommerman, Inc.
2009- 2-10-09  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Matthew J.
012            Graber, Esq.
2009- 2-10-09  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with the Cincinnati
016            Railway Company.
2009- 2-24-09  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Panetta
019            Excavating, Inc.
Res.
2009- 2-24-09  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a joint cooperation agreement.
020
2009- 3-10-09  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Larry Smith
022            Contractors, Inc.
2009- 3-24-09  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Capital
023            Electric Line Builders, Inc.
2009- 3-10-09  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a settlement agreement and
024            release with Barrett Paving Materials, Inc. and W.G. Stang, Inc.
2009- 3-24-09  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Diggit
028            Excavating, Inc.
2009- 4-20-09  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Associated
032            Railroad Contractors, Inc.
2009- 4-28-09  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with John R.
037            Jurgensen Company.
2009- 4-14-09  Authorizing the City Manager to modify an existing agreement with HDR
038            Engineering, Inc.
Res.           Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement with the Ohio
2009- 4-14-09  Department of Transportation for the SR 123/SR 63 Connector Project.
039
Res.           Authorizing the City Manager to execute one easement agreement and three
2009- 4-14-09  right-of-way agreements for the Miller Road improvement project.
041
2009- 4-28-09  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Specialized
043            Technical Services, Inc.
2009- 5-26-09  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Strand
051            Associates, Inc.
2009- 5-26-09  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Kinnison
052            Excavating.
2009- 5-26-09  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with PRUS
054            Construction Company.
2009- 5-26-09  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with LBJ, Inc.
055
2009- 5-26-09  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Kleingers &
056            Associates.
2009- 6-9-09   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Municipal
057            Energy Services Agency and American Municipal Power - Ohio Inc.
2009- 6-9-09   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Stantec
061            Consulting Services, Inc.
2009- 6-9-09   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with ME Companies.
063
2009- 6-9-09   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Triton
064            Services, Inc.
2009- 6-9-09   Authorizing the City Manager to execute a first amendment agreement with
065            American Electric Power Service Corporation.
2009- 6-9-09   Authorizing the City Manager to execute a settlement agreement with Ohio
066            Council 8, AFSCME, AFL-CIO.
2009- 7-14-09  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Northwest
069            Consultants, Inc.
2009- 6-23-09  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Kinnison
070            Excavating, Inc.
2009- 8-4-09   Authorizing the purchase of an Evidence Management System from Que Tel
074            Corporation.
2009- 8-4-09   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with CK Excavating,
077            Inc.
2009- 8-11-09  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a three-year agreement with
082            Associated Railroad Cotnractors, Inc.
2009- 8-17-09  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Trend
090            Construction.
2009- 8-25-09  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an Ohio Public Works Commission
091            Cooperation Agreement with Warren County Board of County Commissioners.
2009- 9-8-09   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an athletic field usage agreement
092            with the Lebanon Youth Soccer Association.
2009- 9-8-09   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an athletic field usage agreement
093            with Warren County Soccer Club.
2009- 9-8-09   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an athletic field usage agreement
094            with The Thunder United Futbol Club.
2009- 10-13-09 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Vista
101            Consulting Group, LLC.
2009- 10-27-09 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with W.G. Stang LLC.
102
2009- 10-27-09 Authorizing the City Manager to modify an existing agreement with HDR
103            Engineering, Inc.
2009- 11-10-09 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Buckeye Lawn
105            and Landscaping.
2009- 10-27-09 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an addendum to the Master
106            Services Agreement with American Municipal Power, Inc.
2009- 12-8-09  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an addendum to the legal services
112            agreement between the City of Lebanon and the City Prosecutor.
2009- 1-12-10  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an athletic field usage agreement
115            with the Lebanon Baseball/Softball Association.
2010-          Authorizing the City Manager to execute an extension agreement with the
001   1-12-10  International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, AFL-CIO-CLC and Local
               Union No. 648.
2010- 1-12-10  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a first amendment agreement with
002            Greater Cincinnati Water Works.
2010- 1-26-10  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Danis
007            Industrial Construction Company.
2010- 1-26-10  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Northwest
012            Consultants, Inc.
2010- 2-17-10  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Stantec
017            Consulting Services, Inc.
2010-          Authorizing the City Manager to execute an amended and restated
021   2-23-10  interconnection agreement between Duke Energy Ohio, Inc., the City of
               Lebanon, and the Midwest Independent Transmission System Operator, Inc.
2010-          Authorizing the City Manager to execute a collective bargaining agreement
022   2-23-10  with International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, AFL-CIO-CLC and
               Local Union No. 648.
2010- 3-15-10  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Theodore F. and
040            Margie A. Smith.
2010- 3-23-10  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Boone Water
042            Systems, Inc.
2010- 3-23-10  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Diggit
043            Excavating, Inc.
2010- 3-23-10  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Larry Smith
044            Contractors, Inc.
2010- 4-27-10  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with John R.
052            Jurgensen Company.
2010- 4-13-10  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with JD Power
053            Systems.
2010- 4-27-10  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Utility Sales
056            Agency.
2010- 5-11-10  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Welsh
060            Excavation Company, Inc.
2010-          Authorizing the City Manager to execute a collective bargaining agreement
061   5-11-10  with American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Ohio
               Council 8, Local 363, AFL-CIO.
2010- 5-25-10  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with J.K. Meurer,
064            Corp.
2010- 5-25-10  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Prus
068            Construction Company.
2010- 6-22-10  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Howell
075            Contractors, Inc.
Res.           Authorizing the City Manager to execute a Consent and Non-Disturbance
2010- 7-13-10  Agreement.
080
2010- 7-13-10  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Prus
082            Construction Company.
2010- 7-13-10  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Rumpke of Ohio,
083            Inc.
2010- 8-24-10  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Rumpke of Ohio,
085            Inc.
2010- 8-10-10  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an Assignment Agreement between
086            Cascade Water Services and SA Challenger, Inc.
2010- 8-24-10  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an Athletic Field Usage Agreement
087            with the Lebanon Youth Soccer Association.
2010- 8-24-10  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an Athletic Field Usage Agreement
088            with the Warren County Soccer Club.
2010- 8-24-10  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an Athletic Field Usage Agreement
089            with the Thunder United Metro Futbol Club.
2010- 9-14-10  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Southwest
095            Landmark, Inc.
2010- 8-24-10  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with the Lebanon
097            Police Employees Association.
2010- 10-12-10 Authorizing the City Manager to execute a Farm Lease Agreement with Butch
105            Schappacher.
2010- 10-12-10 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an Economic Development Agreement
106            with Engineered Plastic Components, Inc.
2010- 10-26-10 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Utility Sales
107            Agency, LLC.
2010- 10-26-10 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Neptune
108            Equipment Company.
2010- 10-26-10 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Aqua Technology
109            Group.
2010- 10-26-10 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Tidewater
110            Products, Inc.
2010- 10-26-10 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Applied
111            Specialties, Inc.
2010- 10-26-10 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Utility Sales
112            Agency, LLC.
2010- 10-26-10 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Ferguson
113            Waterworks.
2010- 10-26-10 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Utility Service
114            and Supply Inc.
2010- 10-12-10 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Trend
116            Construction.
2010- 10-26-10 Approving the cancellation of a Management Agreement with Henkle Schueler
118            and Associates, Inc.
2010- 10-26-10 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with ME Companies.
119
2010- 12-14-10 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Arista
127            Information Systems.
2010- 1-11-11  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Lawn Systems,
131            Inc.
2010- 1-11-11  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Kendrick s Lawn
132            and Landscaping.
2010- 1-11-11  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Kendrick s Lawn
133            and Landscaping.
2010- 1-11-11  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with The Brickman
134            Group.
2010- 1-11-11  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with the Warren
135            County Board of Commissioners.
2010-          Amending a Tax Increment Financing and Economic Development Agreement
138   1-11-11  with Mane, Inc., originally adopted by Ord. 9595, passed September 25,
               2007.
2011- 1-25-11  Authorizing the City Manager to modify an existing agreement with HDR
001            Engineering, Inc.
2011- 1-25-11  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Leesman
002            Lighting, LLC.
2011- 1-25-11  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Deco Supply
003            Company.
2011- 1-25-11  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with HD Supply
004            Utilities Ltd.
2011- 1-25-11  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Lebanon
005            Electric Supply Incorporated.
2011- 1-25-11  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Power Line
006            Supply Company.
2011- 1-25-11  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Solomon
007            Corporation.
2011- 1-25-11  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with WESCO
008            Distribution Incorporated.
2011-          Authorizing the City Manager to execute a transfer of water service and
010   2-8-11   water main construction cost sharing agreement with the Warren County
               Board of County Commissioners.
2011- 1-25-11  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a subordination agreement with
012            PNC Bank, National Association.
2011- 3-8-11   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Milcon
015            Concrete, Inc.
2011- 3-8-11   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Donald and
021            Charlotte Spurling.
2011- 3-22-11  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with O.R. Colan
025            Associates.
2011- 3-22-11  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with CK Excavating,
026            Inc.
2011- 4-12-11  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Prus
029            Construction Company.
2011- 4-12-11  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with LJB, Inc.
030
2011- 4-12-11  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Northwest
031            Consultants, Inc.
2011- 4-12-11  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Accredited Home
032            Lenders, Inc.
2011- 4-26-11  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Barrett Paving
034            Materials, Inc.
2011- 4-26-11  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an economic development agreement
037            with Mane, Inc.
2011-          Authorizing the City Manager to execute renewal agreements with Lebanon
039   4-26-11  Citizens National Bank, Fifth Third Bank, Sutton Bank, and Huntington
               National Bank.
2011- 5-24-11  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Civic Plus.
045
2011- 6-28-11  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Mueller
050            Systems.
2011- 6-28-11  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Apex CoVantage,
051            LLC.
2011- 6-28-11  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Utility Sales
053            Agency.
2011- 6-28-11  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with GPD Group.
056
2011- 6-28-11  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Wells
057            Engineering, PSC.
2011- 6-28-11  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a purchase power agreement with
063            American Municipal Power.
2011- 6-28-11  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with the Nelson
064            Stark Company.
2011- 7-12-11  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Benner
068            Mechanical & Electrical.
2011- 7-12-11  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Mid-Miami
069            Roofing, Inc.
2011- 7-12-11  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Warren Fire
070            Equipment, Inc.
2011- 7-12-11  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Warren Fire
071            Equipment, Inc.
2011- 8-15-11  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with CK Excavating,
077            Inc.
2011- 9-27-11  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a 3-year agreement with
078            Associated Railroad Contractors, Inc.
2011- 9-13-11  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Government
082            Underwriters of America.
2011-          Authorizing the City Manager to execute a collective bargaining agreement
083   9-27-11  with Lebanon Professional Firefighters, Local 4796 of the International
               Association of Firefighters.
2011- 11-7-11  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an amendment to the agreement
089            with the Warren County Drug Task Force Council of Governments.
Res.           Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement with the Ohio
2011- 11-7-11  Department of Transportation.
097
2011- 11-21-11 Authorizing the City Manager to execute a farm lease agreement with Fred
096            Vonderhaar.
2011- 1-10-12  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Triton
100            Services.
2011- 12-13-11 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with ME Companies.
101
2011-          Authorizing the City Manager to execute an amended and restated
103   12-13-11 interconnection agreement between Duke Energy Ohio, Inc., the City of
               Lebanon, Ohio and PJM Interconnection, LLC.
2011- 12-13-11 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Greater
105            Cincinnati Credit Union.
2012- 1-10-12  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a Ground Lessor's Estoppel
003            Certificate between the city, H.B. Sisters, LLC and Fifth Third Bank.
2012- 1-10-12  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an amended and restated landlord
004            consent, subordination and estoppel agreement with Conaco Capital, LLC.
2012- 1-10-12  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a modified Channel 6 Agreement
006            with Cincinnati Bell Extended Territories, LLC
2012-          Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Delta Star
007   1-24-12  Incorporated to purchase substation transformers for the Electric
               Department.
2012- 2-14-12  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Terracon.
008
2012- 2-14-12  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with CK Excavating,
011            Inc.
2012- 3-13-12  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a tax increment financing and
013            economic development agreement with Setzer Properties, LLC.
2012- 2-28-12  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Alstom Grid,
015            Inc. to purchase transmission breakers for the Electric Department.
2012- 2-28-12  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Hamby-Young to
016            purchase material and equipment for the Electric Department.
2012- 2-28-12  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with E.A. Pederson
017            Company to purchase material and equipment for the Electric Department.
2012- 3-13-12  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Welsh
020            Excavation Company, Inc.
2012- 3-27-12  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with America's
024            Decorative Concrete, LLC.
2012- 4-3-12   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Dennis Teall.
026
2012-          Authorizing the City Manager to execute a collective bargaining agreement
029   4-10-12  with American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees Ohio
               Council 8, Local 363 (AFSCME).
2012- 4-24-12  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a fire protection mutual aid
033            agreement with Warren County.
2012- 4-24-12  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with John R.
034            Jurgensen Company.
2012- 4-24-12  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with J.K. Meurer,
035            Corp.
2012- 5-22-12  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Kinnison
049            Excavating, Inc.
2012- 5-22-12  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Northwest
050            Consultants, Inc.
2012- 6-26-12  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with West Side
061            Church of Christ.
2012-          Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement with the Ohio
063   6-26-12  Department of Transportation to perform maintenance on the bridge located
               on US42 over Turtle Creek.
2012- 6-26-12  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Xylem Water
064            Solutions USA, Inc.
2012- 7-10-12  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Fred A. Nemann
066            Company.
2012- 8-14-12  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Nelson Tree
073            Service.
2012- 8-28-12  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with DTM Properties,
075            LLC.
2012- 8-28-12  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Rack and
077            Ballauer Excavating Co., Inc.
2012- 8-28-12  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Mobro, LLC.
078
2012- 8-28-12  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Michael and
079            Michelle Benner.
2012- 8-28-12  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Larry and
080            Charlotte Buchanan.
2012- 9-11-12  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with RP Architect's,
082            Inc.
2012- 9-25-12  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with W.G. Stang,
086            LLC.
2012- 10-23-12 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Welsh
091            Excavation Company, Inc.
2012- 11-13-12 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Newman Sanitary
099            Gasket.
2012- 12-11-12 Approving the Lebanon-Turtlecreek Joint Economic Development District.
101
2012- 12-11-12 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Let It Gro,
102            LLC.
2012- 12-11-12 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Let It Gro,
103            LLC.
2012- 12-11-12 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with The Brickman
104            Group, Ltd.
2012- 12-11-12 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with The Brickman
105            Group, Ltd.
2012- 11-27-12 Authorizing the City Manager to terminate the lease agreement and
106            inducement agreement between the city and Amtex, Inc.
2012-          Authorizing the City Manager to execute an extension agreement with the
112   12-11-12 International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, AFL-CIO-CLC and Local
               Union No. 648.
2013- 1-8-13   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Michael and
002            Michelle Benner.
2013- 1-8-13   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an economic development
003            inducement agreement with Green Bay Packaging, Inc.
2013- 1-8-13   Authorizing the City Manager to execute a forgivable loan agreement and
004            promissory note with Green Bay Packaging, Inc.
2013- 1-22-13  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a settlement agreement between
006            Duke Energy Ohio, Inc., and the City of Lebanon, Ohio.
2013- 1-22-13  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with HD Supply
007            Utilities Ltd.
2013- 1-22-13  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Power Line
008            Supply Company.
2013- 1-22-13  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Solomon
009            Corporation.
2013- 1-22-13  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Wesco
010            Distribution Incorporated.
2013- 1-22-13  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Osborne
011            Excavating.
2013-          Authorizing the City Manager to execute a collective bargaining agreement
018   2-12-13  with International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers AFL-CIO-CLC and
               Local Union No. 648.
2013- 2-26-13  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a pole and conduit use agreement
021            with Fibertech Networks, LLC.
2013- 2-26-13  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Westside Paving
032            and Excavation, Inc.
2013- 3-26-13  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement between the City of
038            Lebanon and the Warren County Port Authority.
2013- 3-26-13  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Innovative
043            Concrete and Utility Construction Company, LLC.
2013- 3-26-13  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a one year agreement with
045            Cincinnati Bell Telephone.
2013- 4-23-13  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with John R.
048            Jurgensen Company.
2013- 4-23-13  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Barrett Paving
049            Materials, Inc.
2013- 5-14-13  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Barge Waggoner
052            Sumner & Cannon, Inc.
2013- 5-14-13  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Northwest
053            Consultants, Inc.
2013- 5-14-13  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Fred A. Nemann
054            Company.
2013- 5-14-13  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Complete
055            General Construction Company.
2013- 5-14-13  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Ford
056            Development Company, Corp.
2013- 6-11-13  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Stone
060            Consulting, Inc.
2013- 6-11-13  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Welsh
063            Excavation Company, Inc.
2013- 6-11-13  Authorizing the Mayor to execute an employment agreement with Sharee C.
064            Dick.
2013- 6-11-13  Authorizing the mayor to execute an employment agreement with George P.
065            Clements.
2013- 6-25-13  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement W.G. Stang, LLC.
067
2013- 6-25-13  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with the Lebanon
075            Police Employees Association.
2013- 7-9-13   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Welsh
077            Excavation Company, Inc.
2013- 7-9-13   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Stauffer Site
078            Services LLC.
2013- 8-13-13  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with McGowan
088            Underwriting Agency.
2013- 10-8-13  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an athletic field usage agreement
094            with the Lebanon Youth Soccer Association.
2013- 10-8-13  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an athletic field usage agreement
095            with the Lebanon Youth Baseball and Fastpitch Softball Association.
2013- 11-12-13 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Trupointe
101            Cooperative, Inc.
2013-          Authorizing the City Manager to execute a collective bargaining agreement
110   12-10-13 with Lebanon Professional Firefighters, Local 4796 of the International
               Association of Firefighters.
Res.           Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement with the Ohio
2013- 12-10-13 Department of Transportation for the War-LM&M Rail Rehabilitation
112            Project.
2014- 2-11-14  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a preliminary agreement with G/
007            C Contracting.
2014- 2-11-14  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with G/
008            C Contracting.
2014- 2-25-14  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with the Warren
009            County Board of Commissioners.
Res,           Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement with the Ohio
2014- 3-11-14  Department of Transportation to perform bridge inspection program
024            services.
2014- 5-13-14  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with John R.
030            Jurgensen Company.
2014-          Authorizing the City Manager to execute a mutual aid assistance agreement
031   5-13-14  between all participating Warren County Fire and Emergency Medical
               Service Agencies.
2014- 4-22-14  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Medicount
032            Management, Inc.
2014- 5-13-14  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with W.G. Stang,
035            LLC.
2014- 5-27-14  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with G/
040            C Contracting.
2014- 6-3-14   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Adleta
043            Construction.
2014- 5-27-14  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Choice One
045            Engineering.
2014- 6-9-14   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Railworks Track
051            Services.
2014- 6-9-14   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with W.G. Stang,
053            LLC.
2014- 6-9-14   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Inland Waters
054            Pollution Control, Inc.
Res.           Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement with the Ohio
2014- 6-24-14  Department of Transportation for the Bypass 48 Phase I Resurfacing
064            Project.
Res.           Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement with the Ohio
2014- 6-24-14  Department of Transportation for the Central Business District Pedestrian
065            Enhancement Project.
2014- 7-8-14   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Fred Nemann
069            Company, Inc.
2014- 7-8-14   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Welsh
070            Excavation Company, Inc.
2014- 9-9-14   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with the Ohio Plan.
079
2014-          Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with the Board of
084   9-23-14  Education of the Lebanon City School District to exchange ownership of
               real estate.
2014- 11-24-14 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Let It Gro,
092            LLC.
2014- 11-24-14 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Let It Gro,
093            LLC.
2014- 11-24-14 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Let It Gro,
094            LLC.
2014- 12-9-14  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with the Cincinnati
098            Scenic Railway.
2015- 4-14-15  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Barrett Paving
050            Materials, Inc.
2015- 4-14-15  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Choice One
051            Engineering.
Res.           Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract with the Warren
2015- 4-28-15  County Engineer s Office.
054
2015- 4-28-15  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with ELEX, Inc.
055
2015- 4-28-15  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with GPD Group.
057
2015-          Authorizing the City Manager to execute a collective bargaining agreement
062   5-26-15  with American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees Ohio
               Council 8, Local 363.
Res.           Authorizing the City Manager to execute a landlord waiver, consent
2015- 5-26-15  nondisturbance, and atonement agreement with J.I.T. Packaging, Inc.
063
2015- 6-23-15  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Terra Firma DD,
071            LLC.
2015- 7-14-15  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Municipal
080            Energy Services Agency (AMP).
2015- 7-14-15  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Delta Star
081            Incorporated.
2015- 8-25-15  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Rumpke of Ohio,
085            Inc.
2015- 9-1-15   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with HCC Insurance
086            Holdings.
Res.           Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement with the Ohio
2015- 8-25-15  Department of Transportation.
090
Res.           Authorizing the City Manager to execute a consent and non- disturbance
2015- 9-14-15  agreement with Doran Properties, LLC.
091
2015- 9-22-15  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an information technology
093            consulting services agreement with LANrm.
2015- 10-13-15 Approving a release and separation agreement with Katherine Lindon.
096
2015- 9-22-15  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Northwest
098            Consultants, Inc.
2015- 10-13-15 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Eaton
106            Corporation.
2015- 10-13-15 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Tatman
107            Associates, Inc.
2015- 10-13-15 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Alstom Grid
108            Inc.
2015- 10-13-15 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Electrical
109            Power Products.
2015- 10-13-15 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Conger
110            Construction Group.
Res.           Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement with the Ohio
2015- 10-27-15 Department of Transportation.
113
2015- 11-10-15 Approving a release and separation agreement with Theresa A. Scott.
116
2015- 11-24-15 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Rack & Ballauer
127            Excavating Co., Inc.
2015- 12-8-15  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Unger
129            Construction.
Res.           Authorizing the City Manager to execute a development agreement with
2015- 12-8-15  Lebanon Citizens National Bank, Inc.
131
2016- 1-12-16  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Newberry
003            Construction.
Res.           Authorizing the City Manager to execute an extension agreement with the
2016- 1-12-16  International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, AFL-CIO-CLC and Local
005            Union No. 648.
2016-          Authorizing the City Manager to execute a collective bargaining agreement
006   1-26-16  with International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers AFL-CIO-CLC and
               Local Union No. 648.
2016- 2-2-16   Authorizing the Mayor to execute an employment agreement with Mark S.
017            Yurick, Esq.
2016- 2-9-16   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Automated
018            Systems Engineering.
2016- 3-8-16   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Emergi Tech
023            Inc.
2016- 3-8-16   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with ESI Inc.
025
2016- 3-22-16  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with R.A. Miller
032            Construction Co., Inc.
Res.           Approving a water services agreement between the city and the Warren
2016- 4-12-16  County Board of County Commissioners.
036
Res.           Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract with the Warren
2016- 4-12-16  County Engineer s Office.
037
2016-          Authorizing the City Manager to execute renewal agreements with Lebanon
040   4-26-16  Citizens National Bank, Fifth Third Bank, Sutton Bank, PNC Bank and
               Huntington National Bank.
2016- 4-12-16  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Barrett Paving
041            Materials, Inc.
2016- 4-12-16  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with FTC&H.
045
2016- 4-12-16  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Northwest
046            Consultants Inc.
2016- 5-10-16  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a pole and conduit use agreement
047            with Level 3 Communications, LLC.
2016- 4-26-16  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with John R.
049            Jurgensen Co.
Res.           Approving an update to the agreement with the Warren County Drug Task
2016- 4-26-16  Force Council of Governments.
051
2016- 5-10-16  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with John R.
054            Jurgensen Co.
2016- 5-24-16  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Barrett Paving
056            Materials, Inc.
2016- 5-24-16  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an economic development agreement
059            with Mane, Inc.
2016- 5-24-16  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Rack and
063            Ballauer Excavating Co., Inc.
2016- 6-28-16  Rescinding Ordinance 2016-049 authorizing the City Manager to execute an
066            agreement with John R. Jurgensen Co.
2016- 7-12-16  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Rack and
074            Ballauer Excavating Co., Inc.
2016- 7-12-16  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with QEI, LLC.
077
2016- 8-23-16  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Planning Next.
086
2016- 9-13-16  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with the Lebanon
087            Police Employees Association.
2016- 9-27-16  Approving a release and separation agreement with Sharee Dick.
088
2016- 11-7-16  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a collective bargaining agreement
094            with Lebanon Professional Firefighters, Local 4796, IAFF.
2016- 10-25-16 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an economic development agreement
099            with Sundance Partners, LLC.
Res.           Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement with the Ohio
2016- 11-7-16  Department of Transportation to perform bridge inspection program
103            services.
Res.
2016- 11-7-16  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a conciliation agreement.
106
2016- 12-13-16 Authorizing the City Manager to execute and agreement with Let it Gro,
107            LLC.
2016- 12-13-16 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Let it Gro,
108            LLC.
Res.           Authorizing the City Manager to prepare and submit to the Ohio Department
2016- 11-22-16 of Natural Resources Clean Ohio Trails Fund grant and to execute and sign
109            all agreements necessary for the acceptance and completion of the grant
               contracts as required.
2016- 11-22-16 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with the Cincinnati
111            Railway Company.
2017- 2-14-17  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Welsh
016            Excavating Co., Inc.
2017- 2-14-17  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Newberry
019            Construction.
2017- 3-14-17  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Adleta
027            Construction Company Incorporated.
2017- 4-25-17  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with John R.
033            Jurgensen Company.
Res.           Directing the City Manager to execute a closing agreement and issue funds
2017- 4-25-17  for resolution of issues related to the issuance of securities of the
040            City of Lebanon, Ohio.
2017- 5-9-17   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Barrett Paving
045            Materials, Inc.
2017- 5-9-17   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Clearcreek
046            Coatings, Ltd.
2017- 5-9-17   Authorizing the Mayor to execute an employment agreement with Daniel J.
048            Burke.
2017- 5-23-17  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with W.G. Stang,
051            LLC.
2017- 6-13-17  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Innovative Dirt
058            Solutions.
Res.           Authorizing the City Manager to enter an agreement with the Ohio
2017- 7-11-17  Department of Transportation to allow the city to administer the 2018
064            Bypass 48 Phase III Resurfacing Project.
2017- 8-8-17   Approving a release and separation agreement with George P. Clements.
070
2017- 8-8-17   Authorizing the Mayor to execute an employment agreement with Scott
071            Brunka.
2017- 7-11-17  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Ridgewater LLC.
072
2017- 7-11-17  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Cardno.
073
2017- 7-11-17  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Doll Layman,
075            Ltd.
2017- 8-8-     Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with JNT Excavating,
080   17    LLC.
2017- 8-8-     Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Rack & Ballauer
081   17    Excavating Co. Inc.
2017- 8-22-17  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with IBI Group
084            (Delaware) Inc.
2017- 10-10-17 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Bansal
099            Construction, Inc.
2017- 10-24-17 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Stanley
100            Consultants.
2017- 11-14-17 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an athletic field usage agreement
101            with the Lebanon Youth Baseball and Fastpitch Softball Association.
Res.           Authorizing the City Manager to execute a sponsorship agreement with
2017- 11-14-17 Premier Health Atrium Medical Center.
108
2017- 11-14-17 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Corna Kokosing
115            Construction Company.
2017- 12-12-17 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Sunrise
118            Cooperative, Inc.
2017- 11-28-17 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Rack & Ballauer
119            Excavating Co. Inc.
2017- 12-12-17 Authorizing the City Manager to execute a professional services agreement
120            with OHM Advisors, Inc.
Res.           Authorizing the city to enter into an agreement with the State Auditor s
2018- 1-9-18   Office.
004
2018-          Authorizing the City Manager to execute a collective bargaining agreement
015   2-27-18  with American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees Ohio
               Council 8, Local 363.
2018- 3-13-18  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Rack and
019            Ballauer Excavating Company, Inc.
2018- 3-27-18  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Barrett Paving
024            Materials Inc.
Res.           Authorizing the City to enter into an agreement with the Ohio Department
2018- 3-27-18  of Transportation State Infrastructure Bank.
025
2018- 4-10-18  Approving a lease extension agreement between the city and Fiducia LRC,
028            Inc.
Res.           Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with the Warren County
2018- 4-10-18  Engineer s Office.
035
2018- 4-24-18  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Choice One
039            Engineering.
2018- 4-24-18  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with TEC
040            Engineering.
2018- 5-22-18  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Ford
051            Development Corporation.
2018- 6-26-18  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Choice One
055            Engineering.
2018- 6-26-18  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Rack & Ballauer
056            Excavating Co., Inc.
2018- 7-10-18  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Asplundh Tree
057            Expert LLC.
2018- 7-10-18  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with A. Meredith
058            Schneider Company.
2018- 7-10-18  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Anixter
059            Incorporated.
2018- 7-10-18  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Irby Utilities.
060
2018- 7-10-18  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Lebanon
061            Electric Supply Company.
2018- 7-10-18  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Solomon
062            Corporation.
2018- 7-10-18  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with T&R Electric
063            Supply Company.
2018- 7-10-18  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Wesco
064            Distribution Inc.
2018- 7-10-18  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Rack & Ballauer
066            Excavating Co., Inc.
2018- 7-10-18  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Kramer &
067            Feldman, Inc.
2018- 8-14-18  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a pole and conduit use agreement
069            with MCI Metro Access Transmission Services Corporation.
2018- 8-28-18  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with A.W. Cardinal
071            Inc.
2018- 8-28-18  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with Brown
078            Construction and Paving Corporation.
2018- 9-11-18  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with Rack and Ballauer
080            Excavating Company, Inc.
2018- 9-11-18  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Environmental
081            Remediation Contractors.
2018- 9-25-18  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with HCC Insurance
083            Holdings.
2018- 10-9-18  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Highlands
090            Development Partners.
2018-          Authorizing the City Manager to execute a consent to assignment and
091   11-13-18 assumption of athletic facilities utilization agreement with the
               Cincinnati United Soccer Club.
2018- 10-23-18 Authorizing the City Manager to execute a 4- month extension to the
092            purchase option agreement with Highland Development Partners, LLC.
2018- 10-23-18 Authorizing the City Manager to execute assignment of an inducement
093            agreement between Conancao Capital LLC.
2018- 11-27-18 Authorizing the City Manager to execute a development agreement with
099            Community Development Associates, LLC.
2018- 11-13-18 Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with Rack and Ballauer
102            Excavating Co., Inc.
2018- 11-13-18 Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with Bansal
104            Construction Inc.
2018- 11-13-18 Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with TEC Engineering.
105
2018- 11-27-18 Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with R.B. Jergens
109            Contractors, Inc.
2019-          Authorizing the City Manager to execute a collective bargaining agreement
001   1-8-19   with International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers AFL-CIO-CLC and
               Local Union No. 648.
2019- 1-22-19  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an annexation agreement with the
003            Board of Trustees of Turtlecreek Township.
2019- 1-22-19  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Miller Lawn and
004            Landscape.
2019- 1-22-19  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Daily s Lawn
005            and Landscaping.
Res.           Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract with the Warren
2019- 2-26-19  County Engineer s Office.
016
Res.           Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an intergovernmental agreement
2019- 3-12-19  with the Village of South Lebanon and Warren County.
017
2019- 3-12-19  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with Rack and Ballauer
019            Excavation Co., Inc.
2019- 3-12-19  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with R.A. Miller
020            Construction Company, Inc.
Res.           Authorizing the City Manager to execute a joint venture agreement between
2019- 3-26-19  the Board of Education of the Lebanon City School District and the city.
024
2019- 4-9-19   Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with Choice One
032            Engineering Corporation.
Res.           Approving the lease agreement between the city and K & D Alexander
2019- 4-9-19   Commercial Properties 5, LLC.
034
2019- 6-11-19  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Ohio Traffic
049            and Lighting Solutions, Inc.
2019- 7-9-19   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Midstate
058            Contractors, Inc.
2019- 8-13-19  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with JK Meurer.
059
2019- 8-13-19  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with R.B. Jergens
060            Contractors, Inc.
2019- 8-13-19  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with Milcon Concrete,
061            Inc.
Res.           Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement with the Ohio
2019- 8-13-19  Department of Transportation.
063
2019- 10-8-19  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with KZF Design.
079
2019- 10-8-19  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with the Warren
081            County Historical Society.
2019- 10-8-19  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Conger
082            Construction Group.
2019- 10-8-19  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Doll Layman
084            Ltd.
Res.           Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an LPA agreement with the Ohio
2019- 10-22-19 Department of Transportation.
085
2019- 11-12-19 Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with Ford Development
096            Corporation.
2019- 11-12-19 Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with Oberson s Nursery
097            and Landscape, Inc.
2019- 11-26-19 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with the Ohio
101            Attorney General.
2019- 1-14-20  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Innovative
103            Software Solutions, Inc.
2020- 1-14-20  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a compensation agreement with the
003            King s Local School District.
              
2020- 1-14-20  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with the Lebanon
008            Police Employees Association.
2020-          Authorizing the City Manager to execute a collective bargaining agreement
009   1-14-20  with Lebanon Professional Firefighters, Local 4796 of the International
               Association of Firefighters.
2020- 1-28-20  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with the Cincinnati
012            Railway Company.
2020- 1-28-20  Authorizing an amendment to the community reinvestment area tax abatement
013            agreement with North Broadway Apartments, LLC.
Res.           Approving an update to the agreement with the Warren County Drug Task
2020- 2-11-20  Force Council of Governments.
016
Res.           Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement with the Warren
2020- 2-11-20  County Engineer s Office.
017
2020- 2-11-20  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Conger
019            Construction Group.
2020- 2-11-20  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Newberry
021            Construction.
2020- 3-24-20  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with Barrett Paving
025            Materials, Inc.
2020- 3-24-20  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with Choice One
029            Engineering Corporation.
2020-          Authorizing the City Manager to execute a collective bargaining agreement
031   3-24-20  with American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees Ohio
               Council 8, Local 363.
2020- 3-24-20  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Burgess &
032            Niple.
2020- 4-14-20  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with Rack and Ballauer
033            Excavating Company Inc.
2020- 4-14-20  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with Elex
034            Incorporated.
2020- 4-14-20  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with Jim Clark and
035            Sons Excavating, LLC.
Res.           Agreement between the Board of County Commissioners of Warren County and
2020- 4-14-20  Lebanon Senior Partners, LLC.
039
2020- 4-14-20  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with the Lebanon
041            Police Employees Association.
2020- 4-14-20  Authorizing the City Manager to extend the development and economic
042            incentive agreement with North Broadway Apartments, LLC.
2020- 6-9-     Authorizing the City Manager to execute an athletic field usage agreement
050   20    with the Lebanon Youth Soccer Association.
2020- 6-9-     Authorizing the City Manager to execute an athletic field usage agreement
051   20    with Cincinnati United Soccer.
2020- 6-9-     Authorizing the City Manager to execute an athletic field usage agreement
052   20    with Warren County United Soccer.
2020- 5-26-20  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Allied
054            Technical Services Inc.
2020- 6-9-20   Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with Midstate
064            Contractors, Inc.
2020- 6-9-20   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Westside Paving
065            & Excavating, Inc.
2020- 6-23-20  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a professional services agreement
066            with Planning Next.
Res.
2020- 7-14-20  Approving the lease agreement between the city and Lebanon Elks.
070
2020- 7-14-20  Authorizing the City Manager to extend the development and economic
074            incentive agreement with North Broadway Apartments, LLC.
2020- 7-21-20  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with Graybach, LLC.
077
2020- 9-1-20   Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with Majors
088            Enterprises, Inc.
Res.           Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an LPA agreement with the Ohio
2020- 9-8-20   Department of Transportation.
095
Res.              Approving the lease agreement between the city and Snowden Group II
2020- 9-8-20   Ltd.
096
2020- 9-22-20  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Earth and Pipe
099            Contracting, Inc.
Res.           Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an intergovernmental agreement
2020- 10-13-20 with the Warren County Transportation Improvement District.
101
2020- 11-24-20 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Rumpke of Ohio,
113            Inc.
2020- 12-8-20  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Let it Gro,
120            LLC.
2020- 12-8-20  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Daily s Lawn
121            and Landscaping.
2021- 1-12-21  Authorizing the consent to assignment of the development agreement for
001            the property located at 2999 Henkle Drive.
Res.           Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a consent agreement with the
2021- 1-12-21  Ohio Department of Transportation.
007
2021- 1-12-21  Authorizing the City Manager to amend the development agreement with
009            North Broadway Apartments, LLC.
2021- 1-26-21  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a development agreement with the
011            Lebanon Brewing Company, LLC.
Res.           Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract with the Warren
2021- 1-26-21  County Engineer s Office.
013
2021- 2-9-     Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with Kelchner, Inc.
018   21   
2021- 2-23-21  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with Burgess & Niple.
019
2021- 2-23-21  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with Choice One
021            Engineering Corporation.
2021- 3-9-     Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with Adleta, Inc.
023   21   
2021- 3-9-     Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with Adleta, Inc.
024   21   
2021- 3-9-     Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with the John R.
026   21    Jurgensen Company.
2021- 3-15-21  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a modified development and
029            economic incentive agreement with North Broadway Apartments, LLC.
2021- 3-23-21  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with W.G. Stang LLC.
030
2021- 4-6-2021 Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with KT Supply LTD.
036
2021- 5-25-21  Approving an employment agreement between the city and Daniel Burke.
052
2021- 6-8-21   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an economic development agreement
055            with Rise Lebanon OH, LLC.
Res.           Authorizing the City Manager to extend the development agreement with
2021- 6-22-21  High Pointe Custom Homes, LLC.
062
               Authorizing the City Manager to prepare and submit to the Ohio Public
2021- 7-13-21  Works Commission a Clean Ohio Funds Green Space Conservation program
063            grant and to execute and sign all agreements necessary for the acceptance
               and completion of the grant contracts.
2021- 8-10-21  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with Dirt Artisans.
064
2021- 7-13-21  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with Barrett Paving
065            Materials, Inc.
2021-          Authorizing the City Manager to execute renewal agreements with Lebanon
068   7-13-21  Citizens National Bank, Sutton Bank, and U.S. Bank for deposit of active
               funds.
2021- 8-10-21  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with the Kleingers
069            Group.
2021- 8-10-21  Approving an annexation agreement with the Board of Township Trustees of
075            Turtlecreek Township.
2021- 8-24-21  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a modified development and
081            economic incentive agreement with Ridgley Holdings, LLC.
2021- 8-24-21  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Asplundh Tree
082            Expert, LLC
2021- 9-14-21  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Tokio Marine
086            Insurance.
Res.           Authorizing the City Manager to apply for, accept and enter into a water
2021- 9-14-21  pollution loan fund agreement.
090
Res.           Authorizing the City Manager to prepare and submit to the Ohio Department
2021- 9-28-21  of Natural Resources an urban canopy restoration grant and to execute and
093            sign all agreements necessary for the acceptance and completion of the
               grant contracts.
2021- 11-9-21  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with Smithcorp Inc.
107
2021- 11-23-21 Authorizing the City Manager to execute an employment agreement with
115            Kelly M. McKoy.
2021-          Authorizing the City Manager to execute a collective bargaining agreement
120   12-14-21 with International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers AFL-CIO-CLC and
               Local Unions 648.
2022- 1-25-22  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an economic development agreement
006            with Premier Packaging, LLC.
Res.           Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract with the Warren
2022- 1-25-22  County Engineer s Office for the purchase of road salt.
11
2022- 2-8-22   Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with Fishbeck.
019
2022- 3-8-22   Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with Adleta, Inc.
029
2022- 3-8-     Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with the John R.
030   22    Jurgensen Company.
2022-          Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with Dugan Meyers, LLC
036   4-12-22  for the construction of the Glosser Road pump station and EQ basin
               improvements.
2022- 4-12-22  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract amendment with Burgess
037            and Niple.
2022- 4-26-22  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with Leo J. Brielmaier
057            Co.
2022- 5-10-22  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with GPD Group.
060
2022-          Authorizing the City Manager to execute a real estate listing agreement
061   5-10-22  with Jones Lang LaSalle (JLL) for city-owned property being marketed for
               business development.
2022- 5-24-22  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with KT Supply LTD.
065
2022-          Authorizing the City Manager to execute a settlement agreement and mutual
070   5-24-22  release with Campbell Berling Development Company, LLC and CB Lebanon,
               LLC.
2022- 7-12-22  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with W.G. Stang, LLC
077            for the Mulberry Street water main replacement project.
2022- 8-9-22   Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with Milcon Concrete,
084            Inc. for the Mechanic Street reconstruction project.
Res.           Authorizing the City Manager to execute a subrecipient agreement with the
2022- 8-9-22   Warren County Port Authority for the ODOD Building demolition and site
091            revitalization program.
2022- 8-23-22  Authorizing a contract with Mobilcomm for the purchase and installation
085            of 14 camera units.
2022-          Authorizing a contract with Flowbird Group for the installation of
086   8-23-22  automated parking meters, to include an annual management plan, for the
               downtown metered parking stalls.
2022- 8-23-22  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an athletic field usage agreement
088            with the Lebanon Youth Baseball and Fastpitch Softball Association.
2022- 9-13-22  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a professional services agreement
097            with Choice One Engineering.
2022- 9-13-22  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a professional services agreement
098            with Fishbeck, Inc.
2022-          Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement with
100   9-13-22  Intercommunity Cable Regulatory Commission to produce local programming
               and televise City Council meetings.
Res.           Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement with the Ohio
2022- 9-27-22  Department of Transportation to perform bridge inspection program
106            services.
Res.           Authorizing the City Manager to execute an LPA agreement and all
2022- 10-11-22 necessary documents with the Ohio Department of Transportation for the FY
112            23 urban paving program.
2022-          Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with Ford Development
117   10-25-22 Corporation for the North Broadway streetscape improvements - phase 3
               project.
2022- 11-9-22  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with Eagle Bridge
127            Company for the replacement of railroad bridge 4.10.
2022- 11-15-22 Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with Stauffer Site
132            Services, LLC for the Reeder s Run sanitary sewer improvements project.
2023- 1-10-23  Approving and accepting the settlement agreement for National Association
006            of Social Workers, et al, vs. City of Lebanon.
Res.           Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract with the Warren
2023- 1-24-23  County Engineers Office for purchase of road salt.
007
2023- 2-14-23  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with Barrett Paving.
014
2023-          Authorizing the City Manager to execute a collective bargaining agreement
017   2-14-23  with Lebanon Professional Fire fighters, Local 4796 of the International
               Association of Fire fighters.
2023- 3-14-23  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a professional services agreement
028            with Fishbeck, Inc.
2023- 3-28-23  Authorizing the City Manager to execute an employment agreement with
029            Scott Brunka.
2023- 4-11-23  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with John R. Jurgensen
036            Company.
2023- 4-11-23  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with Adleta, Inc.
037
2023- 4-25-23  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a compensation agreement with the
043            King's Local School District .
2023- 6-13-23  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with W.G. Stang, LLC.
053
Res.           Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement with Ohio
2023- 6-27-23  Department of Transportation for the Bowm an Trail extension project.
056
2023-          Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Tatman
058   7-5-23   Associates, Inc. to purchase material and equipment for the Electric
               Department.
2023- 7-5-23   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Siemens Energy
059            to purchase material and equipment for the Electric Department.
2023-          Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Pennsylvania
060   7-5-23   Transformer Technologies to purchase material and equipment for the
               Electric Department.
2023- 7-5-23   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Siemens
061            Industry to purchase materials and equipment for the Electric Department.
Res.           Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an agreement with the Warren
2023- 7-11-23  County Commissioners for reimbursement of public defender fees .
068
2023- 7-11-23  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with Milcon Concrete,
071            LLC for the reconstruction of Cherry Street.
2023- 8-8-23   Approving an agreement between the city and Lebanon Christian Schools for
078            a school resource officer.
2023- 8-22-23  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with Kokosing Solar.
082
2023-          Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with Kokosing Solar
083   9-12-23  for the operation and maintenance of the city-owned solar array
               infrastructure.
2023-          Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with Doll Layman, Ltd.
085   8-22-23  for the construction of the wastewater treatment plant aeration
               improvements.
2023-          Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with Eaton for the
089   9-9-23   purchase and installation of automatic metering infrastructure for water
               and electric systems.
2023- 10-10-23 Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with L.C. United
095            Painting Company Inc. for the painting of the composite water tower.
2023-          Authorizing the City Manager to execute agreements with the Buckeye State
096   10-24-23 Pipe & Supply Company, Ferguson Waterworks and Core & Main for needed
               water meters.
2023- 10-10-23 Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with Oheil Site
098            Solutions.
2023- 11-28-23 Authorizing a community reinvestment area agreement with Green Bay
112            Packaging, Inc. for property located at 760 Kingsview Drive.
2023- 12-12-23 Authorizing the City Manager to execute a forgivable loan agreement and
119            promissory note with Palarum, LLC.
2023- 12-12-23 Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with Sunrise
120            Cooperative, Inc. for the purchase of fuel.
2023- 1-9-24   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Let it Gro,
121            LLC.
2023- 12-12-23 Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with Brumbaugh
122            Construction.
2024- 1-9-24   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with MGZ Lawn &
002            Grounds Care, LLC for mowing and land scaping.
2024- 1-9-24   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Brightview
003            Landscapes for mowing.
2024- 1-9-24   Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Let it Gro, LLC
004            for mowing.
2024-          Authorizing the City Manager to execute a collective bargaining agreement
006   1-9-24   with American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees Ohio
               Council 8, Local 363.
Res.           Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract with the Warren
2024- 2-13-24  County Engineer's Office for the purchase of road salt.
014
Res.           Authorizing the City Manager to execute an LPA agreement with ODOT for
2024- 3-26-24  the FY25 urban paving program.
022
Res.           Authorizing the City Manager to execute an LPA agreement with ODOT for
2024- 3-26-24  the N. Broadway shared use path.
023
Res.           Authorizing the City Manager to execute an LPA agreement with ODOT for
2024- 3-26-24  the Bowman trail project.
024
2024- 3-26-24  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with the John R.
027            Jurgensen Company.
2024- 3-26-24  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with Adleta, Inc.
028
2024- 4-9-24   Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with Barrett Paving
035            Materials, Inc.
2024- 4-9-24   Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with Kennedy Railroad
037            Services.
Res.           Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a Railroad-Highway master
2024- 4-23-24  agreement for warning devices and grade crossings.
043
2024- 4-23-24  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an intergovernmental agreement
045            with the Warren County Transportation Improvement District.
2024- 4-23-24  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with Thompson
046            Electric.
2024-          Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a utility facilities and
047   4-23-24  reimbursement agreement with Duke Energy for the Glosser Road substation
               project.
Res.           Authorizing the City Manager to execute an LPA agreement with ODOT for
2024- 4-23-24  the Kingsview Bridge replacement.
048
              
 
TABLE VI: VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Description
Ord. No. Date     Description
7174     2-27-96  Vacating a portion of Burt Avenue and Shattuck Street.
7498     4-28-98  Vacating an abandoned portion of State Route 123.
8532     11-12-02 Vacating a portion of South Street.
9253     12-27-05 Authorizing the vacation of a portion of Cook Road.
2012-014 3-13-12  Authorizing the vacation of a portion of right-of-way along
                  Henkle Drive.
                  Approving the record plan for the vacation plat of a portion
2012-046 5-22-12  of right-of-way along East Mulberry Street and Chillicothe
                  Avenue.
                  Authorizing the vacation of North Sycamore Street, a portion
2016-020 2-9-16   of West Warren Street and a portion of the 16 foot alley
                  between North Sycamore and North Water Street.
2017-022 2-28-17  Authorizing the vacation of 12-foot alley running north south
                  between West Main Street and West South Street.
2019-086 10-22-19 Authorizing the vacation of right-of-way for a section of Oak
                  Street.
2020-005 1-14-20  Approving the record plan for the right-of-way vacation plat
                  of North Broadway Commons.
2020-086 8-11-20  Authorizing the vacation of right-of-way for a section of
                  Justice Drive.
2021-040 4-27-21  Authorizing the vacation of right-of-way for a section of
                  Cincinnati Avenue.
2021-057 4-27-21  Authorizing the vacation of right-of-way for a section of
                  Cincinnati Avenue.
2022-021 2-22-22  Authorizing the vacation of right-of-way for a section of
                  Grant Drive.
2023-097 10-10-23 Authorizing the vacation of right-of-way easement for a
                  section of Lebanon Road.
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Revised Code of Ohio
References to Ordinances
References to Resolutions
REFERENCES TO REVISED CODE OF OHIO
Editor's note:
   This table lists those Ohio Revised Code sections which have been
substantially duplicated by corresponding Code of Ordinance sections. All
legislative history references to "(R.C. § xx.xx)" which appear at the end of
sections (or divisions of sections) in the city's Code of Ordinances have been
listed here. Example: to determine which section of the Code of Ordinances is
based on R.C. § 4511.19, scan down this table to the citation for "4511.19" and
examine the entry across from it: in this case, the corresponding Code of
Ordinances section is § 333.01, which means that § 333.01 (or a part thereof)
is based directly on R.C. § 4511.19.
R.C. Section Code Section
R.C. Section                              Code Section
128.01(A)                                 509.08
128.96(F) - (H)                           509.08
128.99(A), (B)                            509.08
715.67                                    599.02
951.02                                    505.01
951.10                                    505.01
951.99                                    505.01
955.22                                    505.01
955.222                                   505.01
955.28                                    505.06
955.99(E) - (H), (J), (L) - (N), (P), (Q) 505.01
959.01                                    505.03
959.02                                    505.04
959.03                                    505.04
959.13                                    505.05
959.131                                   505.05
959.21                                    505.10
959.99(B), (D)                            505.99
959.99(D)                                 505.10
959.99(E)                                 505.99
959.99(E)(3)                              505.99
959.99(E)(7)                              505.10
2901.01                                   501.02
2903.13                                   502.01
2903.14                                   502.02
2903.21                                   502.03
2903.211                                  502.05
2903.22                                   502.04
2907.01                                   503.01
2907.06                                   503.02
2907.08                                   503.04
2907.09                                   503.03
2907.10                                   503.05
2907.25                                   503.06
2909.01                                   507.01
2909.06                                   504.01
2909.07                                   504.02
2909.31                                   509.07
2911.21                                   506.01
2913.01                                   507.01
2913.04                                   507.02
2913.07                                   507.07
2913.11                                   507.06
2913.33                                   507.03
2913.44                                   507.04
2913.45                                   507.05
2915.01                                   513.01
2915.02(A) - (G), (K)                     513.02
2915.03                                   513.03
2915.04                                   513.04
2915.05                                   513.05
2915.06                                   513.10
2915.061                                  513.10
2915.091                                  513.06
2915.092                                  513.07
2915.094                                  513.09
2915.13                                   513.08
2915.14                                   513.11
2917.03                                   508.09
2917.031                                  508.09
2917.04                                   508.01
2917.05                                   508.02
2917.11                                   508.03
2917.12                                   508.04
2917.13                                   508.05
2917.14                                   508.16
2917.21                                   508.06
2917.211                                  503.08
2917.32                                   508.10
2921.01                                   135.01
2921.21                                   509.01
2921.22                                   509.02
2921.29                                   509.07
2921.31                                   509.03
2921.33                                   509.04
2921.331(A) - (C), (E), (F)               303.06
2921.42                                   135.05
2921.43                                   135.06
2923.02                                   509.05
2923.03                                   509.06
2925.14(A)                                727.01
2925.14(B)                                727.02
2925.14(C), (D)                           727.03
2925.14(E) - (G)                          727.99
2925.141                                  727.04
2929.21                                   599.02
2929.21(E)                                303.99
2929.22                                   599.03
2929.23                                   503.99
2929.24                                   599.02
2929.25                                   599.02
2929.26                                   599.02
2929.27                                   599.02
2929.28                                   599.02
2929.31                                   599.02
2935.36                                   599.01
2981.07                                   507.08
3767.13(A), (B)                           517.04
3780.36                                   517.06
3780.99                                   517.06
3781.55                                   503.03
4165.02                                   537.01
4165.04                                   537.01
4301.01                                   525.01
4301.22                                   525.03
4301.244                                  525.01
4301.63                                   525.02
4301.69                                   525.02
4301.99(B) - (E), (H), (I)                525.99
4303.25                                   525.04
4501.01(C)                                301.02
4501.01(D)                                301.09
4501.01(E)                                301.26
4501.01(J)                                301.08
4501.01(M), (P)                           301.54
4501.01(Q)(6)(a)                          301.54
4501.01(U)                                301.14
4501.01(V)                                301.24
4501.01(X)                                301.23
4501.01(Y)                                301.07
4501.01(AA)                               301.31
4501.01(TT)                               371.07
4503.11(A)                                335.09
4503.21(A), (B), (C)                      335.09
4505.18                                   335.08
4507.02(A)(1)                             335.01
4507.02(A)(2)                             335.02
4507.03                                   335.01
4507.04                                   335.01
4507.16(A)(1)(d)                          333.99
4507.213                                  335.01
4507.30                                   335.04
4507.35                                   335.06
4510.037(J)                               335.071
                                          335.071,
4510.04                                   335.073,
                                          335.074,
                                          335.075
4510.11                                   335.071
4510.111                                  335.071
4510.12                                   335.072
4510.14                                   335.073
4510.16                                   335.074
4510.21                                   335.075
4510.44                                   333.013
4511.01(A)                                301.56
4511.01(B)                                301.21
4511.01(C)                                301.20
4511.01(E)                                301.32
4511.01(F)                                301.40
4511.01(G)                                301.04
4511.01(H)                                301.04
4511.01(J)                                301.02
4511.01(K)                                301.55
4511.01(L)                                301.05
4511.01(N)                                301.41
4511.01(P)                                301.33
4511.01(Q)                                301.35
4511.01(R)                                301.47
4511.01(S)                                301.50
4511.01(U)                                301.15
4511.01(V)                                301.17
4511.01(W)                                301.28
4511.01(X)                                301.27
4511.01(Y)                                301.12
4511.01(Z)                                301.29
4511.01(BB)                               301.46
4511.01(CC)                               301.10
4511.01(DD)                               301.30
4511.01(EE)                               301.38
4511.01(FF)                               301.42
4511.01(GG)                               301.19
4511.01(HH)                               301.48
4511.01(JJ)                               301.43
4511.01(KK)                               301.18
4511.01(LL)                               301.11
4511.01(MM)                               301.39
4511.01(NN)                               301.06
4511.01(OO)                               301.36
4511.01(QQ)                               301.52
4511.01(RR)                               301.53
4511.01(SS)                               301.34
4511.01(TT)                               301.51
4511.01(UU)                               301.37
4511.01(XX)                               301.03
4511.01(YY)                               301.16
4511.01(ZZ)                               301.13
4511.01(AAA)                              301.49
4511.01(FFF)                              301.071
4511.01(GGG)                              301.22
4511.01(HHH)                              301.221
4511.01(III)                              301.291
4511.01(JJJ)                              301.371
4511.01(KKK)                              301.031
4511.01(LLL)                              301.177
4511.01(MMM)                              301.175
4511.01(NNN)                              301.192
4511.01(OOO)                              301.292
4511.01(PPP)                              301.411
4511.01(QQQ)                              301.173
4511.01(RRR)                              301.57
4511.01(SSS)                              301.121
4511.01(TTT)                              301.121
4511.01(UUU)                              301.121
4511.01(WWW)                              301.191
4511.03                                   331.19
4511.031                                  313.10
4511.05                                   303.08
4511.091                                  333.05
4511.12(A), (B)                           313.01
4511.121(A) - (D)                         313.01
4511.13                                   313.03
4511.131                                  313.04
4511.132                                  313.09
4511.14                                   313.05
4511.16                                   313.07
4511.17                                   313.08
4511.181                                  333.01
4511.19(A) - (M)                          333.01
4511.191(A), (D)                          333.011
4511.192                                  333.011
4511.194                                  333.012
4511.20                                   333.02
4511.201                                  333.02
4511.202                                  331.38
4511.203                                  335.05
4511.204                                  331.52
4511.205                                  331.53
4511.21(A) - (G), (N), (O)                333.03
4511.211(A) - (E), (F)                    333.03
4511.213(A) - (C), (E)                    331.32
4511.213(D)                               331.32
4511.214                                  331.54
4511.215                                  331.54
4511.216                                  331.54
4511.22                                   333.04
4511.23                                   333.06
4511.24                                   333.07
4511.25                                   331.01
4511.251                                  333.08
4511.26                                   331.02
4511.27                                   331.03
4511.28                                   331.04
4511.29                                   331.05
4511.30                                   331.06
4511.31                                   331.07
4511.32                                   331.35
4511.33                                   331.08
4511.34                                   331.09
4511.35                                   331.36
4511.36                                   331.10
4511.37                                   331.12
4511.38                                   331.13
4511.39                                   331.14
4511.40                                   331.15
4511.401                                  331.54
4511.41                                   331.16
4511.42                                   331.17
4511.43                                   331.18
4511.431(A), (B)                          331.42
4511.44                                   331.21
4511.441                                  331.43
4511.45                                   331.20
4511.451                                  331.22
4511.452                                  331.44
4511.454                                  331.20
4511.46                                   331.45
4511.47                                   371.02
4511.48                                   331.46
4511.481                                  331.47
4511.49                                   371.04
4511.50                                   331.48
4511.51                                   371.06
4511.511                                  331.49
4511.512                                  371.07
4511.513                                  371.08
4511.514                                  371.09
4511.52                                   373.02
4511.521                                  373.12
4511.522                                  373.17
4511.53                                   373.03
4511.54                                   331.24
4511.54                                   373.04
4511.55                                   373.05
4511.56(A), (B)                           373.07
4511.56(C)                                373.06
4511.60                                   331.34
4511.61                                   331.26
4511.62                                   331.25
4511.63                                   331.26
4511.64                                   331.27
4511.65                                   313.02
4511.66                                   331.28
4511.661                                  351.07
4511.67                                   351.01
4511.68                                   351.03
4511.69                                   351.04
4511.70                                   331.29
4511.701                                  331.30
4511.71                                   331.31
4511.712                                  331.50
4511.714                                  331.31
4511.72(A), (B)                           331.32
4511.73                                   331.33
4511.74(A), (B), (C)                      311.01
4511.75                                   331.41
4511.84                                   337.26
4511.99                                   303.99
4511.991                                  303.99
4513.02(A), (H)                           337.01
4513.03                                   337.02
4513.04                                   337.03
4513.05                                   337.04
4513.06                                   337.05
4513.07                                   337.06
4513.071                                  337.24
4513.08                                   337.07
4513.09                                   337.08
4513.10                                   337.09
4513.11                                   337.10
4513.111                                  337.10
4513.112                                  337.10
4513.113                                  337.10
4513.114                                  337.10
4513.115                                  337.10
4513.12                                   337.11
4513.13                                   337.12
4513.14                                   337.13
4513.15                                   337.14
4513.16                                   337.15
4513.17                                   337.16
4513.171                                  337.16
4513.19                                   337.17
4513.20                                   337.18
4513.21                                   337.19
4513.22                                   337.20
4513.23                                   337.21
4513.24                                   337.22
4513.263                                  337.25
4513.29                                   339.06
4513.30                                   337.23
4513.31                                   339.10
4513.32                                   339.07
4513.33                                   339.09
4513.34                                   339.01
4513.36                                   303.07
4513.361                                  303.12
4513.66                                   335.16
4513.68                                   335.16
                                          337.09,
                                          337.18,
                                          337.23,
4513.99                                   339.01,
                                          339.06,
                                          339.07,
                                          339.10
4519.01                                   377.01
4519.20(A), (B), (C)                      377.03
4519.22(A), (B)                           377.03
4549.02                                   335.12
4549.021                                  335.13
4549.03                                   335.14
4549.08                                   335.11
4549.081(B), (C)                          313.01
4549.10                                   335.111
4549.20                                   337.27
5577.05                                   339.03
5577.06                                   339.03
5577.11                                   339.05
5577.15                                   339.07
5577.99(C), (E)                           339.99
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Code Section
Ord. No.    Date     Code Section
          3-1-1892 905.01 -
                     905.03
1025        4-23-63  921.06,
                     921.07
                     1307.01 -
                     1307.18,
                     1309.01 -
                     1309.06,
                     1311.05,
1049        8-13-63  1311.06,
                     1311.09 -
                     1311.15,
                     1313.01 -
                     1313.05,
                     1313.07 -
                     1313.17
                     1323.01,
                     1323.02,
                     1323.99,
1075        2-25-64  1337.01,
                     1337.03,
                     1337.05 -
                     1337.08
                     907.01 -
                     907.03,
1076        2-25-64  907.06,
                     907.07,
                     907.09,
                     907.99
1086        4-14-64  1501.99
1092        5-17-64  1111.01 -
                     1111.06
1096        5-26-64  1103.01
1461        12-16-69 151.99
1598        6-21-71  1501.01
1639        12-21-71 1115.02
                     717.01,
                     717.02,
          7-25-72  717.04 -
                     717.06,
                     717.99
1695        8-8-72   1306.10
1759        2-27-73  511.01 -
                     511.05
1992        1-28-75  927.02
2047        8-26-75  911.02,
                     913.03
                     917.01 -
2089        3-9-76   917.09,
                     917.99
                     721.01,
2095        3-23-76  721.02,
                     721.99
3013        5-25-76  T.S.O. I
3030        7-13-76  151.03,
                     151.05
                     301.01 -
                     301.56,
                     303.01 -
                     303.11,
                     303.99,
                     305.01 -
                     305.03,
                     311.01 -
                     311.05,
3033        8-10-76  313.01 -
                     313.08,
                     331.01 -
                     331.50,
                     333.01,
                     333.02,
                     351.08,
                     371.03,
                     371.05,
                     373.01
                     501.01 -
                     501.03,
                     502.01 -
                     502.04,
                     503.01,
                     503.02,
                     503.04-
                     503.06,
                     504.01,
                     504.02,
                     506.01,
                     508.01 - 508,10,
3043        9-28-76  508.99,
                     509.01 -
                     509.06,
                     517.01 -
                     517.04,
                     517.99,
                     531.01-
                     531.04,
                     531.99,
                     541.01 -
                     541.03,
                     541.99,
                     599.01 -
                     599.03
3055        11-23-76 T.S.O. I
3078        2-22-77  911.04
4000        6-20-77  1306.10
4003        6-20-77  T.S.O. I
4042        11-22-77 333.02
4073        3-14-78  T.S.O. I
4075        3-28-78  153.01 -
                     153.15
4082        4-25-78  511.01 -
                     511.05
4097        7-11-78  921.02,
                     921.05
5020        9-26-78  T.S.O. I
5039        9-26-78  303.10
5052        2-13-79  303.03,
                     1501.01
5056        2-27-79  919.01,
                     919.02
5081        5-22-79  705.07
5085        5-22-79  T.S.O. I
5095        6-26-79  915.01 -
                     915.10
5131        9-25-79  T.S.O. I
5155        11-13-79 927.02
5200        4-22-80  303.10
5203        4-22-80  113.04
5204        4-22-80  115.04
5205        4-22-80  151.08
5207        4-22-80  123.01,
                     123.03
5224        6-24-80  911.02
5225        6-24-80  913.03
                     915.05 -
5235        7-22-80  915.08,
                     915.10
5240        8-12-80  333.03,
                     333.99
                     725.01 -
5258        10-28-80 725.20,
                     725.99
5259        11-11-80 725.19
5263        - -      T.S.O. II
5268        12-9-80  508.14
5269        12-9-80  717.04,
                     717.05
5273        1-27-81  725.08
5274        1-27-81  T.S.O. II
5279        3-10-81  925.01 -
                     925.25
5281        3-10-81  303.06
5284        3-24-81  1301.99
5285        3-24-81  1301.03,
                     1301.06
5286        3-24-81  1309.99
5292        4-14-81  151.17
5308        5-12-81  717.05
5323        6-23-81  351.11
5335        7-28-81  915.03
                     151.05,
5345        8-25-81  151.07,
                     151.15
5353        10-13-81 335.09
5357        11-10-81 911.02
5358        11-10-81 915.08
5369        12-22-81 911.02
5370        12-22-81 913.03
5374        1-12-82  T.S.O. II
5378        2-9-82   911.02
5380        2-9-82   351.13
5391        4-13-82  113.04
5393        4-13-82  127.01,
                     127.02
5427        10-26-82 927.01 -
                     927.03
5429A       11-15-82 151.15
5429        11-23-82 911.02
5430        11-23-82 911.02
5431        11-23-82 913.03
5432        11-23-82 915.08
5442        1-11-83  121.03
5464        2-22-83  1311.04
5472        4-12-83  1304.01 -
                     1304.13
5495        7-26-83  921.02,
                     921.05
5503        8-9-83   917.08
5508        8-23-83  921.05
5509        8-23-83  917.08
5530        11-8-83  T.S.O. III
5600        8-28-84  705.05
5647        1-22-85  911.02
5648        1-22-85  913.03
5668        3-26-85  111.04
5705        7-23-85  915.05 -
                     915.07
5720        8-27-85  1301.27
5737        12-23-85 1301.15
5740        11-26-85 599.05
5765        1-27-86  1301.04,
                     1301.05
5768        4-22-86  351.15
5769        4-22-86  351.14
5795        3-25-86  917.08
5832        6-10-86  339.03
5841        6-24-86  339.03
5845        7-22-86  331.39
5848        7-22-86  1115.02
5854        8-12-86  T.S.O. I
5855        8-12-86  T.S.O. I
                     373.01 -
5874        9-9-86   373.16,
                     373.99
5885        10-14-86 513.01 -
                     513.05
6012        1-27-87  1301.05
6032        1-27-87  525.02,
                     525.99
6040        3-24-87  927.01 -
                     927.03
6050        4-14-87  917.08
6091        7-14-87  T.S.O. II
6097        7-14-87  911.02
6098        7-14-87  915.08
6107        8-11-87  T.S.O. I
                     155.01 -
6111        11-25-87 155.05,
                     155.99
6121        10-13-87 T.S.O. I
6125        10-27-87 T.S.O. I
6126        10-27-87 T.S.O. I
6127        10-27-87 T.S.O. I
6130        11-10-87 351.17
                     111.03,
                     115.04,
                     119.01,
                     119.02,
                     123.01,
6139        11-24-87 123.03,
                     123.05,
                     123.06,
                     127.01,
                     127.02,
                     129.01 -
                     129.03
                     133.01 -
                     133.12,
                     133.14,
6140        11-24-87 133.15,
                     133.17,
                     133.18,
                     133.99
6141        11-24-87 135.01 -
                     135.06
6150        11-24-87 151.14
6153        12-8-87  157.02,
                     157.03
6154        12-8-87  T.S.O. III
6155        12-22-87 911.02
6156        12-22-87 913.03
                     333.01,
6164        12-22-87 337.25,
                     507.01 
                     507.06
6178        3-22-88  T.S.O. I
6180        2-23-88  353.03
                     717.01,
                     717.02,
6186        3-22-88  717.04 -
                     717.06,
                     717.99
6194        3-22-88  903.02,
                     903.03
6196        3-22-88  525.02
                     339.04,
6198        4-12-88  339.06,
                     351.18
6199        5-10-88  159.01 -
                     159.04
                     1111.01 -
                     1111.06,
                     1115.01 -
                     1115.03,
6206        4-26-88  1117.01 -
                     1117.08,
                     1118.01,
                     1118.02,
                     1118.99 
6222        4-26-86  525.02
6226        5-24-88  351.16
6235        6-14-88  T.S.O. I
6236        6-14-88  T.S.O. I
6237        5-24-88  T.S.O. III
6243        7-26-88  159.01 -
                     159.04
6247-A      7-12-88  T.S.O. I
6252        7-26-88  T.S.O. III
6270        8-23-88  T.S.O. I
6276        9-27-88  T.S.O. I
6291        11-22-88 135.01 -
                     135.06
                     1501.01 -
6312        1-24-89  1501.03,
                     1501.99
6313        1-24-89  339.06
6320        1-24-89  T.S.O. III
6330        2-28-89  917.08
6335        3-14-89  T.S.O. I
6348        4-11-89  T.S.O. I
6364        5-9-89   T.S.O. I
6367        5-23-89  133.02
6384        7-25-89  508.03
6387        7-25-89  T.S.O. I
6400        9-12-89  T.S.O. I
6419        10-24-89 1306.14,
                     1306.99
6423        11-14-89 159.01 -
                     159.04
6435        11-28-89 921.02
6441        12-12-89 T.S.O. I
6442        12-12-89 T.S.O. I
6443        12-12-89 T.S.O. I
6461        2-13-90  T.S.O. I
6469        2-13-90  129.05
6471        2-13-90  133.08
6474        2-27-90  T.S.O. I
6475        3-13-90  T.S.O. I
6476        3-13-90  T.S.O. I
6477        2-13-90  133.07,
                     133.12
6482        4-10-90  T.S.O. I
6484        4-24-90  373.15,
                     373.16
                     907.01 -
6493        4-24-90  907.10,
                     907.99
6495        5-22-90  1304.01 -
                     1304.13
6497        5-22-90  121.03
6498        6-12-90  505.99
6523        8-11-90  T.S.O. I
6531        9-11-90  903.07,
                     903.99
6532        10-9-90  333.01,
                     333.03
6535        10-9-90  133.07
6538        10-9-90  1305.01,
                     1305.02
6559        12-11-90 911.02
6560        11-27-90 913.03
6561        12-11-90 917.08
6569        1-22-91  505.08,
                     505.99
6570        1-22-91  133.08
6571        1-8-91   303.10,
                     517.01
6577        2-12-91  1115.02
6589        3-26-91  T.S.O. I
6590        3-12-91  T.S.O. I
6594        3-26-91  903.01
6606        4-23-91  T.S.O. I
6635        8-13-91  129.04
6656        11-12-91 1117.04
6672        12-1-91  913.03
6673        12-10-91 917.08
                     915.02,
6674        12-10-91 915.05,
                     915.06,
                     915.08
                     133.01 -
                     133.12,
                     133.14,
6689        1-28-92  133.15,
                     133.17 -
                     133.19,
                     133.99
6727        4-28-92  917.08
6752        7-14-92  517.01,
                     517.99
6767        8-25-92  129.06
                     917.01,
6768        8-11-92  917.02,
                     917.99
6769        8-25-92  159.02,
                     159.04
                     907.11,
6773        10-13-92 907.12,
                     907.99
6813        1-26-93  517.05,
                     517.99
                     133.01 -
                     133.12,
                     133.14,
6830        4-13-93  133.15,
                     133.17 -
                     133.20,
                     133.99
6832        4-13-93  135.01 -
                     135.06
6847        5-25-93  921.05
                     901.05,
6853        6-22-93  903.03,
                     1304.01 -
                     1304.13
6899        1-1-94   913.03
6910        1-11-94  T.S.O. I
6920        2-8-94   T.S.O. III
6923        2-22-94  T.S.O. I
6935        3-22-94  Ch. 725
6936        3-22-94  T.S.O. I
                     517.01 -
6937        4-12-94  517.04,
                     517.99
6938        3-22-94  T.S.O. III
6939        3-22-94  T.S.O. III
6940        3-22-94  T.S.O. III
6947        4-26-94  T.S.O. III
6948        4-26-94  T.S.O. III
6953        5-10-94  T.S.O. I
6958        5-10-94  T.S.O. III
6959        5-10-94  T.S.O. III
6960        5-10-94  T.S.O. III
6966        6-14-94  T.S.O. I
6979        7-12-94  T.S.O. III
6980        8-9-94   T.S.O. I
6981        8-9-94   T.S.O. III
6985        8-23-94  T.S.O. III
6986        10-25-94 1339.01 -
                     1339.06
6993        9-27-94  T.S.O. I
6994        9-27-94  T.S.O. I
6995        9-27-94  T.S.O. I
6996        10-11-94 T.S.O. I
7001        9-27-94  T.S.O. III
7005        11-8-94  T.S.O. III
7006        11-8-94  T.S.O. III
7007        10-25-94 T.S.O. I
7008        11-8-94  T.S.O. I
7009        11-8-94  T.S.O. I
7011        11-8-94  T.S.O. III
7012        11-8-94  T.S.O. III
7014        12-13-94 133.01
7015        12-13-94 133.01
7020        12-13-94 911.02
7021        12-13-94 913.03
7022        11-22-94 T.S.O. I
7023        12-13-94 T.S.O. I
7024        11-22-94 T.S.O. I
7029        12-13-94 T.S.O. II
7036        12-27-94 T.S.O. I
7037        12-27-94 T.S.O. I
7038        1-10-95  T.S.O. I
7039        1-10-95  T.S.O. I
7040        1-10-95  913.03
7050        2-28-95  T.S.O. I
                     727.01 -
7055        4-11-95  727.03,
                     727.99
7056        4-11-95  T.S.O. III
7060        4-25-95  T.S.O. I
7061        4-25-95  T.S.O. I
7065        4-25-95  T.S.O. III
7068        4-25-95  T.S.O. III
7073        5-23-95  T.S.O. I
7074        5-23-95  T.S.O. I
7075        6-13-95  T.S.O. I
7083        7-11-95  T.S.O. III
7085        6-27-95  T.S.O. I
7088        7-11-95  351.03
7094        7-25-95  T.S.O. III
7102        8-22-95  T.S.O. III
7103        8-22-95  T.S.O. III
7104        8-22-95  T.S.O. I
7109        9-26-95  T.S.O. III
7112        9-26-95  T.S.O. I
7114        9-26-95  T.S.O. I
7115        9-26-95  T.S.O. I
7126        11-14-95 T.S.O. III
7133        11-14-95 T.S.O. I
7134        11-14-95 T.S.O. I
7135        11-28-95 T.S.O. I
7138        11-28-95 133.01
7139        11-28-95 133.01
7143        11-28-95 911.02
7144        11-28-95 913.03
7146        11-28-95 1115.02
7150        12-12-95 T.S.O. I
                     133.01 -
                     133.12,
                     133.14,
                     133.15,
7152        12-26-95 133.17 -
                     133.20,
                     133.99,
                     135.01 -
                     135.06
7153        12-26-95 351.16
7162        12-26-95 911.02
7163        12-26-95 913.03
7161        1-9-96   T.S.O. V
7165        1-23-96  T.S.O. V
7166        1-23-96  T.S.O. V
7167        2-13-96  T.S.O. I
7175        2-13-96  T.S.O. V
7176        2-13-96  T.S.O. II
7179        2-13-96  T.S.O. V
7174        2-27-96  T.S.O. VI
7181        2-27-96  T.S.O. I
7186        2-27-96  T.S.O. III
7182        3-12-96  T.S.O. I
7185        3-12-96  T.S.O. III
7187        3-12-96  T.S.O. III
7188        3-12-96  T.S.O. III
7189        3-12-96  T.S.O. III
7190        3-12-96  T.S.O. III
7191        3-12-96  Adopting Ordinance
7195        3-26-96  T.S.O. III
7196        3-26-96  T.S.O. I
7197        3-26-96  T.S.O. I
7201        3-26-96  T.S.O. III
7202        3-26-96  T.S.O. V
7203        3-26-96  T.S.O. III
7204        3-26-96  T.S.O. III
7205        4-9-96   T.S.O. V
7208        4-23-96  T.S.O. III
7209        4-23-96  T.S.O. V
7211        4-23-96  T.S.O. IV
7214        4-23-96  T.S.O. V
7215        5-14-96  T.S.O. III
7216        5-14-96  T.S.O. III
7219        5-14-96  T.S.O. V
7220        5-14-96  T.S.O. III
7221        5-14-96  T.S.O. III
7222        5-14-96  T.S.O. III
7224        5-14-96  T.S.O. II
7227        5-14-96  T.S.O. III
7235        6-11-96  T.S.O. I
7237        6-11-96  T.S.O. I
7238        6-11-96  T.S.O. I
7242        6-11-96  T.S.O. III
7240        6-25-96  T.S.O. I
7248        6-25-96  T.S.O. I
7249        6-25-96  331.48
7246        7-9-96   T.S.O. IV
7252        7-9-96   T.S.O. III
7255        7-9-96   T.S.O. III
7256        7-23-96  T.S.O. II
7257        7-23-96  T.S.O. V
7264        7-23-96  T.S.O. III
7266        7-23-96  T.S.O. V
7267        7-23-96  T.S.O. III
7268        7-23-96  T.S.O. III
7269        7-23-96  T.S.O. III
7247        8-13-96  T.S.O. IV
7262        8-13-96  T.S.O. III
7263        8-13-96  T.S.O. III
7270        8-13-96  T.S.O. V
7272        8-13-96  T.S.O. III
7276        8-27-96  T.S.O. III
7278        8-27-96  T.S.O. I
7279        8-27-96  T.S.O. I
7283        8-27-96  T.S.O. II
7277        9-10-96  T.S.O. I
7288        10-8-96  T.S.O. I
7289        10-8-96  T.S.O. I
7290        10-8-96  T.S.O. I
7292        10-8-96  T.S.O. III
7295        10-8-96  T.S.O. V
7286        10-22-96 T.S.O. V
7293        10-22-96 T.S.O. V
7298        10-22-96 T.S.O. V
7300        10-22-96 129.09
7302        10-22-96 T.S.O. V
7303        10-22-96 T.S.O. III
7304        11-12-96 T.S.O. III
7305        11-12-96 T.S.O. V
7306        11-12-96 T.S.O. III
7307        11-12-96 T.S.O. III
7308        11-12-96 T.S.O. V
7324        11-26-96 T.S.O. III
7312        12-10-96 T.S.O. I
7313        12-10-96 T.S.O. I
7316        12-10-96 133.01
7317        12-10-96 133.01
7321        12-10-96 911.02
7327        12-10-96 T.S.O. III
7334        12-23-96 T.S.O. III
7340        1-14-97  T.S.O. III
7341        1-14-97  T.S.O. III
7342        1-14-97  T.S.O. III
7343        2-11-97  T.S.O. I
7346        2-11-97  Ch. 160
7348        2-25-97  T.S.O. III
7349        3-11-97  T.S.O. I
7350        2-25-97  T.S.O. V
7351        2-25-97  T.S.O. V
7352        3-11-97  T.S.O. V
                     379.01,
7355        3-11-97  379.02,
                     379.99
7356        4-22-97  Ch. 531
7358        3-25-97  T.S.O. V
7359        4-8-97   T.S.O. V
7360        3-25-97  T.S.O. IV
7361        3-25-97  T.S.O. IV
7362        3-25-97  T.S.O. IV
7363        4-8-97   T.S.O. III
7364        4-8-97   T.S.O. V
7366        4-8-97   T.S.O. III
7368        4-8-97   T.S.O. III
7369        4-22-97  T.S.O. I
7372        4-22-97  T.S.O. III
7373        4-22-97  T.S.O. III
7376        5-27-97  379.03,
                     379.99
7377        5-13-97  T.S.O. V
7379        5-13-97  T.S.O. III
7381        5-27-97  T.S.O. III
7383        6-10-97  T.S.O. V
7384        5-27-97  T.S.O. V
7385        5-27-97  T.S.O. IV
7388        6-10-97  T.S.O. V
7389        6-10-97  T.S.O. III
7392        6-24-97  T.S.O. III
7393        6-24-97  T.S.O. III
7394        7-8-97   T.S.O. I
7396        7-8-97   T.S.O. III
7398        7-22-97  T.S.O. III
7399        7-22-97  T.S.O. V
7401        7-22-97  T.S.O. III
7402        7-22-97  T.S.O. III
7403        7-22-97  T.S.O. V
7405        7-22-97  T.S.O. III
7406        7-22-97  T.S.O. III
7407        7-22-97  T.S.O. V
7409        7-22-97  T.S.O. III
7410        8-12-97  T.S.O. I
7411        8-12-97  T.S.O. IV
7413        7-22-97  T.S.O. V
7415        8-12-97  T.S.O. V
7417        8-12-97  T.S.O. III
7418        8-12-97  T.S.O. III
7419        8-12-97  T.S.O. V
7421        8-12-97  T.S.O. III
7422        8-12-97  T.S.O. V
7423        9-9-97   T.S.O. I
7424        9-9-97   T.S.O. I
7425        9-9-97   T.S.O. I
7426        9-9-97   T.S.O. I
7427        9-9-97   T.S.O. I
7428        9-9-97   T.S.O. I
7429        9-9-97   T.S.O. I
7430        8-26-97  T.S.O. I
7431        8-26-97  123.02
7432        8-26-97  T.S.O. II
7433        8-26-97  T.S.O. V
7436        9-9-97   T.S.O. III
7439        9-23-97  T.S.O. I
7447A       11-11-97 T.S.O. I
7449        11-11-97 T.S.O. I
7450        11-11-97 T.S.O. I
                     1117.02,
                     1117.04,
                     1304.02,
                     1304.06,
7451        11-11-97 1304.09,
                     1304.10,
                     1304.11,
                     1304.12,
                     1304.13,
                     1304.14
7453        12-9-97  T.S.O. I
7455        12-23-97 133.01
7456        12-23-97 133.01
7462        12-23-97 T.S.O. I
7466        12-23-97 T.S.O. I
7464        1-13-98  T.S.O. IV
7465        1-13-98  T.S.O. I
7469        1-27-98  917.08
7471        1-27-98  911.03
7473        2-10-98  T.S.O. III
7476        2-10-98  T.S.O. I
7477        2-10-98  T.S.O. I
7478        2-10-98  T.S.O. I
7480        2-24-98  T.S.O. V
7481        2-24-98  T.S.O. III
7484        3-10-98  T.S.O. V
7487        3-24-98  T.S.O. III
7488        3-24-98  1301.06
7497        4-14-98  1115.02,
                     1115.03
7498        4-28-98  T.S.O. VI
                     511.01,
7500        4-28-99  511.02,
                     511.04
7501        5-12-98  T.S.O. V
7502        5-12-98  T.S.O. III
7503        5-12-98  T.S.O. III
7511        5-26-98  T.S.O. III
7517        7-28-98  T.S.O. I
7518        8-25-98  T.S.O. I
7519        7-14-98  T.S.O. I
7520        7-14-98  T.S.O. IV
7521        7-14-98  T.S.O. IV
7528        8-25-98  T.S.O. III
7531        8-11-98  T.S.O. I
7532        8-25-98  T.S.O. I
7533        8-11-98  T.S.O. I
7539        8-25-98  T.S.O. IV
7543        8-25-98  T.S.O. III
7544        8-8-98   T.S.O. I
7545        8-8-98   T.S.O. I
7546        8-8-98   T.S.O. I
7550        10-13-98 T.S.O. I
7551        10-13-98 T.S.O. I
7552        10-13-98 T.S.O. III
7555        11-10-98 T.S.O. V
7559        11-10-98 T.S.O. V
7561        11-24-98 T.S.O. III
7563        11-24-98 T.S.O. V
7564        11-24-98 T.S.O. V
7565        12-8-98  T.S.O. I
7566        12-8-98  T.S.O. I
7569        12-8-98  T.S.O. V
7570        12-8-98  T.S.O. III
7571        12-8-98  T.S.O. III
7572        12-8-98  T.S.O. III
7574        12-28-98 133.01
7575        12-28-98 133.01
7582        12-8-98  T.S.O. V
7586        12-22-98 1301.06
7588        1-12-99  T.S.O. I
7589        12-22-98 T.S.O. III
7596        2-9-99   T.S.O. I
7597        2-9-99   T.S.O. I
7599        1-26-99  T.S.O. V
7601        2-9-99   916.01 -
                     916.03
7603        2-9-99   T.S.O. III
7604        2-9-99   T.S.O. V
7605        2-9-99   917.08
7607        2-23-99  T.S.O. V
7608        2-9-99   T.S.O. V
7610        2-23-99  T.S.O. II
7619        3-23-99  911.03
7620        3-23-99  T.S.O. III
7623        3-23-99  1115.02
7624        3-23-99  T.S.O. III
7626        4-13-99  T.S.O. III
7627        3-23-99  331.51
7632        4-27-99  T.S.O. III
7633        4-27-99  T.S.O. III
7634        5-11-99  T.S.O. III
7640        5-11-99  T.S.O. I
7641        5-11-99  T.S.O. I
7648        5-11-99  T.S.O. III
7649        5-25-99  T.S.O. V
7650        5-25-99  T.S.O. V
7655        5-25-99  921.02,
                     921.05
7658        6-8-99   T.S.O. I
7660        6-22-99  T.S.O. IV
7661        6-22-99  T.S.O. V
7662        6-22-99  T.S.O. III
7666        6-22-99  T.S.O. V
7672        6-22-99  T.S.O. V
7673        6-22-99  T.S.O. III
7674        6-22-99  T.S.O. III
7675        6-22-99  T.S.O. III
7692        8-10-99  T.S.O. IV
7693        8-10-99  T.S.O. IV
7694        8-10-99  T.S.O. IV
7695        8-10-99  T.S.O. IV
7708        9-14-99  T.S.O. III
7709        9-14-99  T.S.O. III
7722        9-14-99  T.S.O. V
7716        9-28-99  T.S.O. III
7726        10-26-99 353.03
7742        11-1-99  T.S.O. III
7730        11-9-99  129.03
7731        11-9-99  129.06
7732        11-9-99  129.10
7736        11-9-99  T.S.O. I
7723        11-23-99 T.S.O. III
7749        11-23-99 T.S.O. I
7745        12-14-99 T.S.O. III
7747        12-14-99 T.S.O. V
7748        12-14-99 T.S.O. I
                     133.02 -
                     133.12,
                     133.14,
7744        12-28-99 133.15,
                     133.17 -
                     133.20,  
                     133.99
                     151.03,
7751        12-28-99 151.05,
                     151.06,
                     151.12
7754        12-28-99 T.S.O. I
7756        12-28-99 133.01
7757        12-28-99 133.01
7761        2-22-00  339.12
7763        1-11-00  T.S.O. I
7764        1-11-00  T.S.O. I
7770        1-25-00  T.S.O. III
7775        2-8-00   T.S.O. IV
7776        3-28-00  T.S.O. IV
7777        2-8-00   T.S.O. I
7788        3-14-00  T.S.O. V
7789        3-28-00  916.02
7796        3-14-00  T.S.O. V
7799        4-11-00  T.S.O. IV
7800        4-11-00  T.S.O. IV
7801        4-11-00  T.S.O. I
7802        4-11-00  T.S.O. I
7803        4-11-00  T.S.O. I
7806        4-11-00  T.S.O. V
7807        4-11-00  T.S.O. V
7811        5-9-00   1117.01 -
                     1117.04
7812        5-9-00   T.S.O. IV
7815        5-9-00   T.S.O. I
7819        5-9-00   T.S.O. V
7820        5-9-00   T.S.O. III
7821        5-9-00   T.S.O. III
7823        5-9-00   T.S.O. III
7833        6-27-00  T.S.O. V
7836        6-13-00  916.02
7837        6-13-00  T.S.O. I
7838        6-13-00  T.S.O. I
7839        6-27-00  T.S.O. V
7847        6-13-00  T.S.O. III
7848        6-13-00  T.S.O. V
7853        6-27-00  915.11
7854        6-13-00  T.S.O. V
7855        6-13-00  T.S.O. V
7856        6-13-00  T.S.O. V
7858        6-27-00  T.S.O. III
7859        6-27-00  T.S.O. III
7860        6-27-00  T.S.O. V
7872        7-11-00  T.S.O. I
7873        6-27-00  T.S.O. V
7877        6-27-00  T.S.O. V
7878        6-27-00  T.S.O. V
7879        6-27-00  T.S.O. V
7880        6-27-00  T.S.O. V
7881        6-27-00  T.S.O. V
7882        6-27-00  T.S.O. V
7884        6-29-00  T.S.O. V
7885        7-11-00  T.S.O. V
7886        6-29-00  T.S.O. V
7890        7-11-00  T.S.O. I
7891        7-11-00  T.S.O. V
7892        7-11-00  T.S.O. V
7893        7-11-00  T.S.O. V
7894        7-11-00  T.S.O. V
7895        7-11-00  T.S.O. V
7896        7-11-00  T.S.O. V
7897        7-11-00  T.S.O. V
7898        7-11-00  T.S.O. V
7899        7-11-00  T.S.O. V
7900        7-11-00  T.S.O. V
7902        8-22-00  T.S.O. I
7903        8-8-00   T.S.O. I
7905        7-25-00  T.S.O. V
7907        8-8-00   T.S.O. V
7910        7-25-00  T.S.O. V
7911        7-25-00  T.S.O. V
7913        8-8-00   T.S.O. V
7914        8-22-00  T.S.O. V
7915        8-8-00   T.S.O. V
7916        8-22-00  353.06
7917        8-8-00   T.S.O. V
7918        8-8-00   T.S.O. V
7919        8-8-00   T.S.O. V
7920        8-22-00  916.02
7921        8-22-00  916.02
7922        8-22-00  916.01 -
                     916.03
7923        8-8-00   T.S.O. V
7929        8-22-00  T.S.O. V
7931        8-22-00  T.S.O. V
7932        8-22-00  T.S.O. V
7934        9-12-00  T.S.O. V
7935        8-22-00  T.S.O. V
7936        9-26-00  916.01 -
                     916.03
7940        9-12-00  T.S.O. I
7948        10-10-00 T.S.O. V
7949        10-10-00 T.S.O. III
7950        9-12-00  T.S.O. V
7953        10-10-00 T.S.O. V
7954        9-26-00  925.18
7956        9-26-00  T.S.O. V
                     912.01 -
7966        10-24-00 912.11,
                     912.99
7967        10-10-00 T.S.O. V
7969        10-10-00 T.S.O. V
7970        10-10-00 T.S.O. V
7971        10-10-00 T.S.O. V
7973        10-10-00 T.S.O. V
7974        10-24-00 T.S.O. III
7976        10-24-00 T.S.O. V
7981        11-14-00 T.S.O. V
7982        11-14-00 T.S.O. V
7983        11-14-00 T.S.O. III
7984        11-14-00 T.S.O. III
7985        10-24-00 T.S.O. I
7986        11-14-00 T.S.O. I
7987        10-24-00 T.S.O. I
7988        11-14-00 T.S.O. V
7989        10-24-00 T.S.O. V
7990        11-14-00 T.S.O. V
7991        11-14-00 133.21
7992        10-24-00 T.S.O. V
7993        10-24-00 T.S.O. III
7997        11-28-00 T.S.O. V
7998        11-28-00 T.S.O. V
7999        11-14-00 T.S.O. V
8002        11-28-00 T.S.O. V
8008        11-28-00 T.S.O. V
8010        11-28-00 T.S.O. V
8011        11-28-00 T.S.O. III
8013        12-12-00 916.01 -
                     916.03
8014        12-12-00 T.S.O. III
8015        12-28-00 129.06
8016        12-28-00 129.10
8017        12-12-00 T.S.O. V
8019        12-12-00 T.S.O. V
                     151.02,
8021        12-28-00 151.03,
                     151.06
8023        12-28-00 T.S.O. III
8024        12-12-00 T.S.O. V
8025        12-12-00 T.S.O. V
8026        12-12-00 T.S.O. V
8027        12-12-00 T.S.O. V
8028        12-12-00 T.S.O. V
8029        12-12-00 T.S.O. V
8030        12-14-00 T.S.O. V
8035        1-9-01   T.S.O. III
8036        12-28-00 133.01
8037        12-28-00 133.01
8041        1-23-01  916.05
8043        12-28-00 T.S.O. V
8044        12-28-00 T.S.O. V
8045        12-28-00 T.S.O. V
8046        1-9-01   T.S.O. V
8047        12-28-00 T.S.O. V
8048        12-28-00 T.S.O. V
8049        12-28-00 T.S.O. V
8050        1-9-01   T.S.O. V
8051        1-9-01   T.S.O. V
8052        12-28-00 T.S.O. V
8053        12-28-00 T.S.O. V
8054        12-28-00 T.S.O. V
8055        12-28-00 T.S.O. V
8056        12-28-00 T.S.O. V
8057        12-28-00 T.S.O. V
8058        12-28-00 T.S.O. V
8060        1-9-01   T.S.O. I
8061        1-9-01   T.S.O. I
8062        1-5-01   T.S.O. V
8066        1-9-01   T.S.O. V
8067        1-23-01  T.S.O. V
8068        1-23-01  T.S.O. V
8069        1-23-01  T.S.O. V
8070        1-23-01  T.S.O. V
8071        1-23-01  T.S.O. V
8072        1-23-01  T.S.O. V
8073        1-23-01  T.S.O. V
8075        1-17-01  T.S.O. V
8076        1-9-01   T.S.O. V
8077        1-17-01  916.01 -
                     916.03
8079        1-23-01  T.S.O. V
8080        2-13-01  T.S.O. III
8084        1-23-01  T.S.O. I
8086        1-23-01  T.S.O. V
8087        2-13-01  T.S.O. V
8088        2-13-01  T.S.O. V
8089        2-13-01  T.S.O. V
8090        1-23-01  T.S.O. V
8091        1-23-01  T.S.O. V
8092        1-23-01  T.S.O. V
8093        1-23-01  T.S.O. V
8094        1-23-01  T.S.O. V
8095        1-23-01  339.12
8096        1-23-01  339.99
8097        1-23-01  T.S.O. V
8106        2-13-01  T.S.O. V
8107        2-27-01  916.04
8108        2-27-01  T.S.O. V
8109        2-13-01  T.S.O. V
8110        2-13-01  T.S.O. V
8111        2-13-01  T.S.O. V
8114        2-27-01  T.S.O. V
8115        2-27-01  T.S.O. V
8116        3-13-01  T.S.O. V
8122        3-27-01  T.S.O. V
8123        3-27-01  T.S.O. V
8124        3-27-01  T.S.O. V
8125        3-27-01  T.S.O. V
8126        3-13-01  T.S.O. V
8127        3-13-01  T.S.O. V
8128        3-27-01  T.S.O. V
8129        3-27-01  T.S.O. V
8130        3-13-01  T.S.O. V
8132        3-27-01  T.S.O. V
8135        4-10-01  T.S.O. IV
8136        4-10-01  T.S.O. IV
8137        4-10-01  T.S.O. I
8138        4-10-01  T.S.O. I
8141        4-10-01  T.S.O. V
8142        3-27-01  T.S.O. V
8144        3-27-01  T.S.O. V
8145        4-10-01  T.S.O. V
                     1111.03,
                     1117.02 -
8147        4-10-01  1117.04,
                     1117.06 -
                     1117.08
8148        4-10-01  T.S.O. V
8149        4-10-01  T.S.O. III
8150        4-10-01  T.S.O. III
8151        4-10-01  T.S.O. V
8152        4-10-01  T.S.O. III
8153        4-10-01  T.S.O. III
8154        4-10-01  T.S.O. V
8155        4-10-01  T.S.O. III
8156        4-10-01  T.S.O. III
8158        3-27-01  T.S.O. III
8170        4-10-01  T.S.O. V
8171        4-16-01  T.S.O. V
8174        5-8-01   T.S.O. V
8175        4-24-01  T.S.O. V
8176        5-8-01   T.S.O. V
8177        5-8-01   T.S.O. V
8178        5-8-01   T.S.O. V
8179        5-8-01   T.S.O. V
8180        4-24-01  T.S.O. V
8182        4-24-01  T.S.O. V
8185        5-22-01  T.S.O. V
8186        5-22-01  T.S.O. III
8187        5-22-01  T.S.O. III
8189        5-22-01  505.09
8190        5-8-01   T.S.O. V
8191        5-22-01  T.S.O. I
8195        5-8-01   T.S.O. V
8196        5-8-01   T.S.O. V
8202        6-12-01  T.S.O. V
8203        6-12-01  T.S.O. III
8204        6-12-01  T.S.O. III
8205        5-22-01  T.S.O. V
8206        6-12-01  T.S.O. V
8207        5-22-01  T.S.O. III
8208        6-26-01  T.S.O. V
8211        6-26-01  T.S.O. I
8212        6-26-01  T.S.O. V
8213        6-26-01  T.S.O. V
8214        6-12-01  T.S.O. V
8216        6-26-01  T.S.O. V
8219        6-26-01  T.S.O. V
8221        6-26-01  T.S.O. V
8222        6-12-01  T.S.O. V
8223        6-26-01  916.01 -
                     916.03
8225        6-12-01  T.S.O. V
8227        6-26-01  133.01
8235        7-10-01  T.S.O. I
8236        7-10-01  T.S.O. I
8237        7-10-01  T.S.O. I
8238        7-10-01  T.S.O. I
8242        6-26-01  T.S.O. V
8243        7-10-01  T.S.O. V
8244        7-10-01  T.S.O. V
8245        7-10-01  T.S.O. V
8246        7-10-01  T.S.O. V
8247        7-10-01  Charter
                     3.02 (Ed. Note)
8248        7-24-01  T.S.O. V
8251        7-10-01  T.S.O. V
8255        7-24-01  T.S.O. V
8257        8-14-01  T.S.O. III
8258        8-14-01  T.S.O. V
8260        8-14-01  T.S.O. V
8262A       8-14-01  T.S.O. V
8271        8-14-01  T.S.O. III
8274        8-28-01  T.S.O. V
8276        8-28-01  T.S.O. V
8277        8-28-01  T.S.O. I
8278        8-28-01  T.S.O. I
8279        8-28-01  T.S.O. I
8280        8-28-01  T.S.O. I
8281        8-28-01  T.S.O. V
8282        8-20-01  T.S.O. V
8286        9-12-01  T.S.O. III
8288        9-12-01  T.S.O. V
8289        8-28-01  T.S.O. V
8290        9-12-01  T.S.O. V
8291        8-28-01  T.S.O. V
8293        9-25-01  T.S.O. V
8294        9-25-01  T.S.O. V
8299        9-25-01  T.S.O. V
8300        9-12-01  T.S.O. V
8301        9-12-01  T.S.O. V
8302        9-12-01  T.S.O. V
8303        9-12-01  T.S.O. V
8306        10-9-01  T.S.O. V
8307        10-9-01  T.S.O. V
8308        9-25-01  T.S.O. V
8309        9-25-01  T.S.O. V
8311        10-9-01  T.S.O. IV
8317        11-27-01 T.S.O. V
8318        10-23-01 T.S.O. V
8319        10-9-01  T.S.O. V
8320        10-23-01 T.S.O. III
8321        10-23-01 T.S.O. III
8322        10-23-01 T.S.O. III
8323        10-9-01  T.S.O. V
8329        11-13-01 916.01 -
                     916.03
8330        10-23-01 T.S.O. V
8331        10-23-01 T.S.O. V
8332        12-11-01 T.S.O. V
8333        12-11-01 T.S.O. V
8334        11-13-01 T.S.O. V
8335        11-13-01 T.S.O. III
8336        11-13-01 T.S.O. III
8337        11-13-01 T.S.O. V
8338        11-13-01 T.S.O. V
8342        11-13-01 T.S.O. I
8343        11-13-01 T.S.O. I
8344        11-13-01 T.S.O. I
8345        11-13-01 T.S.O. I
8346        11-13-01 T.S.O. V
8347        11-13-01 T.S.O. V
8369        11-13-01 T.S.O. III
8370        11-27-01 T.S.O. V
8375        11-27-01 T.S.O. V
8379        11-27-01 T.S.O. V
8383        1-8-02   T.S.O. I
8385        11-29-01 T.S.O. V
8386        11-29-01 T.S.O. V
8389        12-4-01  T.S.O. V
8390        12-11-01 T.S.O. V
8395        12-11-01 133.01
8396        12-11-01 133.01
8397        12-11-01 T.S.O. V
8398        12-11-01 T.S.O. V
8407        12-20-01 T.S.O. V
8411        1-8-02   T.S.O. V
8413        1-22-02  T.S.O. III
8414        2-12-02  T.S.O. V
8415        3-12-02  916.01 -
                     916.03
8416        2-12-02  T.S.O. V
8418        2-12-02  T.S.O. V
8419        2-26-02  T.S.O. V
8422        2-12-02  T.S.O. V
8424        4-9-02   T.S.O. V
8425        4-9-02   T.S.O. V
8426        2-26-02  T.S.O. V
8427        2-26-02  T.S.O. III
8428        2-26-02  T.S.O. III
8436        3-12-02  Adopting Ordinance
8437        3-26-02  T.S.O. V
8438        4-9-02   T.S.O. V
8439        3-26-02  T.S.O. III
8440        3-26-02  T.S.O. V
8442        3-26-02  T.S.O. III
8443        4-9-02   Ch. 921
8444        5-14-02  T.S.O. IV
8447        4-23-02  T.S.O. V
8448        4-9-02   T.S.O. V
8449        5-14-02  T.S.O. II
8451        5-14-02  916.01 -
                     916.03
8452        4-23-02  T.S.O. V
8453        4-23-02  T.S.O. V
8456        4-23-02  T.S.O. V
8457        4-23-02  T.S.O. V
8458        5-7-02   T.S.O. III
8459        5-7-02   T.S.O. III
8461        5-28-02  T.S.O. V
8462        5-28-02  133.12
8463        5-14-02  T.S.O. V
8465        5-28-02  T.S.O. V
8467        5-28-02  111.04
8468        5-28-02  133.02
                     709.01 -
8469        6-11-02  709.11,
                     709.99
8470        5-28-02  T.S.O. V
8471        5-28-02  T.S.O. III
8472        5-28-02  T.S.O. V
8473        5-28-02  T.S.O. V
8475        5-28-02  T.S.O. V
8478        6-25-02  911.02
8479        6-25-02  913.03
8480        6-11-02  T.S.O. V
8481        6-11-02  T.S.O. I
8482        6-11-02  T.S.O. V
8483        6-11-02  T.S.O. V
8484        6-11-02  T.S.O. V
8485        6-11-02  T.S.O. V
8486        6-20-02  T.S.O. V
8490        6-25-02  T.S.O. V
8492        6-25-02  T.S.O. III
8493        7-9-02   T.S.O. III
8495        7-9-02   T.S.O. V
8496        6-25-02  T.S.O. V
8497        7-9-02   T.S.O. V
8499        7-9-02   T.S.O. V
8500        7-23-02  T.S.O. V
8501        7-9-02   T.S.O. I
8502        7-9-02   T.S.O. I
8503        7-9-02   T.S.O. III
8504        7-9-02   T.S.O. V
8505        7-23-02  916.01 -
                     916.03
8509        7-23-02  T.S.O. III
8510        7-23-02  T.S.O. V
8511        7-23-02  T.S.O. III
8512        7-23-02  T.S.O. III
8513        7-23-02  T.S.O. V
8514        7-23-02  T.S.O. III
8515        7-23-02  133.02
8516        7-23-02  T.S.O. V
8523        8-13-02  T.S.O. V
8524        8-13-02  T.S.O. V
8525        8-27-02  916.01 -
                     916.03
8526        8-13-02  T.S.O. V
8528        8-27-02  T.S.O. I
8529        8-13-02  T.S.O. I
8530        8-27-02  T.S.O. I
8532        11-12-02 T.S.O. VI
8533        8-27-02  T.S.O. V
8534        8-27-02  T.S.O. III
8535        8-27-02  T.S.O. III
8536        8-27-02  T.S.O. III
8537        8-27-02  T.S.O. V
8538        9-10-01  T.S.O. III
8539        9-24-02  917.08
8540        9-24-02  T.S.O. V
8546        10-8-02  133.10
8549        9-24-02  T.S.O. V
8551        10-8-02  151.05,
                     151.07
8559        9-24-02  T.S.O. V
8561        10-8-02  T.S.O. V
8562        10-8-02  T.S.O. V
8564        10-22-02 T.S.O. I
8566        10-22-02 916.01 -
                     916.03
8572        10-22-02 916.07
8573        10-22-02 916.06
8580        10-22-02 T.S.O. V
8582        10-22-02 T.S.O. III
8583        10-22-02 T.S.O. III
8584        10-22-02 T.S.O. III
8588        11-12-02 910.01 -
                     910.09
8589        10-22-02 T.S.O. V
8593        11-12-02 T.S.O. V
8594        11-26-02 911.02
8595        11-26-02 915.08
8596        11-26-02 T.S.O. V
8597        11-26-02 916.01 -
                     916.03
8598        11-12-02 T.S.O. V
8599        11-26-02 T.S.O. V
8601        11-12-02 T.S.O. I
8602        11-12-02 T.S.O. I
8603        11-12-02 T.S.O. I
8609        12-10-02 915.06
8611        11-26-02 T.S.O. V
8612        11-26-02 T.S.O. III
8614        11-26-02 T.S.O. V
8618        12-10-02 T.S.O. V
8619        12-10-02 T.S.O. III
8620        12-10-02 T.S.O. III
8621        12-10-02 T.S.O. V
                     914.01 -
8623        1-14-03  914.07,
                     914.99
8625        1-14-03  T.S.O. V
8626        12-23-02 T.S.O. V
8627        12-23-02 T.S.O. V
8629        12-23-02 T.S.O. I
8631        1-14-03  T.S.O. V
8665        2-11-03  137.01 -
                     137.03
8670        2-11-03  T.S.O. V
8671        2-11-03  T.S.O. V
8672        2-25-03  921.08,
                     921.09
8673        2-11-03  T.S.O. V
8674        2-11-03  T.S.O. III
8675        2-11-03  T.S.O. III
8676        2-11-03  T.S.O. III
8679        2-25-03  T.S.O. V
8680        2-25-03  T.S.O. V
8681        2-25-03  T.S.O. V
8682        2-25-03  T.S.O. V
8683        2-25-03  T.S.O. V
8685        3-11-03  T.S.O. V
8687        3-11-03  T.S.O. V
8690        3-11-03  T.S.O. V
8691        3-11-03  T.S.O. V
8692        3-11-03  T.S.O. V
8693        3-11-03  T.S.O. V
8695        3-11-03  T.S.O. V
8696        3-11-03  T.S.O. V
8697        3-11-03  T.S.O. V
8698        3-25-03  133.09
8699        3-25-03  T.S.O. III
8700        3-25-03  T.S.O. V
8701        3-25-03  T.S.O. III
8702        3-25-03  T.S.O. III
8703        3-25-03  T.S.O. V
8704        3-25-03  T.S.O. V
8705        3-25-03  T.S.O. V
8706        3-25-03  T.S.O. I
8707        3-25-03  T.S.O. I
8709        4-22-03  T.S.O. III
8710        4-8-03   T.S.O. V
8711        4-8-03   T.S.O. V
8712        4-8-03   T.S.O. V
8713        4-8-03   T.S.O. V
8714        4-8-03   T.S.O. V
8715        4-8-03   T.S.O. V
8716        4-8-03   T.S.O. V
8720        4-22-03  T.S.O. V
8722        4-22-03  T.S.O. V
8723        4-22-03  T.S.O. III
8725        4-22-03  T.S.O. V
8726        4-22-03  T.S.O. III
8728        4-22-03  T.S.O. V
8729        4-22-03  T.S.O. III
8730        4-22-03  T.S.O. V
8731        4-22-03  T.S.O. V
8733        4-22-03  T.S.O. V
8738        6-10-03  T.S.O. IV
8742        5-13-03  T.S.O. V
8743        5-13-03  T.S.O. V
8744        5-13-03  T.S.O. V
8745        5-27-03  916.01 -
                     916.03
8746        5-13-03  T.S.O. V
8747        5-27-03  133.02
8749        5-27-03  353.03,
                     353.06
8750        5-27-03  T.S.O. V
8751        5-27-03  T.S.O. III
8753        5-13-03  T.S.O. V
                     123.01 -
8755        6-10-03  123.07,
                     127.01,
                     127.03
8756        6-10-03  111.04
8757        5-27-03  T.S.O. V
8758        5-27-03  T.S.O. V
8759        5-27-03  T.S.O. V
8760        6-10-03  129.10
8761        5-27-03  T.S.O. V
8763        6-10-03  T.S.O. V
8764        6-10-03  T.S.O. V
8766        6-10-03  T.S.O. I
8767        6-10-03  T.S.O. I
8768        6-10-03  T.S.O. I
8769        6-10-03  927.02
8774        6-10-03  Adopting Ordinance
8775        6-10-03  T.S.O. V
8776        6-10-03  T.S.O. V
8777        6-10-03  T.S.O. V
8778        6-24-03  T.S.O. V
8779        6-24-03  T.S.O. V
8780        6-24-03  T.S.O. V
8781        6-24-03  T.S.O. V
8782        6-24-03  T.S.O. V
8783        6-24-03  T.S.O. V
                     1311.01 -
                     1311.03,
8784        7-8-03   1311.16 -
                     1311.24,
                     1311.99
8787        6-24-03  T.S.O. V
8788        7-8-03   151.15
8790        6-26-03  T.S.O. V
8792        7-8-03   T.S.O. V
8796        7-8-03   T.S.O. V
8797        7-22-03  913.03
8798        7-8-03   T.S.O. V
8799        7-8-03   T.S.O. V
8800        7-8-03   T.S.O. III
8802        7-8-03   T.S.O. I
8803        7-8-03   T.S.O. III
8806        7-22-03  T.S.O. V
8808        7-22-03  T.S.O. V
8809        7-22-03  T.S.O. V
8813        8-12-03  T.S.O. V
8814        8-12-03  T.S.O. V
8815        8-12-03  T.S.O. V
8816        8-12-03  T.S.O. V
8818        8-26-03  911.02,
                     913.02
8819        8-26-03  T.S.O. V
8822        8-12-03  T.S.O. V
8823        8-12-03  T.S.O. V
8825        8-26-03  T.S.O. III
8826        8-26-03  T.S.O. V
8828        9-23-03  T.S.O. V
8829        8-26-03  T.S.O. V
                     133.04 -
8837        9-23-03  133.10,
                     133.14
8838        9-23-03  T.S.O. V
8840        9-23-03  T.S.O. I
8842        10-14-03 T.S.O. V
8843        10-14-03 T.S.O. V
8844        10-14-03 T.S.O. V
8845        10-14-03 T.S.O. V
8846        10-14-03 T.S.O. V
8847        10-14-03 T.S.O. V
8848        10-14-03 T.S.O. V
8849        10-14-03 T.S.O. V
8852        10-14-03 T.S.O. V 
8853        10-14-03 T.S.O. V
8854        10-14-03 T.S.O. V
8856        11-11-03 T.S.O. V
8857        11-11-03 T.S.O. V
8858        11-11-03 T.S.O. V
8859        11-11-03 T.S.O. V
8860        11-11-03 T.S.O. V
8861        11-11-03 T.S.O. V
8862        11-11-03 T.S.O. V
8863        11-11-03 T.S.O. V
8865        11-25-03 133.10
8867        11-11-03 T.S.O. V
8872        12-9-03  918.01 -
                     918.07
8873        11-25-03 T.S.O. I
8874        11-25-03 T.S.O. I
8875        11-25-03 T.S.O. III
8876        11-25-03 T.S.O. III
8877        11-25-03 T.S.O. V
8878        11-25-03 T.S.O. III
8879        12-9-03  133.06
                     151.02,
                     151.03,
8882        12-9-03  151.06,
                     151.11,
                     151.12,
                     151.13
8883        12-23-03 T.S.O. IV
8884        12-23-03 T.S.O. IV
8886        12-23-03 T.S.O. V
8888        12-23-03 T.S.O. V
8890        3-23-04  T.S.O. IV
8891        1-13-04  T.S.O. V
8892        1-27-04  917.08
8894        1-27-04  921.02 -
                     921.05
8895        1-27-04  T.S.O. III
8897        1-27-04  T.S.O. III
8898        1-27-04  T.S.O. III
8900        2-24-04  T.S.O. I
8901        2-24-04  903.01,
                     903.04
8903        2-10-04  T.S.O. V
8904        2-10-04  T.S.O. V
8905        2-24-04  T.S.O. V
8906        2-24-04  T.S.O. III
8907        2-24-04  T.S.O. III
8908        2-24-04  T.S.O. V
8910        2-24-04  T.S.O. V
8911        2-24-04  T.S.O. V
8912        2-24-04  T.S.O. V
8913        3-9-04   T.S.O. V
8914        3-9-04   T.S.O. V
8916        4-13-04  133.06
8922        3-23-04  T.S.O. V
8919        4-13-04  916.01,
                     916.02
8920        4-13-04  T.S.O. V
8921        4-13-04  T.S.O. V
8923        4-13-04  T.S.O. I
8926        4-13-04  T.S.O. V
8927        4-13-04  T.S.O. V
8928        4-3-04   T.S.O. V
8929        4-13-04  T.S.O. V
8931        4-27-04  T.S.O. V
8932        4-27-04  T.S.O. V
8933        4-27-04  T.S.O. V
8936        4-27-04  T.S.O. V
8941        5-11-04  T.S.O. V
8942        5-11-04  T.S.O. III
8943        5-25-04  T.S.O. V
8946        5-25-04  133.02
8948        6-8-04   T.S.O. I
8949        6-8-04   T.S.O. I
8950        6-8-04   T.S.O. I
8951        6-22-04  T.S.O. I
8952        6-22-04  T.S.O. IV
8953        6-8-04   T.S.O. V
8956        6-8-04   T.S.O. V
8957        6-8-04   T.S.O. III
8958        6-17-04  T.S.O. III
8962        6-22-04  T.S.O. V
8963        6-22-04  T.S.O. V
8965        6-22-04  T.S.O. V
8968        6-22-04  T.S.O. V
8969        6-22-04  T.S.O. V
8972        7-13-04  T.S.O. V
8973        7-13-04  T.S.O. V
8975        7-27-04  T.S.O. V
8980        7-27-04  T.S.O. V
8981        7-27-04  T.S.O. V
8982        7-27-04  T.S.O. V
8983        7-27-04  T.S.O. I
8985        7-27-04  T.S.O. V
8986        7-27-04  T.S.O. V
8989        8-24-04  337.20
8990        8-10-04  T.S.O. V
8992        8-10-04  T.S.O. I
8995        8-24-04  T.S.O. V
8996        9-14-04  T.S.O. V
8997        9-14-04  T.S.O. III
8998        9-14-04  T.S.O. III
8999        8-24-04  T.S.O. V
9003        9-24-04  T.S.O. IV
9004        9-14-04  T.S.O. I
9005        9-28-04  T.S.O. V
9007        9-28-04  T.S.O. V
9009        9-14-04  T.S.O. V
9011        9-28-04  T.S.O. V
9012        9-28-04  T.S.O. V
9013        9-28-04  T.S.O. V
9014        10-12-04 T.S.O. V
9015        10-12-04 T.S.O. III
9016        10-12-04 T.S.O. III
9019        9-28-04  T.S.O. V
9020        9-28-04  T.S.O. V
9023        10-12-04 T.S.O. I
9024        10-26-04 T.S.O. I
9026        10-12-04 T.S.O. V
9028        10-12-04 T.S.O. V
9029        10-12-04 T.S.O. V
9045        11-23-04 151.15
9046        11-23-04 T.S.O. V
9047        11-23-04 T.S.O. III
9048        11-23-04 T.S.O. III
                     1304.01 -
                     1304.03,
9049        11-23-04 1304.05 -
                     1304.07,
                     1304.09 -
                     1304.14
9051        11-23-04 T.S.O. III
                     133.06 -
                     133.08,
                     133.10 -
                     133.12,
9052        12-14-04 133.14,
                     133.15,
                     133.17 -
                     133.172,
                     133.19,
                     133.20 
9053        11-23-04 T.S.O. V
9054        11-23-04 T.S.O. V
9055        11-23-04 T.S.O. V
9056        12-14-04 T.S.O. V
9057        11-23-04 T.S.O. V
9058        11-23-04 T.S.O. V
9059        11-23-04 T.S.O. V
9060        11-23-04 T.S.O. V
9062        11-23-04 151.05 -
                     151.07
9063        12-14-04 T.S.O. V
9064        12-14-04 T.S.O. V
9065        12-14-04 T.S.O. V
9066        12-14-04 T.S.O. V
9067        12-14-04 T.S.O. V
9068        12-14-04 T.S.O. V
9069        12-14-04 T.S.O. V
9070        12-14-04 T.S.O. V
9071        12-14-04 T.S.O. V
9073        12-14-04 T.S.O. I
9074        12-28-04 T.S.O. V
9075        12-14-04 T.S.O. V
9079        12-14-04 T.S.O. I
9080        12-14-04 T.S.O. V
9081        12-14-04 T.S.O. V
9082        12-14-04 T.S.O. V
9083        1-11-05  T.S.O. V
9084        1-11-05  T.S.O. V
9085        1-11-05  T.S.O. V
9086        1-11-05  T.S.O. V
9087        1-11-05  T.S.O. V
9088        1-11-05  T.S.O. V
9091        1-25-05  T.S.O. I
9092        2-8-05   916.01 -
                     916.03
9095        2-8-05   T.S.O. V
9096        1-25-05  T.S.O. V
9097        1-25-05  T.S.O. V
9099        2-8-05   T.S.O. V
9100        2-8-05   151.14
9103        2-22-05  T.S.O. V
9104        2-22-05  333.012
                     335.02,
9105        2-22-05  335.05,
                     335.15,
                     335.99
9106        2-22-05  502.03
9107        2-22-05  503.01,
                     503.04
9108        2-22-05  504.01,
                     504.03
9109        2-22-05  507.01
9110        2-22-05  508.15
9111        2-8-05   T.S.O. I
9112        2-22-05  916.01 -
                     916.03
9113        2-22-05  T.S.O. V
9118        3-8-05   155.01
9120        3-22-05  913.03
9123        3-22-05  T.S.O. V
9125        4-12-05  916.01 -
                     916.04
9126        4-12-05  T.S.O. V
9127        4-12-05  T.S.O. IV
9128        3-22-05  T.S.O. V
9129        3-22-05  T.S.O. IV
9130        4-26-05  T.S.O. V
9132        4-12-05  T.S.O. V
9133        4-12-05  T.S.O. V
9134        4-12-05  T.S.O. V
9136        5-10-05  T.S.O. V
9138        5-10-05  T.S.O. I 
9140        5-24-05  T.S.O. I 
9141        5-24-05  T.S.O. V 
9142        5-24-05  T.S.O. V 
9143        5-24-05  1305.01
9145        5-24-05  T.S.O. V 
9148        5-24-05  T.S.O. V
9149        5-24-05  T.S.O. V
9150        5-24-05  T.S.O. V
9153        6-14-05  T.S.O. V
9156        6-14-05  T.S.O. V
9161        6-14-05  T.S.O. V
9162        6-14-05  T.S.O. V
9163        6-14-05  T.S.O. V
9164        6-14-05  T.S.O. V
9165        6-14-05  T.S.O. V
9166        6-14-05  T.S.O. V
9167        6-14-05  T.S.O. V
9168        6-28-05  916.01 -
                     916.04
9169        6-14-05  T.S.O. V
9175        6-28-05  T.S.O. II
9176        6-28-05  T.S.O. V
9179        7-26-05  911.02
9180        7-12-05  910.06
9181        6-28-05  T.S.O. I 
9182        7-12-05  T.S.O. I 
9184        7-12-05  T.S.O. V
9186        8-9-05   T.S.O. V
9187        7-26-05  T.S.O. V
9189        7-26-05  T.S.O. I 
9194        7-26-05  T.S.O. I
9195        8-23-05  T.S.O. V
9203        9-13-05  T.S.O. V
9204        9-13-05  T.S.O. III
9210        9-13-05  T.S.O. I
9211        9-27-05  T.S.O. I
9213        9-13-05  T.S.O. V
9214        9-13-05  T.S.O. V
9215        9-13-05  T.S.O. V
9218        2-28-06  T.S.O. I
9219        9-27-05  T.S.O. I
9225        10-25-05 T.S.O. I
9226        10-25-05 T.S.O. I
9230        10-25-05 T.S.O. I
9236        11-22-05 T.S.O. V
9239        11-22-05 T.S.O. V
9240        12-13-05 913.03
9243        11-22-05 T.S.O. V
9244        11-22-05 T.S.O. I
9245        11-22-05 T.S.O. I
9246        11-22-05 T.S.O. V
9247        12-27-05 T.S.O. V
                     917.02,
                     917.04,
9248        12-27-05 917.06,
                     917.08,
                     917.09
9249        12-27-05 T.S.O. V
9252        12-27-05 T.S.O. V
9253        12-27-05 T.S.O. VI
9254        1-10-06  T.S.O. V
9257        1-10-06  T.S.O. V
9258        1-10-06  T.S.O. V
9259        1-10-06  T.S.O. V
9260        1-10-06  T.S.O. V
9261        12-27-05 T.S.O. I
9264        1-24-06  133.02
9265        1-24-06  916.01 -
                     916.04
9267        1-10-06  T.S.O. I
9269        2-14-06  T.S.O. V
9274        2-14-06  T.S.O. V
9277        2-28-06  1304.09
9278        2-28-06  T.S.O. V
9280        2-14-06  T.S.O. I
9281        3-14-06  1301.27
9282        3-14-06  1303.01
9283        3-14-06  Ed. Note, Part 13, Title 3
9284        3-14-06  1321.01
                     1323.01 -
9285        3-28-06  1323.10,
                     1323.99
9286        3-14-06  1324.01
9287        3-14-06  1325.01
9288        3-14-06  1326.01
9289        3-14-06  1327.01
9290        3-14-06  1328.01
9291        3-14-06  1329.01
9294        2-28-06  T.S.O. V
9296        2-28-06  T.S.O. V
9297        2-28-06  T.S.O. V
9298        2-28-06  T.S.O. V
9302        3-14-06  T.S.O. V
9304        3-28-06  T.S.O. I
9305        3-14-06  T.S.O. V
                     921.02,
9306        4-4-06   921.03,
                     921.05
9307        3-28-06  T.S.O. V
9314        4-4-06   1329.01
9316        3-28-06  T.S.O. I
9319        5-9-06   T.S.O. V
9320        5-9-06   T.S.O. III
9321        4-25-06  T.S.O. V
9322        4-25-06  T.S.O. V 
9323        5-23-06  915.12
9324        5-9-06   T.S.O. V
9325        5-9-06   T.S.O. V
9327        5-9-06   T.S.O. V
9328        5-23-06  T.S.O. V
9330        5-23-06  T.S.O. V
9332        5-23-06  151.14
9333        5-23-06  T.S.O. V
9336        6-13-06  133.02
9337        6-13-06  151.02,
                     151.03
9339        5-23-06  T.S.O. I
9340        6-13-06  T.S.O. V
9341        6-13-06  T.S.O. V
9343        6-13-06  1301.06
9344        6-13-06  T.S.O. V
9345        6-13-06  T.S.O. V
9348        6-27-06  T.S.O. V
                     908.01 -
                     908.18,
9351        7-11-06  908.99,
                     909.01 -
                     909.26,
                     909.99
9353        7-11-06  T.S.O. V
9354        7-11-06  T.S.O. V
9355        7-11-06  T.S.O. V
9357        7-11-06  915.08
9358        7-11-06  T.S.O. V
9359        7-11-06  916.01 -
                     916.04
9360        7-11-06  T.S.O. V
9363        7-25-06  T.S.O. V
                     1111.03,
                     1113.01 -
                     1113.04,
9364        7-25-06  1115.01 -
                     1115.03,
                     1117.01-
                     1117.08
9367        7-25-06  T.S.O. V
9369        7-25-06  T.S.O. I
9370        8-8-06   T.S.O. IV
9371        8-22-06  T.S.O. I
9374        8-22-06  T.S.O. I
9376        9-12-06  T.S.O. V
9377        9-12-06  T.S.O. V
9378        9-12-06  T.S.O. V
9379        8-22-06  T.S.O. V
9380        8-22-06  T.S.O. V
9386        9-26-06  T.S.O. V 
9387        9-12-06  T.S.O. V
9388        9-26-06  T.S.O. V
9389        9-26-06  T.S.O. V
9390        9-26-06  T.S.O. V
9391        9-26-06  T.S.O. V
9392        9-26-06  T.S.O. V
9393        9-26-06  T.S.O. V
9394        9-26-06  T.S.O. V
9395        9-26-06  T.S.O. V
9396        9-26-06  T.S.O. V
9397        9-26-06  T.S.O. V
9398        9-26-06  T.S.O. V
9403        9-26-06  T.S.O. V
9411        11-14-06 913.03
9416        11-28-06 917.08
9418        11-14-06 T.S.O. V
9419        11-28-06 T.S.O. V
9420        11-28-06 T.S.O. V
9421        11-28-06 T.S.O. V
9422        11-28-06 T.S.O. V
9423        11-28-06 T.S.O. V
9424        11-28-06 T.S.O. V
9425        11-28-06 T.S.O. V
9426        11-28-06 T.S.O. V
9427        11-28-06 T.S.O. V
9428        11-28-06 T.S.O. V
9429        11-14-06 T.S.O. V
9430        11-14-06 T.S.O. V
9434        11-28-06 T.S.O. I
9436        12-12-06 T.S.O. V
9440        11-28-06 T.S.O. V
9441        11-28-06 T.S.O. III
9442        11-28-06 T.S.O. V
9443        11-28-06 T.S.O. V
9444        12-12-06 T.S.O. V
9445        12-12-06 T.S.O. V
9449        12-27-06 T.S.O. V
9455        1-23-07  T.S.O. V
9456        1-9-07   133.02
9458        2-13-07  T.S.O. V
9459        2-13-07  T.S.O. V
9460        1-23-07  T.S.O. V
9461        1-23-07  T.S.O. V
9467        2-8-07   T.S.O. V
9470        2-27-07  903.07
9471        2-27-07  T.S.O. V
9472        2-13-07  T.S.O. V
9473        2-13-07  T.S.O. II
9474        2-13-07  T.S.O. V
9475        2-13-07  T.S.O. V
9476        2-13-07  T.S.O. III
9477        2-13-07  T.S.O. V
9483        2-27-07  T.S.O. III
9486        3-27-07  151.05
9487        3-13-07  T.S.O. V
9489        3-27-07  133.02
9491        3-13-07  T.S.O. V
9492        3-13-07  T.S.O. V
9493        3-13-07  T.S.O. I
9495        3-27-07  T.S.O. V
9496        3-13-07  T.S.O. I
9503        4-10-07  T.S.O. I
9507        4-10-07  T.S.O. I
9509        5-8-07   1130.01
9510        5-8-07   T.S.O. IV
9511        5-8-07   1130.02
9512        5-8-07   T.S.O. III
9513        5-8-07   T.S.O. III
9514        4-24-07  T.S.O. VIII
9515        4-24-07  T.S.O. I
9516        4-24-07  T.S.O. V
9517        4-24-07  T.S.O. III
9519        4-24-07  T.S.O. V
9528        5-22-07  T.S.O. III
9529        5-22-07  T.S.O. V
9541        5-22-07  T.S.O. V
                     1304.02,
                     1304.05 -
9542        6-12-07  1304.07,
                     1304.09,
                     1304.15
9543        6-26-07  151.14
9544        6-26-07  133.02
9545        6-26-07  T.S.O. V
9547        6-26-07  T.S.O. I
9548        6-12-07  T.S.O. V
9550        7-10-07  T.S.O. V
9553        6-26-07  T.S.O. V
9554        6-26-07  T.S.O. V
9558        7-10-07  T.S.O. V
9559        7-24-07  T.S.O. I
9560        7-10-07  T.S.O. I
9561        7-24-07  T.S.O. I
9563        7-24-07  T.S.O. V
9568        8-14-07  T.S.O. I
9569        8-14-07  T.S.O. I
9571        8-28-07  T.S.O. V
9574        9-25-07  T.S.O. III,
                     V
9575        9-25-07  T.S.O. V
9580        9-11-07  T.S.O. I
9582        9-25-07  T.S.O. V
9583        9-25-07  T.S.O. V
9585        10-9-07  T.S.O. V
9586        10-9-07  T.S.O. V
9587        10-9-07  T.S.O. V
9588        10-9-07  T.S.O. V
9590        9-25-07  T.S.O. V
9593        9-25-07  T.S.O. V
9595        9-25-07  T.S.O. V
9596        9-25-07  T.S.O. V
9597        10-9-07  T.S.O. I
9598        10-23-07 T.S.O. V
9599        11-13-07 915.081
9600        10-9-07  T.S.O. V
9603        10-9-07  T.S.O. V
9606        10-9-07  T.S.O. V
9609        10-23-07 T.S.O. V
9613        10-23-07 T.S.O. V
9614        11-13-07 T.S.O. V
9615        11-13-07 T.S.O. V
9616        11-13-07 T.S.O. V
9617        11-13-07 T.S.O. V
9618        11-13-07 T.S.O. I
9619        11-13-07 T.S.O. I
                     913.01,
9621        11-27-07 913.03,
                     913.04
                     914.01 -
9622        11-27-07 914.05,
                     914.99
                     131.01 -
9626        11-27-07 131.06,
                     131.08 -
                     131.12
9627        11-13-07 T.S.O. I
9628        11-13-07 T.S.O. I
9629        11-27-07 T.S.O. IV
9630        11-13-07 T.S.O. V
9633        11-27-07 T.S.O. V
9635        11-27-07 T.S.O. V
9638        12-11-07 T.S.O. V
9639        12-11-07 T.S.O. V
9640        12-11-07 T.S.O. V
9645        1-22-08  T.S.O. I
9646        1-8-08   T.S.O. I
9647        1-8-08   T.S.O. V
9648        1-22-08  T.S.O. V
9650        2-12-08  T.S.O. V
9651        2-12-08  T.S.O. V
9653        2-12-08  T.S.O. V
9655        1-22-08  T.S.O. V
9656        2-12-08  T.S.O. V
9657        2-26-08  T.S.O. V
9660        2-26-08  T.S.O. III
9662        2-26-08  T.S.O. V
9664        2-26-08  915.081
9667        2-26-08  T.S.O. V
9671        3-25-08  T.S.O. V
9674        3-17-08  T.S.O. V
9675        3-17-08  T.S.O. III
9676        3-17-08  T.S.O. III
9677        3-25-08  T.S.O. V
9679        3-25-08  T.S.O. V
9680        4-8-08   T.S.O. V
9682        3-25-08  T.S.O. V
9684        4-22-08  T.S.O. IV
9689        4-8-08   T.S.O. V
9695        4-22-08  T.S.O. V
9696        4-22-08  T.S.O. V
9697        4-22-08  T.S.O. V
9698        4-22-08  T.S.O. V
9700        5-13-08  T.S.O. V
9701        5-13-08  T.S.O. V
9704        5-27-08  T.S.O. III
9712        5-13-08  T.S.O. I
9713        5-13-08  T.S.O. V
9714        5-27-08  T.S.O. V
9715        5-27-08  T.S.O. V
9716        5-27-08  T.S.O. V
9717        5-27-08  T.S.O. V
9722        5-27-08  T.S.O. V
9724        6-10-08  133.11
9726        6-24-08  T.S.O. V
9728        6-24-08  T.S.O. III
9729        6-10-08  T.S.O. V
9731        6-10-08  T.S.O. I
9732        6-24-08  T.S.O. I
9733        6-24-08  T.S.O. I
9735        6-24-08  T.S.O. I
9736        7-1-08   T.S.O. III
9737        7-1-08   T.S.O. III
                     917.03,
9741        8-12-08  917.05,
                     917.08
9742        7-22-08  T.S.O. V
9745        8-12-08  T.S.O. III
9746        8-12-08  T.S.O. III
9747        8-12-08  T.S.O. V
9751        8-26-08  T.S.O. V
9754        8-12-08  T.S.O. V
9757        8-12-08  T.S.O. V
9758        8-12-08  T.S.O. V
9759        8-12-08  T.S.O. V
9765        9-9-08   T.S.O. III
9767        9-9-08   T.S.O. V
9768        9-23-08  T.S.O. I
9769        9-9-08   T.S.O. V
9770        10-14-08 921.08
9775        10-28-08 T.S.O. I
9779        11-11-08 T.S.O. V
9780        11-11-08 T.S.O. V
9781        11-11-08 T.S.O. V
9782        11-11-08 T.S.O. V
9783        11-11-08 T.S.O. V
9784        11-11-08 T.S.O. V
9785        11-11-08 T.S.O. V
9788        12-9-08  911.02
9789        11-24-08 913.03
9790        11-24-08 133.20
9791        11-24-08 T.S.O. V
9798        12-9-08  133.02
9800        12-9-08  137.01
9801        12-9-08  T.S.O. V
9803        12-23-08 T.S.O. V
9804        12-23-08 T.S.O. V
9808        12-23-08 133.01
2009-003    2-10-09  1103.01
2009-005    2-10-09  T.S.O. V
2009-007    2-10-09  T.S.O. I
2009-009    2-10-09  T.S.O. V
2009-012    2-10-09  T.S.O. V
2009-014    2-24-09  1308.01 -
                     1308.06
2009-016    2-10-09  T.S.O. V
                     915.02,
                     915.06,
2009-017    3-10-09  915.061,
                     915.08,
                     915.081,
                     915.11
2009-019    2-24-09  T.S.O. V
2009-022    3-10-09  T.S.O. V
2009-023    3-24-09  T.S.O. V
2009-024    3-10-09  T.S.O. V
2009-027    4-14-09  T.S.O. III
2009-028    3-24-09  T.S.O. V
2009-032    4-20-09  T.S.O. V
2009-036    4-14-09  729.01 -
                     729.03
2009-037    4-28-09  T.S.O. V
2009-038    4-14-09  T.S.O. V
2009-043    4-28-09  T.S.O. V
2009-044    5-26-09  133.01
2009-048    5-26-09  151.14
2009-051    5-26-09  T.S.O. V
2009-052    5-26-09  T.S.O. V
2009-054    5-26-09  T.S.O. V
2009-055    5-26-09  T.S.O. V
2009-056    5-26-09  T.S.O. V
2009-057    6-9-09   T.S.O. V
2009-061    6-9-09   T.S.O. V
2009-063    6-9-09   T.S.O. V
2009-064    6-9-09   T.S.O. V
2009-065    6-9-09   T.S.O. V
2009-066    6-9-09   T.S.O. V
2009-069    7-14-09  T.S.O. V
2009-070    6-23-09  T.S.O. V
2009-071    9-8-09   1304.01 -
                     1304.15
2009-072    8-4-09   T.S.O. IV
2009-073    7-14-09  T.S.O. I
2009-074    8-4-09   T.S.O. V
2009-077    8-4-09   T.S.O. V
2009-082    8-11-09  T.S.O. V
2009-083    8-25-09  T.S.O. I
2009-084    8-11-09  T.S.O. I
2009-085    8-11-09  T.S.O. I
2009-086    8-11-09  T.S.O. I
2009-087    8-11-09  T.S.O. I
2009-090    8-17-09  T.S.O. V
2009-091    8-25-09  T.S.O. V
2009-092    9-8-09   T.S.O. V
2009-093    9-8-09   T.S.O. V
2009-094    9-8-09   T.S.O. V
2009-095    9-22-09  T.S.O. IV
2009-096    9-22-09  T.S.O. I
2009-099    10-27-09 T.S.O. I
2009-100    10-27-09 T.S.O. I
2009-101    10-13-09 T.S.O. V
2009-102    10-27-09 T.S.O. V
2009-103    10-27-09 T.S.O. V
2009-105    11-10-09 T.S.O. V
2009-106    10-27-09 T.S.O. V
2009-109    11-23-09 913.03
2009-100    10-27-09 T.S.O. I
2009-110    11-10-09 133.02
2009-112    12-8-09  T.S.O. V
2009-114    1-12-10  1130.01
2009-115    1-12-10  T.S.O. V
2010-001    1-12-10  T.S.O. V
2010-002    1-12-10  T.S.O. V
2010-005    1-12-10  T.S.O. I
2010-006    1-26-10  1130.01
2010-007    1-26-10  T.S.O. V
2010-012    1-26-10  T.S.O. V
2010-015    2-17-10  T.S.O. I
2010-016    2-17-10  T.S.O. I
2010-017    2-17-10  T.S.O. V
2010-021    2-23-10  T.S.O. V
2010-022    2-23-10  T.S.O. V
2010-027    3-23-10  1321.01
2010-028    3-23-10  1323.01,
                     1323.99
2010-029    3-23-10  1324.01
2010-030    3-23-10  1325.01 
2010-031    3-23-10  1326.01
2010-032    3-23-10  1327.01
2010-033    3-23-10  1328.01
2010-034    3-23-10  1329.01
2010-040    3-15-10  T.S.O. V
2010-042    3-23-10  T.S.O. V
2010-043    3-23-10  T.S.O. V
2010-044    3-23-10  T.S.O. V
2010-048    4-27-10  717.01 -
                     717.06
2010-052    4-27-10  T.S.O. V
2010-053    4-13-10  T.S.O. V
2010-056    4-27-10  T.S.O. V
2010-057    5-25-10  1130.01
2010-059    5-11-10  T.S.O. I
2010-060    5-11-10  T.S.O. V
2010-061    5-11-10  T.S.O. V
2010-064    5-25-10  T.S.O. V
2010-068    5-25-10  T.S.O. V
2010-071    6-22-10  133.07
2010-075    6-22-10  T.S.O. V
2010-078    7-13-10  T.S.O. I
2010-082    7-13-10  T.S.O. V
2010-083    7-13-10  T.S.O. V
2010-085    8-10-10  T.S.O. V
2010-086    8-10-10  T.S.O. V
2010-087    8-24-10  T.S.O. V
2010-088    8-24-10  T.S.O. V
2010-089    8-24-10  T.S.O. V
2010-093    9-14-10  917.03,
                     917.08,
                     921.02,
2010-094    9-14-10  921.03,
                     921.05
2010-095    9-14-10  T.S.O. V
2010-098    9-29-10  133.02
2010-101    10-12-10 T.S.O. IV
2010-105    10-12-10 T.S.O. V
2010-106    10-12-10 T.S.O. V
2010-107    10-26-10 T.S.O. V
2010-108    10-26-10 T.S.O. V
2010-109    10-26-10 T.S.O. V 
2010-110    10-26-10 T.S.O. V
2010-111    10-26-10 T.S.O. V
2010-112    10-26-10 T.S.O. V
2010-113    10-26-10 T.S.O. V
2010-114    10-26-10 T.S.O. V
2010-115    10-26-10 1308.01
2010-118    10-26-10 T.S.O. V
2010-119    10-26-10 T.S.O. V
2010-124    12-14-10 911.02
2010-127    12-14-10 T.S.O. V
2010-131    1-11-11  T.S.O. V
2010-132    1-11-11  T.S.O. V
2010-133    1-11-11  T.S.O. V
2010-134    1-11-11  T.S.O. V
2010-135    1-11-11  T.S.O. V
2010-138    1-11-11  T.S.O. V
2011-009    1-25-11  T.S.O. I
2011-001    1-25-11  T.S.O. V
2011-002    1-25-11  T.S.O. V
2011-003    1-25-11  T.S.O. V
2011-004    1-25-11  T.S.O. V
2011-005    1-25-11  T.S.O. V
2011-006    1-25-11  T.S.O. V
2011-007    1-25-11  T.S.O. V
2011-008    1-25-11  T.S.O. V
2011-010    2-8-11   T.S.O. V
2011-012    1-25-11  T.S.O. V
2011-015    3-8-11   T.S.O. V
2011-019    3-8-11   T.S.O. I
2011-021    3-8-11   T.S.O. I
2011-023    3-22-11  1304.09,
                     1304.11
                     925.03,
                     925.06,
                     925.08,
                     925.13,
                     925.15,
2011-024    4-12-11  925.18,
                     925.22,
                     925.23,
                     925.24,
                     925.25,
                     925.26
2011-025    3-22-11  T.S.O. V
2011-026    3-22-11  T.S.O. V
2011-029    4-12-11  T.S.O. V
2011-030    4-12-11  T.S.O. V
2011-031    4-12-11  T.S.O. V
2011-032    4-12-11  T.S.O. V
2011-033    4-26-11  503.07
2011-034    4-26-11  T.S.O. V
2011-036    4-26-11  T.S.O. I
2011-037    4-26-11  T.S.O. V
2011-039    4-26-11  T.S.O. V
2011-045    5-24-11  T.S.O. V
2011-050    6-28-11  T.S.O. V
2011-051    6-28-11  T.S.O. V
2011-053    6-28-11  T.S.O. V
2011-056    6-28-11  T.S.O. V
2011-057    6-28-11  T.S.O. V
2011-061    6-28-11  T.S.O. I
2011-062    7-12-11  T.S.O. I
2011-063    6-28-11  T.S.O. V
2011-064    6-28-11  T.S.O. V
2011-068    7-12-11  T.S.O. V
2011-069    7-12-11  T.S.O. V
2011-070    7-12-11  T.S.O. V
2011-071    7-12-11  T.S.O. V
2011-077    8-15-11  T.S.O. V
2011-078    9-27-11  T.S.O. V
2011-082    9-13-11  T.S.O. V
2011-083    9-27-11  T.S.O. V
2011-085    9-27-11  T.S.O. I
2011-089    11-7-11  T.S.O. V
2011-094    11-21-11 911.02
2011-095    11-21-11 913.03
2011-096    11-21-11 T.S.O. V
2011-100    1-10-12  T.S.O. V
2011-101    12-13-11 T.S.O. V
2011-103    12-13-11 T.S.O. V
2011-105    12-13-11 T.S.O. V
2012-001    1-24-12  910.01
                     907.01 -
                     907.04,
2012-002    1-24-12  907.06 -
                     907.12,
                     907.99
2012-003    1-10-12  T.S.O. V
2012-004    1-10-12  T.S.O. V
2012-005    1-10-12  T.S.O. III
2012-006    1-10-12  T.S.O. V
2012-007    1-24-12  T.S.O. V
2012-008    2-14-12  T.S.O. V
2012-011    2-14-12  T.S.O. V
2012-013    3-13-12  T.S.O. V
2012-014    3-13-12  T.S.O. VI
2012-015    2-28-12  T.S.O. V
2012-016    2-28-12  T.S.O. V
2012-017    2-28-12  T.S.O. V
2012-019    3-13-12  T.S.O. I
2012-020    3-13-12  T.S.O. V
2012-023    3-27-12  T.S.O. III
2012-024    3-27-12  T.S.O. V
2012-026    4-3-12   T.S.O. V
2012-029    4-10-12  T.S.O. V
2012-032    4-24-12  T.S.O. V
2012-033    4-24-12  T.S.O. V
2012-034    4-24-12  T.S.O. V
2012-035    4-24-12  T.S.O. V
2012-041    5-8-12   133.02
2012-042    5-8-12   T.S.O. I
2012-043    5-8-12   T.S.O. I
2012-045    5-22-12  T.S.O. I
2012-046    5-22-12  T.S.O. VI
2012-049    5-22-12  T.S.O. V
2012-050    5-22-12  T.S.O. V
2012-054    5-22-12  505.09
2012-058    6-26-12  133.15
2012-060    6-26-12  T.S.O. III
2012-061    6-26-12  T.S.O. V
2012-063    6-26-12  T.S.O. V
2012-064    6-26-12  T.S.O. V
2012-066    7-10-12  T.S.O. V
2012-071    8-14-12  T.S.O. III
2012-073    8-14-12  T.S.O. V
2012-075    8-28-12  T.S.O. V
2012-077    8-28-12  T.S.O. V
2012-078    8-28-12  T.S.O. V
2012-079    8-28-12  T.S.O. V
2012-080    8-28-12  T.S.O. V
2012-082    9-11-12  T.S.O. V
2012-083    9-11-12  T.S.O. I
2012-085    9-11-12  T.S.O. III
2012-086    9-25-12  T.S.O. V
2012-089    10-12-12 1304.01
2012-091    10-23-12 T.S.O. V
2012-096    12-4-12  911.02
2012-097    12-4-12  913.03
2012-098    11-13-12 T.S.O. III
2012-099    11-13-12 T.S.O. V
2012-101    12-11-12 T.S.O. V
2012-102    12-11-12 T.S.O. V
2012-103    12-11-12 T.S.O. V
2012-104    12-11-12 T.S.O. V
2012-105    12-11-12 T.S.O. V
2012-106    11-27-12 T.S.O. V
                     910.01,
                     910.02,
2012-107    12-11-12 910.04,
                     910.06,
                     910.08,
                     910.09
2012-108    12-11-12 915.13
2012-109    12-11-12 915.07
                     916.01,
2012-110    12-11-12 916.02,
                     916.04
2012-112    12-11-12 T.S.O. V
2012-113    12-11-12 T.S.O. I
2013-001    1-22-13  133.02
2013-002    1-8-13   T.S.O. V
2013-003    1-8-13   T.S.O. V
2013-004    1-8-13   T.S.O. V
2013-006    1-22-13  T.S.O. V
2013-007    1-22-13  T.S.O. V
2013-008    1-22-13  T.S.O. V
2013-009    1-22-13  T.S.O. V
2013-010    1-22-13  T.S.O. V
2013-011    1-22-13  T.S.O. V
2013-015    2-12-13  T.S.O. I
2013-016    2-26-13  T.S.O. III
2013-018    2-12-13  T.S.O. V
2013-019    2-26-13  133.02
2013-021    2-26-13  T.S.O. V
2013-024    3-12-13  T.S.O. III
2013-032    2-26-13  T.S.O. V
2013-036    3-26-13  133.02
2013-038    3-26-13  T.S.O. V
2013-040    4-9-13   131.02,
                     131.10
2013-043    3-26-13  T.S.O. V
2013-045    3-26-13  T.S.O. V
2013-046    4-9-13   T.S.O. III
2013-047    5-14-13  921.05,
                     921.06
2013-048    4-23-13  T.S.O. V
2013-049    4-23-13  T.S.O. V
2013-052    5-14-13  T.S.O. V
2013-053    5-14-13  T.S.O. V
2013-054    5-14-13  T.S.O. V
2013-055    5-14-13  T.S.O. V
2013-056    5-14-13  T.S.O. V
2013-060    6-11-13  T.S.O. V
2013-063    6-11-13  T.S.O. V
2013-064    6-11-13  T.S.O. V
2013-065    6-11-13  T.S.O. V
2013-067    6-25-13  T.S.O. V
2013-070    6-25-13  T.S.O. I
2013-075    6-25-13  T.S.O. V
2013-077    7-9-13   T.S.O. V
2013-078    7-9-13   T.S.O. V
2013-081    7-9-13   T.S.O. I
                     159.01,
2013-087    8-13-13  159.02,
                     159.04
2013-088    8-13-13  T.S.O. V
2013-091    8-27-13  913.03
2013-092    8-27-13  911.02
2013-094    10-8-13  T.S.O. V
2013-095    10-8-13  T.S.O. V
2013-097    10-8-13  T.S.O. III
2013-101    11-12-13 T.S.O. V
2013-102    11-12-13 T.S.O. I
2013-106    11-26-13 T.S.O. IV
2013-108    11-26-13 911.02
2013-110    12-10-13 T.S.O. V
2014-001    1-14-14  T.S.O. I
2014-005    1-28-14  T.S.O. I
2014-007    2-11-14  T.S.O. V
2014-008    2-11-14  T.S.O. V
2014-009    2-25-14  T.S.O. V
2014-010    2-25-14  1304.09
2014-011    2-11-14  T.S.O. I
2014-013    2-11-14  T.S.O. III
2014-026    4-8-14   T.S.O. III
2014-030    5-13-14  T.S.O. V
2014-031    5-13-14  T.S.O. V
2014-032    4-22-14  T.S.O. V
2014-033    5-13-14  927.01,
                     927.02
2014-034    4-22-14  T.S.O. III
2014-035    5-13-14  T.S.O. V
2014-040    5-27-14  T.S.O. V
2014-043    6-3-14   T.S.O. V
2014-045    5-27-14  T.S.O. V
2014-046    5-27-14  T.S.O. III
2014-047    6-3-14   T.S.O. III
2014-048    6-9-14   T.S.O. I
2014-051    6-9-14   T.S.O. V
2014-053    6-9-14   T.S.O. V
2014-054    6-9-14   T.S.O. V
2014-068    8-12-14  T.S.O. IV
2014-069    7-8-14   T.S.O. V
2014-070    7-8-14   T.S.O. V
2014-074    8-26-14  T.S.O. IV
2014-075    8-26-14  T.S.O. I
2014-076    8-26-14  T.S.O. I
2014-079    9-9-14   T.S.O. V
2014-084    9-23-14  T.S.O. V
2014-088    11-11-14 911.02
2014-089    11-11-14 913.03
2014-092    11-24-14 T.S.O. V
2014-093    11-24-14 T.S.O. V
2014-094    11-24-14 T.S.O. V
2014-097    11-24-14 T.S.O. I
2014-098    12-9-14  T.S.O. V
                     910.03 -
2015-001    1-27-15  910.05,
                     910.08,
                     910.09
2015-002    1-27-15  911.02,
                     911.03
2015-003    2-10-15  129.03, Repeals 129.07
2015-004    1-27-15  133.12
2015-005    1-27-15  133.02
                     131.01 -
                     131.03,
                     131.05,
2015-006    1-27-15  131.06,
                     131.08,
                     131.12 -
                     131.15
2015-025    2-24-15  133.02
2015-050    4-14-15  T.S.O. V
2015-051    4-14-15  T.S.O. V
2015-055    4-28-15  T.S.O. V
2015-057    4-28-15  T.S.O. V
2015-062    5-26-15  T.S.O. V
2015-065    6-23-15  T.S.O. III
2015-066    6-23-15  911.02
2015-068    6-23-15  Repeals Ch. 723
2015-069    6-23-15  133.02
2015-071    6-23-15  T.S.O. V
2015-072    6-9-15   T.S.O. I
2015-080    7-14-15  T.S.O. V
2015-081    7-14-15  T.S.O. V
                     151.03,
2015-082    7-27-15  151.04,
                     151.06
2015-085    8-25-15  T.S.O. V
2015-086    9-1-15   T.S.O. V
2015-087    9-8-15   157.01
2015-088    9-8-15   911.02
2015-089    9-8-15   913.03
2015-094    9-22-15  T.S.O. IV
2015-093    9-22-15  T.S.O. V
2015-096    10-13-15 T.S.O. V
2015-098    9-22-15  T.S.O. V
2015-100    9-22-15  T.S.O. I
2015-101    9-22-15  T.S.O. I
2015-102    9-22-15  T.S.O. I
2015-103    9-22-15  T.S.O. I
2015-106    10-13-15 T.S.O. V
2015-107    10-13-15 T.S.O. V
2015-108    10-13-15 T.S.O. V
2015-109    10-13-15 T.S.O. V
2015-110    10-13-15 T.S.O. V
                     152.01 -
2015-112    11-10-15 152.21,
                     152.96 -
                     152.99
2015-115    10-27-15 T.S.O. I
2015-116    11-10-15 T.S.O. V
2015-117    11-24-15 133.02
2015-121    11-24-15 T.S.O. IV
2015-122    11-24-15 T.S.O. IV
2015-123    11-10-15 T.S.O. I
2015-124    11-10-15 T.S.O. I
2015-127    11-24-15 T.S.O. V
2015-129    12-8-15  T.S.O. V
2016-002    1-26-16  1325.01
2016-003    1-12-16  T.S.O. V
2016-006    1-26-16  T.S.O. V
2016-007    2-9-16   133.02
2016-015    2-9-16   T.S.O. I
2016-016    2-9-16   T.S.O. IV
2016-017    2-2-16   T.S.O. V
2016-018    2-9-16   T.S.O. V
2016-019    2-23-16  T.S.O. I
2016-020    2-9-16   T.S.O. VI
2016-021    2-9-16   T.S.O. I
2016-023    3-8-16   T.S.O. V
2016-025    3-8-16   T.S.O. V
2016-030    3-22-16  T.S.O. III
2016-032    3-22-16  T.S.O. V
2016-040    4-26-16  T.S.O. V
2016-041    4-12-16  T.S.O. V
2016-043    4-12-16  T.S.O. I
2016-044    4-12-16  T.S.O. III
2016-045    4-12-16  T.S.O. V
2016-046    4-12-16  T.S.O. V
2016-047    5-10-16  T.S.O. V
2016-049    4-26-16  T.S.O. V
2016-054    5-10-16  T.S.O. V
2016-056    5-24-16  T.S.O. V
2016-059    5-24-16  T.S.O. V
2016-060    5-24-16  T.S.O. III
2016-061    6-14-16  T.S.O. IV
2016-063    5-24-16  T.S.O. V
2016-066    6-28-16  T.S.O. V
2016-070    7-12-16  T.S.O. III
2016-074    7-12-16  T.S.O. V
2016-075    7-12-16  T.S.O. I
2016-076    7-12-16  T.S.O. I
2016-077    7-12-16  T.S.O. V
2016-078    8-23-16  152.081
2016-079    8-23-16  152.013
2016-086    8-23-16  T.S.O. V
2016-087    9-13-16  T.S.O. V
2016-088    9-27-16  T.S.O. V
2016-091    10-11-16 T.S.O. III
2016-093    10-11-16 T.S.O. I
2016-094    11-7-16  T.S.O. V
2016-099    10-25-16 T.S.O. III,
                     T.S.O. V
2016-102    11-22-16 921.08
2016-105    11-22-16 T.S.O. I
2016-107    12-13-16 T.S.O. V
2016-111    11-22-16 T.S.O. V
2016-114    1-10-17  911.02
2016-115    1-10-17  133.02
2016-116    1-10-17  T.S.O. IV
2016-117    12-13-16 T.S.O. I
2016-118    12-13-16 T.S.O. I
2017-002    1-24-17  T.S.O. IV
2017-005    2-14-17  921.08
2017-013    2-28-17  111.04
2017-014    2-28-17  911.04,
                     911.05
2017-016    2-14-17  T.S.O. V
2017-017    2-14-17  T.S.O. III
2017-018    2-14-17  T.S.O. I
2017-019    2-14-17  T.S.O. V
2017-022    2-28-17  T.S.O. VI
2017-023    2-28-17  T.S.O. I
2017-024    3-14-17  131.07
2017-027    3-14-17  T.S.O. V
2017-030    4-11-17  T.S.O. IV
2017-033    4-25-17  T.S.O. V
                     908.01,
                     908.02,
2017-034    4-25-17  908.04,
                     908.08 -
                     908.19
2017-039    4-11-17  T.S.O. III
2017-043    5-23-17  133.02
2017-045    5-9-17   T.S.O. V
2017-046    5-9-17   T.S.O. V
2017-048    5-9-17   T.S.O. V
2017-051    5-23-17  T.S.O. V
2017-058    6-13-17  T.S.O. V
2017-066    7-17-17  T.S.O. IV
2017-067    7-11-17  T.S.O. I
2017-070    8-8-17   T.S.O. V
2017-071    8-8-17   T.S.O. V
2017-072    7-11-17  T.S.O. V
2017-073    7-11-17  T.S.O. V
2017-074    7-11-17  T.S.O. I
2017-075    7-11-17  T.S.O. V
2017-080    8-8-17   T.S.O. V
2017-081    8-8-17   T.S.O. V
2017-084    8-22-17  T.S.O. V
2017-093    10-10-17 T.S.O. IV
2017-099    10-10-17 T.S.O. V
2017-100    10-24-17 T.S.O. V
2017-101    11-14-17 T.S.O. V
2017-103    11-14-17 133.02
2017-106    11-8-17  T.S.O. I
2017-107    11-8-17  T.S.O. I
2017-111    11-14-17 911.02
2017-112    11-28-17 913.03
2017-113    11-28-17 917.08
2017-114    11-14-17 T.S.O. III
2017-115    11-14-17 T.S.O. V
2017-118    12-12-17 T.S.O. V
2017-119    11-28-17 T.S.O. V
2017-120    12-12-17 T.S.O. V
2017-124    12-12-17 T.S.O. I
2018-001    1-9-18   T.S.O. I
                     152.03,
                     152.062,
2018-007    2-13-18  152.063,
                     152.07,
                     152.10
2018-010    2-13-18  T.S.O. I
2018-015    2-27-18  T.S.O. V
2018-019    3-13-18  T.S.O. V
2018-021    3-13-18  T.S.O. I
2018-024    3-27-18  T.S.O. V
2018-026    4-10-18  921.08
                     921.02,
2018-027    4-10-18  921.04,
                     921.05
2018-028    4-10-18  T.S.O. V
2018-031    4-10-18  133.02
2018-036    4-10-18  T.S.O. I
2018-037    4-10-18  T.S.O. I
2018-039    4-24-18  T.S.O. V
2018-040    4-24-18  T.S.O. V
2018-044    5-22-18  T.S.O. IV
2018-051    5-22-18  T.S.O. V
2018-055    6-26-18  T.S.O. V
2018-056    6-26-18  T.S.O. V
2018-057    7-10-18  T.S.O. V
2018-058    7-10-18  T.S.O. V
2018-059    7-10-18  T.S.O. V
2018-060    7-10-18  T.S.O. V
2018-061    7-10-18  T.S.O. V
2018-062    7-10-18  T.S.O. V
2018-063    7-10-18  T.S.O. V
2018-064    7-10-18  T.S.O. V
2018-066    7-10-18  T.S.O. V
2018-067    7-10-18  T.S.O. V
2018-069    8-14-18  T.S.O. V
2018-071    8-28-18  T.S.O. V
2018-077    9-25-18  T.S.O. III
2018-078    8-28-18  T.S.O. V
2018-079    9-11-18  T.S.O. I
2018-080    9-11-18  T.S.O. V
2018-081    9-11-18  T.S.O. V
2018-083    9-25-18  T.S.O. V
2018-089    10-23-18 T.S.O. IV
2018-090    10-9-18  T.S.O. V
2018-091    11-13-18 T.S.O. V
2018-092    10-23-18 T.S.O. V
2018-093    10-23-18 T.S.O. V
2018-094    10-23-18 T.S.O. I
2018-095    10-23-18 T.S.O. I
2018-098    11-27-18 911.02
2018-099    11-27-18 T.S.O. V
                     159.01,
2018-101    11-27-18 159.02,
                     159.04
2018-102    11-13-18 T.S.O. V
2018-104    11-13-18 T.S.O. V
2018-105    11-13-18 T.S.O. V
2018-109    11-27-18 T.S.O. V
2019-001    1-8-19   T.S.O. V
2019-003    1-22-19  T.S.O. V
2019-004    1-22-19  T.S.O. V
2019-005    1-22-19  T.S.O. V
2019-006    1-8-19   T.S.O. I
2019-007    1-8-19   T.S.O. I
2019-008    1-8-19   T.S.O. I
2019-012    2-12-19  T.S.O. IV
2019-013    2-26-19  T.S.O. III
2019-019    3-12-19  T.S.O. V
2019-020    3-12-19  T.S.O. V
2019-022    3-12-19  T.S.O. I
2019-023    3-12-19  T.S.O. I
2019-028    4-9-19   T.S.O. III
2019-032    4-9-19   T.S.O. V
2019-037    4-23-19  T.S.O. I
2019-049    6-11-19  T.S.O. V
2019-050    6-25-19  T.S.O. IV
2019-051    7-9-19   133.02
2019-058    7-9-19   T.S.O. V
2019-059    8-13-19  T.S.O. V
2019-060    8-13-19  T.S.O. V
2019-061    8-13-19  T.S.O. V
2019-065    8-27-19  T.S.O. III
2019-069    8-27-19  T.S.O. I
                     915.05,
                     915.06,
                     915.061,
2019-072    10-8-19  915.08,
                     915.081,
                     915.10,
                     915.11
2019-073    10-8-19  915.14
2019-079    10-8-19  T.S.O. V
2019-081    10-8-19  T.S.O. V
2019-082    10-8-19  T.S.O. V
2019-083    10-22-19 T.S.O. IV
2019-084    10-8-19  T.S.O. V
2019-086    10-22-19 T.S.O. VI
2019-087    11-12-19 T.S.O. IV
                     377.02,
2019-088    10-22-19 531.05, Repeals 508.13,
                     925.12
2019-091    11-26-19 918.04
2019-092    11-26-19 917.08
2019-094    11-26-19 925.08
2019-096    11-12-19 T.S.O. V
2019-097    11-12-19 T.S.O. V
2019-100    12-10-19 T.S.O. IV
2019-101    11-26-19 T.S.O. V
2019-103    1-14-20  T.S.O. V
2019-105    12-10-19 T.S.O. I
2019-106    12-10-19 T.S.O. I
2020-002    1-28-20  152.013
2020-003    1-14-20  T.S.O. V
2020-004    1-28-20  T.S.O. IV
2020-005    1-14-20  T.S.O. VI
2020-006    1-14-20  T.S.O. I
2020-007    1-14-20  T.S.O. I
2020-008    1-14-20  T.S.O. V
2020-009    1-14-20  T.S.O. V
2020-012    1-28-20  T.S.O. V
2020-013    1-28-20  T.S.O. V
2020-018    2-11-20  T.S.O. III
2020-019    2-11-20  T.S.O. V
2020-020    2-11-20  T.S.O. I
2020-021    2-11-20  T.S.O. V
2020-022    3-10-20  508.13
2020-024    3-10-20  T.S.O. I
2020-025    3-24-20  T.S.O. V
2020-027    3-24-20  T.S.O. I
2020-029    3-24-20  T.S.O. V
2020-031    3-24-20  T.S.O. V
2020-032    3-24-20  T.S.O. V
2020-033    4-14-20  T.S.O. V
2020-034    4-14-20  T.S.O. V
2020-035    4-14-20  T.S.O. V
2020-041    4-14-20  T.S.O. V
2020-042    4-14-20  T.S.O. V
2020-050    6-9-20   T.S.O. V
2020-051    6-9-20   T.S.O. V
2020-052    6-9-20   T.S.O. V
2020-054    5-26-20  T.S.O. V
2020-058    5-26-20  T.S.O. I
2020-062    5-26-20  T.S.O. I
2020-064    6-9-20   T.S.O. V
2020-065    6-9-20   T.S.O. V
2020-066    6-23-20  T.S.O. V
2020-069    7-14-20  T.S.O. IV
2020-074    7-14-20  T.S.O. V
2020-077    7-21-20  T.S.O. V
2020-079    9-11-18  T.S.O. I
2020-080    8-11-20  T.S.O. I
2020-081    8-11-20  T.S.O. I
2020-082    8-11-20  T.S.O. I
2020-083    8-11-20  T.S.O. I
2020-084    8-11-20  T.S.O. I
2020-086    8-11-20  T.S.O. VI
2020-088    9-1-20   T.S.O. V
2020-099    9-22-20  T.S.O. V
2020-102    10-27-20 927.02
2020-103    10-13-20 T.S.O. III
2020-111    11-24-20 911.02
2020-112    11-24-20 913.03
2020-113    11-24-20 T.S.O. V
2020-114    11-24-20 917.08
2020-118    12-8-20  T.S.O. III
2020-120    12-8-20  T.S.O. V
2020-121    12-8-20  T.S.O. V
                     921.02,
2020-123    12-8-20  921.03,
                     921.05
2020-124    1-12-21  T.S.O. IV
2020-125    12-8-20  T.S.O. I
2021-001    1-12-21  T.S.O. V
                     1304.02,
                     1304.05,
2021-004    1-26-21  1304.06,
                     1304.07,
                     1304.13,
                     1304.14
2021-009    1-12-21  T.S.O. V
2021-011    1-26-21  T.S.O. V
                     353.01,
2021-014    2-9-21   353.03,
                     353.06
2021-018    2-9-21   T.S.O. V
2021-019    2-23-21  T.S.O. V
2021-021    2-23-21  T.S.O. V
2021-023    3-9-21   T.S.O. V
2021-024    3-9-21   T.S.O. V
2021-026    3-9-21   T.S.O. V
2021-029    3-15-21  T.S.O. V
2021-030    3-23-21  T.S.O. V
2021-034    3-23-21  T.S.O. III
2021-036    4-6-21   T.S.O. V
2021-038    4-27-21  T.S.O. I
2021-039    4-27-21  T.S.O. I
2021-040    4-27-21  T.S.O. VI
2021-041    4-27-21  T.S.O. I
2021-044    4-27-21  T.S.O. I
2021-046    5-11-21  T.S.O. I
2021-047    5-11-21  T.S.O. I
2021-050    5-25-21  T.S.O. I
2021-052    5-25-21  T.S.O. V
2021-055    6-8-21   T.S.O. V
2021-056    6-8-21   T.S.O. I
2021-057    6-8-21   T.S.O. VI
2021-060    7-13-21  T.S.O. IV
2021-064  8-10-21  T.S.O. V
2021-065    7-13-21  T.S.O. V
2021-068    7-13-21  T.S.O. V
2021-069    8-10-21  T.S.O. V
2021-070    8-10-21  T.S.O. I
2021-071    8-10-21  T.S.O. I
2021-072    8-10-21  T.S.O. I
2021-075    8-10-21  T.S.O. V
2021-081    8-24-21  T.S.O. V
2021-082    8-24-21  T.S.O. V
2021-086    9-14-21  T.S.O. V
2021-087    9-14-21  142.01
2021-092    9-28-21  T.S.O. I
2021-098    10-12-21 T.S.O. I
2021-100    10-26-21 915.082
2021-101    10-26-21 915.14
2021-105    11-23-21 918.04
2021-107    11-9-21  T.S.O. V
2021-110    11-23-21 T.S.O. IV
2021-111    11-9-21  T.S.O. III
                     133.01 -
2021-112    12-14-21 133.21,
                     133.99
                     152.051,
2021-113    11-23-21 152.062,
                     152.081
2021-115    11-23-21 T.S.O. V
2021-119    12-14-21 T.S.O. III
2021-120    12-14-21 T.S.O. V
2022-001    1-25-22  T.S.O. IV
2022-005    1-25-22  T.S.O. III
2022-006    1-25-22  T.S.O. V
2022-007    1-25-22  T.S.O. I
2022-015    2-8-22   T.S.O. III
2022-017    2-8-22   T.S.O. III
2022-018    2-22-22  913.03
2022-019    2-8-22   T.S.O. V
2022-020    3-8-22   T.S.O. IV
2022-021    2-22-22  T.S.O. VI
2022-022    2-22-22  T.S.O. I
2022-023    2-22-22  T.S.O. I
2022-025    2-22-22  T.S.O. III
2022-029    3-8-22   T.S.O. V
2022-030    3-8-22   T.S.O. V
                     920.01 -
2022-031    3-22-22  920.29,
                     920.99
2022-032    3-22-22  T.S.O. I
2022-033    3-22-22  T.S.O. I
2022-036    4-12-22  T.S.O. V
2022-037    4-12-22  T.S.O. V
2022-049    4-26-22  T.S.O. III
2022-050    4-26-22  T.S.O. I
2022-051    5-10-22  133.02
2022-052    4-26-22  T.S.O. III
2022-054    5-10-22  T.S.O. IV
2022-055    5-10-22  T.S.O. IV
2022-057    4-26-22  T.S.O. V
2022-060    5-10-22  T.S.O. V
2022-061    5-10-22  T.S.O. V
2022-064    5-24-22  T.S.O. I
2022-065    5-24-22  T.S.O. V
2022-070    5-24-22  T.S.O. V
2022-077    7-12-22  T.S.O. V
2022-078    7-12-22  T.S.O. III
2022-079    7-12-22  T.S.O. I
2022-080    7-12-22  T.S.O. I
2022-081    7-12-22  T.S.O. I
2022-084    8-9-22   T.S.O. V
2022-085    8-23-22  T.S.O. V
2022-086    8-23-22  T.S.O. V
2022-087    8-9-22   1301.05
2022-088    8-23-22  T.S.O. V
2022-092    8-9-22   T.S.O. I
2022-093    8-9-22   T.S.O. I
2022-094    8-23-22  T.S.O. IV
2022-097    9-13-22  T.S.O. V
2022-098    9-13-22  T.S.O. V
2022-100    9-13-22  T.S.O. V
2022-101    9-19-22  509.09 -
                     509.16
                     159.02,
2022-111    10-25-22 159.03,
                     159.04
2022-112    10-11-22 T.S.O. V
2022-113    10-25-22 153.01
2022-115    11-9-22  T.S.O. III
2022-116    11-9-22  T.S.O. III
2022-117    10-25-22 T.S.O. V
2022-118    11-9-22  911.02
2022-119    11-9-22  913.03
2022-120    11-9-22  133.02
2022-121    11-9-22  729.01
2022-124    11-9-22  T.S.O. I
2022-125    11-9-22  T.S.O. I
2022-126    11-9-22  T.S.O. I
2022-127    11-9-22  T.S.O. V
2022-131    11-15-22 152.013
2022-132    11-15-22 T.S.O. V
2022-134    11-15-22 T.S.O. III
2022-135    12-6-22  T.S.O. III
2022-136    12-13-22 T.S.O. III
2023-002    1-10-23  914.01 -
                     914.05
2023-003    1-10-23  T.S.O. I
2023-006    1-10-23  T.S.O. V
2023-011    2-14-23  133.02
2023-014    2-14-23  T.S.O. V
2023-017    2-14-23  T.S.O. V
2023-019    2-28-23  T.S.O. IV
                     351.03,
                     351.12,
                     351.16,
2023-021    2-28-23  351.17,
                     351.99,
                     353.03,
                     353.99
2023-028    3-14-23  T.S.O. V
2023-029    3-28-23  T.S.O. V
                     159.01,
2023-031    4-11-23  159.02,
                     159.04
2023-032    4-11-23  159.02,
                     159.04
2023-035    4-11-23  T.S.O. I
2023-036    4-11-23  T.S.O. V
2023-037    4-11-23  T.S.O. V
2023-041    4-25-23  T.S.O. I
2023-043    4-25-23  T.S.O. V
2023-049    6-13-23  T.S.O. III
2023-050    5-23-23  T.S.O. III
2023-053    6-13-23  T.S.O. V
2023-057    7-5-23   159.01 -
                     159.04
2023-058    7-5-23   T.S.O. V
2023-059    7-5-23   T.S.O. V
2023-060    7-5-23   T.S.O. V
2023-061    7-5-23   T.S.O. V
2023-062    7-5-23   T.S.O. I
2023-063    7-5-23   T.S.O. III
2023-067    7-11-23  T.S.O. I
2023-070    7-11-23  T.S.O. III
2023-071    7-11-23  T.S.O. V
2023-074    8-8-23   T.S.O. I
2023-078    8-8-23   T.S.O. V
2023-079    9-26-23  1301.28
2023-080    9-12-23  911.02,
                     913.03
2023-082    8-22-23  T.S.O. V
2023-083    9-12-23  T.S.O. V
2023-085    8-22-23  T.S.O. V
2023-086    9-12-23  T.S.O. III
2023-087    9-12-23  T.S.O. I
2023-089    9-9-23   T.S.O. V
2023-093    9-26-23  T.S.O. III
2023-095    10-10-23 T.S.O. V
2023-096    10-24-23 T.S.O. V
2023-097    10-10-23 T.S.O. VI
2023-098    10-10-23 T.S.O. V
2023-100    11-14-23 T.S.O. IV
2023-103    11-28-23 911.02
2023-104    11-28-23 913.03
                     131.02,
                     131.03,
                     131.07,
2023-105    11-28-23 131.10,
                     131.12,
                     131.13,
                     131.14
2023-106    11-28-23 T.S.O. III
2023-111    11-28-23 T.S.O. III
2023-112    11-28-23 T.S.O. V
                     159.01,
2023-113    12-12-23 159.02,
                     159.04
2023-114    12-12-23 159.01 -
                     159.04
                     152.03,
                     152.051,
2023-115    11-28-23 152.062,
                     152.094,
                     152.10
2023-116    11-28-23 152.081
2023-118    11-28-23 T.S.O. III
2023-119    12-12-23 T.S.O. V
2023-120    12-12-23 T.S.O. V
2023-121    1-9-24   T.S.O. V
2023-122    12-12-23 T.S.O. V
2023-125    12-12-23 T.S.O. I
2024-002    1-9-24   T.S.O. V
2024-003    1-9-24   T.S.O. V
2024-004    1-9-24   T.S.O. V
2024-006    1-9-24   T.S.O. V
2024-013    2-13-24  T.S.O. III
2024-016    3-12-24  T.S.O. IV
2024-017    2-27-24  T.S.O. III
2024-026    3-26-24  T.S.O. III
2024-027    3-26-24  T.S.O. V
2024-028    3-26-24  T.S.O. V
2024-030    3-26-24  T.S.O. I
2024-031    3-26-24  T.S.O. I
2024-032    3-26-24  T.S.O. I
2024-035    4-9-24   T.S.O. V
2024-037    4-9-24   T.S.O. V
2024-038    4-9-24   T.S.O. I
2024-039    4-9-24   T.S.O. I
2024-041    4-23-24  T.S.O. IV
2024-042    4-23-24  927.02
2024-045    4-23-24  T.S.O. V
2024-046    4-23-24  T.S.O. V
2024-047    4-23-24  T.S.O. V
2024-050    5-14-24  T.S.O. III
                    
 
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Code Section
Res. No. Date      Code Section
893      8-30-60   921.01
947      - -       Ch. 141
6179     2-23-88   353.03
6389     8-8-89    T.S.O. II
6972     7-12-94   T.S.O. III
7072     6-13-95   T.S.O. II
7095     7-25-95   T.S.O. III
7106     8-22-95   T.S.O. II
7180     2-13-96   T.S.O. III
7184     3-12-96   T.S.O. III
7192     3-26-96   T.S.O. III
7271     8-13-96   T.S.O. III
7344     1-28-97   T.S.O. V
7414     8-26-97   T.S.O. III
7525     7-28-98   T.S.O. III
7541     8-11-98   T.S.O. V
7585     1-12-99   Charter §
                   2.06
7593     1-26-99   T.S.O. III
7594     1-26-99   Charter §
                   8.10
7602     2-9-99    T.S.O. III
7609     2-9-99    T.S.O. V
7612     2-9-99    T.S.O. III
7651     6-8-99    T.S.O. V
7717     9-28-99   T.S.O. III
7725     9-28-99   T.S.O. V
7724     10-12-99  T.S.O. V
7729     10-12-99  T.S.O. V
7826     5-9-00    T.S.O. V
7830     5-9-00    T.S.O. V
7889     7-11-00   T.S.O. V
8165     4-24-01   T.S.O. III
8226     6-12-01   T.S.O. V
8250     7-24-01   T.S.O. V
8254     7-10-01   T.S.O. III
8264     11-6-01   Charter §
                   3.02
8265     11-6-01   Charter §
                   2.02
8324     10-9-01   T.S.O. I
8328     10-9-01   T.S.O. III
8348     10-23-01  T.S.O. III
8349     10-23-01  T.S.O. III
8350     10-23-01  T.S.O. III
8351     11-13-01  T.S.O. V
8353     11-13-01  T.S.O. III
8354     11-13-01  T.S.O. III
8356     11-13-01  T.S.O. III
8357     11-13-01  T.S.O. III
8358     11-13-01  T.S.O. III
8359     11-13-01  T.S.O. III
8360     11-13-01  T.S.O. III
8361     11-13-01  T.S.O. III
8362     11-13-01  T.S.O. III
8363     11-13-01  T.S.O. III
8364     11-13-01  T.S.O. III
8365     11-13-01  T.S.O. III
8366     11-13-01  T.S.O. III
8367     11-13-01  T.S.O. III
8368     11-13-01  T.S.O. III
8380     11-27-01  1105.05
8399     12-11-01  T.S.O. V
8408     12-20-01  T.S.O. III
8420     2-12-02   1107.01
8421     2-12-02   1109.01
8450     4-23-02   T.S.O. III
8491     6-25-02   T.S.O. V
8610     11-26-02  T.S.O. III, V
8667     2-11-03   T.S.O. V
8668     2-11-03   T.S.O. V
8915     3-9-04    103.05
9242     11-22-05  T.S.O. V
9601     10-9-07   121.06
9634     11-27-07  T.S.O. V
9659     2-12-08   103.06
9670     3-11-08   T.S.O. V
9694     4-22-08   T.S.O. V
9723     5-27-08   T.S.O. V
9744     7-22-08   T.S.O. III
9774     10-14-08  T.S.O. V
2009-001 1-13-09   T.S.O. III
2009-020 2-24-09   T.S.O. III
2009-039 4-14-09   T.S.O. V
2009-041 4-14-09   T.S.O. V
2010-080 7-13-10   T.S.O. V
2011-097 11-7-11   T.S.O. V
2013-112 12-10-13  T.S.O. V
2014-024 3-11-14   T.S.O. V
2014-064 6-24-14   T.S.O. V
2014-065 6-24-14   T.S.O. V
2015-063 5-26-15   T.S.O. V
2015-090 8-25-15   T.S.O. V
2015-091 9-14-15   T.S.O. V
2015-113 10-27-15  T.S.O. V
2015-128 11-24-15  T.S.O. III
2015-131 12-8-15   T.S.O. V
2016-005 1-12-16   T.S.O. V
2016-036 4-12-16   T.S.O. V
2016-037 4-12-16   T.S.O. V
2016-051 4-26-16   T.S.O. V
2016-103 11-7-16   T.S.O. V
2016-106 11-7-16   T.S.O. V
2016-109 11-22-16  T.S.O. V
2017-040 4-25-17   T.S.O. V
2017-064 7-11-17   T.S.O. V
2017-108 11-14-17  T.S.O. V
2018-004 1-9-18  T.S.O. V
2018-025 3-27-18   T.S.O. V
2018-035 4-10-18   T.S.O. V
2019-016 2-26-19   T.S.O. V
2019-017 3-12-19   T.S.O. V
2019-024 3-26-19   T.S.O. V
2019-034 4-9-19  T.S.O. V
2019-063 8-13-19   T.S.O. V
2019-085 10-22-19  T.S.O. V
2020-016 2-11-20   T.S.O. V
2020-017 2-11-20   T.S.O. V
2020-039 4-14-20   T.S.O. V
2020-070 7-14-20   T.S.O. V
2020-095 9-8-20    T.S.O. V
2020-096 9-8-20  T.S.O. V
2020-101 10-13-20  T.S.O. V
2021-007 1-12-21   T.S.O. V
2021-013 1-26-21   T.S.O. V
2021-062 6-22-21   T.S.O. V
2021-063 7-13-21   T.S.O. V
2021-090 9-14-21   T.S.O. V
2021-093 9-28-21   T.S.O. V
2022-11  1-25-22   T.S.O. V
2022-091 8-9-22    T.S.O. V
2022-106 9-27-22   T.S.O. V
2022-112 10-11-22  T.S.O. V
2023-007 1-24-23   T.S.O. V
2023-020 2-14-23   T.S.O. III
2023-056 6-27-23   T.S.O. V
2023-068 7-11-23   T.S.O. V
23-1102  8-24-23   T.S.O. III
2024-014 2-13-24   T.S.O. V
2024-022 3-26-24   T.S.O. V
2024-023 3-26-24   T.S.O. V
2024-024 3-26-24   T.S.O. V
2024-043 4-23-24   T.S.O. V
2024-048 4-23-24   T.S.O. V
                  
 
